MOL GROuP ANNuAL REPORT 2010 10 MOL GROUP Annual Report Economic, Social and Environmental performance Content Review of the year 4. MOL Group at a glance Content 6. Key financial and operating data I. Review of the year 8. Letter from the Chairman-CEO and the Group CEO 10. Overview of the environment 12. Exploration and Production 20. Interview with Zoltán Áldott Our businesses 24. Refining and Marketing II. Our businesses 28. Interview with Ferenc Horváth 30. Petrochemicals 36. Gas Transmission 42. Gas and Power Financial and Operational 46. Management Discussion and Analysis 82. Independent Auditors’ Report III. Financial and 85. Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Performance Operational Performance 92. Notes to the financial statements 164. Historical summary of financial information 166. Key Group operating data 176. Interview with György Mosonyi 178. Overview and targets IV. Sustainability: Sustainability 181. Environmental Performance non-financial 186. Social Performance 200. Sustainability data (Performance table) performance 204. Notes on non-financial reporting 208. Assurance statement my 212. Corporate Governance Corporate Governance o n o 224. The Integrated Risk Management Function Ec V. Corporate 226. The Board of Directors 230. The Executive Board is the Governance 234. The Supervisory Board This R ATED T 238. Report of the Supervisory Board EG R InT L REPO. 240. Corporate and shareholder information UA roup nment Annf MOL G ents its ntal iro o cum nm e Env 244. Glossary It do , enviro nce n o mic r f o rma 252. Table of contents eco al p e soci . 254. Contact Information an d in 2 0 10 oci et y S 2 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 3 MOL Group MOL Group at a glance Awards in 2010 MOL Group at a glance at a glance MOL Group is a leading integrated oil and gas corporation in Central and Eastern Europe with an extensive international Upstream portfolio. We are market leader in each of our core activities in Hungary, Slovakia and Croatia. Member of the The Refinery of the Year Dow Jones Sustainability Our market capitalisation was above USD 10 bn at the end of 2010. Our shares are listed on the Budapest, Luxembourg and Warsaw Stock Exchanges and our depository receipts are traded on London’s International Order Book and on Award was World Index OTC in the USA. handed over to SAM Gold Class 2011 MOL Danube Refinery SAM research MOL is committed to maintaining and further improving the efficiency of its current portfolio, exploiting potential in its captive and new markets, providing outstanding shareholder return and to excellence in its social and environmental World Refining Association performance. Our core activities in a snapshot: The Exploration and Production segment has diverse portfolio with oil and gas exploration activities in 13 countries and producing assets in 7 countries. MOL Group’s SPE 2P reserves reached 619 MMboe (as of 31 December 2010), while The Best HR group Best practice of the hydrocarbon production amounted to 143.5 mboe/day in 2010. MOL Group has more than seven decades of oil and gas industry experience in the CEE region and a 20+ year international presence. We have recorded several discoveries in „HR Oscar” Mental Health Promotion Hungary, Russia, Pakistan, Syria, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Egypt and Kazakhstan in recent years. SZTMSZ in Hungary ENWHP The Refining and Marketing segment operates 5 refineries in the CEE region under continuously developing supply chain management with 23 Mtpa capacity on adjacent markets. Efficient raw materials supply and product distribution are ensured by an extensive pipeline system and increased depot network. Retail Services Division operates a modern filling station network, providing captive channels for the refineries within their supply radius. The Petrochemicals segment is the leading polyolefin player in CEE and one of the top ten polyolefin market players in Europe. Petrochemicals production facilities are integrated with MOL refineries and supports the Downstream segment as Awarded on the field of The Best Employer of captive market. Plants are located in Tiszaújváros (TVK Plc.) and Bratislava (Slovnaft Petrochemicals, s.r.o.). Workplace Health Central-Eastern Europe Natural Gas Transmission: FGSZ Ltd. is the exclusive holder of the natural gas transmission and system operator licences Promotion – 2009 / 2010 in Hungary. The company owns and maintains full operational control of the total domestic high-pressure pipeline system. at international level (FGSZ) FGSZ also transmits natural gas to Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, and exports to both Romania and Croatia. Global Knowledge Exchange Network Hewitt Associates The activities of the Gas and Power division enables MOL to take full advantage of the synergies among the supply and trading of crude oil, gas, power, CO2 and other. Our Group is an active participant in the gas storage business again, as the gas storage facility of MMBF Ltd. has finished the first year of its successful operation in 2010. MOL is analysing the opportunity to create a diversified generation portfolio. The EBITDA (excluding special items) contribution of the various segments in 2010 was: Exploration and Production 58%, Donor of The Best Managed Company Refining and Marketing 26%, Petrochemicals 3% and Gas and Power 13%. Blood Friendly Workplace in Slovakia (TVK) (Slovnaft) In recognition of its long-term economic, social and environmental performance, MOL has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index since 2010. Hungarian Red Cross Euromoney 4 MOL Group annual report 2010 5 2009 Key financial and operating data Key financial data IFRS (HuF bn) restated 2010 10/09 (%) 2010 (uSD mn)3 Net revenue 3,254.7 4,298.7 32.1 20,657 EBITDA 439.5 518.1 17.9 2,490 Key financial and operating data EBITDA excluding special items1 383.2 598.2 56.1 2,875 Operating profi t 232.4 239.1 2.9 1,149 Operating profi t excluding special items2 176.2 330.1 87.4 1,586 Profi t before tax 170.4 172.0 1.0 827 Profi t for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 95.1 104.0 9.4 500 Profi t for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 51.3 180.8 252.6 869 excluding special item1 Operating cash flow 397.9 373.7 (6.1) 1,796 Key exploration and Production data 2009 2010 10/09 (%) Capital expenditures and investments 380.7 332.8 (12.6) 1,599 Gross crude oil reserves (MM bbl) 1 293.4 271.0 (7.6) Basic EPS HuF and uSD 3 1,114 1,231 10.5 5.9 Gross natural gas reserves (MM boe) 1/2 371.7 347.8 (6.4) Return On Capital Employed (ROACE) %2 8.2 6.6 (19.5) n.a. Total gross hydrocarbon reserves (MM boe) 1 665.1 618.8 (7.0) Clean ROACE % 1/2 6.0 9.2 53.3 n.a. Average crude oil production (mboepd)3 54.1 63.0 16.5 Average natural gas production (mboepd)3 53.9 80.5 49.4 Total hydrocarbon production (mboepd)3 108.0 143.5 32.9 1 Operating profit excluding the additional expense of the turnover of inventories of INA which were recognized at fair market value upon initial consolidation as opposed to the carrying amounts reflected in INA Group’s separate financial statements (HuF 4.2 bn in Q1 2010), the additional mining royalty paid in Q3 2010 (HuF 30.4 bn at Exploration and Production Key Refining and Marketing data 2009 2010 10/09 (%) division) based on the decision of the Eu Commission for which provision was recognised in Q2 2010, the provision for redundancy recorded at INA in Q3 2010 (HuF 15.5 bn, the majority of which has been paid in Q4 2010), the provision for tax penalty recorded at INA in Q4 2010 (HuF 4.2 bn), the crisis tax imposed by the Hungarian state on domestic energy sector Total refinery throughput (kt) 7 19,700 21,834 10.8 recorded in H2 2010 (HuF 25.8 bn), the one-off gain on the subsequent settlement from E.ON and the Q2 2009 termination of the risk-sharing mechanism in connection with the sale of White products yield (%) 5/7 75.7 77.9 2.2 MOL’s gas business for Q1 and Q2 2009 (HuF 14.0 bn and HuF 14.2 bn), the HuF 28.2 bn one-off non-cash revaluation gain, related to consolidating INA into MOL Group in 2009 for the first time as required by IFRS 3R, and the impact of impairment on the Total crude oil product sales (kt) 4/7 19,365 20,940 8.1 goodwill of IES and on certain exploration assets (having no impact on EBITDA) recognised in Q4 2009 and Q4 2010, respectively (HuF 4.7 bn and HuF 11.0 bn) 2 Based on NOPLAT Motor fuel sales (kt) 7 12,308 13,176 7.1 3 In converting HuF financial data into uSD, the following average NBH rates were used for Fy 2010: 208.1 HuF/uSD. Total retail sales (kt) 7 3,058.4 3,545.4 15.4 Key Petrochemical data 2009 2010 10/09 (%) Olefin sales (kt) 193 270 39.9 Polymer sales (kt) 1,153 1,145 (0.7) Key Natural Gas Transmission data 2009 2010 10/09 (%) Net sales revenue (uSD bn) EBITDA (uSD bn) Hungarian natural gas transmission (m cm) 14,913 13,833 (7.2) 0 10 20 0 1 2 3 Transit natural gas transmission (m cm) 1,768 2,201 24.5 2006 2006 Environmental and social performance data 2009 2010 10/09 (%) 2007 2007 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) emissions under Eu ETS (Mt) 5.13 4.87 (5.0) 2008 2008 Lost time injury frequency 6 1.13 1.50 33.0 2009 2009 2010 2010 1 Gross reserves according to SPE 2P rules. Due to full consolidation of INA, d.d. reserves data for 2009 include 100 % of INA’s reserves. 2 Including condensate 3 Excluding the production of MMBF Ltd., including production of INA, d.d. from July 1, 2009 4 Exluding LPG and gas products but including feedstock transfer to Petrochemical segment Operating Cash flow (uSD bn) Gearing (%) 5 In case of the yields, the deviation is measured in percentage point. 6 Total MOL Group without INA Group 0 1 2 3 -30 -15 0 15 30 7 MOL Group with INA from 1 July, 2009 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 Market capitalisation (uSD bn) MOL Shares On BSE at the end of the year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 10 20 30,000 2006 10 20,000 2007 2008 5 10,000 2009 0 0 2010 turnover (mn pcs) closing price (HuF) 6 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 7 Letter from the We believe that MOL Group is well-positioned to deliver outstanding shareholder returns in the next few years. The Group has a strong and distinct competitive edge over its peers and has maintained its solid financial position, a strong basis for further Letter from the Chairman-CEO growth. Our key tasks remain: to develop INA operations; to further increase its profitability and efficiency to meet MOL Group standards; to enhance its market position in the South-East European region. Our strategic Group objective for the coming Letter from the years remains the same: to maximise the value of our extended portfolio by further integrating operations and to exploit the organic growth potential of the enlarged Group. In addition, a number of other projects should ensure long-term growth. Chairman CEO and Group CEO In 2010, MOL Group took significant steps towards achieving an optimised, efficiently-operated upstream portfolio and and the Group CEO Chairman CEO and Group CEO further solidifying its potential for future growth. Key projects in Syria, Pakistan and the Adriatic offshore area turned from field development to production, thus increasing our daily output to 144 thousand boepd on the top of the record-high results for 2009 and creating the basis for medium-term sustainability. In the near future, with regard to field development projects, MOL Group plans to maximise the value of its existing portfolio by focusing on achieving short-term positive impacts on production and by translating exploration success into production. Dear Shareholders, dear Stakeholders! In our international exploration activities, remarkable successes in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and in Pakistan proved our capabilities and should support the sustainability of increased production levels in the long term. In the future, MOL Group aims We closed a successful 2010 in a challenging macro and regulatory environment. The global economy went through a transition to strengthen its international presence further, by forming new alliances, by deepening already existing partnerships and by period from a strong bounce-back phase seen in the first half of 2010 to a less rapid but apparently more sustainable growth active portfolio development. We strengthened our position in Central & Eastern Europe by entering a new country, Romania, path in the second half of the year. This upturn however is still fragile, driven, as it is, by the continuing strong performance of where MOL has commenced exploration activities using its more than 70 years’ experience in the region. leading emerging economies while the recovery of advanced economies, especially those in the Eurozone, remained slower. Finally, we continue to extend MOL’s outstanding efficiency performance to the whole upstream portfolio. Several implemented The macro oil environment changed favourably; oil prices increased gradually and refinery margins showed slow improvement, efficiency improvement projects contributed to our strong 2010 results and we see further potential in the coming years to although the latter still remained below the 5-year average. reduce unit operating costs by exploiting synergies throughout the entire upstream business. In a year in which gradual recovery started, we were able to successfully exploit the upturn by continuing to execute our strategy. In Downstream, 2010 was the first full year of operations in 12 countries, with five refineries and two additional petrochemicals Key projects were carried out in each Business unit turning MOL Group into a more international, more diversified and more sites. Through our excellent performance in Supply Chain Management, we identified and exploited major synergies that will upstream-driven company. The share of international operations’ profit contribution increased significantly in 2010 and we be pursued further in the coming years to operate our assets with increased flexibility and at the highest levels of efficiency. expect this trend to continue further into the coming years. Following the most significant strategic step in Company history, MOL Group significantly improved its asset structure and added a world-class hydrocracking unit to it when completing the first management focused on the financial stabilisation and development of INA. Overdue liabilities were fully repaid and with the phase of the Croatian refinery modernisation programme which matches production structure with market demand. combined effect of previous investments and already-achieved efficiency improvements, INA became a strong growth pillar The focus of capital expenditures in the coming years will be the elevation of the Rijeka refinery to the level of leading European of the Group. We remained committed to maintaining our well-regarded efficiency as a top priority and set further efficiency sites, just as the MOL Group achieved in its refineries in Hungary and Slovakia by increasing their complexity to convert fuel oil improvement targets to enhance our profitability. In a tough regulatory environment that saw additional tax payments imposed output to more valuable types of motor fuel. We are committed to maintaining petrochemicals integration to provide flexibility on Hungarian operations, we remained disciplined and financed our capital expenditure requirements through operating cash and a solid captive market for our refining activities in the long term. In Retail, the focus will be on the rationalisation and flow. MOL Group repeatedly increased its EBITDA while decreasing its gearing ratio compared to the prior year, even further efficiency improvement of the whole network coupled with a modernisation project to improve brand perception. underlining its strong cash-flow and solid financial positions. We are naturally highly committed to maintaining this strong We will continue to place strong emphasis on increasing our overall efficiency as well as on further improving logistics and financial position in the coming years and we still intend our investments to be financed through operating cash flow. marketing operations. In the area of efficiency improvement, we will focus on energy consumption and maintenance and expand the employee bottom-up idea generation programme to profit from the ideas and creativity of our colleagues. In previous years, MOL Group played a key role in the development of the Hungarian natural gas transmission system. As a result of such investment, the increase in domestic import transmission pipeline capacity, the implementation of the HungarianRomanian and Hungarian-Croatian gas interconnections, the building-up of strategic storage capacity; the security of gas supplies significantly strengthened not only in Hungary but across the region as well. 2010 was also a milestone year with regard to our Sustainable Development performance. In September, MOL Group became the only Central and Eastern European corporation to be listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. According to this most prestigious sustainability assessment, MOL was positioned among the top 6% of all oil and gas producers. This recognition is the result of our long-term focus on those environmental and social issues that are critical to our sector such as climate change, environmental protection, transparency, occupational health and safety, attracting and retaining top talent and customer relationship management. In addition, our managers’ incentive bonus scheme is partly based on performance indicators related to Sustainable Development targets. On behalf of MOL Group Management, we would like to thank all our employees for their dedication, hard work and commitment and our shareholders for their solid support. We are sure that our efforts in 2010, undertaken in a challenging environment, have further strengthened the basis for the organic development of MOL Group over the coming years. Zsolt HERnÁDI György MOSOnYI Chairman and CEO Group CEO 8 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 9 Overview of the environment headwinds as most countries in the region will carry out some degree of fiscal consolidation throughout 2011. Overview of the environment The foremost downside risk to the CEE region’s recovery remains the continuing sovereign stress in the Eurozone. However, the impact of a deepening Eurozone debt crisis on most CEE economies would be manageable as long as it remains confined to the euro area’s periphery, while the region’s main export markets remain relatively intact in the core of the currency union. World economy: Moderating growth figures in most of 2009. The fact that the growing trend in oil The global economy went through a transition period from a prices continued in spite of the diminishing quota compliance CEE fuel demand: Poland and diesel saves the day strong bounce-back phase seen in the first half of 2010 to a of OPEC, which dropped to around 58% by December from The motor fuel demand drop across the CEE region less rapid but apparently more sustainable growth path in the around 63% a year ago signals the slow return to a tighter oil remained modest in 2010 with gasoline decreasing by second half of the year. The main driving force behind the overall market similar to the one seen in the pre-crisis years. a notable 4.9% but diesel growing by 1.9% resulting in recovery was the continuing strong performance of leading and overall fuel demand drop of only 0.1%. This was due to the deficit to below 3% of GDP from the current unsustainable emerging economies, which increasingly relied on domestic Refining margins: Slowly improving crack spreads continuing strong performance of the Polish economy, without level of around 8% of GDP represents a short-term consumption for their growth. At the same time, the recovery Refining margins remained below the 5-year average in 2010. which CEE diesel demand would have also been in the negative headwind for growth. A slowdown in the core economies of advanced economies remained slower, although the US and The healthy rate of recovery pushed up product demand in and the overall motor fuel demand drop much more significant. of the Eurozone also poses a near-term downside risk Japan performed significantly better than previously expected emerging economies and to a lesser extent in OECD Europe To lesser extents, Austria and Slovakia also contributed to the relatively healthy outlook, given Slovakia’s high due to additional stimulus measures. The main source of and North America as well, which resulted in stronger product positively to the CEE diesel demand increase thanks to their dependence on exports and the continuously weak weaknesses within the advanced economies group was the crack spreads across the board in 2010 than in the previous favorable excise duties on diesel. domestic consumption in the country. troubled periphery of the Eurozone. The Greek debt crisis in Q2 year. Nevertheless, persistently high inventory levels as well caused severe market turbulence and prompted the EU to set as ample spare refining capacities worldwide combined with Hungarian economy: Slow recovery with uncertainties Slovakia fuel demand: Outstanding growth up an unprecedented EUR 440 bn bailout fund to contain the the slow pace of closing uncompetitive refineries limited the The Hungarian economy recorded a modest 1.2% growth Motor fuel demand recorded a very healthy 15.4% growth in fallout from future crises, which prevented a more widespread strengthening of crack spreads. Overall, naphtha and gasoline in 2010, according to the preliminary data of KSH. The slow Slovakia during 2010 with gasoline consumption increasing spillover from the periphery to the core of the Eurozone in case spreads exceeded their 5-year averages, but followed a mildly recovery was mainly driven by a strong export performance, by 1.5% and diesel demand growing by a spectacular 22.4% of the Irish bailout later in Q4. Nevertheless, the risk of future declining trend, while diesel and jet fuel crack spreads remained while domestic demand contributed little as both retail sales y-o-y. This significant increase was fuelled mainly by the strong liquidity crises and bailouts within the Eurozone remains high, below their historical levels, but followed a slowly strengthening and credit growth remains weak and unemployment still high. industry-driven rebound of the Slovakian economy, but a and volatility in exchange rate movements is likely to continue. trend throughout the year. This may indicate a slow return to The market perception of the new government’s economic significant 23.5% reduction of the diesel excise tax as well as Another downside risk to the global recovery is the combination the pre-crisis environment characterized by an ever tightening policy has so far been mixed as the general direction towards the low basis of 2009 (when fuel demand suffered a particularly of low interest rates in advanced economies and stellar growth market for middle-distillate products. The historically negative deficit reduction and a more competitive tax regime helped to hard hit in Slovakia) added further to the bullish figures. in emerging ones, resulting in massive capital inflows which are fuel oil crack spread remained stronger than the 5-year average maintain confidence at sufficient levels, but several measures fueling inflation and may create bubbles and destabilize growth in 2010, but it started to inch continuously towards pre-crisis increased perceived uncertainty regarding the regulatory and Croatian economy: Slow return to recovery in developing economies. Overall, the IMF estimates that lows from the second half of the year. tax regime at the same time. The recovery is proceeding very slowly in Croatia as the global economic growth will somewhat moderate from 5.0% in The Brent-Urals spread recovered somewhat to around 1.4 economy returned to a sluggish growth only in H2 2010 while 2010 to 4.4% in 2011 due to the necessary fiscal consolidation USD/bbl in 2010 from below 1 USD/bbl in 2009, but followed Hungarian demand: Delayed demand drop hit in 2010 industrial production growth remained in negative territory in most advanced economies. a relatively volatile pattern throughout the year. It soared to Hungarian motor fuel demand suffered a hard hit in 2010 and unemployment continued to rise during most of the year. above 3 USD/bbl by Q2 due to a longer-than-usual refinery as the effects of the economic recession translated into The main causes of the poor performance are still tight credit Oil markets: Significant price increase underscored by rapid maintenance season which mostly took out conversion depressed demand in a delayed manner resulting in a 12.7% conditions coupled with weak labor markets at home, which demand growth capacities resulting in a fuel oil overhang and a depreciation of fall in gasoline, a 6.7% drop in diesel and 8.7% decline in motor are constraining domestic demand, as well as a relatively weak Oil prices strengthened significantly during 2010 and averaged the fuel-oil heavy Urals type. The Brent-Urals differential briefly fuel demand in 2010. The delayed drop came as the gradually rebound in Italy, Croatia’s main export market, compared to at 79.5 USD/bbl, nearly 29% higher than a year ago. The price fell below zero USD/bbl in Q3 following a series of simultaneous strengthening forint (together with an excise tax increase in the record-breaking recovery seen in Germany, the key market increase was more or less gradual with only two significant supply shocks affecting Urals, but returned to around 2 USD/ January 2010) canceled out the positive effects of fuel tourism for most other CEE countries. The preliminary figures of the corrections seen in May and August. The first temporary bbl by the end of Q4 as fuel oil crack spreads started to weaken, on demand seen during most of 2009, and as loan repayments Statistical Office indicate that Croatia’s GDP contracted by reversal was caused by a shift in market sentiment following thereby reducing the value of the heavier Urals relative to Brent. of households (household deleveraging) put a dent on private 1.4% in 2010 and it is expected to expand by a modest 2.0% in the Eurozone debt crisis, and the second by more general consumption first and on fuel demand only later. 2011, according to the EBRD. concerns about the outlook for global growth in light of an CEE economy: Two-speed recovery continued apparent slowdown in China. Nevertheless, the overall growing The CEE region’s recovery progressed at two-speeds during Slovak economy: Sharp recovery with an expected moderation Croatian demand: Declining consumption amid the weak trend was fully justified by the annual 2.8 mn bbl/day demand most of 2010 with Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic The Slovak economy experienced a sharp V-shaped recovery growth in 2010 from the previous year, which is one of the performing strongly, while Hungary, Croatia and Romania, recovery on the back of the German manufacturing boom The motor fuel demand in Croatia dropped by 5.4% in 2010 strongest such figure in decades. Other fundamentals were among others, continued to lag behind. The recovery during 2010 and, as a result, both industrial production with both gasoline (-4.3%) and diesel (-5.9%) consumption also increasingly bullish throughout 2010. OPEC’s effective throughout the region is still mostly driven by the manufacturing and exports returned to their pre-crisis levels by H2 2010. contracting significantly amid the continuing economic slump, spare capacity slowly eroded to below 5 mn bbl/day by Q4 2010, boom in Germany rather than by domestic demand, which Slovak GDP grew by 4.0% in 2010, according to the Slovak rising unemployment and weak private consumption. Without while OECD industry stocks hovered around 59 days of forward is depressed by stubbornly-high unemployment rates and Statistical Office. The government’s announced fiscal the positive effect of the relatively strong tourist season, demand cover throughout the year compared to above 60 days continuously weak credit growth. Economic growth will face consolidation package designed to bring down the budget gasoline demand would have been even more disappointing. 10 MOL Group annual report 2010 11 Our Businesses Our Businesses Our businesses 12 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 13 MOL Group’s diverse upstream portfolio includes a during 2010 MOL agreed to initiate field redevelopment and number of assets, covering production in 7 countries as rehabilitation projects. well as further exploration possibilities in 13 countries. Within the Croatian total production, crude oil accounted In 2010 the Central and Eastern European (CEE) region for approximately 9.7 mboepd, condensate output was 6.8 remained MOL’s core area, with a production increase in mboepd while gas output reached 37.6 mboepd. Despite the Adriatic off shore overbalancing the natural depletion ongoing workovers and the utilisation of EOR methods on of onshore fields in Hungary and Croatia. MOL’s strong mature onshore fields to enhance production levels, natural cash-generation position in the CEE region is supported by gas production levels fell to 14.9 mboepd in onshore Croatia. rising production levels from Syrian and Pakistani assets. This decrease was off set by a 61% increase in off shore On the international arena, Kurdistan Region of Iraq and output (compared to 2009, considering full-year data), thus Russia remain vital pillars of MOL’s upstream activity, Exploration and Production reaching a rate of 22.7 mboepd in 2010, compared to 14.1 ensured by recent discoveries and field development mboepd in 2009 (considering full-year data). The rise in activities. off shore production is in line with company forecasts, and Exploration and Production Competitive advantage MOL Group is without a doubt in a strategic position, both came from the higher share in the North Adriatic Contract Area (NACA), as well as from the ramping up of production. NACA accounted for 84% of off shore gas production, in terms of its geographic position as well as in terms of its whereas 16% of the output came from the Aiza-Laura upstream know-how. Its location at the heart of Central contract area. Europe, along with more than seven decades of oil and gas In 2010 MOL put further emphasis on the application of industry experience, contribute to its role as a key regional EOR/IOR methods to improve production. Following the energy player. MOL Group’s remarkable exploration success identification of 30 potential fields, preparatory works rate of 70% in 2010 (14 discoveries out of the total 20 tested commenced to exploit further potential from the fields. exploration wells) has once again won international acclaim, and its ability to ensure cost-efficient operations has been Steady production from Russian fields particularly important in light of the downturn in the global In Russia’s Zapadno-Malobalik (ZMB) field the 50% MOL business environment in recent years. As a right sized share production contributed with 12.0 mboepd to Group company, MOL is able to react swiftly to changes, while it is results. The 2010 investment activity continued with the also large enough to offer host countries a sense of stability. two projects already started in 2009 via the drilling of The above mentioned factors as well as its team of highly new wells to moderate natural production decline and the qualified experts put MOL Group in a prime position to implementation of a gas utilisation program in compliance maintain its leading role in the CEE region and to strengthen with license terms. The construction of a gas turbine power the company’s international standing. station is making good progress: five generators were already put into operation before the end of 2010. In Baitugan field production increased by 51% to 4.6 mboepd, PRODuCTION as a result of the continued development program. A total of 34 production wells and 5 water injection wells were drilled Consistent production levels in CEE, with off shore output in 2010; meanwhile, the reconstruction and extension of contributing to an increase in Croatian production gathering, water injection, power supply systems and the Hungary and Croatia significantly contributed to the central processing station were ongoing. Moreover, the production level of MOL Group with their results of 53.6 preparation of a new field development plan was started GHTS mboepd and 54.1 mboepd respectively. Hungarian based on the 3D seismic acquired in 2008. HI GHLI production was slightly lower than last year; however, In the West Siberian Matjushkinsky Block, the development s the results from the major producing areas were in line of Severo-Ledovoye field was continued with the drilling of 5 ountrie ration s in 13 c with previous forecasts. In Croatia we experienced an additional wells. On Kvartovoye structure one well was drilled E xist ing ope w coun tr y 11% increase compared to the previous year (considering and tested. Production increased to 3.0 mboepd, a 48% rise m a n ia , as a n e o e into R up 2009 full-year data for INA). In Hungary the production compared to 2009. Currently there are 11 production and En t r a n c O L G ro r e s e r ves of M s of end-2010 distribution was the following: 13.4 mboepd of crude oil, 6.0 6 injection wells in Matjushkinsky field; these figures are boe 2P ar ds a 6 19 M M g t o S P E s t a n d ce mboepd of condensate, along with 34.3 mboepd of natural respectively 12 and 2 in Severo-Ledovoye field. accord in te in pla a n d c o n d ens a o u r gas. ant oil, gas k s to Iraq and a r t ha n MOL Group was able to maintain its advantage in extraction Syria and Pakistan accounting for a growing share of output Signific during the ye tan Region of n is additio ies in the Kurd efficiency in Hungary. In 2010 the Algyő oil recovery Following six discoveries over the past five years, and after r discove enhancement project was started and is scheduled to finish several successful drilling programs undertaken in 2009, the n Pakista b o ep d in 2011. Five new gas production wells will be operated within second stage of field development of Syria’s Hayan Block io n o f 1 43 .5 m t Pr o du c the scope of the South Békés project, which will be completed was finished with the construction of Jihar Oil and Gas Station in 2011. Rationalisation projects such as Algyő and Szank (OGS). In 2009 the start-up of OGS significantly exceeded ol.hu w w w.m Sucker rod pump in Hungary remained on track with potential implementation closure in expectations in terms of production volumes; furthermore, 2011. In addition, to extend our current partnerships in CEE, a Gas Treatment Plant also started to operate at the end of 14 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 15 2010. Hence, INA’s share of gas production reached a total the Sava Basin in onshore Croatia, where a satellite oil and unconventional exploration program by drilling two Block, on Verkhne-Laryegan structure preparation works of 4.4 mboepd in 2010 (a rise of 62% compared to 2009 fullgas field was discovered. In the Drava Basin, Dravica-1 well unconventional wells; results have proved the presence of for exploratory drilling were started. On Surgut-7 Block, year data), while oil and condensate production amounted test was completed with success. In order to further explore hydrocarbons. With regards to the Békés area, the competent a stimulation program for the 2 discoveries made over the to 3.5 mboepd (exceeding 2009 full-year volumes by 148%). the offshore Northern Adriatic area, INA and Eni as partners authority approved the final report of MOL’s license in the previous years began in 2010, including hydrofracturing During 2010, through the operatorship of all its blocks, investigated the potential of the thin-layered reservoirs of basin, which ensures the grant of the necessary license for activities at the first discovery well. MOL further strengthened its position in Pakistan with the the Ivana contract area. further exploration. In this MOL operated an unconventional As a result of exploration successes, the Ministry of consortium’s 7-8% contribution to the country’s overall gas well already in 2009, which proved the elements of the play Energy and Mineral Resources in Kazakhstan approved supply. In the first half of the year, two development wells Strenghtening our position in CEE by the entrance into a as well as the presence of gas. the extension of the Exploration License for the appraisal (Manzalai-8 and Makori-3) were drilled on Tal Block. MOL’s new country The evaluation of unconventional gas potential in the and trial production of the Rozhkovsky area for a period of share of production from Tal Block in 2010 amounted to In July 2010, the Romanian National Agency for Mineral Croatian-Hungarian crossborder area was completed, where 4 years, in order to evaluate the commercial significance 4.2 mboepd of gas and 0.5 mboepd of condensate from 10 Exploration and Production Resources announced that MOL (70%) and its Romanian the Drava Basin was singled out as the most promising of the field and to conduct further exploration activity. As producing wells. partner, Expert Petroleum (30%) were awarded licenses for for further exploration. The testing of tight gas sands and part of the appraisal program, the Rozhkovsky U-21 well three blocks they bid for in the 10th Romanian Licensing gas shales by means of drilling deep pilot wells is proposed was spudded in October 2010, showing promising levels of Further production projects bring sound results Round. The three blocks, located in Western Romania’s to be carried out with partner involvement. A number of hydrocarbon saturation. In Egypt, INA has interests in 4 hydrocarbon concessions. Pannonian Basin, cover an area of 3,434 sqkm. The signing small scale unconventional oil and gas prospects have also INA serves as the operator on the Sidi Rahman and the of the Concession Agreements is set for 2011, as is the start been introduced into the Croatian prospect portfolio: these Additional exploration potential in Pakistan Rizk Development Leases in the East Yidma concession, of the first working phase of the exploration program. projects are in the vicinity of producing fields. In Pakistan, exploration and appraisal activities within the while it has non-operator status in other concessions. 2010 highly promising Tal Block were successfully continued. investment activity primarily focused on the drilling of 5 Unconventional exploration in the CEE region Kurdistan Region of Iraq is our flagship in terms In the second half of 2010 two exploration wells were oil producing wells. INA’s share of production in Egypt was The focus of unconventional exploration in 2010 shifted of exploration spudded and Makori-East-1 was announced as Tal Block’s around 1.9 mboepd in 2010. towards the Derecske Basin. MOL continued the In Kurdistan Region of Iraq’s Akri-Bijeel Block (MOL’s undiluted fifth gas and condensate discovery. The successful result of Angolan production contributed to Group share is 80%), the first exploration well (Bijell-1) was completed Tolanj X-1 well was published in February 2011 as the sixth results with a production of 1.6 mboepd in November 2010, reaching its total depth, followed by discovery. The drilling shall be continued to penetrate and from three non-operated offshore blocks. In several successful well tests resulting in 3.7 mboepd oil and 0.1 test the deeper horizons. In the Margala Block, Margala-1 2010 the activity was focused on drilling 2 oil mboepd gas production without the use of any intensification exploration well was plugged and suspended in Q1 2011 producing wells, out of which one was put into methods (such as acidisation or fracturing). A discovery without encountering the target formation. Although a production already in 2010. announcement was made followed by entering into the second reservoir of adequate quality at reasonable depth was phase of exploration, and preparations for the appraisal of the not found, drilling nevertheless showed indications of accumulation. hydrocarbons. The way forward for Margala Blocks is to EXPLORATION In Shaikan Block (MOL’s undiluted share is 20% and the block carry out a detailed post-drilling evaluation in order to fully is operated by Gulf Keystone Petroleum International Ltd), assess the potential of both Margala and Margala-North CEE still boasts an exceptional exploration the work program of the appraisal phase was continued with Blocks. success rate the acquisition of 3D seismic, which ended in November 2010. In the neighbourhood of Pakistan, in India’s Himalayan MOL’s exploration activity in Hungary achieved The Shaikan-3 shallow well was drilled to productive Jurassic Foothills, the Kasauli-1 well on the HF-ONN-2001/1 Block a 70% success ratio in 2010: 10 exploratory formations; after repetitive acid treatment, the well produced was spudded in March 2010 and is expected to reach the wells were completed and tested in Hungary, significant amounts (9.8 mboepd) of heavy oil. In November target depth in 2011. out of which 7 encountered commercial 2010, the Shaikan-2 appraisal well was spudded. The surface quantities of hydrocarbons.1 This excellent facility for the extended well test of Shaikan-1 was built, The African portfolio is under exploration in line with comsuccess ratio justifies our strategic decision while three zones were tested in the Shaikan-1 discovery well mitted work programs to extend our exploration towards smaller reaching total production capacity over 7.5 mboepd. One exploration well was drilled on the East Yidma geologic prospects with lower technical risks, concession in Egypt, and it encountered a non-commercial close to known hydrocarbon accumulations. Other projects in the Middle East region oil accumulation. Furthermore, an oil discovery was The new discoveries made in 2010 added 4.1 Additional 2D seismic data was recorded in Oman’s 43B block made by the Rawda East-1 exploration well on the North MMboe to our SPE 2P reserves base. during 2010 in order to acquire sufficient reliable information Bahariya concession, while Rawda North-1, drilled on the Partnerships in MOL’s Hungarian exploration for choosing the optimal location for an exploratory well to same concession, was dry and consequently plugged and activity played a significant role. MOL be spud the following year. abandoned. In Cameroon, G&G studies and 2D seismic drilled and completed two wells on the In Syria, INA entered the second extension of the initial activity were undertaken in 2010. In Angola, an exploratory Darvas-Komádi license area in partnership exploration phase on Aphamia Block. Two exploration wells well was drilled on the 3/05A concession, finding gas with Hungarian Horizon Energy. Within the were drilled, the results of which confirmed the hydrocarbon reservoirs at two levels. However, it was not commercial framework of MOL’s partnership with Ascent saturation of the structures. Positive test results at one of due to the lack of Angolan offshore gas infrastructure, Resources in southwest Hungary, the second the wells encouraged further exploration activities; while thus partners agreed to plug and abandon the well. INA phase of Lovászi-Petisovci 3D seismic was the other one is waiting for testing. received declarations of commercial discoveries for two acquired with the aim of revitalising one of Angolan fields, Punja and Caco/Gazela (discovered in prior the oldest exploration areas in Hungary. CIS region has a substantial role in our future reserves decades). In Namibia, INA’s exploration license expired in Moreover, 3D seismic acquisition was also replacement November 2010. completed in the Kunmaradas area. Croatian production platform In Russia our exploration activity was focused on INA successfully continued the exploration of Matjushkinsky and Surgut-7 Blocks. On Matjushkinsky 1 One well, Okány-3 was drilled in 2009 and classified as a commercial discovery in 2010. 16 MOL Group annual report 2010 17 OTHER RESuLTS program of producing assets; efficiency improving equipment (such as waste heat recoveries, electric power Sustainable development (SD) and Health-Safety-Environplants for waste gas) have been tendered and purchased. ment (HSE) remain a fundamental priority The potential application of electromagnetic methods In 2010, the upstream HSE Management System has been (CSEM) on existing exploration blocks has also been elaborated and introduced, providing a comprehensive investigated. New seismic processing developments as tool for high-level HSE performance. With regards to INA well as reservoir modelling techniques have been applied, necessary actions to be taken related to integrated SD & thus improving understanding of complex geological HSE governance were identified and set. environments. The evaluation of surface geochemical In Pakistan, social programs such as MOL’s scholarship Exploration and Production imaging methods and high resolution crosswell seismic were program or the Free Eye Clinic continued, as did our road launched. rehabilitation efforts. MOL provided help for inhabitants affected by the Pakistani floods, delivering a total of 12 Outlook trucks of food and relief items (such as tents and medicines), As a result of the global financial crisis, which started back thus supporting over 700 families. in 2008, MOL Group decided to review its existing strategic In addition, MOL undertook a Talent Program aiming to guidelines with regards to exploration and production. It set increase appointed professionals’ skills. This is the first out on a program to rationalise its portfolio and expenditures, international upstream program covering Croatia, Russia while in 2010 the Group identified exploration-focused and Pakistan. growth as a further means of ensuring long term success. INA joined MOL’s upstream division in the Petroskills In order to optimise our portfolio on a Group level, we fully pilot project, establishing a professional competency harmonise our project and portfolio management control. management system with the involvement of around 150 MOL and INA management ensures our ability to achieve employees. maximal value creation on a Group level within the fields of exploration and production. Commitment to efficiency improvement and strong emphaIn recent years, MOL has achieved sound results in terms sis on long term asset utilisation of exploration, and MOL’s accomplishments have already During 2010 costs optimisation remained in focus, which received international acclaim. The Group has also proved was supported by Group level portfolio optimisation and its operational excellence in Syria and Pakistan and in the harmonisation of procurement processes. With the aim coming years it aims to utilise these experiences effectively. of maximising the Group’s efficiency, minimising risk and Therefore, a competency driven approach will provide a uncertainty but still maintaining the quality of exploration stable basis for our operations and growth. work, several improvements were carried out in 2010. In the near future we are targeting to transform our Software acquisitions with professional training in basin exploration success into production and regarding field modelling and seismic sequence stratigraphy permit development projects, MOL plans to maximise the value of state-of-the-art analysis of the evolution of hydrocarbon its existing portfolio, focusing on the short term impact of accumulations. In addition, the implementation of an production. advanced data gathering and analysis software guarantees In light of the current global economic environment, it is in efficient data handling and capturing for drilling and workover MOL Group’s interest to retain its upstream-focused service operations. Its compatibility into the engineer’s desktop companies (Crosco, GES, Geoinform, Rotary) and coordinate system and therefore integrated workflow not only saves their activities within a joint strategy. In order to achieve this time but adds value to drilling, completion and production goal, MOL’s harmonised business development prioritises engineering teams as well. New reservoir characterisation the inclusion of our service companies in all countries where methods (high resolution micro CT), formation damage the Group is present. control and production enhancement techniques have been During the next period MOL aims to strengthen its developed by MOL R&D and E&P divisions in cooperation international presence, in part through forming new alliances with service companies to ensure the most appropriate IOR/ as well as by deepening already existing partnerships and EOR technology and unconventional hydrocarbon reservoir through active portfolio development. On the long term, field development designs. MOL plans to keep its position as a key regional energy Significant cost savings could be expected in the near future player while simultaneously becoming a global benchmark because of the strategic focus on the energy rationalisation for upstream excellence. Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Bijell-1 exploration well 18 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 19 Zoltán Áldott Executive Vice Interview President, Exploration and Production with (MOL Group) President of INA Management Zoltán Áldott Board What role does Kurdistan Region of Iraq play in MOL’s future? Exploration and Production Kurdistan Region of Iraq is without a doubt one of the flagships of our international upstream portfolio. It is exceptionally important for a number of reasons, including our recent exploration successes, What plans does the Exploration and Production the huge potential of the region and our blocks, as well as the Division have for 2011, and how do you see its future on strategic geographic location of Iraq, enabling it to potentially the longer term? How does MOL contribute to social development play a vital role in Europe’s future energy supply. It is well-known that production in Central Europe is internationally? Following our success last year, in 2011 the second phase of the about to decline in the coming years, in accordance MOL has always stressed the importance of its social exploration program in Akri-Bijeel Block will continue, during with our expectations. I would like to highlight that responsibilities. For example, we contribute to the which we plan to undertake exploratory drillings. In order to production activities in this area started already in the improvement of living conditions for Iraqis through the fully evaluate the potential of the block, the simultaneous 1930s. In order to maintain current production levels tax revenues of our Pearl project and other projects in appraisal program will involve the drilling of several appraisal and reserves sizes, we must turn our attention to other the Kurdistan Region of Iraq in particular in the area of wells, the acquisition of 3D seismic as well as extended well regions, however those countries, where MOL Group’s How would you describe the international electricity generation. Or mentioning Pakistan, MOL assessment of MOL’s upstream performance? tests. Trial production in Shaikan Block will already begin in the E&P activities have already achieved substantial Group was ready to provide aid to the local people coming year, and four other appraisal wells are planned. We results, and hold significant further potential, will The international acknowledgement of our following the biggest flood catastrophe of the last upstream activities is absolutely positive, and are convinced that both blocks will contribute to a substantial remain in focus. Our upstream portfolio has become hundred years. Our branch office dispatched the first increase in the size of our reserves and our production levels in more widespread. By the end of the decade and in the market is clearly appreciating our efforts and consignment of relief items to help people in the floodinternational presence. We are particularly proud the future. the forthcoming years we are trying to seek new affected districts. Food and non-food items (tents, opportunities in territories where we have accumulated of the results published by Herold, which ranked medicines) were handed over to the representatives of significant expertise over the past years. One could say MOL Group as no. 1 in Europe in terms of oil and the regions (Kohat and Nowshera). What sort of resources do large-scale projects such as that starting from the heart of Central Europe, we are gas production efficiency in 2010. those in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, in Pakistan or in opening up to distant parts of the world as well. Although it is an integrated player, MOL used to Syria require? How are these projects managed? be thought of as mainly a downstream company. The day-to-day running of such projects covers many However, it is now gradually emerging as an diverse tasks and requires the work of experts from Why does MOL Group emphasise the significance of important upstream player as well due to recent years’ various fields. Analysts monitoring the political and partnerships? portfolio development. Our new, exploration driven security situation in a particular country; geologists The key to success in today’s world lies in cooperation. strategy, recent changes in the industry, as well as our taking part in exploration activities; engineers This is of course the case in Central Europe, but holds successful track record all underpin our belief that the key to involved in the drilling process must all work particularly true with regards to regions far away. National our further growth lies in locating new exploration blocks. together, both in our home offices as well as in the oil companies hold vast proportions of petroleum reserves fields. The number of those involved in the project and therefore forging ties with these companies, as well as depends on both the stage and the speed of the How can a Hungarian company become successful in with authorities in the petroleum industry is essential to us. project. In the case of Akri-Bijeel Block, currently we distant regions, such as the Middle East or South Asia? Much can be learned from these partnerships, both in are working on the exploration phase of the project, First of all, it should be highlighted that success in project terms of oil industry expertise as well as culturally. This with a relatively low number of on-site technical management does not depend solely on distance but on type of cooperation also helps to strengthen MOL’s experts. However, the number of people involved the company’s competences and knowledge. As in the case international presence, which in turn fuels our ability to will increase with the start of the appraisal program of all our projects, first and foremost we must prove our adapt to global changes. due to the parallel drilling and other tasks, such as expertise in smooth operation and project execution. It is surface activities. With the onset of production, an clear that oil companies should be risk takers to a certain even greater number of experts will take part, as extent and should be ready to handle not just technical is the case in MOL’s Pakistani producing assets or but also political problems. Successful resolution of the INA’s Syrian blocks. For example, in Syria, where the experienced difficulties is always appreciated by the Group’s average production this year is scheduled to market and it is essential to be prepared for the changes reach more than 20 mboepd, we employ around 300 e.g. in the local environment. Nevertheless, choice of people with the support of the head office in Zagreb. local partners is also pivotal: in Pakistan, for instance, our Looking towards the future, I can state that the partnership with several local companies equips us with Syrian Hayan project is an important milestone and country-specific knowledge of vital importance. should be followed by several similar projects in terms of both their scale and success, as a means to reach our long term targets. 20 MOL Group annual report 2010 21 upstrea� Portfolio Ele�ents RuSSIA Exploration and Production SPE 2P Reserves (2010) 618.8 MMboe Production (2010) 143.5 mboepd KAZAKHSTAN Hungary Hungary Croatia Croatia H RO HR Russia Russia Syria Syria Pakistan Pakistan other other SyRIA CEE Region Kurdistan Region of Iraq Shaikan Akri-Bijeel IRAQ Khor Mor Chemchemal PAKISTAN EGyPT Production: 107.7 mboepd INDIA Reserves (SPE 2P): 423.4 MMboe OMAN Russia and Kazakhstan Syria ZMB Surgut7 Matjushkinsky Baitugan Aphamia Hayan Fedorovsky CAMEROON Production: 19.7 mboepd Production: 7.9 mboepd Reserves (SPE 2P): 129.8 MMboe Reserves (SPE 2P): 45.7 MMboe SPE 2P Reserves (2010) 618.8 MMboe Pakistan Egypt Margala Margala-North Tal Karak East yidma & oil Sidi Rahman and gas Rizk Development Leases Ras Qattara ANGOLA condensate North Bahariya West Abu Gharadig Production: 4.7 mboepd Production: 1.9 mboepd Reserves (SPE 2P): 11.9 MMboe Reserves (SPE 2P): 3.8 MMboe MOL GROuP ExPLORATION Data include full year daily production and 100% of SPE 2P reserves of INA d.d. for 2010. PRODuCTION 22 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 23 Refining and Marketing Refining and Marketing Duna Refinery in Hungary 2010 was the year of continuing development with a focus on operational efficiency. Refining and Marketing operates five refineries and related asset networks in the CEE Key Achievements Setting the pace in efficiency improvement region driven by the Supply Chain Management. Bratislava and Duna refineries continue Continuous efficiency improvement has to be the basis not to enjoy the advantage of their strong asset structure while major efforts to elevate InA Downstream takes advantage of its asset structure just for the less competitive refiners, but even for the most Downstream performance have been in progress. Competitive crude and raw material High complexity refineries utilize the advantage of efficient as well, thus MOL launched focused programs supply and low cost product distribution are ensured by an extensive pipeline system producing a higher proportion of valuable ‘white’ products for the whole Group. Our five refineries and two petchem and increased depot coverage. Regional wholesale activity is effectively supported by (e.g. diesel, gasoline), which is one of the key drivers of MOL units enable us to improve internal efficiency and capture a widespread service station network of more than 1,600 sites in 11 Downstream’s competitiveness and value creation as well. synergies, like higher external purchase power. countries with 7 brands operated in a multi-brand Phase-1 of refinery modernization program in Croatia OptINA program was the first attempt to harvest quickstrategy by Retail Division. has almost been completed, which enables INA refineries wins of the implementation of MOL standards to elevate the to produce Euro V quality motor fuels to fulfil market operational efficiency, spreading ‘best practices’ in Croatia as Competitive advantage GHTS requirements. In Rijeka refinery, a new hydrocracker unit well. Maintenance of the sites was harmonized and production MOL Downstream has an outstanding asset structure in the European refining sector. HIGHLI has been mechanically completed to produce Euro V diesel products, while Sisak refinery is now able to produce Euro was optimized in order to supply the markets without disruption. In the first full year of the Program, implemented Our most complex refineries, Duna and efining g V quality motor gasoline thanks to the new investments. projects significantly over-delivered the preliminary targets. r o v e m ent of r wly recoverin e Bratislava have had leading net cash margin a l im p it h s lo t s in th A new hydrogen generation unit and revamp of other Downstream continues and extends its EIFFEL Program G r a du e n t in line w d e v e lo p m en m t positions in Europe since 2003 according environ , while marke rse pic ture older plants were also required for this investment, while (Efficiency Improvement Framework) in order to support y e to WoodMackenzie studies. Revamp of less econom n showed div the sulphur recovery unit ensures compliance with future strategic pillars of growth, efficiency and capabilities by a E r e g io gram is efficient and sophisticated assets in Croatia C E e r n iz a tion pro motor European environmental requirements. Additionally to the bottom-up approach that encourages people to be more mo d uro V 1 of INA o d u ce E t al and Italy gained momentum in 2010, enabling Phasempleted to pr e environmen compliance, the investments at Rijeka increase the refinery’s innovative. The majority of savings is due to new creative and g c o e d u c all of our refineries to produce Euro V quality bein to r Nelson Complexity Index to 9.1 and improve its product flexible solutions and small technology modifications. lit y and motor fuels. While our refineries enjoyed the f u el q ua t yield towards middle distillates. Further projects are planned Beside the significant direct cost savings, the real added value of footprin iency e r a t io nal effic ce the direct pipeline access to Russian crude supplies, no p alan to increase the production flexibility as part of our effort to EIFFEL Program is the creation of a self-improving organizan g e m phasis o ued to help b ent seaborne crude markets provided an opportunity Str o con t in o nm retain our ability to react quickly to changes in the external tion and the establishment of a modern knowledge sharing em en t al envir to select the optimal crude slate. The division improv enging ex tern environment. environment, which supports the cooperation within ll still cha r th er optimized refinery operation to exploit synergies o s it io n an d f u r o p e ar e MOL Group’s multinational and multicultural operational area. p u market s te r n E istics available in regional markets. Our extensive logistics Strong n to South Ea pment of log n Access to pipeline and seaborne crude ensure refining Refining has launched an Energy Conservation Program in n s io v e lo a tio e x pa e de nsolid network coupled with well positioned commercial p p o r t ed by th il net work co ies profitability 2010, with the aims to improve ‘traditional’ energy efficiency, su ta h activity reaching end-users continued to be key s an d r e eo gr ap Our landlocked and high complexity refineries designed for reshape the contract management system and utilize online s y s t e m e d f o cu s o n g v is t of advantages of capturing sales margin revenues. with re .mol.heuroll-ou ural type crude (Duna, Bratislava) may well take advantage energy optimization due to the energy market deregulation. wnwtw inues th ong business Retail Division is responsible for strengthening t r ea m c o s am of the direct pipeline access to Russian crude oil supply. Additionally, harmonization and synchronization of the market position of fuel sales via convenience retailing Downs bilit y principle egional level Refineries with seaborne crude supply in Mantova, Sisak existing internal energy accounting-controlling systems into t a in a o n r s us ries d count activities across 11 countries. After a period of dynamic units an and Rijeka benefit from crude cargo trade and related a common platform are intended. growth in the number of filling stations as well as in optimisation of matching product supply with local demand In sales and distribution, the proprietary distribution pipetheir geographic distribution, the key challenge now is patterns. In 2010 MOL paid special attention to select the line network allows us the lowest possible cost to serve our ol.hu to consolidate the existing filling station portfolio and w w w.m most economic crude slate for refineries and increased the customers. Additional cost reduction and rationalization in improve its efficiency. variety of processed crude in Croatia and Italy compared to transportation were in focus by exploiting synergies aiming previous years. to improve road and rail tank car management and harmon24 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 25 ize MOL and INA sales channels in Croatia and Bosnia and MOL Group has kept its market leader position in Hungary, Herzegovina. Slovakia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, while it has Retail Division continuously improves the efficiency of appdeveloped strong market presence in other core countries lied methods and technologies for filling station operation with high sales margin environments. Leadership role by implementing new engineering and efficient maintenyielded 20% market share in CEE and SEE regions and ance standards and energy saving lighting methods. increased sales volumes. MOL Group started to develop a competitive logistics Commercial position and logistic services provide a clear network in Romania, Serbia and Bosnia to serve increasing advantage in regional competition sales volume as it was performed earlier in Austria. Development of wholesale and logistic assets remains a CEE MOL Motor fuel markets key goal for MOL Group in order to enable offering higher Refining and Marketing volumes to end costumers. Wholesale commercial is continuously developing its customer management, providing fast, transparent and easy access to information services through the Internet from order to payment. In retail business the performance of our current portfolio has been reviewed on the basis of individual filling stations in order to determine future investment. Tailor made, siteby-site strategies are based on the forecasted results and competitiveness of the specific station and the country’s development opportunities. Nearly 2000 projects have been identified to be completed within the next five years aiming for solid cash generation at all sites, as well as for renewed Legend: Retail Visual Identity and refurbished hygienic solutions on Countries with own refineries and/or higher than 50% market share more than 60% of the network. Countries with market share between 5% and 50% Offering a whole range of extra services to travellers beyond selling fuel is an important element of MOL Group’s Retail Countries with market share below 5% strategy. The company therefore continuously seeks to improve convenience services at its filling stations. MOL Group and Marché International offer joint services at seven MOL stations in Hungary and seven Tifon stations in Croatia. Sales distribution In addition, in 2010 MOL Retail Division has renewed its by markets Gastro concept under the brand name ’Corner’ with a wide scale of offers from fresh coffee and sandwiches to quick and convenient warm dishes, paying high attention to customer needs. Domestic markets 68% Core markets 27% Other markets 5% Duna Refinery in Hungary 26 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 27 What will the focus of MOL Downstream be in 2011? Interview The size and complexity of our operations calls for a focus on managing execution. We need to deliver results through efficiency improvements and enhanced flexibility which will help us keep with costs under stricter control. We plan to continue our quest to develop value-creating growth by increasing our market share in the motor fuel markets of SEE, Ferenc Horváth moving into the recently-opened Serbian motor gasoline market and by expanding our market presence in Romania too. In Retail we intend to pursue a selective investment strategy. We will concentrate on regional consolidation and offering relevant Refining and Marketing services to our customers. Ultimately, we aim to offer an enhanced total customer value proposition. Thus we will broaden our ‘fitto-drive’ concept: the open-air family fitness park providing an What other factors are you opportunity for each member of the family to take a short active considering to achieve your goals in break whilst travelling. the future? What was the biggest success in 2010? Ferenc Horváth We constantly focus on environmental 2010 was the first full year of operations in 12 markets with 5 Executive Vice President, Refining changes and challenges. With the production assets. Our goal was to build on the high performance and Marketing (MOL Group) What will MOL’s biggest challenges be in the coming years? contribution of our Research & of previous years. We significantly improved our asset structure Our aim is to become the premium Downstream company in Europe. We would like to Development team, we want to be by adding to it a worldlevel hydrocracking unit to match our strengthen our regional stronghold along 3 dimensions: able to provide adequate and timely production structure with market demand. The new units in our Firstly, we will maintain strong emphasis on increasing the efficiency of our current solutions. Apart from ‘hardware’, Rijeka and Sisak refineries now enable us not only to serve local assets (focusing on energy consumption and maintenance in particular) as well as we believe that investing in human How do you see the external demand but their new EU-conforming grades also provide us with on further improving logistics and marketing operational optimisation. As part resources and sustainable operations environment in 2011? Will it be a more access to EU marketplaces. These projects were the first steps of MOL Group-level efficiency programmes, Downstream is aiming at a USD 280 will enable us to achieve our goals and favourable year for complex refiners like towards creating efficient and profitable Croatian Downstream million EBITDA improvement by 2013. In the meantime we shall maintain the leading maintain our competitive advantage. MOL? operations and show our commitment to elevate INA asset positions of our Duna and Bratislava refineries in terms of net cash margin generation In 2010, the global refining environment performance to the level of our Duna and Bratislava refineries. The and exploitation of MOL Group-level synergies. gradually improved and we think that optimisation of five refineries and two additional petrochemicals Secondly, we aim to initiate organic growth projects 2011 will be characterised by a slightly sites has created synergies which we are gradually exploiting by that focus on the elevation of our Rijeka refinery to the improved margin environment. We de-bottlenecking our logistics network. level of top European plants, increasing its complexity think that the recovery of the diesel to convert fuel oil output to more valuable motor fuels. market will continue and our refinery Petchem investment in Bratislava could ensure flexibility assets are well positioned to exploit such a What specific steps did you take to achieve these in the long term and exploit existing synergies from market opportunity. In our core markets improvements? refining-petrochemicals integration. On the other hand, Central and South East European demand The efficiency improvement programmes in Croatia, started in the long term, we also plan to increase diesel output at will slowly pick up and we will be able to ride in 2009, delivered initial results and generated close to USD our Duna refinery by building a new hydrocracking unit. the tide with our extensive sales channels and 100 million EBITDA improvement throughout the entire value Thirdly, we will pursue a selective non-organic growth logistics assets. chain. The “OptINA” project identified several areas where investment strategy by continuously monitoring the implementation of current MOL Group standards would regional asset market but considering only those add significant value to day-to-day operations and increase which fit into the current portfolio in the region with profitability as well. special regard to logistics and retail developments. The On the commercial side, we are continuously improving customer biggest challenges in Retail will be the rationalisation relations management. As a reliable and high-quality supplier, and efficiency improvements in the Croatian operation we have started the harmonisation of our commercial framework as well as managing the modernisation project with a with INA, including the implementation of a new business policy sizable investment. and contract standards, the application of strict financial rules Refining and production are coming under more to INA sales credit risk management and the introduction of a and more stringent legislation and are the focus of single sales channel for motor fuels in Croatia and Bosnia and environmental protection laws. Herzegovina. From the workforce point of view, we will face a Sales expansion in South Eastern Europe gained momentum by challenge in the future: to keep the right balance extending our logistics capacity in Serbia and Romania. between aging and swift knowledge improvement. One of our key tasks is to ensure the succession of key people. We have started several projects through partnerships with Universities even down to elementary school programme level to secure the engagement of the new generation with the oil industry. We have launched a Masters course at the University of Pannonia to support internally the education of new graduates and the ‘PIMS Academy’ in the Supply Chain Management. 28 MOL Group annual report 2010 29 Petrochemicals Petrochemicals Petrochemicals Our petrochemical business is the leading polymer player in CEE and among the top ten players in the European polymer market supplying polymers mainly to European plastic processing companies. Our production facilities are located in Tiszaújváros (Tisza Chemical Group Plc., TVK) and Bratislava (Slovnaft Petrochemicals, s.r.o., SPC). They I GHLI GHTS are integrated with MOL Group refineries and support the H Downstream segment as captive market. Beyond the naphtha uc t s o pro d processing to ethylene and propylene, the Petrochemical io n o f olefin c utilizat r segment produces polymers in competitive quality, which Higher polyme are fundamental for a wide range of industrial applications n a l m arkets in n regio and for the production of a vast number of consumer goods F o cu s o sales ul an d that are essential to everyday life. The polyethylene product e n e r a l overha na g e d g range includes low density polyethylene (LDPE), high density Well ma ance n unimodal and bimodal polyethylene (HDPE). The polypropylene mainte en t s y s te m t y M a na g em (PP) product range includes homopolymers, random S afe P r o ce s s n t e d m e copolymers and impact copolymers. TVK and SPC are operated imp le ciency o n e n ergy effi in integrated manner, selling the majority of products through ic focus Strateg ment TVK sales subsidiaries under the brands of Tipelin, Tipolen, Bralen impro ve (polyethylene) and Tipplen, Tatren (polypropylenes). ol.hu w w w.m In Hungary and Slovakia we serve our customers directly from TVK and SPC. Our sales subsidiaries are operating in five countries – Germany, Poland, Italy, France and ukraine. Above all, our sales activity is also conducted through MOL subsidiaries in Austria and Romania, where we exploit synergies from the presence of other MOL businesses. Sales as well as customer support in technical issues to the key accounts and on other markets are managed from TVK and SPC. We supply feedstock especially to European plastic converters – more than 97% of our polymer production has been placed in European markets in 2010. Proximity to rapid growth regions of Central and Eastern Europe provides firm basis to fully satisfy customer needs, supported by tailor made sales services and product quality, which is strategically important in keeping position as leading regional polymer player. Based on its long time experience in the petrochemical industry, MOL Petrochemical segment’s HDPE-2 unit – Tisza Chemical Group Plc. in Hungary main internal strengths are the skilled sales and engineering staff. 30 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 31 Competitive Advantages – Passing over the first year of the crude C4 sales contract with Successful general overhaul and planned maintenance protection and increasing energy prices, action plans were Our competitive strength is supported by our geographical our Polish partner, Synthos we gain positive experiences in In April we carried out a general overhaul at TVK Olefin-2. The developed in connection with technologies and a new position and competitive asset base with a well-balanced the cooperation. good operation rates that we achieved have compensated the operational model was introduced for energy management. product and customer portfolio, as well as refinery integration. – Pyrolysis oil sales to the third party’s carbon black unit effect of the downtime. Both olefin and polymer production This will further improve the cost efficiency of the overall Integrated operation: According to our ‘crude to plastic’ in Tiszaújváros improved significantly in 2010, due to the have slightly increased in 2010. General overhauls were energy process to the benefit of environment. philosophy we optimize our refining and petrochemical upturn in the tyre industry. successfully completed covering the planned technical We are consequently implementing our energy strategy production through the whole hydrocarbon value chain, content and within the budget planned. These well-managed formulated in 2008. In the 2008-2010 period we spared 48 kt which not only maximizes our profitability, but also reduces Continuation of the sales and marketing strategy impleturnarounds give good basis for excellent operational of CO2 via sustainable improvement actions and individual the risk at group level. Integration between petrochemical mentation – focusing and differentiation reliability as well as for exploiting business opportunities. energy projects. plants and refineries improves the competitive position for Sales and marketing strategy can be characterized by two both sides. This segment represents captive-market for MOL major goals – geographical focusing and differentiation in Focus on safe operation Outlook Downstream segment by purchasing 13% or 2.3 Million tons customer services. Exploiting our favourable geographic As an answer to the increasing importance of production In the future petrochemical industry remains increasingly Petrochemicals of MOL Downstream sales as petrochemical feedstock. MOL location we have amended our sales strategy, at the field of safety in industrial processes and in line with MOL Group competitive, setting further challenges in the business. Petrochemicals sales to MOL refineries amounting to 30% of logistics, product development and tight customer relations, requirements, we introduced Process Safety Management To keep and further strengthen competitive advantages, the total petrochemical feedstock. The majority of these coaiming higher focus on markets in Central Europe. (PSM) system to reveal and investigate operational risks, the Petrochemical segment is committed to continue its products produced by olefin plants are sold as components to Plastics demand in Europe has considerably recovered in events and to monitor the corrective actions. By PSM strategic development programs and seeking for new the fuel production. 2010. The global economic recovery brought steady demand approach in the operation and through PSM audits conducted business opportunities. Good geographical location: Our sales and marketing in the LDPE and PP markets and quoted prices raised by 43at production units we intend to increase operational safety We keep EBIT improvement as priority target for 2011. strategy focuses on increasing sales in the fast growing 45%. However HDPE products were not able to keep up with in our petrochemical processes. The PSM system, which we Coherent implementation of cost-cutting initiatives and CEE region, where we can benefit from central position in this trend. introduced, is based on Dupont PSM methodology. acquiring attractive customer segments in sales could the landlocked markets and our special understanding of In 2010 we improved our sales performance by achieving provide firm basis to make good progress with this aim. customer requirements. Shorter sales radius can reduce higher price levels and we kept polymer inventories at low Improvements in energy efficiency In order to firm LDPE market position, MOL Petrochemicals transportation and other logistics costs. Value added services level. By improving our customer portfolio, the ratio of sales Commitment to improve energy efficiency is deeply rooted has launched the SPC modernization program in 2007. By the in logistics and technical support are the key factors to to non-core destinations reduced from 8% in the previous in strategic thinking at the Petrochemical segment. In continuation of SPC development, MOL Petrochemicals will differentiate MOL Petrochemicals. These services together year to 6% in 2010. response to the thriving importance of environmental keep leading position in the regional petrochemical industry. with regional expertise represent the main advantages in MOL’s core region. Tisza Chemical Group Plc. in Hungary Certrificates Certrificates TVK Slovnaft Petrochemicals Key developments in 2010 Our Petrochemical segment hit the best ever net sales figure by achieving 35% improvement in 2010, compared to the preceding year. This development was moderated by the significant increase in raw material cost that raised by approximately 43%. Although the annual average of integrated petrochemical margin has improved by 6% increased to 323 EuR/t in 2010, it was still lower by 21% than in 2008 (406 EuR/t). So, we paid particular attention to keep strict control on costs and working capital as well in 2010. Olefin sales improves steam cracker utilization Our Petrochemical segment is an active player in the regional olefin business through increasing olefin and olefin by-products sales of the olefin plants. Due to this, we can improve the capacity utilization of the olefin plants, which are strategic assets in our petrochemical business. – Borsodchem, our strategic partner in the olefin business in Hungary has stabilized its positions and increased the volume of ethylene purchases in 2010. 32 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 33 Downstream portfolio Domestic and core markets elements Refinery Petrochemical Plant Poland Refineries Oil pipeline capacity in mt/y NCI index Petchem pipelines Duna Refinery 8.1 10.6 Ethylene pipeline Bratislava Refinery 6.1 11.5 Mantova Refinery 2.6 8.4 Product Depot Petrochemicals Rijeka Refinery 4.5 9.1 Czech Republic Sisak Refinery 2.2 6.1 Slovakia Bratislava Refinery SPC TVK Logistics Crude Pipelines Capacity in mt/y Austria Duna Friendship I. (owned by transpetrol) 22.0 Refinery Friendship II. 7.9 Adria (Hungarian part) 10.0 Algyő 2.0 Hungary Romania Porto Marghera Mantova 2.6 Adria JANAF (12% owned by INA) 34.0 Product Depot (pcs) 38 Italy Product pipeline system: Slovenia Mantova Italy MOL – 1356 km 8.2 Croatia Refinery Sisak SN – 484 km 2.5 Refinery Rijeka Serbia Mantova Refinery Bosnia and Retail Refinery Herzegovina Number of filling stations MOL 563 INA 476 Slovnaft 234 Montenegro IES 205 Tifon 43 Roth 38 Energopetrol 64 Petrochemicals Production Capacity in kt/y TVK Olefin 660 TVK Polyolefin 765 SPC Olefin 220 SPC Polyolefin 435 Pipelines Capacity in kt/y Feedstock and product pipelines 2,700 Ethylene (Kazincbarcika) 160 Ethylene (Kalush) 100 34 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 35 In Hungary, only FGSZ Földgázszállító Zrt. (FGSZ) has a certified quality assurance system in accordance with the ISO licence for natural gas transmission and system operation. 9001 standard in 1997. The certification was issued by SGS Both activities are carried out under market conditions (SGS Hungary Kft. in Hungary) which is a highly acclaimed regulated by law. The company possesses and operates certification company in the oil and gas industry. The the high-pressure natural gas system covering the entire operation of the quality assurance system is reviewed semiterritory of Hungary. Aside from domestic natural gas annually by SGS Hungary Kft. and annually by the Hungarian transmission, FGSZ is also engaged in transit activities Office for Mining and Geology. Gas to Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and export to Romania – Stable cash flow: The operation of FGSZ’s high-pressure natural and Croatia. In international comparison, the company’s natural gas transmission grid of approximately 5,800 pipeline network represents the highest technological km – covering the entire territory of Hungary – and the standards. FGSZ ranks among the region’s companies of discrimination-free sale of its capacity and supplementary strategic importance. Its dynamism and efficiency make services provide a stable cash-flow for the group. Gas Transmission the company one of the most significant natural gas – ”Best Employer”: FGSZ Zrt. also has considerable merits natural Gas Transmission suppliers in Europe. as an employer. In 2009 the company achieved first place Transmission in its category in the Best Employer Survey conducted by Competitive advantages Világgazdaság-Hewitt and also won the first place in the – Good geographical position: Due to its geographical industry competition. The company was also selected as the location, FGSZ also has a key role in terms of regional transit best workplace in the country and was also ranked among the transmission. best workplaces in the regional survey of The Best Employer – High quality standards: The company implemented a of Central-Eastern Europe. GHLI GHTS HI s y s te m n g pipeline 5 ,8 0 0 k m lo points, im p o r t input estic, 2 17 dom output points tions 40 0 sg a o m p r e ssor s t a t r es , 5 c n a l ce n in Siófo k 6 regio a t o r ce n t r e e r atian class op an d Cr o Worlda n ia n Rom c tion of ished Constru nec tor was fin & c o n r al G as Inter ily Natu t h e D a of Launch Market nt y ep en d e C a p a c it s t o fi t the Ind ge l ral chan r mo de Struc tu sion Operato is Transm ol.hu w w w.m Beregdaróc Compressor Staion in Hungary 36 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 37 The most important events of 2010 Outlook attainable through the strategic cooperation of the regional Slovakian interconnector and also conducts further negotiations natural gas supplier companies and the establishment of regarding the Slovenian interconnector. The former would The construction of the Romanian and Croatian InterconNorth-South Gas Corridor and NETS cooperation common directives in terms of energy policy. FGSZ’s Project facilitate the creation of the North-South Gas Corridor while nector was successfully completed The North-South Gas Corridor is one of the key projects of NETS (New European Transmission System) provides a frame the latter would contribute to the possible construction of the The transmission through the interconnectors between the the European Union. Its main objective is to diversify the gas for the creation of the North-South Gas Corridor. Hungarian-Slovenian-Italian transmission system. Hungarian and Romanian natural gas transmission networks resources of the region between the Baltic Sea and the Adriatic In order to achieve the aims described above, FGSZ launched started in July 2010. The Hungarian section of the pipeline is Sea and create an integrated gas market. These goals are the preparation works of the construction of the Hungarian47 km long and has a maximum capacity of 4.8 million m3 / day. The total value of the investment was HUF 9 billion. The Hungarian-Croatian interconnector, Városföld–Slobodnica was also completed. The Hungarian section of the pipeline is 205 km with a maximum capacity of 19.2 million m3/day. Costs Gas Transmission of the investment in Hungary amounted to HUF 80 billion. Both pipelines are suitable for bidirectional transmission therefore the implementation of the interconnectors considerably improves the safety of supply as with the completion of the interconnectors the domestic gas pipeline network may have four input points in addition to the previous two. During the pipeline construction works completed in 2010, FGSZ paid special attention to the protection of the natural resources of the area concerned, environment and nature protection and the improvement of air purity. The company also maintained regular contact with the public and social organizations during the construction works. FGSZ operates under Independent Transmission Operator model (ITO) The publication of Directive 2009/73/EC brought about fundamental changes for FGSZ Zrt. In the spirit of enhancing market liberalization, this directive established a new comprehensive framework for natural gas takeover, storage and distribution, including the regulation of the company’s operation. The EU directive was included in the Hungarian legislation with the appropriate amendments as a result of which in the future FGSZ operates under a new model called ITO (independent transmission operator). During 2010 the Company implemented all the necessary measures to continue its operation under the new system operation and gas transmission model following the deadline for submitting the licence application. Daily Natural Gas & Capacity Market (NFKP) a new special electronic trading platform for natural gas Pursuant to Act XL of 2008, FGSZ Zrt. provides a new type of service for its clients as of 1 July 2010. With the establishment of the Daily Natural Gas & Capacity Market (NFKP) a special electronic trading platform was created where natural gas traders, private users, natural gas producers and other system operators – such as natural gas storage operators or distribution system operators – can sell and buy natural gas and highpressure gas transmission network capacities. Due to NFKP, market players can plan their daily tasks more effectively and the risk posed by day-end balancing is also lower therefore they can provide end users with smoother and more reliable services. NFKP represents an important step towards FGSZ’s long-term objective which is the establishment of a more competitive Beregdaróc Compressor Staion in Hungary Hungarian natural gas market with higher liquidity. 38 MOL Group annual report 2010 39 Gas Transmission Transmission plant portfolio elements Compressor station Poland Import inlet point Domestic production Total performance in 2010 Transit (Serbian and Bosnian) (data at 15°C) (cubic metres) Storage for commercial purposes (data at 15°C) (cubic metres) Annual capacity 4.82 billion Aggregate domestic quantity Daily peak capacity 13.20 million Storage for strategic purposes including gas withdrawn from uGS 11.89 billion Of which: withdrawn 2.16 billion Romanian transit Gas transfer station Transit and export 2.20 billion (data at 15°C) (cubic metres) Import quantities for domestic Annual capacity 1.75 billion Gas pipeline Ø_>1000 mm consumptionat Beregszász point 5.00 billion Gas Transmission Daily peak capacity 4.80 million Gas pipeline Ø_>600 mm Through HAG pipeline 4.58 billion From domestic production 2.34 billion Domestic production Gas pipeline Ø_>300 mm Twelve entry points (cubic metres) Annual capacity 2.35 billion Gas pipeline Ø < 300 mm Daily peak capacity 9.02 million HAG pipeline from Austria Mosonmagyaróvár measurement (cubic metres) Slovakia Annual capacity 4.50 billion Daily firm peak capacity 12.10 million ukraina Testvériség and Összefogás pipeline from the ukraine Entry point at Beregdaróc (cubic metres) Miskolc Annual capacity 21.90 billion Beregdaróc Nemesbikk Mosonmagyaróvár Daily peak capacity of the natural gas system Vecsés Karcag (data at 15°C) (cubic metres) Kápolnásnyék Total 173.71 million Kenderes of which interruptible 9.8 million Imports 74.40 million of which interruptible 2.3 million Transit 11.30 million Kecskemét Storage for commercial purposes 59.00 million Gellénháza of which interruptible 7.5 million Storage for strategic purposes 20.00 million Városföld Domestic production netto 9.02 million Pusztaederics Capacity of underground storages of commercial purposes Kardoskút Four entry points (cubic metres) Báta Szőreg Annual capacity 5.00 billion Romania Daily peak capacity 59.00 million Zsana of which interruptible 7.5 million Algyő Babócsa Capacity of underground storages of strategic purposes One entry points (cubic metres) Annual capacity 1.20 billion Daily peak capacity 20.00 million Croatia 40 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 41 Gas Power Gas infrastructure by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and (EBRD), with 8-year loan facility, while further financing is Both the ongoing and successfully completed infrastructure secured by a revolving credit contract prolonged with MOL developments aim to strengthen the market efficiency and till 2014. the security of supply in the region and provide stable cash Gas and Power flow for the Group. Nabucco project MOL takes part in the Nabucco project in cooperation with MMBF Ltd. Botas, Bulgarian Energy Holding, OMV, RWE and Transgaz MOL is again an active participant in the gas storage business with an equal share of 16.67%. The aim of the project is to via MMBF Ltd., generating stable, euro denominated casheventually transport 31 bcm of natural gas per annum from flow on long term and strengthening the security of supply the Caspian and Middle-Eastern region to Europe on a in Hungary. 3,900 km long pipeline. Gas and Power With the primer goal to ensure the security of gas supply, After the successful year of 2009, when the Intergovernmental MMBF Gas Storage Ltd. (72.5% subsidiary of MOL) Agreement (IGA) was signed by the governments of the developed the underground gas storage facility with Nabucco transit countries of Austria, Hungary, Romania, strategic mobile capacity of 1.2 bcm and commercial mobile Bulgaria and Turkey, the Nabucco project made a significant capacity of 0.7 bcm. progress in 2010 by signing of a mandate letter with EBRD The operator of the facility is MOL. The development (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development), EIB TS was also managed by MOL and has been accomplished (European Investment Bank) and IFIs (International Financial HLI GH HIG according to schedule in line with Act xxVI/2006 on Institutions). Additionally both the Environmental and Social strategic stockpiling of natural gas. Consequently the 30Impact Assessment and the front-end engineering design of ha s year contract for strategic gas storage came into effect. the two feeder lines in Turkey have been started. s to r a g e e r g r o u nd gas ul operation Commercial capacities have also been fully booked for 10 Nabucco will lead to a more efficient and secured regional gas d f Ltd., un success MMBF its first year of years starting from 1 April 2010. Both activities provide market and additional value generation for MOL Group taking finished th e in 2010 it y into stable, euro denominated return for MOL Group. into consideration the Pearl project in Iraq as a potential u r c h a se ac tiv crude oil INA’s p nt of supplied with high The financing of MMBF up to EuR 200 million is provided upstream gas source. tion of Integra ises the amou to 20 mn tons a e The Gas and Power segment consists of the Group r materials clos potential d r aw m e n t an ove ing cy impr by sign Supply and Trading Division and the Power and efficien d m o m entum and IFIs gaine D, EIB Heat Generation Department. ipeline h e EB R N a bucco p te let ter with t The Supply and Trading Division’s activities enable n da na g e d o f a ma r a ding ma ivatives, MOL to take full advantage of the synergies among it y T d er mo d ol Co m r o du c t s up the supply and trading of crude oil, oil products, MC T, M ly the oil-, oil p s of MOL Gro ie n t it io n effic r pos s have natural gas, power, CO2 and other commodities – d powe projec t the CO2 an t r ic it y within the Group as well as towards external market lec er b as e d e p to e n t participants. il o t in er t gas s an initial ste nt P a itiated, t s egme At the end of 2009, MOL became an active participant been in le power plan c a small s in the gas storage business again, via MMBF Ltd. ol.hu (72.5% MOL subsidiary), which finished its first year of w w w.m successful operation in 2010 with 1.2 bcm strategic and 0.7 bcm commercial mobile capacity. The execution of this project supports the Hungarian security of supply as well. Due to long-term growth in gas consumption in the EU countries and the high level of import dependency, we continued to focus on the diversification of gas source and the development of infrastructure as well as moving forward the energy value chain with utilizing MOL Group’s existing primary resources for electricity generation. MOL, together with its strategic partner – CEZ, the Czech Energy Company – is continuing with major investments in the Danube and Bratislava refineries including two combined cycle gas turbines (CCGT) and the revamp of the existing thermal power plant (TPP), in order to create an attractive power portfolio. underground Gas storage Szőreg in Hungary 42 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 43 In the year 2010 several geothermal projects have been investments. The ongoing project is the revamp of the Trading and supply operations Energy Portfolio Development identified to be feasible both from geological and financial existing thermal power plant (TPP) in the Bratislava refinery. point of view, targeting significant electric and heat Beside this the partners are examining the opportunities of Managing the trading and supply operations integrated The Energy Portfolio Development continues to exploit the capacity. The first steps of MOL’s geothermal strategy building two combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) technologies for the whole MOL Group has the apparent rationale of existing, but so far untapped resources and competencies is being implemented through CEGE, the dedicated power plant in the Danube and Bratislava refineries. Each synergies and economies of scale. The potential improved of the company, primarily in the field of geothermal energy geothermal joint venture, and now MOL looks forward to CCGT has a planned capacity of 830 MW which would result considerably with the inclusion of the integrated planning and inert gas utilization, thus enable MOL Group to enter the launch of the geothermal concession tenders in 2011. in a 58% net electrical efficiency. and feedstock supply into the division – in close co-operation the small scale power plant segment, as a new industry. As the first step of the Group level energy audit of MOL The revamp of the TPP in Bratislava is in process, the with the Supply Chain Management. The supply and trading The planning and permitting phase of the inert gas pilot Group, the Energy Efficiency team has completed the complete Flue Gas Desulfurization unit work will be activities cover various needs of e.g. MOL, Slovnaft, INA project, using natural gas with lower calorific value, with comprehensive energy efficiency assessment of TVK, completed by the end of 2011. The capacity increase of the and IES, while being able to utilise the existing expertise and 0.8 MW electric capacity was finished in 2010. It will be which is followed by the energy audit of MOL’s main power plant will satisfy the full electricity and steam need of exploit the opportunities on the external market as well. followed by the project implementation and commissioning domestic Upstream and Downstream sites. the refinery. The preparatory works for the developments of Gas and Power in 2011. In addition, there are a number of similar inert the two CCGT power plants are proceeding according to the Crude Oil and Raw Materials Supply and Trading (Moltradegas projects with much larger scale under preparation in agreed schedule. The Hungarian project has been granted an Mineralimpex) different areas of Hungary. The total portfolio will enable Power and Heat Generation IPPC and a Building Permit, in Slovakia a valid EIA resolution On the basis of Supply Chain Management needs, 11.8 M MOL to establish sizeable market presence in the small has been received by the end of 2010. tons of crude oil for MOL, Slovnaft and INA Sisak refineries scale power plant sector supported by its gas engines/ MOL, together with its strategic partner – CEZ, the Czech were supplied via Druzhba pipeline in 2010. 550 kt crude oil turbines installed near the inert gas fields. Energy Company is considering to carry out three major was transited for Brod refinery (Bosnia). Seaborne crude supply for IES / Mantova refinery reached 2.4 M tons. INA crude oil procurement integration into the Group purchasing activity taken place during 2010 involving MOLTRADE-Mineralimpex for pipeline and seaborne deliveries. 3.5 million tons of crude oil has been procured for INA refineries (i.e. Rijeka and Sisak) In order to ensure crude supply security of INA a 2-year seaborne crude supply contract was concluded on purchasing 1.4 million tons of crude oil In addition to the crude oil supplies, 1.5 M tons of raw materials and oil products (including 1 M tons 0.1 Gasoil by pipeline and 220 kt Virgin Naphtha for TVK) were imported. Commodity Trading Platform MOL Commodity Trading (MCT) is a 100% MOL owned company. The company is responsible for managing oil and oil products derivative transactions, optimization and trading of CO2 emissions and electricity. In 2010 MCT efficiently performed derivatives structuring for oil and oil products with total turnover of 4 million tons in close co-operation with other business units. The three main areas of commodity hedging transactions were relating to crude supply, hydrocarbon inventory management and other commercial opportunities. Optimization and trading of CO2 emission allowances for MOL Group included compliance transactions, CEREUA swaps – more than 7 million tons of allowances were traded altogether MCT provided efficient energy position management for Hungarian entities amounted to around 1,5 TWh of electricity. Supporting the efficient and secured oil, oil product, CO2 and energy management for MOL Group, MCT successfully implemented an Energy Trading and Risk Management System in 2010, which is representing the state-of-the-art control framework. In 2011 Trading Platform is going to extend its electricity supply operation within MOL Group. Underground Gas storage Szőreg in Hungary 44 MOL Group annual report 2010 45 Financial and Operational Financial and Operational Performance Performance Bratislava Refinery in Slovakia 46 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 47 Detailed Analysis of 2010 Results Management Discussion and Analysis MOL Group’s EBITDA excluding special items, increased by 56% to HUF 598.2 bn in 2010 year-on-year while operating profit, excluding special items improved by 83% and amounted to HUF 330.1 bn. Share of international operations substantially about the 2010 Business Operation increased in the operating profit in 2010. Operational result improved in each business unit in line with the gradual improvement of external environment and due to our efficient operation, however results were worsened by the crisis tax imposed in 2010 (HUF 25.8 bn), additional mining royalty plus interest (HUF 35.2 bn) based on decision of EU Commission and frozen gas tariffs. Despite the unfavorable regulatory environment net profit of MOL Group increased by 9% to HUF 104.0 bn. In the first full-year consolidation of INA its net contribution turned to a profit. MOL remained committed to keep its financial stability and reduced CAPEX spending (HUF 333 bn, 13% lower than previous year) which was financed through the operating cash flow. Our net debt position decreased further. The gearing ratio decreased to 31.3% at the end of December 2010 compared to last year’s gearing ratio of 33.8%. Continuation and finalization Highlights of the challenges of 2010 and our responses of the key development projects established an outstanding position for the upturn period in each business division. The global economy went through a transition period in recent years and signs of the recovery were already visible in 2010 – Exploration & Production operating profit, excluding special items, increased by 79% to HUF 258.6 bn compared to in the continuously increasing hydrocarbon prices and gradual improvement of refining environment. MOL continuously last year, which was mainly driven by increasing international production and higher average realized hydrocarbon adjusts its operation to the external environment and became more international, more efficient and more upstream driven price. The Croatian gas trading business was still in loss, albeit reduced from the previous year. Operating profit in the recent years. excluding INA’s contribution and special items increased by HUF 22.0 bn or 20% year-on-year as favorable external In 2010 approximately half of the Group EBITDA was generated outside Hungary as share of international operation increased environment along with almost stable production was just partly offset by higher domestic royalty payment. Management Discussion further considerably and we expect this tendency to continue in the coming years. The Upstream division’s contribution has Based on the Gas Master Agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and MOL on 30 January grown significantly in the past years, achieving almost two-third of the Group EBITDA in 2010 and became a strong growth 2009 and amended on 16 December 2009, the Croatian Government should have taken over INA gas trading pillar for the Group. Downstream integration strengthened in order to reinforce our regional stronghold position. business before 1 December 2010. Since this has not happened and the ongoing negotiations do not yet indicate and Analysis In 2010 EBITDA, excluding special items increased by 56% to HUF 598.2 bn, while operating profit, excluding special items a revised timeline, this activity no longer meets the criteria for discontinued operations. Consequently, assets, improved by 83% and amounted to HUF 330.1 bn, despite unfavorable regulatory environment. International operations liabilities, revenues and expenses are disclosed among continuing activities within the Exploration and Production had a substantially increased share in the operating profit in 2010. Profit improvement resulted mainly from the Upstream segment. The revenues and expenses have been restated accordingly in the comparative periods. operation as recent year’s major developments turned into production and with its 79% improvement, Upstream division remained the main profit contributor to the Group operating result. In a gradually improving external environment – Refining & Marketing operating profit, excluding special items doubled compared to last year’s relatively low basis Downstream operating profit, excluding special items doubled compared to the relatively low basis of 2009. Petrochemicals and amounted to HUF 58.5 bn in 2010. The continuously improving refining environment and our commitment to turned to positive while Gas & Power remained an important contributor. strict cost control compensated the impact of depressed regional demand and the improving, but still negative contribution of INA. Excluding INA’s contribution, operaing profit increased by 84% year-on-year, while the CCSIn 2010 net profit of MOL Group increased by 9% to HUF 104.0 bn, as the significantly improved operating performance was based operating profit increased considerably to HUF 51.4 bn. partly decreased by the imposed crisis tax in Hungary (HUF 25.8 bn) and additional royalty payment plus interest (HUF 35.2 bn) based on decision of EU Commission. In the first full-year consolidation of INA its net contribution turned to a profit. – Petrochemical segment’s operating result, excluding special item improved significantly (by HUF 16.6 bn) compared to 2009, and amounted to HUF 1.4 bn in 2010 as a result of the positive contribution of Q2 and Q3. The MOL remained committed to keep its financial stability in 2010, which is based on our immediate and adequate answers to improvement was mainly the consequence of the higher production and sales volumes and the slight increase of the crisis. Our disciplined CAPEX spending (HUF 333 bn, 13% lower than previous year) was financed through the operating petrochemical margin. cash flow, our net debt position decreased, resulting in an improved gearing ratio of 31.3% at the end of December 2010. MOL not just remained committed to keep its financial stability, but continued the key development projects, hereby – The Gas and Power segment’s operating profit, excluding special items, increased slightly, by 10% to HUF 68.1 established an outstanding position for the upturn period in each business division. The investments focused on growth-type bn in 2010, despite the negative regulatory changes. FGSZ Ltd. remained the most important profit contributor; projects, like the Syrian and Adriatic off-shore developments in Upstream, modernization of Rijeka refinery in Downstream however the temporary freeze of gas tariffs from 1 July affected negatively the result of the gas transmission and Hungarian-Croatian cross border pipeline development in Gas and Power. business. In 2010 MOL’s Upstream business made significant steps towards an optimized, efficiently operated portfolio. Key projects – Net financial expense of HUF 79.1 bn was recorded in FY 2010 in comparison with the net financial expense of turned from field development to production phase increasing our daily production to 144 mboepd and creating the basis HUF 60.3 bn in FY 2009. of medium term sustainability. MOL Group’s total approved 2P reserves estimations according to SPE guidelines were 619 MMboe as of 31, December 2010, while the current best estimates of the recoverable resource potential is 1,650 MMboe. – CAPEX spending was HUF 333 bn (13% lower than previous year) in 2010, including the HUF 107.1 bn spending Remarkable exploration successes were achieved in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Pakistan in the past year. These of INA. The investments focused on growth type projects, like the Syrian and Adriatic off-shore developments in successes along with increasing exploration activity should support our long term growth in the future. MOL is committed to Upstream, modernization of Rijeka refinery in Downstream and Croatian cross border pipeline development in maintain its reserve base and production level at their elevated levels. Gas and Power. Regarding the downstream business MOL Group’s main goal is to reinforce its regional position by focusing on market driven – Net debt position decreased by 4% to HUF 897.7 bn, resulting in a 31.3% gearing ratio at the end of December developments and efficiency improvements thus exploiting the gradually improving environment. The Group focuses to 2010. exploit further synergies through the whole value chain, elevate Rijeka refinery to similar levels represented by the key refineries of MOL and improve the overall efficiency of Downstream portfolio. – Operating cash-flow in 2010 was HUF 373.7 bn, compared to HUF 397.9 bn in 2009. Operating cash flow before On Group level we aim to exploit the significant organic growth potential of our integrated portfolio by operating the existing movements in working capital increased by 39% year-on-year. asset base on maximum efficiency. 48 MOL Group annual report 2010 49 1.) We have audited the accompanying 2010 consolidated annual financial statements of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc. Key financial data by business segments 2009 2010 2009 2010 EBITDA EXC. SPEC ITEM 4 2009 2010 2009 2010 NET SALES REVENUES (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)5 (USD mn)5 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)5 (USD mn)5 489,863 772,260 2,421 Exploration and Production 212,271 375,195 1,049 1,803 Exploration and Production 3,711 Refining and Marketing 2,720,839 3,636,792 13,450 17,476 Refining and Marketing 116,988 157,618 578 757 Gas & Power 513,756 517,712 2,540 2,488 Gas & Power 77,593 88,018 384 423 Petrochemicals 388,280 524,205 1,919 2,519 Petrochemicals 3,089 19,247 15 92 Corporate and other (29,139) (38,770) (144) (186) Corporate and other 164,678 164,486 814 790 TOTAL NET SALES REVENUES 4,277,416 5,615,455 21,144 26,984 Inter-segment transfers2 2,384 (3,109) 12 (14) TOTAL EBITDA EXC. SPEC ITEM 383,186 598,199 1,894 2,875 NET EXTERNAL 2009 2010 2009 2010 1 Net external sales revenues and operating profit include the profit arising both from sales to third parties and transfers to the other business segments. Exploration and Production transfers SALES REVENUES1 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)5 (USD mn)5 domestically produced crude oil, condensates and LPG to Refining and Marketing and natural gas to the Gas and Power segment. Refining and Marketing transfers chemical feedstock, propylene and isobutane to Petrochemicals and Petrochemicals transfers various by-products to Refining and Marketing. The internal transfer prices used are based on prevailing market prices. Divisional figures contain the results of the fully consolidated subsidiaries engaged in the respective divisions. Exploration and Production 301,788 518,406 1,491 2,491 Refining and Marketing 2,396,450 3,160,919 11,846 15,189 2 This line shows the change in the amount of unrealised operating profit in respect of transfers between segments. Unrealised profits arise when the item transferred is held as inventory Gas & Power 236,166 190,638 1,168 916 by the receiving segment at the end of the period and a third party sale takes place only in a subsequent period. For segmental reporting purposes the transferor segment records the profit immediately at the point of transfer. However, at the company level profit is only recognised when the related third party sale has taken place. In previous years this unrealised profit effect was Petrochemicals 289,128 395,590 1,429 1,901 not shown separately, but was included in the reported segmental result of the receiving segment. Unrealised profits arise principally in respect of transfers from Exploration & Production to Management Discussion Corporate and other 31,168 33,156 154 160 Gas and Power and from Refining & Marketing to Petrochemicals. TOTAL NET EXTERNAL SALES REVENUES 3,254,700 4,298,709 16,088 20,657 3 Operating profit excluding the additional expense of the turnover of inventories of INA which were recognized at fair market value upon initial consolidation as opposed to the carrying amounts reflected in INA Group’s separate financial statements (HUF 4.2 bn in Q1 2010), the additional mining royalty (HUF 30.4 bn at Exploration and Production division) paid in Q3 2010 OPERATING PROFIT 2009 2010 2009 2010 based on the decision of the EU Commission for which provision was recognised in Q2 2010, the provision for redundancy recorded at INA in Q3 2010 (HUF 15.5 bn, the majority of which has and Analysis been paid in Q4 2010), the provision for tax penalty recorded at INA in Q4 2010 (HUF 4.2 bn), the crisis tax imposed by the Hungarian state on domestic energy sector recorded in H2 2010 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)5 (USD mn)5 (HUF 25.8 bn), the one-off gain on the subsequent settlement from E.ON and the Q2 2009 termination of the risk-sharing mechanism in connection with the sale of MOL’s gas business for Q1 and Q2 2009 (HUF 14.0 bn and HUF 14.2 bn), the HUF 28.2 bn one-off non-cash revaluation gain, related to consolidating INA into MOL Group in 2009 for the first time as required by IFRS 3R, Exploration and Production 136,722 206,857 676 994 and the impact of impairment on the goodwill of IES and on certain exploration assets recognised in Q4 2009 and Q4 2010, respectively (HUF 4.7 bn and HUF 11.0 bn). Refining and Marketing 15,474 31,808 76 153 4 EBITDA excluding the additional expense of turnover of the inventories of INA which were recognized at fair market values upon initial consolidation as opposed to the carrying amounts Gas & Power 61,902 67,666 306 325 reflected in INA Group’s separate financial statements (HUF 4.2 bn in Q1 2010), the additional mining royalty (HUF 30.4 bn at Exploration and Production division) paid in Q3 2010 based Petrochemicals (15,219) 1,098 (75) 5 on the decision of the EU Commission for which provision was recognised in Q2 2010, the provision for redundancy recorded at INA in Q3 2010 (HUF 15.5 bn, the majority of which has been Corporate and other 28,000 (68,716) 138 (330) paid in Q4 2010), the provision for tax penalty recorded at INA in Q4 2010 (HUF 4.2 bn), the crisis tax imposed by the Hungarian state on domestic energy sector recorded in H2 2010 (HUF Inter-segment transfers2 5,500 345 28 2 25.8 bn), the one-off gain on the subsequent settlement from E.ON and the Q2 2009 termination of the risk-sharing mechanism in connection with the sale of MOL’s gas business for Q1 and Q2 2009 (HUF 14.0 bn and HUF 14.2 bn), the HUF 28.2 bn one-off non-cash revaluation gain, related to consolidating INA into MOL Group in 2009 for the first time as required by IFRS 3R. TOTAL OPERATING PROFIT 232,379 239,058 1,149 1,149 5 In converting HUF financial data into USD, the following average NBH rates were used: for FY 2009: 202.3 HUF/USD, for FY 2010: 208.1 HUF/USD. OPERATING PROFIT 2009 2010 2009 2010 EXC. SPEC ITEM 3 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)5 (USD mn)5 Exploration and Production 144,735 258,572 715 1,243 Refining and Marketing 28,150 58,518 139 281 Gas & Power 61,902 68,119 306 327 Petrochemicals (15,219) 1,400 (75) 7 Corporate and other (44,366) (56,808) (219) (274) Inter-segment transfers2 5,500 345 27 2 TOTAL OPERATING PROFIT EXC. SPEC ITEM 180,702 330,146 893 1,586 EBITDA 2009 2010 2009 2010 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)5 (USD mn)5 Exploration and Production 204,258 334,496 1,010 1,607 Refining and Marketing 108,968 130,908 539 629 Gas & Power 77,593 87,565 384 421 Petrochemicals 3,089 18,945 15 91 Corporate and other 43,227 (50,678) 213 (243) Inter-segment transfers2 2,384 (3,109) 12 (15) TOTAL EBITDA 439,519 518,127 2,173 2,490 50 MOL Group annual report 2010 51 MOL Group excluding INA Group data OPERATING PROFIT 2009 2010 2009 2010 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)4 (USD mn)4 Exploration and Production 108,686 86,731 537 417 Refining and Marketing 43,061 65,813 213 316 Gas & Power 61,902 67,666 306 325 Petrochemicals (15,219) 1,098 (75) 5 Corporate and other (13,314) (24,648) (66) (118) Inter-segment transfers1 5,500 545 27 3 TOTAL 190,616 197,205 942 948 OPERATING PROFIT 2009 2010 2009 2010 EXC. SPEC ITEM 2 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)4 (USD mn)4 Exploration and Production 108,686 130,696 537 628 Refining and Marketing 47,717 87,709 236 421 Gas & Power 61,902 68,119 306 327 Petrochemicals (15,219) 1,400 (75) 7 Management Discussion Corporate and other (41,470) (24,107) (205) (116) Inter-segment transfers1 5,500 545 27 3 TOTAL 167,116 264,362 826 1,270 and Analysis EBITDA 2009 2010 2009 2010 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)4 (USD mn)4 Exploration and Production 143,881 131,484 711 632 Refining and Marketing 130,949 152,331 647 732 Gas & Power 77,593 87,565 384 421 Petrochemicals 3,089 18,945 15 91 Corporate and other (856) (13,031) (4) (63) Inter-segment transfers1 2,383 (2,906) 12 (14) TOTAL 357,039 374,388 1,765 1,799 EBITDA EXC. SPEC ITEM 3 2009 2010 2009 2010 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) (USD mn)4 (USD mn)4 Exploration and Production 143,881 164,433 711 790 Refining and Marketing 130,949 174,227 647 837 Gas & Power 77,593 88,018 384 423 Petrochemicals 3,089 19,247 15 92 Corporate and other (29,012) (12,490) (143) (59) Inter-segment transfers1 2,383 (2,906) 12 (14) TOTAL 328,883 430,529 1,626 2,069 1 This line shows the change in the amount of unrealised operating profit in respect of transfers between segments. Unrealised profits arise when the item transferred is held as inventory by the receiving segment at the end of the period and a third party sale takes place only in a subsequent period. For segmental reporting purposes the transferor segment records the profit immediately at the point of transfer. However, at the company level profit is only recognised when the related third party sale has taken place. In previous years this unrealised profit effect was not shown separately, but was included in the reported segmental result of the receiving segment. Unrealised profits arise principally in respect of transfers from Exploration & Production to Gas and Power and from Refining & Marketing to Petrochemicals. 2 Operating profit excluding the additional mining royalty (HUF 30.4 bn at Exploration and Production division) paid in Q3 2010 based on the decision of the EU Commission for which provision was recognised in Q2 2010, the crisis tax imposed by the Hungarian state on domestic energy sector recorded in H2 2010 (HUF 25.8 bn), the one-off gain on the subsequent settlement from E.ON and the Q2 2009 termination of the risk-sharing mechanism in connection with the sale of MOL’s gas business for Q1 and Q2 2009 (HUF 14.0 bn and HUF 14.2 bn), and the impact of impairment on the goodwill of IES and on certain exploration assets recognised in Q4 2009 and Q4 2010, respectively (HUF 4.7 bn and HUF 11.0 bn). 3 EBITDA excluding the additional mining royalty (HUF 30.4 bn at Exploration and Production division) paid in Q3 2010 based on the decision of the EU Commission for which provision was recognsied in Q2 2010, the crisis tax imposed by the Hungarian state on domestic energy sector recorded in H2 2010 (HUF 25.8 bn), the one-off gain on the subsequent settlement from E.ON and the Q2 2009 termination of the risk-sharing mechanism in connection with the sale of MOL’s gas business for Q1 and Q2 2009 (HUF 14.0 bn and HUF 14.2 bn). 4 In converting HUF financial data into USD, the following average NBH rates were used: for FY 2009: 202.3 HUF/USD, for FY 2010: 208.1 HUF/USD. Duna Refinery in Hungary 52 MOL Group annual report 2010 53 CEE economy: Two-speed recovery The CEE region’s recovery progressed at two-speeds during most of 2010 with Transition year in external environment continued Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic performing strongly, while Hungary, Croatia and Romania, among others, continued to lag behind. The recovery in Moderating growth in world economy, The global economy went through a transition period from a strong bounce-back most countries of the region is still mostly driven by the manufacturing boom in downside risks mainly in the Eurozone phase seen in the first half of 2010 to a less rapid but apparently more sustainable Germany rather than by domestic demand, which is depressed by stubbornly-high growth path in the second half of the year. The main driving force behind the unemployment rates and continuously weak credit growth. The motor fuel demand overall recovery was the continuing strong performance of the leading emerging drop across the CEE region remained modest in 2010 with gasoline decreasing by economies. At the same time, the recovery of advanced economies remained a notable 4.9% but diesel growing by 1.9% resulting in and overall fuel demand slower, although the US and Japan performed significantly better than previously drop of only 0.1%. Economic growth will face headwinds as most countries in the expected due to additional stimulus measures. The main source of weaknesses region will carry out some degree of fiscal consolidation throughout 2011. within the advanced economies group was the troubled periphery of the Eurozone. The Greek debt crisis in Q2 caused severe market turbulence and prompted the EU to set up an unprecedented EUR 440 bn bailout fund to contain the fallout from Changes in the regulatory environment future crises, which prevented a more widespread spillover from the periphery to the core of the Eurozone in case of the Irish bailout later in Q4. Nevertheless, the Unfavorable changes in Hungarian Although there were several changes in the tax laws of Hungary in 2010, the risk of future liquidity crises and bailouts within the Eurozone remains high, and as taxation introduction of an extra tax on energy suppliers (crisis tax) for the years between a result volatility in exchange rate movements is expected to continue. 2010 and 2012 had the most significant impact on MOL Group. As for 2010 the Overall, the IMF estimates that global economic growth will somewhat moderate Group level liability amounted to HUF 25.8 bn. The tax regulatory environment from 5.0% in 2010 to 4.4% in 2011 due to the necessary fiscal consolidation in in Hungary was less stable as certain changes approved during 2010 became most advanced economies. effective backwards from 1 January 2010 (e.g. introduction of crisis tax). Management Discussion Another important but in terms of effect on MOL Group less significant change was Significant oil price increase Oil prices strengthened significantly during 2010 and averaged at 79.5 USD/bbl, the increase of corporate income tax rate to 19% from 16% and the abolishment nearly 29% higher than a year ago. The price increase was more or less gradual of the companies’ 4% solidarity surplus tax as of 1 January 2010. and Analysis with only two significant corrections seen in May and August. The first temporary Although the Robin Hood tax was planned to be abolished by the end of 2010, drop was caused by the market reaction following the Eurozone debt crisis, and it remains effective till the end of 2012, based on the latest changes of the law the second by more general concerns about the outlook for global growth in approved in Q4 2010. light of an apparent slowdown in China. Nevertheless, the overall growing trend was fully supported by the annual 2.7 MMboepd increase in the demand in 2010, Gas transmission: changes in The rate of return on regulated asset base (RAB) for domestic regulated which is one of the strongest annual growth in decades. Other fundamentals regulated gas transmission tariffs transmission activity was 8.78 % between 1 January 2010 and 3 December 2010. also increased throughout 2010. OPEC’s effective spare capacity slowly eroded However from 4 December 2010 a dual tariff system was introduced in which the to below 5 mn bbl/day by Q4 2010. The fact that the growing trend in oil prices transmission tariffs were calculated at 4.5% Return on RAB for the consumer continued in spite of the diminishing quota compliance of OPEC, which dropped group entitled to universal service while 8.78% Return on RAB remained for the to around 58% by December from around 63% a year ago suggests the slow return other consumers. This modification reduced the profit by about HUF 250 mn for to a tighter oil market similar to the one seen in the pre-crisis years. the 2010 ecenomic year. The regulatory authority did not comply with its statutory duty by 1 July 2010, Refining margins: Slowly improving Refining margins remained below the 5-year average in 2010. The healthy rate the tariff maintenance mechanism defined by laws was not carried out, the crack spreads of recovery pushed up product demand in emerging economies and to a lesser system usage fees were frozen by the Price Authority. Thus the tariff correction extent in OECD countries in Europe and North America as well, which resulted in on capacity booking, gas price growth and depreciation did not happen for the stronger product crack spreads across the board in 2010 than in the previous year. new gas year. Nevertheless, persistently high inventory levels as well as ample spare refining This caused about HUF 10 bn loss in revenues for 2010 which could not be fully capacities combined with the slow pace of closing uncompetitive refineries compensated by the austerity measures. limited the strengthening of crack spreads. Naphtha and gasoline crack spreads Therefore in 2010 the income on domestic transmission of FGSZ did not reach the exceeded their 5-year averages, but followed a mildly declining trend, while diesel revenues previously determined by the laws. and jet fuel crack spreads remained below their historical averages, but followed In 2011 the average yield of natural gas system is expected to be around 6.5% a slowly strengthening trend throughout the year. The historically negative fuel taking into account the rates used to calculate the transmission charges published oil crack spread remained stronger than the 5-year average, but it started to inch by the Hungarian Energy Office. continuously towards pre-crisis lows from the second half of the year. The BrentThe regulated income of FGSZ will be expectedly under the revenues determined Urals spread recovered somewhat to around 1.4 USD/bbl in 2010 from below 1 USD/ by the new rules due to the impact of frozen tariffs gone into the first half of 2011. bbl in 2009, but followed a relatively volatile pattern throughout the year. Upstream: regulated gas prices Starting from December 2010 regulated gas price system for eligible customers Significant volatility of local currencies Hungarian Forint (HUF) and Croatian Kuna (HRK) weakened just slightly against introduced for eligible customers in was introduced in Hungary. The regulated price and volume are announced in USD in 2010, but the exchange rates were charachterised with high volatility Hungary advance quarterly by National Development Ministry. The regulated price is valid during the year. The HUF weakened by about 3% against the US Dollar in 2010: only for gas produced from fields put into production before 1998. The regulation the average exchange rate in 2010 was 208.1 HUF/USD and 202.3 HUF/USD in is expected to be ceased in 2013. 2009. The HUF strengthened by 2% against the EUR in 2010 (275.4 HUF/EUR in 2010 vs. 280.6 HUF/EUR in 2009). The Croatian Kuna weakened slightly by about 4% against the USD in 2010 (5.5 HRK/USD in 2010 vs. 5.3 HRK/USD in 2009). 54 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 55 Minimal impact from changes of the The Mining Act, which regulates the mining royalty regime in Hungary, did not Mining royalty framework in Hungary, introduce any changes in 2010. Sales, Operating Expenses and Operating Profit MOL paid 35% of its crude oil and natural gas revenue as mining royalty to the The full consolidation of INA commenced as of 30 June 2009, therefore the items Hungarian State on the crude oil and natural gas produced in Hungary in 2010. of consolidated income statement reflects INA’s contribution from 1 July 2009. In 2010, the average rate of the mining royalty payable on natural gas produced In the first half of 2009 MOL’s share (47.2%) of the net profit of INA Group was from fields put into production after 1998 and for crude oil production was 13% included as income from associates. In 2010 INA contributed HUF 41.9 bn to the (excluding volumes from enhanced oil recovery which represented 13% of oil operating profit of MOL Group. INA Group reported an operating profit of HUF production and which is subject to a zero royalty rate in Hungary). The rate of the 81.4 bn which has been increased by net reversal of impairment and internal mining royalty payable on gas produced from fields put into production before profit on intra group transactions (amounted to HUF 1.5 bn) which have either 1998 increase from 62% to 65% due to increases in oil and gas prices. been eliminated on consolidation or had already been reflected in MOL Group’s purchase price allocation as required by IFRS 3R. Subsequent to the purchase …still significant changes happened Based on decision of EU Commission in respect of mining royalty MOL paid HUF price allocation, the additional depreciation calculated on the fair value of INA’s to MOL 35.2 bn as an additional royalty and its interests. As per the bilateral agreement property, plant and equipment and also the sale of inventories recognized at fair between MOL and the Ministry of Economy and Transportation signed in 2005 value upon initial consolidation (as opposed to the carrying amounts reflected in the mining royalty was determined in accordance with the regulations effective as INA Group’s separate financial statements) increased operating expenses in 2010 at the end of 2005 with a multiplication factor of 1.02-1.05 for the fields listed in by HUF 36.8 bn and HUF 4.2 bn, respectively. These amounts are recorded in the agreement. As per the September 2010 amendment to the named agreement various captions of the consolidated income statement. the mining royalty of the listed fields shall be calculated in line with the ruling Mining Act and the related by-laws multiplied by 1.02. Increase in net sales revenues In 2010, Group net sales revenue increased by 32% to HUF 4,298.7 bn, primarily Management Discussion reflecting higher USD based refinery commodity price quotations, resulting in In 2010 significant changes in Russia… The extraction tax and export duty in Russia is dependent upon the average higher average sales prices. The contribution of INA is HUF 831.5 bn (HUF 374.9 Urals blend listed prices (Rotterdam and Mediterranean markets) and the Russian bn in H2 2009). and Analysis Rouble/US Dollar exchange rate and are calculated by the formulas set out in the tax legislation. The tax authorities inform the public of the extraction tax rate Significant one-off gains in Other operating income in 2010 decreased by 77% to HUF 25.8 bn (contribution through official announcements on a monthly basis. The extraction tax rate as of comparative period of INA was HUF 11.4 bn and HUF 58.6 in 2010 and H2 2009, respectively). Other 31 December 2010 was USD 15.8/bbl; representing an annual average extraction operating income in 2009 contains the excess of MOL’s share of INA Group’s net tax rate of 17.9%, based upon the annual average Urals blend price in 2010. The assets over the purchase price (HUF 21.3 bn) as well as HUF 22.9 bn gain on the export duty rate as of 31 December 2010 was USD 43.2/bbl; representing an re-measurement of MOL’s 25% investment in INA and its previously held interest annual average export duty rate of 48.5%, based upon the annual average Urals in Energopetrol upon fully consolidating both companies as of 30 June 2009 and blend price in 2010. additionally contains a HUF 25.0 bn reversal of payables which has been accrued In November 2010 the Russian government announced to increase mineral originally at the time of the gas business sale and the recognition of a further extraction tax rates for oil and gas starting from 2012. In the calculation equation HUF 3.2 bn receivable with respect to the subsequent settlement from E.ON the fixed rate of RUB 419 per tone will be increased to RUB 446 per tone in 2012 Ruhrgas International AG, since the parties agreed to terminate the risk-sharing and RUB 470 per tone from 2013 onwards. mechanism in Q2 2009. … no changes in 2010 but modificaIn Pakistan a new Petroleum Rule has been introduced in 2009. The regulation Increase to cost of raw materials and The cost of raw materials and consumables used increased by 27%, in accordance tions in 2009 have effects in is applicable on new discoveries, for our existing Development and Production consumables used with the increase in sales. Raw material costs increased by 41%, mainly as result Pakistan… Leases in Block Tal the 1997 Policy is still valid, but in case of exploration blocks of the higher import crude oil prices (HUF 409.8 bn including the effect of FX rate MOL applied for the conversion. Under the 2009 regulation the royalty rate is changes) as well as the effect of INA’s full year contribution of HUF 461.2 bn (HUF 12.5% on sales and corporate income tax rate is 40% with an implied windfall 226.8 bn in the comparative period). The cost of goods sold decreased by 13% to levy on oil and condensate sales. Under the 1997 rule the royalty rate is 12.5% HUF 489.7 bn (contribution of INA was HUF 28.3 bn and HUF 72.1 in 2010 and H2 on wellhead production value and corporate income tax rate is 52.5% with no 2009, respectively, the H2 2009 contribution reflects that all of the inventories windfall levy applied. of INA at the time of acquisition – even the finished goods – were considered as purchased products). The value of cost of goods sold related to sale of crude oil is …and in Croatia Croatian royalty regulation was changed with effect from 2010. As per the new lower due to the fact that the comparative period contained considerable crude regulation, basis of royalty is the market value of produced hydrocarbons, instead oil sales to INA (HUF 25.9 bn), which has been consolidated since then, therefore of sales value as per prior regulation. Royalty rate for exploitation fields approved these sales were eliminated in consolidation. The cost of goods sold decreased by 31 December 2009 has increased from 2.6% to 3.1% in 2010. Royalty rate will further due to the combined effect of temporary sale of balancing gas as a result increase by 0.5%-point per annum until 2015, and will be fixed at 10% for ten years of the gas crisis in Q1 2009 and the disposal of MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. (HUF thereafter. Production-based fee for exploitation fields to be approved after 31 69.1 bn). These effects were partially compensated by the increased cost of oil December 2009 amounts to 10% of the market value of produced hydrocarbons. industry goods sold, due to higher prices (HUF 69.3 bn). The value of materialtype services used increased by 16% to HUF 196.9 bn. Non-recurring or temporary charges in Other operating expenses increased by 45% to HUF 374.9 bn in FY 2010, mainly other operating expenses as a combined effect of increase in net foreign exchange loss recognized on trade receivables and payables (HUF 18.3 bn), the increase in export duty of the Russian 56 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 57 operations (HUF 8.6 bn) and the higher mining royalty (HUF 31.4 bn). In addition – Intensive field development activities were continued focusing on fields HUF 30.4 bn was paid in Q3 2010 for the additional mining royalty based on the with short cash recovery periods. decision of the EU Commission for which provision was recognized in Q2 2010. – Our widely known strong exploration track record continued further, On October 18, 2010 the Hungarian Parliament approved a temporary crisis tax as we claimed 14 discoveries out of a total 20 (out of which 7 belong to imposed on the energy sector until 2012. The crisis tax recorded in the amount INA) exploration wells tested in 7 countries. New discoveries have added of HUF 25.8 bn reflects the payable amount by MOL Group with respect to the approximately 4.1 MMboe to our SPE 2P reserve base in Hungary. year 2010. The consolidation of INA also increased other operating expenses by International discoveries are expected to increase our reserve base in HUF 78.4 bn (HUF 31.3 bn in H2 2009), from which HUF 10.3 bn is attributable to the following years after detailed assessment. the net foreign exchange loss on INA’s trade receivables and payables. On group – Established new partnerships in Hungary and in Romania. level, in the comparative period, a net foreign exchange gain of HUF 6.5 bn was recognised on such items. Our upstream portfolio secures a The main objective for the forthcoming years will be to maximise the value of strong basis for further production our existing portfolio. The focus will be on completing high return/early cash Higher personal expenses due to full Personnel expenses increased by 35% to HUF 272.0 bn compared to prior year, increase in forthcoming years as well generative appraisal and development projects in Syria, CEE and Russia to year contribution of INA mainly due to INA’s 2010 contribution of HUF 118.5 bn (HUF 53.1 bn in H2 2009), increase production levels, contributing significantly to Group-level EBITDA, including the redundancy provision which was recognized in Q3 2010 at INA (HUF growth. At the same time, we intend to extend MOL’s outstanding efficiency to 15.5 bn, the majority of which was paid in Q4 2010). the whole Upstream portfolio. Remarkable exploration successes were achieved in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Pakistan in 2010. These successes along with Of the production costs incurred in 2010, excluding INA’s contribution incurred increasing exploration activity in the future should support our long term growth. (HUF 16.4 bn and HUF 50.0 bn in 2010 and 2009, respectively), HUF 34.5 bn is attributable to the increase in the level of finished goods and work in progress Increasing profit share within Group In 2010 E&P segment’s operating profit, excluding special items was HUF 258.6 Management Discussion compared to the increase of HUF 5.9 bn in 2009. due to higher INA contribution and bn, which is by HUF 113.8 bn or by 79% higher compared to the previous year strong performance of other parts of mainly due to higher contribution of the international activities. Realised average the Division as well hydrocarbon prices increased by 16% in USD-terms in 2010 (crude oil and Exploration and Production Overview and Analysis condensate prices were higher by 24% in line with Brent changes). The Croatian gas trading business was still in loss, albeit reduced from the previous year. MOL remained one of the most In 2010 MOL made significant steps towards an optimized, efficiently operated profitable Upstream players. upstream portfolio and further improved its solid basis for future growth. Excluding special items and INA contribution, operating profit was HUF 130.7 Production increased to 143.5 mboepd on the top of the record-high basis of 2009 bn, which is by HUF 22.0 bn or by 20% higher than in 2009 mainly driven by mainly as a result of recent years’ major developments turning into production in the higher average hydrocarbon price in line with strengthening oil prices and Syria, Pakistan and the Adriatic offshore area while keeping onshore production the weakener HUF against the USD that was partially compensated by slightly at a stable level with enhanced and intensified oil and gas recovery technologies. lower production. Production volumes in general (excluding INA contribution) Remarkable exploration successes in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Pakistan declined by 1% due to natural depletion of the Hungarian and Russian fields. proved our capabilities and will support the sustainability of an increased Realised average hydrocarbon prices increased by 12% in USD-terms in 2010, production level on the long term. crude oil and condensate prices were higher by 26% in line with Brent changes, While the existing balanced exploration portfolio with low risk, medium-sized while gas prices decreased only by 3% due to increase in ratio of Pakistani gas CEE prospects recently has been extended with Romanian exploration blocks, our production (Hungarian gas prices increased only by 3% as gas price is based upon prosperous international perspectives in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Kazakhstan previous nine-month average of oil products prices). These changes were partly and Pakistan provide a solid base to further increase of our reserve base and compensated by the weakened HUF by 3% to the USD. future production. Our enlarged Upstream portfolio has sizeable production in 7 The impact of prices and volumes were reflected in revenues and expenditures. countries and exploration potential in 13 countries. – Revenues, excluding INA’s contribution, increased by HUF 42.4 bn or 13% to HUF 375.9 bn in 2010 compared to 2009. During 2010, our focus in the CEE region remained on the development projects – Royalties on Hungarian production increased by HUF 20.1 bn year-onwith short cash recovery periods and on further increasing operating efficiency by year to HUF 89.3 bn. The mining royalty and export duty paid in Russia implementing a range of cost austerity and reduction measures. increased by HUF 14.9 bn to HUF 44.5 bn. The combined effect of increasing tax payments as a consequence of higher crude In Syria the completion of Jihar oil and gas station in late 2009 enabled significant oil and gas prices and lower volumes, excluding INA’s contribution, operating production increase in 2010. In Pakistan our production continued to expand, costs excluding special items increased by HUF 20.4 bn or 9% to HUF 245.2 bn. further increasing our profitability and stake in the local gas market. In Russia, field development in operated projects continued to compensate the natural Higher daily production level due to The total hydrocarbon production was 143.5 mboepd in 2010. Crude oil decline of MOL’s largest field in Russia, the ZMB project. increased INA contribution production increased by 13%, condensate production by 32%, gas production by 49%. Excluding INA contribution, total hydrocarbon production averaged at In 2010, we made further steps to maximize the value of our existing resource around 78.0 mboepd in 2010, representing a 1% decrease year-on-year. Total base through the use of enhanced and improved recovery techniques on our crude oil production (excluding INA’s contribution of 16.3 mboepd) declined by existing producing fields, and through establishing new projects in territories 5%, condensate production (excluding INA’s contribution of 7.2 mboepd) fell by 5 neighbouring our legacy assets, via strict cost control and efficient operation. % too, and gas production (excluding INA’s contribution of 42.0 mboepd) was 3% higher than the level reached in 2009. – Highly competitive production unit cost of 6.6 USD/boe on Group level. 58 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 59 In 2010, the average Hungarian hydrocarbon production was 53.6 mboepd, Processing Facility (CPF) in October 2009 with three production wells connected. compared to 57.5 mboepd in 2009. In 2010, Hungarian gas production volumes By year end 2010 seven wells in total were connected. The production rate on the declined to 34.3 mboepd by 5% compared to 2009 as a consequence of natural Manzalai field (CPF) reached 46.6 mboepd gas and 5.6 mboepd condensate at depletion of the fields. Hungarian crude oil and condensate production declined year end (100%) from which MOL has 8.42% share. by 10% to 19.4 mboepd in 2010 compared to 2009. Croatian onshore activities Croatian onshore field development activities in 2010 were focused mainly on Increase in international production (excluding INA) (14%) basically comes from workover operations of existing production wells on mature fields with the aim Pakistani production, which increased to 4.7 mboepd by 240% as a consequence of increasing production level and recovery rate. Implementation of EOR project of start-up of the operation of Manzalai central gas processing facility at end of on Ivanić and Žutica fields was continued. 2010 development program included October, 2009. Oil production in Russia decreased by 2.0% to 19.7 mboepd. This also well equipment overhauls and works related to the compressor station decrease was determined by decrease at ZMB project (20%) due to increased at Molve. 2011 planned work program includes further workover operations, water content. implementation of production optimisation, continued implementation of EOR projects and drilling of new wells. INA’s contribution to daily production was 65.5 mboepd. INA’s production basically comes from Croatia (54.1 mboepd), while the contribution of international assets Croatian offshore activities The intensive development activities performed in 2009 contributed to significant was 11.4 mboepd. Croatian production is mainly from onshore production (31.4 increase in Croatian offshore gas production which derived also from INA’s higher mboepd) with considerable production from offshore fields (22.7 mboepd) as well. share of production on North Adriatic Contract Area and the ramping up of International production mainly comes from Syria (7.9 mboepd), but there is oil production. production in Egypt (1.9 mboepd) and in Angola (1.6 mboepd) also. 2010 development program on the North Adriatic contract area (operated by Management Discussion International production was higher International hydrocarbon production (excluding INA contribution of 65.6 INAgip, a joint venture between INA and the Italian ENI with equal share) included compared to 2009… mboepd) increased by 14% year-on-year to 24.4 mboepd in 2010. MOL share activities and preparation of relevant technical documentation necessary of the crude oil production from the ZMB field reached 12.0 mboepd in 2010, a for obtaining operating licence at Annamaria field; installation of necessary and Analysis 20% decrease compared to the previous year. The decrease in ZMB production is equipment for accepting Izabela gas field production (metering system, slug the consequence of natural decline due to the maturing stage of the field and the catcher) at Ivana A/K platforms; installation of slug catcher for Ida C and Ivana A increased water-cut from production wells. In joint efforts with the partnership incoming pipeline direction. operator, an additional drilling program commenced. Development program for 2010 on the Izabela contract area (operated by EdINA, …production from new developments The Baitugan field (in Russia’s Volga-Urals area, with a 100% MOL share) owned by INA with 30% share and the Italian Edison with 70% share) contained the in Russia and Pakistan could offset fall produced 4.6 mboepd, increased by 51 % from 3.0 mboepd in 2009 as a result installation of two platforms (South and North), connection of the platforms by from ZMB of development efforts. The fields in Matjushkinskaya Block (a 3,231 km2 block sea line with Ivana K platform and the drilling and dual completion of 5 production in Tomsk region, Russia with a 100% MOL share) provided an additional 3.0 wells. All equipments are ready for start-up, production from the field is expected mboepd average production. Average daily production in the Manzalai, Makori to commence in H1 2011. and MamiKhel fields in the Tal Block in Pakistan (8.42% MOL share) was around 4.7 mboepd (net to MOL), increased by 240% in 2010. Syrian Hayan Block development In the Syrian Hayan Block (100% paying share) Jihar oil and gas station with a gained momentum in 2010 capacity of 6.3 mboepd of oil and 3.9 mboepd of gas was completed in late 2009, Intensive field developments in Russia In the ZMB field, 11 wells, including 2 horizontals, were drilled in 2010 within the enabling significant production increase in 2010. Construction of the third stage and Pakistan extended drilling program approved in 2009. After examination of Russian Federal of the development plan, the Jihar Gas Treatment Plant (GTP), was finished and Subsurface Management Agency in July 2009 new additional work program was the project is already in the commissioning phase. The capacity of the Jihar GTP is designed to utilise the produced associated gas via the installation of gas turbine 11.3 mboepd of oil and condensate, 23.5 mboepd of gas and 2.0 mboepd of LPG. driven electric generators. The construction of the gas turbine power station is Complete infrastructure, production and transportation system for 6 fields have in progress. Five generators were put into operation by the end of 2010, which been finished. 2010 development program also contained drilling of 3 wells and generate electricity used in the production process. workover of 3 wells. In the Baitugan field the intensive field development activity was continued Other international operation: In Angola, INA has interest in the offshore oil Block 3, in three production license in 2010, 34 production and 5 injection wells were drilled. Reconstruction and Angola, Egypt areas: Block 3/05 operated by Sonangol (4% INA share); Block 3/85 and 3/91 extension of gathering, water injection, power supply systems and the Central operated by Total (5% INA share). Work program in 2010 included drilling and Processing Station were also ongoing in 2010. perforation of two infill wells, pipeline PACF4-PACF1 project, and maintenance and inspection program. In the Matjushkinskaya Block, fast track development of Ledovoye was continued in 2010 by drilling of 5 new production wells, significantly increasing production. In Egypt INA has 50% share in the operated East Yidma concession (and Sidi Presently there are 12 producing and 2 injection wells on the field. Currently 11 Rahman development lease), 25% in Ras Qattara, West Abu Gharadig and 20% producing and 6 injection wells are in operation on Matjushkinskaya field. On in North Bahariya concessions (last 3 concessions are non-operated). In Egypt 5 Kvartovoye field one well was drilled in 2010. Total production of the block rose by development wells were drilled in 2010; hydraulic fracturing was performed in 2 48% over 2009 to 1.1 MMbbl. wells and water injection project started in North Bahariya; gas power generation project was ongoing on West Abu Gharadig. A new development lease, Rizk, on MOL as the operator in Tal Block, Pakistan completed the Manzalai Central East Yidma concession, was approved by Egyptian authorities in October 2010. 60 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 61 2011 work program includes drilling of further wells, commencement of gas European Oil Company (CEOC) signed a Head of Terms in 2010 for rehabilitation power generation project on Ras Qattara and start of initial production on Rizk and re-development works on 6 oil and gas fields in Hungary. development lease. Unconventional exploration focused Key focus in unconventional exploration was on Derecske Basin in 2010. MOL Unit OPEX slightly increased The 2010 annual average unit OPEX (with exclusion of DD&A) was 6.6 USD/boe on Derecske Basin has launched an exploration program by drilling two wells, which both proved on Group level while without INA it increased by 0.4 USD/boe to 5.6 USD/boe the presence of hydrocarbons in tight reservoirs and already producing gas from compared to 2009 mostly due to higher costs. unconventional reservoirs. In 2010 the Derecske project continued by drilling two wells. The first well proved the presence of gas and is ready for the fracturing of Intensive exploration activity was carried out in Hungary and we continued with the reservoir for commercial production. The second well, explored more risky our international exploration projects. In 2010 main activities were carried out in part of the reservoir the well data are currently under evaluation. Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Syria, Croatia, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Cameroon and Russia. In Makó trough previous exploration wells have not justified the preliminary expectations and in 2010, after the evaluation of test data and the re-evaluation Strongest acreage position in Hungary As at 31 December 2010, the MOL Group had 24 exploration licenses covering of the potential in Makó trough, our partnership was terminated with ExxonMobil. and Croatia more than 27,292 square kilometres in Hungary keeping his dominant role in the In 2010 MOL fulfilled its obligations and submitted final geological reports for the country. In addition, through its subsidiaries the MOL Group participates in the two exploratory licenses. MOL provided potential estimations to the Authority to exploration of numerous international exploration blocks located in 13 countries. secure the licenses for further activity. The Group also has right to explore hydrocarbons in eight onshore blocks, covering a total area of approximately 59,516 square kilometres and in three offshore In 2010 at Békés Basin (where the play is similar to Makó) data of Gyula-1 well drilled blocks with a total area of 39,813 square kilometres in Croatia. and fractured by Exxon and the data of Szabadkígyós-1 well were exchanged. The Management Discussion chance for successful exploration has higher probability in the block compared to Continued strong exploration track Our strong Group level exploration track record, already observed in the Makó trough. In 2010 MOL submitted a final report to the Authority for Block 101 record preceding year, continued further in 2010 as we claimed 14 discoveries out of with calculations on unconventional potential, which report was approved. and Analysis a total 20 exploration wells tested in 7 countries, leading to a solid 70% success rate at the drill-bit. In Pakistan, we drilled 1 exploration well in 2010, which Adriatic offshore exploration Exploration activity was continued on offshore Ivana Block, Croatia in partnership resulted in a commercial discovery, while drilling of another well started in 2010 with ENI in 2010. In order to explore further gas potential the investigation of thinand it was published as commercial discovery in Q1 2011. In Kurdistan Region layer-type reservoirs was carried out on Ivana Block during 2010, resulting in Ivana of Iraq 2 exploration wells were drilled, both of them resulted in discoveries. In SW Thin-Layer Study. Two locations of exploratory wells were proposed; and the Egypt 3 exploration wells were drilled, 1 of them resulted in discovery. In Croatia technical program has been prepared for the first one. 2010 exploration activities 2 exploration wells were drilled, both of them deemed successful. In Syria one also included the start of new G&G interpretation of thin-layer-type reservoirs, exploration well was tested and resulted in discovery in 2010. post-drilling activities connected to IKA SW2 Dir, and commencement of two regional studies (geochemical and mineralogical). Our conventional exploration activity in Central Europe reached an outstanding 75% success rate in 2010. In Hungary, out of the 10 exploration wells tested in Major discovery in the Kurdistan In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq MOL is the operator of Block Akri-Bijeel with an 2010, 6 wells were classified as gas producers, 1 well as oil producer adding Region of Iraq undiluted working interest of 80% and has a 20% non-operated working interest approximately 4.1 MMboe to our SPE 2P reserve base. Three wells were qualified in Block Shaikan. In the Akri-Bijeel Block the Bijell-1 exploration well was finished, as dry. Well-test of one well, drilling of which started in 2010, was completed in with total depth of 4,377 m. Several successful tests were made in the Jurassic Q1 2011 and was classified as successful, while one further well is waiting for test (and earliest Cretaceous) part of the penetrated sequence and as a result the well in Hungary at the close of this report. In Croatia there were 2 successful onshore produced 3.7 mboepd oil and 0.1 mboepd gas. Discovery Report on Bijell structure drillings (1 gas and 1 oil producer). was submitted to KRG. Shaikan appraisal program was approved in May 2010. It has extended well test of Promising exploration projects at the In recent years INA’s conventional Croatian onshore exploration activities have Shaikan-1 well, 3D seismic acquisition and drilling of 6 appraisal wells. Shaikan-3 Croatian and Hungarian border focused on evaluation of less risky prospects located near producing areas in the appraisal was drilled and successfully tested in Q1 2011: after acid job the well Pannonian Basin. In Zalata – Podravska Slatina area at the Croatian-Hungarian produced up to 9.8 mboepd oil. border, testing of Dravica-1 well was finished, resulting in a gas discovery; Surface facility of extended well test was built and oil sale started in Q4 2010. 3D furthermore 3D seismic works were also completed. At Novi Gradac – Potony acquisition in the block was finished and evaluation started. license area at the Croatian-Hungarian border, testing of Potony-1 well (in Hungary) finished, which became dry. Exploration period was extended by 1 year, Further exploration successes in In the Pakistani Tal Block (10% MOL share), the Makori East-1 exploratory drilling effective until August 31, 2011. At Selec-1 on the Sava Depression, one well was Pakistan was announced as commercial discovery on 5 November 2010. In the uppermost drilled and tested in 2010, resulting in oil discovery. reservoir section at 3400 m, the first tests showed 3.2 mboepd condensate and 1.9 mboepd gas inflow. The sixth discovery of Tal Block was announced from the New partnerships in conventional MOL in combined efforts with Expert Petroleum has won the bid for three Tolanj X-1 exploratory drilling on 21 February 2011, with preliminary test result of exploration exploration blocks in Romania. Negotiations with the Romanian Authority 2.9 mboepd gas capacity. The drilling of both wells will continue to penetrate and (NAMR) about the Concession Agreements are ongoing. In 2010 a Participation test the deeper prospective horizons. In the Margala Block (70% MOL share) the Agreement has been signed to re-develop and rehabilitate gas and condensate Margala-1 drilling was deepened till January 2011. The well has been suspended, reservoirs across the Romanian-Hungarian border in joint efforts. A Preliminary the way forward for Margala blocks is to carry out detailed post-drilled evaluation, Field Study and work program proposals have been discussed. MOL and Central in order to fully assess the potential of both block before making any decision 62 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 63 on future exploration targets. In the Margala North Block (70% MOL share) Further activities in Kurdistan Region In May 2009, MOL acquired a 10% stake in Pearl Petroleum Company Limited geochemical survey was performed to reveal the potential of the block. In the of Iraq Pearl equity consolidated (Pearl Ltd) from Crescent Petroleum and Dana Gas PJSC. Pearl Ltd was set up Karak Block (operated by MariGas, 40% MOL share) an exploration well was to appraise, develop and produce two giant, multi TCF gas-condensate fields spudded in January 2011. (Khor Mor and Chemchemal) in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Chemchemal field is in exploration phase, while Khor Mor field is under development and produces Confirmed resource presence in MOL is the operating shareholder (27.5%) of the Fedorovsky exploration block in and supplies gas to local power plants. Local industrial needs have to be primarily Kazakhstan and in Russia Kazakhstan. The Rozhkovsky U-21 appraisal drilling was finished in January 2011. satisfied by the project, but in the future, substantial excess quantities are First tests showed promising results. The appraisal will continue in 2011 with expected to be available for export. The project is equity consolidated, which drilling of two further appraisal wells and construction of surface facilities for an disallows recognition of hydrocarbon production share in MOL Group production extended well test to start. volumes, but reserves as equity reserves still will add to Group reserves in the future. In Russia MOL’s exploration activity was focused on Matjushkinskaya and Surgut-7 Blocks. On Surgut-7 Block, a stimulation program for the 2 discoveries made Slight decrease in SPE 2P … MOL Group’s SPE proved plus probable figures are 618.8 MMboe, (including over the previous years began in 2010, including hydrofracturing activities at the 0.9 MMboe MMBF Ltd’s reserves), which presents a decrease of 46.3 MMboe first discovery well. On Matjushkinskaya Block, preparation works for drilling an compared to the previous year mainly due to the lack of international discovery exploration well started on Verkhne-Laryegan structure. and more strict mining extraction taxation rules in Russia to be implemeted starting from 2012. Progress in other exploration projects: In Oman, (75% MOL share, partner MariGas) we performed new 2D seismic Oman, Cameroon, India, Syria, Angola acquisition, the processing will be finished in Q1 2011. After evaluating the results, The annual Hungarian production in 2010 reduced our gross proved plus probable and Egypt an exploratory well is planned to be drilled in 2011. reserves by 22.0 MMboe. New Hungarian discoveries and field extensions Management Discussion increased MOL’s gross proved and probable reserves by 4.1 MMboe, while the In Cameroon, MOL has 40% non-operated interest in the Ngosso Block. In 2009 3D revision of reserves increased the gross proved and probable reserves by 10.5 seismic acquisition was performed. After the reinterpretation of the 3D seismic, MMboe. and Analysis work program was changed, and instead of the planned exploration drilling, a 2D seismic survey was designed to explore the potential of the North-Eastern part Reserve revisions in our international portfolio resulted in a decrease in gross of the block; acquisition started at the end of 2010 and was completed in January proved plus probable reserves of 9.5 MMboe. 2011. In accordance with SPE guidelines, as at 31 December, 2010, MOL’s share of gross In India, MOL farmed into Block HF-ONN-2001/1, operated by ONGC. The proved plus probable reserves of the ZMB field was 38.5 MMbbls (43.2 MMbls 35% working interest in the Himalayan Foothills was approved by the Indian in previous year). The Baitugan field had 61.9 MMbbls of proved plus probable Government in July 2009. Joint Operating Agreement was signed in November reserves (63.6 MMbbls in previous year). Proved plus probable reserves of the 2010. The block is in the second phase of exploration. The drilling of Kasauli-1 Matjushkinskaya Block were 29.4 MMbbls (30.5 MMbbls in previous year). exploratory well commenced in March 2010 and is expected to reach target depth in mid-2011. The Manzalai and Makori fields in the Tal Block (Pakistan, 8.42% MOL share) had 11.9 MMboe of proved plus probable gas and condensate reserves (13.9 MMboe In the Syrian Aphamia Block (INA has 100% share) two exploration wells were drilled in previous year) pertaining to our share according to the SPE reserve evaluation and confirmed HC saturation of the structures in 2010. Based on the positive test as of 31 December, 2010. results of Beer As Sib -1 well further exploration activities are planned, therefore the second extension of the initial exploration phase was made. A subhorizontal Starting from 2009 INA’s reserves are fully consolidated into MOL’s books. INA pilot well is planned to be drilled in 2011 with the aim of increasing the production d.d’s gross proved plus probable reserves according to SPE guidelines as at 31 rate and achieving commercial production. December 2010 amount to 304.6 MMboe consisting of 214.4 MMboe of natural gas (including condensate and gas liquids) and 90.2 MMboe of crude oil. Previous In the Angolan 3/05 concession (4 % INA share) one exploratory well was drilled year’s data were 325.1 MMboe of total SPE 2P reserves consisting of 231.0 MMboe in 2010, which encountered gas reservoirs at two levels and was plugged and of natural gas (including condensate and gas liquids) and 94.1 MMboe of crude oil abandoned due to lack of Angolan offshore gas infrastructure. Declarations of respectively. commercial discoveries for the Punja & Caco/Gazela fields (drilled in previous decades) were received in 2010. The Field Development Plan for Punja is finished More than 63% of INA d.d.’s proved plus probable reserves are located in the and it is in progress for Caco/Gazela. Croatian onshore fields with 194.1 MMboe of oil and gas reserves. The large part of these reserves are mainly gas and condensate reserves of 117.7 MMboe but oil In Egypt, one exploration well was drilled on East Yidma concession in 2010, reserves are also significant – 76.5 MMboe. encountering a non-commercial oil accumulation. Furthermore, an oil discovery was made by the Rawda East-1 exploration well on the North Bahariya concession, Another important part of the Croatian portfolio are the offshore gas fields with while another well drilled on the same concession, was dry and consequently 56.8 MMboe 2P reserves and with a good potential for further enhancement. plugged and abandoned. Exploration license on East Yidma concession expired in March 2011. In 2011 two exploratory wells will be drilled on non-operated blocks. Syria is a key area of field development projects but our exploration activity is also intensive in this country. Syrian projects have 45.7 MMboe of 2P reserves as at 31 December 2010. 64 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 65 year of the Program, implemented projects significantly exceeded the preliminary Angola and Egypt form a minor part of the international portfolio with 8.0 MMboe expectations. of proved plus probable oil reserves as at the end of 2010. Downstream continues and extends its EIFFEL Program (Efficiency Improvement Framework) in order to support strategic pillars of growth, efficiency and …and in SPE P1 reserves In 2010 MOL Group has changed its depreciation calculation methodology from capabilities by a bottom-up approach that encourages people to be more SEC (proved developed) to SPE P1 (proved developed) reserves. The Group’s innovative. The majority of savings is due to new creative and flexible solutions reserves in line with SPE P1 guidelines (including INA d.d.’s reserves and MMBF and small technology modifications. Beside the significant direct cost savings, the Ltd’s reserves) show a slight decrease in reserve base at 31 December 2010. real added value of EIFFEL Program is the creation of a self-improving organization Total SPE gross proved reserves amount to 429.1 MMboe, consisting of 37.4 bcm and the establishment of a modern knowledge sharing environment, which (245.1 MMboe) of natural gas (including condensate and gas liquids) and 24.7 supports the cooperation within MOL Group’s multinational and multicultural million tonnes (184.0 MMboe) of crude oil. [Previous year’s SPE gross proved operational area. reserves were 447.0 MMboe, consisting of 40.5 bcm (259.7 MMboe) of natural gas Refining has launched an Energy Conservation Program in 2010, with the aim to (including condensate and gas liquids) and 25.7 million tonnes (187.3 MMboe) of improve ‘traditional’ energy efficiency, reshape the contract management system crude oil respectively.] and utilize the advantages of online energy optimization due to the energy market deregulation. Additionally, harmonization and synchronization of the existing internal energy accounting-controlling systems into a common platform Refining and Marketing Overview are intended. In sales and distribution, the proprietary distribution pipeline network allows us 2010 was the year of continued deMOL laid strong emphasis on operational efficiency improvement through to serve our customers at the lowest possible cost. Additional cost reduction and velopment with focus on operational the whole value chain, which helped balancing the effects of a still challenging rationalization in transportation were achieved by exploiting synergies aiming to Management Discussion efficiency external environment. We improved hard and soft elements of our operations, improve road and rail tank car management and harmonize MOL and INA sales from refinery energy management through logistics cost optimisation until channels in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. advanced customer relationship. Retail Division continuously improves the efficiency of applied methods and and Analysis technologies for filling station operations by implementing engineering and Downstream takes advantage of its High complexity refineries utilize the advantage of producing a higher proportion maintenance standards and energy saving lighting methods. asset structure of valuable ‘white’ products (e.g. diesel, gasoline), which is one of the key drivers of MOL Downstream’s competitiveness and value creation as well. Commercial position and logistics MOL Group has kept its market leader position in Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia and Phase-1 of refinery modernization program in Croatia has almost been completed services provide a clear advantage in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while it has developed strong market presence in other and enables the Croatian refineries to produce Euro V quality motor fuels to fulfil regional market core countries with high wholesale margins. Leadership role yielded 20% market market requirements. Due to recent investments, Sisak refinery is able to produce share in CEE and SEE regions with increased sales volumes. motor gasoline meeting Euro V quality. In Rijeka refinery, a new hydrocracker MOL Group started to develop a competitive logistic network in Romania, Serbia unit has been completed to produce Euro V diesel products. A new hydrogen and Bosnia to serve increasing sales volume as it was implemented earlier in generation unit and revamp of other older plants were also required for this Austria. Development of wholesale and logistic assets remains a key goal for MOL investment. The completion of the sulphur recovery unit ensures compliance with Group in order to enable offering higher volumes to end costumers. future European environmental requirements. Additionally to the compliance, the Wholesale is continuously developing its customer service, providing fast, investments at Rijeka increase the refinery’s Nelson Complexity Index to 9.1 and transparent and easy access for customers to information services through the improve its product yield towards middle distillates. Further projects are planned Internet from order to payment. to increase the production flexibility as part of our effort to retain our ability to react quickly to changes in the external environment. Gradual improvement of external Gradual improvement of external conditions was experienced in 2010 in the environment resulted in... refining industry, however refining margins remained below the 5-year average. Access to pipeline and seaborne crude Our landlocked and high complexity refineries designed for Ural type crude Despite of this the average crack spreads increased by USD 12.8/t (36%), including ensure refining profitability (Duna, Bratislava) may well take advantage of the direct pipeline access to the following crack spread changes year-on-year for main products: gasoline and Russian crude oil supply. Refineries with seaborne crude supply in Mantova, Sisak diesel products crack spreads increased by USD 21.4/t and 18.8/t respectively, while and Rijeka benefit from crude cargo trade and related optimisation of matching naphtha almost doubled to USD 88.8/t. With high volatility during the year, Brentproduct supply with local demand patterns. In 2010 MOL paid special attention Ural spread also increased by an average of USD 0.6/bbl from the extremely narrow to select the most economic crude slate for refineries and increased the variety of 2009 level to 1.4 USD/bbl in 2010. While previous factors supported the 2010 result, processed crude in Croatia and Italy compared to previous years. 28% increase of Ural type crude oil price partly offset the positive effects. Setting the pace in efficiency Continuous efficiency improvement has to be the basis not just for the less …doubled Downstream operating Despite of the still challenging external environment R&M segment’s operating improvement competitive refiners, but even for the most efficient ones as well, thus MOL profit from the low basis of 2009 profit, excluding special items, doubled compared to a relatively low basis launched focused programs for the whole Group. Our five refineries and two and amounted to HUF 58.5 bn in line with the continuously improving refining petchem units enable us to improve internal efficiency and capture synergies, like environment and strict cost control. Excluding INA’s contribution and special higher external purchasing power. items, operating profit increased by 84% to HUF 87.7 bn. The CCS-based operating OptINA program was the first attempt to harvest quick-wins of the implementation profit, excluding special items and INA’s contribution, increased considerably to of MOL standards to elevate the operational efficiency, spreading ‘best practices’ HUF 51.4 bn. Beside the improved external environment lower unit cost (due in Croatia as well. Maintenance of the refineries was harmonized and production to strict cost control) influenced mostly the result, while sales volume remained was optimized in order to supply the markets without disruption. In the first full relatively stable. 66 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 67 INA fuelled the 11% throughput In 2010 the total refinery throughput increased by 11% to 21.8 Mt year-on-year Suffering Croatian market demand, Croatian market demand decreased in line with weak economic performance increase mainly as a result of INA’s full year contribution (4.2 Mt). MOL Group processed slowly stabilizing motor fuel market and liquidity problems on money market impact of crises on industry, mostly 18.3 Mt of crude oil in 2010 (out of which 1.1 Mt was produced in Hungary and share transport and construction. Motor gasoline and diesel markets shrank by 4% and Croatia), compared to 16.6 Mt in the previous year, representing an increase of 5% respectively. MOL Group market share (considering pro-forma full year INA 10%. contribution in 2009) decreased in motor gasoline (-5%) and diesel (-9%) as well (to 71% and 67%, respectively), partly because of INA applying stricter credit and Slight increase of refinery utilisation As a result of our integrated operation we kept the capacity utilisation of the collection policy than its peers. Recently inroduced Commercial policy in Croatia despite the still moderate market refineries high (Mantova refinery) and even increased them (Duna, Bratislava targets to regain market share in the forthcoming years. demand and Rijeka refineries) in 2010 compared to 2009. Other feedstock processing, excluding INA, increased by 15% compared to the previous year as MOL Crashed bitumen consumption The Hungarian bitumen market decreased significantly (-29%) due to wet successfully exploited the opportunities of 0.1 Gasoil purchase as a result of in Hungary and Slovakia weather, finalized motorway projects and further cuts in public spending. On the optimization. Crude processing at the Duna refinery increased slightly (by 1%), other hand the Slovakian market declined as well while due to a planned major turnaround crude processing decreased by 4% at (-16%). MOL’s market share on both Hungarian and Slovakian market increased Bratislava refinery. Crude supply from Russia was uninterrupted. The throughput by 1% and 3% respectively to 73% and 52%, respectively. of Mantova refinery improved by 3%. LPG market share: stable in Hungary Refinery coverage of LPG in Hungary was 72% slightly lower than in 2009 in Strict inventory control continued As a result of continuation of our effective cash management the closing inventory wholesale because of sharp price competition. The retail market increased due volumes in 2010 remained on 2009 level. to high petrol prices. Our retail market share declined slightly in Hungary as we followed main market prices and competitors lagged the market trends. Stable regional motor fuel demand Motor fuel demand in the Central-Eastern European region remained flat but with Management Discussion with ambivalent trends ambivalent trends. Gasoline demand declined (-5%), while diesel consumption Growing captured market of Petchem: The total transferred volumes to the Petrochemical segment increased by 117 kt increased by 2% in 2010 year-on-year. There were considerable differences in the feedstock volume increased by 5% to 2,605 kt in 2010. Out of this, naphtha amounted to 1,753 kt and petrochemical demand pictures of the individual countries. A large drop in demand occurred gasoil to 233 kt (1,822 kt and 53 kt, respectively, in 2009). In 2010, our Petrochemical and Analysis in Hungary, Czech Republic and Romania, while demand in Poland, Austria and segment supplied 695 kt of by-products to our Refining and Marketing segment Slovakia increased. for further processing. Sales increase fuelled by full year In 2010 the total external sales volume increased by 9% year-on-year reflecting contribution of INA INA’s full year contribution of 3.8 Mt, while remained stable (15.2 Mt) excluding Retail it. Our motor gasoline and gas oil sales increased by 5% and 8%, respectively, but excluding INA, gasoline sales fell considerably (6%). On the other hand in line Successful implementation of Retail By the end of 2010, Retail Divison operates more than 1,600 filling stations across with recovery of regional economies gasoil sales increased by (3%), supported by strategy continued 11 countries in the region, providing a strong captive market for Refining in the stronger H2 performance. Our strong efforts to strenghten our existing market refinery supply radius. In 2010 we successfully integrated INA filling station (FS) positions and gain presence on new markets are reflected in our relatively good network after gaining management control in 2009. During the year majority sales performance, despite the moderate regional demand. of new stations built/contracted were franchise stations in Italy (IES), while on the orther hand Croatian Crobenz network (14 FS) had to be sold based on the Leading position in our domestic We were successfully maintaining our market position on the domestic and on decision of the Croatian Competiton Agency. In addition to expanding the network markets maintained the most important and closest export markets. Moreover, with the consolidation of retail filling stations, MOL Retail Division focuses on customer satisfaction and of INA we have strengthened our regional position in all fields of Downstream on improving its filling stations in order to increase revenue per site and network activity. Our market share in CEE has increased to above 20% from 19% with the efficiency. full year contribution of INA in 2010 to Group sales. New Retail Visual Identity providing MOL’s new ‘Retail Visual Identity’ (RVI) is continuously introduced at newlySales in Hungary: significant drop, Our total Hungarian sales decreased significantly in 2010 due to the very low success built and re-branded filling stations. The new design combines the traditional mainly motor gasoline was affected demand. Both gasoline and diesel sales declined by 16% and 6% respectively, MOL visual elements with a dynamic refreshing image to reflect the company’s while our other product sales decreased by 18% compared to 2009. customer-focused strategy and to support the importance of MOL Group brand awareness. A regional partnership was created between the MOL Group and Stable market coverage in Hungary MOL successfully maintained its market position in Hungary. Diesel refinery Marché International to provide a premium gastro offering at motorway locations coverage remained stable at 86% compared to the previous year. Refinery in 2008. By 2010 MOL and Marché International offer joint services at seven MOL coverage of gasoline slightly decreased from 85% to 82% in 2010. stations in Hungary and seven Tifon stations in Croatia. Increasing fuel demand in Slovakia but Total refined product sales in Slovakia increased by 6%, driven by higher motor Retail sales up by 16% Aggregate retail sales volumes (incl. LPG and lubricant volumes) increased by 16% Slovakian market coverage decreased fuel sales (up by 9%) in 2010 year-on-year. The diesel market increased sharply by to 3.5 Mt in 2010. The main driver of the growth was INA’s 2010 contribution of slightly an astonishing 21% in Slovakia driven by significant decline of the excise tax from 1180 kt (in 2009 only H2 was consolidated by 675 kt). Retail fuel sales volumes, February, making the retail price competitive even in regional comparison and excluding INA, slightly decreased (by 0.7%) to 2,365 kt in 2010 year-on-year due starting the economic activity. Motor gasoline demand remained flat year-on-year to the overall decline of retail fuel market in the region. and consumer prices remained relatively high in the region. Slovnaft maintained its strong market position of gasoline (64%) but lost a couple of percents in diesel during Hungarian retail volumes decreased In Hungary our retail fuel sales volume decreased by 11% in 2010 compared 2010 (2009: 63% vs. 2010: 60%) due to increased competition in reseller segment. due to recession to previous year mainly as a result of lower demand (according to MÁSZ, the 68 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 69 Hungarian Petroleum Association, the Hungarian retail fuel market decreased by Significant operating profit Petrochemicals segment hit the highest ever net sales figure by achieving 35% 9% in 2010 vs. 2009). Main reasons of the demand decrease were the still depressed improvement in 2010 improvement in 2010, compared to the preceding year. This improvement was economic environment, outbound fuel tourism to the neighbouring countries and compensated by the significant increase in raw material cost. In 2010 the operating the higher retail fuel prices resulted from higher product quotations, VAT and excise profit excluding special items of Petrochemical segment reached HUF 1.4 bn and tax compared to the previous year. Moreover, the most price sensitive customers improved significantly by HUF 16.6 bn compared to the operating loss in 2009. turned to white pumpers and also consider E85 as an alternative product offer The main reasons for the profit improvement were the increasing integrated in depressed economic climate. Our gasoline, diesel and LPG sales decreased petrochemical margin, the higher olefin product prices, the lower electricity by 16%, 7% and 4%, respectively. The retail market was characterized by strong prices, the higher production and sales volumes, and efficiency increase efforts price competition both in fuel and non-fuel sector and our retail fuel market share which were reduced by the unfavorable change of the exchange rates. decreased slightly (35.8% in 2010 vs. 36.5% in 2009), according to MÁSZ. The ratio of fleet card sales to our total fuel sales increased to 39% in 2010 from 35.5% in 6% higher integrated petrochemical The integrated petrochemical margin was 323 EUR/t in 2010. The naphtha base year. This was a relative improvement due to the drop of cash purchases. Shop margin quotation in USD-terms increased the level of of last year by 34%, which was sales decreased by 4% in 2010 compared to 2009 due to the fact that economic offset by the 20-47% increase of polymer quotations in EUR-terms. The US dollar crisis is pushing costumers away from convenience retail channel and also from car strengthened by 5% against EUR, and the HUF strengthened by 2% against EUR, wash business. Price increase of tobacco products could not balance lower sales of which had deteriorating impact on the results. traditional food products like soft drinks, alcohol products and chocolates. 1% increase in polymer production In 2010, the monomer and polymer production volumes increased by 1-1%, In Slovakia sales volumes recovered in In Slovakia, our total retail fuel sales volume increased by 13% in 2010 year-on-year, compared to the previous year. The periodical maintenance works in the Olefin-2 2010 in line with the start of economic recovery and partially as a result of reduced excise plant (TVK) and polymer plants both in TVK and SPC in 2010 required less tax rate of diesel since 1 February. The increase both in gasoline and diesel sales is time than in 2009, therefore the available capacity was higher in 2010. Record Management Discussion also attributable to the effort of the business to strengthen customer loyalty and production was achieved by HDPE-2 unit in TVK with 223 kt. In 2010, within the to gain new customers through the BONUS program. The increase in gasoline sales total polymer production the proportion of LDPE was 19%, HDPE was 37% and PP was 3% in 2010 and the growth in diesel sales was 21% year-on-year due to transit was 44%, showing the increased proportion of HDPE. and Analysis traffic (5% and 24% growth in the Q4 2010 respectively). The fuel card sales were 9% higher than in 2009 due to diesel sales. Despite of the growth, the proportion of fuel Ongoing sales and marketing strategy Sales and marketing strategy can be characterized by two major goals – focusing card sales in total fuel sales fell by 0.9 percentage points to 28% in 2010 year-on-year. implementation – focusing and difand differentiation. Exploiting the favorable geographic location, the strategy ferentiation sets key development areas in the field of logistics, product development and Romanian retail volumes decreased by In Romania, our fuel sales decreased by 2% which is lower than the trend on the tight customer relations, and lays higher emphasis on markets in Central Europe. 2% on lower number of stations market in 2010, MOL’s market share increased to over 11%. The decrease in sales In 2010 sales performance has been improved by achieving higher price levels volume mainly caused by the lower number of filling stations and the lower market while polymer inventories were kept at a low level. By improving the customer demand. In addition the average throughput per site increased by 3.5% year-onportfolio, the ratio of sales to spot destinations reduced from 8% in the previous year as a result of stronger efforts taken to boost network’s efficiency. The fuel year to 6% in 2010. card sales volume was mainly affected by the economic downturn and decreased by 7% in 2010 vs. 2009. The shop sales revenue went up by approximately 5% Olefin sales improves steam cracker The Petrochemical segment of MOL is an active player in the regional olefin (RON terms) in 2010, exceeding the average Romanian retail market performance. utilization business. Increasing by-products sales improves the capacity utilization of the olefin plants. During the first year of the crude C4 sales contract with our Polish Significant increase in Croatia, 7% In Croatia, retail sales volume increased by 487 kt in 2010 year-on-year including partner, Synthos we gained positive experiences in the cooperation. Borsodchem, even without INA INA’s full year contribution (478 kt). Croatian retail sales volume, excluding INA, our strategic partner in the polymer business in Hungary has stabilized its positions which practically means Tifon’s performance increased by 7% year-on-year and and takes over the regular supplies of ethylene, in accordance with our long amounted to 150 kt in 2010. Additionally according to the decision of the Croatian term supply contract. Pyrolysis oil sales to the carbon black unit in Tiszaújváros Competition Agency INA Group was obliged to sell 14 filling stations of Crobenz. improved significantly in 2010, due to the upturn in the tyre industry. Regional coverage with more than The Group operated 1,623 filling stations as of 31 December 2010, including 364 Focus on cost management and Commitment to improve energy efficiency is deeply rooted in strategic 1,600 petrol stations in 11 countries in Hungary, 467 in Croatia, 208 in Slovakia, 205 in Italy, 126 in Romania, 109 in energy efficiency improvement thinking at the petrochemical segment. In response to the thriving importance Bosnia and Herzegovina, 66 in Austria, 33 in Serbia, 26 in the Czech Republic, 18 in of environmental protection and increasing energy prices, action plans were Slovenia and 1 in Montenegro. developed in connection with technologies and a new operational model was implemented for energy management. This will further improve the cost efficiency of the overall energy process to the benefit of the environment. We Petrochemicals Overview are consequently implementing our energy strategy formulated in 2008. In the 2008-2010 period we spared 48 kt of CO2 via sustainable improvement actions Considerable recovery in plastics The global economic recovery brought steady demand in the LDPE and PP and individual energy projects. demand and increasing product price, markets. Quoted prices increased by 43-45%. However HDPE was not able to offset by higher feedstock costs keep up with this trend. The favorable tendencies in the Petrochemical segment’s Continue with SPC development In the future petrochemical industry remains increasingly competitive, setting markets were moderated by raw material cost that increased by 43% in 2010. project to strengthen the position further challenges in the business. To keep and further strengthen competitive Although the annual average integrated petrochemical margin has improved by of the Petrochemical Division advantages, the Petrochemical segment is committed to continue its strategic 6%, this level is still behind the year 2008 figure by 21%. We kept strict measures development programs and seeking for new business opportunities. Continuing on managing costs and working capital in 2010. SPC development project will provide a firm basis for the future position of 70 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 71 Petrochemical Division. In line with its strategic aims MOL management is Despite of the decline in capacity booking and in transported volumes the slight analyzing future options in connection with SPC modernization. income growth is due to the tariffs used in the first half of the year. Due to the decision of the Price Authority the transmission tariffs were frozen in the second half of the year causing a significant loss in revenues for FGSZ. Gas and Power Segment Overview The transit transported volumes show Revenue from transit natural gas transmission was HUF 17.5 bn (9%) in 2010, The Gas and Power segment’s operating profit, excluding special items, increased a significant increase unchanged vs. 2009. In 2010 the transported natural gas volumes were 24% by 9% to HUF 68.1 bn in 2010. FGSZ Ltd. was the most important profit contributor, higher than in the previous year. however the temporary freeze of gas tariffs by 1 July affected negatively the H2 2010 result of gas transmission business. In 2010 starting of the Romanian transmission caused a HUF 0.8 bn increase in revenues compared to the base period. FGSZ Natural Gas Transmission Ltd. Decrease in costs Operating costs were HUF 0.7 bn (1%) lower in 2010 year-on-year. The savings occurred in the field of services used, which was reduced by the increase in energy Main 2010 goals were met: infrastrucThe Hungarian section of the 109 km long Szeged-Arad gas pipeline was costs due to growth in gas price. ture development projects on the way completed, which ensures the transmission between Hungary and Romania from H2, 2010. Initial annual capacity of the pipeline is 1.75 bcm, which can be extended in the future up to 4.4 bcm. MMBF Gas Storage Ltd. FGSZ Ltd. and Plinacro, the operator of the Croatian Transmission System Strategic and commercial gas storage MOL Group is an active participant in the gas storing business again, as the gas Management Discussion was completed the interconnection between the Hungarian and Croatian storage facility of MMBF Ltd (72.5% subsidiary of MOL) has finished the first transmission systems with 6.5 bcm annual capacity by the end of Q4, 2010. year of its successful operation in 2010. MMBF Ltd. was set up to develop an The two Transmission System Operators (TSOs) concluded the interconnection underground gas storage with a strategic mobile capacity of 1.2 bcm and 0.7 bcm and Analysis agreement, which controls the operational conditions of the border points of commercial capacity through an active reservoir, Szőreg-1. Drávaszerdahely and Donji Miholjac. The development was implemented according to schedule, by MOL Plc. Total Independent Transmission system Due to change in European Union gas market regulation, in 2010 the complete CAPEX spent, without the acquisition of mining rights (HUF 67.0 bn), was HUF Operator unbundling of natural gas transmission activities was implemented from the 83.1 bn by the year end, of which HUF 2.2 bn was spent in 2010 for the last phase of vertically integrated parent company in Hungary as well. The company submit the construction works. The strategic storage facility, in line with legal requirements, application for Independent Transmission system Operator licence in the first half has a daily withdrawal peak capacity of 20 mcm over a period of 45 days for of 2011 to the Hungarian Energy Office and to the EU. strategic (security) activities. Commercial storage with 700 mcm mobile capacity is available from April 2010 and has an additional 5 mcm/day peak capacity. NETS project continued FGSZ stresses the vital importance of regional joint initiatives, such as the New European Transmission System, thereafter NETS project. The main goal of the In addition to storage activity, MMBF Ltd. has sold the oil, condensate and gas project is to achieve greater interconnectivity between the various national gas production of Szőreg-1 field with profit. Operating profit of MMBF Ltd. was Transmission System operators (TSOs) spreading around Central and South-East HUF 16.7 bn in 2010 (excluding special items), of which HUF 8.7 bn was the Europe for improved security of supply. Additionally, NETS is a tool facilitating profit-contribution of gas-sales. Through the strategic and commercial storage the realization of North-South Gas Corridor, which is fully supported by Visegrad facilities MMBF Ltd. is expected to provide stable EUR-based return and cash flow Group+ countries and acknowledged by the European Union. contribution. Within the frame of the regional coorporation FGSZ started negotiation with the Slovakian Eustream and Slovenian Geoplin Plinovodi to develop new Power interconnections towards Slovakia and Slovenia in order to improve the security of supply and transmission possibilities in the region. JV with CEZ – entry into the electricity MOL, together with its strategic partner – CEZ, the Czech Energy Company is market considering to carry out three major investments. The ongoing project is the Outlook for 2011 The main task for 2011 is to continue the development of the interconnector revamp of the existing thermal power plant (TPP) in the Bratislava refinery. The pipelines with the neigbouring countries, continue the NETS initiative, and focus amount of energy produced will be able to create sufficient steam and electricity on the cost efficient operation to provide stable cash flows. sources for the Bratislava refinery. Beside this the partners are examining the opportunities of building two combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) technologies Outstanding operating profit Operating profit for FGSZ was HUF 43.8 bn in 2010, HUF 3.6 bn (9%) higher yearpower plant in the Danube and Bratislava refineries. Each CCGT has a planned contribution on-year. Increase in operating profit is due to the increased income on transit capacity of 830 MW which would result in a 58% net electrical efficiency. transmission and lower level of expenditures. The revamp of the TPP in Bratislava is in process, the complete Flue Gas Domestic transmission revenue +1% Revenue from domestic transmission grew by HUF 0.5 bn (1%) to HUF 66.7 bn in Desulfurization unit work will be completed by the end of 2011. The capacity 2010 year-on-year. increase of the power plant will satisfy the full electricity and steam need of the refinery. The preparatory works for the developments of the two CCGT power plants are proceeding according to the agreed schedule. The Hungarian project 72 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 73 has been granted an IPPC and a Building Permit, in Slovakia a valid EIA resolution and 2% local trade tax), INA of HUF 8.3 bn (20% corporate income tax), MMBF has been received by the end of 2010. Zrt. of HUF 3.8 bn and FGSZ Zrt. of HUF 3.7 bn. Thermal Power Plant in the Bratislava refinery (achieved an outstanding operating profit of HUF 3.1 bn in 2010 due to cost efficient operation, profit from ancillary Cash-flow services to a customer outside MOL Group and profit on the sale of products. Consolidated Cash-flow 2010 2009 Corporate and Other Segment Overview (HUF mn) (HUF mn) Net cash provided by operating activities 373,653 397,891 Increased operating loss in line with The Corporate and other segment operating loss, excluding one-off items (the of which: movements in working capital (98,212) 59,707 full year INA contribution, but signifiprovision for redundancy recorded at INA in Q3 2010 (HUF 7.1 bn), the provision Net cash used in investing activities (276,272) (266,658) cant decrease excluding it for tax penalty recorded at INA in Q4 2010 (HUF 4.2 bn), the crisis tax imposed Net cash provided by/(used in) financing ac26,794 (169,713) by the Hungarian state on domestic energy sector recorded in H2 2010 (HUF tivities Net increase/(decrease) 0.5 bn)) represented a 28% increase, and amounted to HUF 56.8 bn loss in 2010 124,175 (38,480) in cash and cash equivalents mainly due to the full year contribution of INA. The loss of segment, excluding INA contribution decreased to HUF 24.6 in 2010. Operating cash-flow decreased by 6% Operating cash inflow in 2010 was HUF 373.7 bn, compared to HUF 397.9 bn in 2009. Operating cash flow before movements in working capital increased by 39%. The change in the working capital position decreased funds by HUF 98.2 bn, Financial results as a result of an increase in inventories, trade receivables, other current assets, Management Discussion and trade payables (of HUF 63.6 bn, HUF 16.3 bn, HUF 2.2 bn and HUF 5.9 bn Increase in net financial expense A net financial expense of HUF 79.1 bn was recognised in 2010 (compared to a respectively) and a decrease in other payables of HUF 21.9 bn. Income taxes paid net financial expense of HUF 60.3 bn in 2009). Interest payable was HUF 34.5 bn amounted to HUF 37.5 bn. and Analysis in 2010 (HUF 23.3 bn in 2009) while interest received amounted to HUF 7.4 bn in 2010 (HUF 10.5 bn in 2009). In 2010 a net foreign exchange loss of HUF 46.7 bn Cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was HUF 276.3 bn in 2010, compared to was recognised, compared to the loss of HUF 3.2 bn in 2009. The fair valuation increased by 4% net cash used of HUF 266.7 bn in 2009. The cash outflow of the current and the difference on the conversion option embedded in the capital security issued by comparative period reflects the CAPEX, mainly on strategic developments and Magnolia Finance Ltd amounted to HUF 5.4 bn unrealised loss (compared to the the expansion of Hungarian pipeline capacity. unrealized loss of HUF 19.7 bn in FY 2009). In addition, a gain of HUF 10.1 bn has been incurred on the fair valuation of the call option on MOL shares owned by Net financing cash inflows Net financing cash inflow was HUF 26.8 bn, primarily as a result of the net draw CEZ. from issuance of bonds down of long-term and short-term debt including issuance of new bonds. Income from associates Funding overview Profit contributor associates Income from associates showed HUF 12.0 bn in 2010 (main contributors were The financial position and ability to generate operational cash flow of corporates MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. and MOL’s 10% share from the operations of Pearl came into the front due to the turbulent financial environment and economic Petroleum Company), while the comparative period reflected INA’s H1 2009 slowdown. contribution of HUF 6.4 bn loss (include MOL’s 47.2% shareholding). From 30 June 2009, INA is fully consolidated in MOL Group. MOL further improved its strong MOL’s key target for 2010, to keep its strong financial position, was successfully financial position met as a result of MOL’s improving financial results. MOL remained disciplined to its CAPEX plan, and improved its well-accepted efficiency by implementing Profit before Taxation further cost reduction measures. As a result of the above-mentioned items, the Group’s profit before taxation in New facilities diversified the funding The main purposes of financial transactions in 2010 were particularly diversification 2010 was HUF 172.0 bn, compared to HUF 170.4 bn in 2009. portfolio of funding sources and maturity profile enhancement. In line with these goals, MOL issued a EUR 750 mn Eurobond on 14 April 2010 with an annual coupon of 5.875% and maturity of 7 years. Besides this, a Hungarian Forint bond programme Taxation with a maximum amount of HUF 100 bn was launched for 2010-2011, in the frame of which Hungarian Forint retail bond with a nominal value of HUF 5.05 bn was Lower income taxes Income tax expense decreased by HUF 16.8 bn from the comparative period issued in 2010 via public offering, with annual coupon payment of 6% and 18 to HUF 63.3 bn in 2010. The subsequent impact of MOL share transactions and months maturity. certain options attached to shares held by third parties is treated differently for IFRS and tax purposes and resulted in a HUF 2.1 bn decrease in our tax expense. In September 2010, due to the stabilizing commercial banking environment and The current income tax expense was the result of the contribution from MOL it’s improved credit rating, MOL Plc. successfully refinanced the Forward Start parent company of HUF 18.7 bn (19% corporate income tax, 8% ‘Robin Hood tax’ Facility by a EUR 500 mn revolving credit facility with more favourable conditions compared to those of the Forward Start Facility and a tenor of 3 years which can 74 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 75 be extended by further 1 year. In addition, MOL signed a EUR 150 mn long term realization of these risk mitigation actions – in a form of quarterly required reports loan agreement with the European Investment Bank (EIB) in November 2010 to from the risk owners. finance the interconnection of Hungarian and Croatian natural gas transmission systems. Furthermore, INA d.d. concluded a EUR 210 mn loan agreement with the Financial Risk Management The main role of Financial Risk Management as part of the ERM is to handle European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), ICF-Debt Pool and short-term, market related risks. Commodity price, FX and interest rate risks are Cordiant in September 2010, supporting the refinery modernisation programme measured by using a complex model based on the Monte Carlo simulation (which of INA in Croatia. takes into account portfolio effects as well) and are managed – if necessary with risk mitigation tools (such as swaps, forwards and options). This function Sufficient external funding MOL Group has sufficient external funding for its operations and investments. concentrates on a 12-month time horizon. Reports on compliance with limits Our diversified, long-term funding portfolio consists of revolving, syndicated linked to strategic and financial objectives of the Group are compiled for the senior and club loans, long term bonds and of loan facilities concluded with multilateral management on a monthly basis whereby mitigation action plans are proposed financial institutions. by Risk Management on an ad-hoc basis when required. 63% EUR-denominated debt MOL Group’s total debt increased from HUF 1,111.1 bn at year-end 2009 to HUF Insurance Management Transferring of excess operational risks is done by Insurance Management (IM). It 1,210.8 bn at 31 December 2010 as a combined effect of new draw-down of long means purchase of insurance, which is an important risk mitigation tool used to term borrowings and the weakening of HUF vs. EUR and USD. The currency cover the most relevant operational and liability exposures. The major insurance composition of total debt was 63% EUR, 32% USD, 5% HUF and other currency as types are: Property Damage, Business Interruption, Liability, and Control of of 31 December 2010. The Group’s net debt amounted to HUF 897.7 bn at the end Well Insurance. Due to the peculiarity of the insurance business major tasks of of 2010 showing a decrease from HUF 934 bn at the end of 2009 as a result of the this function are set around a yearly cycle (i.e. annual renewal of most insurance strong operational performance of the company. programs). Since insurance is managed through a joint program for the whole Management Discussion group (including MOL, INA, Slovnaft, TVK, IES and Slovnaft Petrochemicals), Our gearing ratio decreased Our gearing ratio (net debt to the sum of net debt and total equity) was 31.3% MOL Group is able to exploit considerable synergy effects. at 31 December 2010 compared to 33.8% at the end of 2009, which reflects the and Analysis strong capital structure of MOL Group. Business Continuity Management Business Continuity Management (BCM) is the process of preparing for unexpected disruptions that have low probability for occurrence but high impact.. Crisis Management (CM) processes, Incident Management, Disaster Recovery Integrated Risk management and other risk control programs (like regular engineering reviews) are crucial in such a business like MOL Group’s where operational risk exposure is significant as Integrated risk management function It is an accentuated aim for Risk Management to deal with all of the external a result of the chemical and physical processes underlying most of the operations. – at work challenges (including new industry-specific taxes) in order to support the stable The quality of both BCP and CM is often measured in financial terms when dealing and sustainable financial position of MOL. Therefore it is a necessity to have with insurance agencies during policy placements and regular renewals. an effective and comprehensive risk management as a prerequisite tool of good corporate governance. MOL Group can state that it has developed risk management function as an integral part of its corporate governance structure. Capital expenditure program This was confirmed by SAM Research AG again in its 2010 benchmarking report for Dow Jones Sustainability Index that ranked MOL’s risk management as one of the best in class with 88% performance, 28 percentage points above the CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 2009 2010 (HUF mn) (HUF mn) sector’s average underlying MOL’s well-defined responsibility for risk and crisis management, our extensive risk definitions, the applications of risk mapping, Exploration and Production 186,585 122,974 quantification, stress testing and sensitivity analysis for all financial and nonRefining and Marketing* 107,889 103,945 financial risks and our well-defined risk response strategy. Gas and Power 62,970 89,181 Petrochemicals 16,681 9,757 Corporate and other 6,613 6,960 Multi-pillar system for managing a broad variety of risks. TOTAL 380,738 332,817 Enterprise Risk Management Incorporation of the broadest variety of risks into one long-term, comprehensive * Including Refining & Marketing, Retail and Lubricants segments and dynamic system is arranged by Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) on group level. ERM integrates financial, market and operational risks along with a wide Major investments finalised in on all Our Group capital expenditure (CAPEX) was HUF 333 bn (13% lower than previous range of strategic and reputation risks. Following identification, different classes business lines year) in 2010, including the HUF 107.1 bn spending of INA. The investments focused of risks are quantified using a unified methodology. The time horizon of the model on growth type projects, like the Syrian and Adriatic off-shore developments emphasises long term view (according to strategic horizons): up to 10 years and in Upstream, modernization of Rijeka refinery in Downstream and Hungarianeven beyond, when analysing the variability of net present values. The ERM Croatian cross border pipeline development in Gas and Power. process identifies the most significant risks to the performance of the company (both on divisional and on group levels) and calls for a decision to be made Exploration & Production CAPEX with In 2010 Upstream capital expenditures increased by HUF 9.0 bn to HUF 123.0 bn regarding which risks should be retained and which should be mitigated and how. increasing focus on exploration year-on-year with exclusion of Pearl acquisition from 2009 expenditures. HUF Some of the risks are managed centrally, while some are dealt with the divisions, 40.4 bn (33%) was dedicated to exploration of which HUF 15.4 bn in Hungary, HUF overseen by nominated risk owners. Risk Management regularly controls the 8.7 bn in Kurdistan Region of Iraq, HUF 4.4-4.4 bn in Syria and in Pakistan, HUF 1.9 bn in India, HUF 1.2 bn in Croatia, HUF 0.9 bn in Kazakhstan, HUF 0.8 bn in Russia, 76 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 77 HUF 0.7 bn in Oman, HUF 0.6 bn in Cameroon, HUF 0.6 bn in Egypt and HUF 0.9 Olefin plants both in TVK and SPC were significantly lower in 2010 year-on-year, bn in all other regions. Development expenditures were HUF 71.4 bn (58%), of while the sustain operation type investments increased slightly. which HUF 29.0 bn was spent in Syria (Hayan project), HUF 15.7 bn in Russia, HUF 11.5 bn in Hungary and HUF 8.3 bn in Croatia (mainly in Adriatic offshore projects: Corporate & Other segment Capital expenditures of the Corporate and Other segment was HUF 6.9 bn in HUF 7.2 bn). In Kurdistan Region of Iraq we started to develop Pearl assets (HUF CAPEX up by 5% 2010 versus HUF 6.6 bn in 2009. In 2010 we spent HUF 4.0 bn on the further 2.2 bn) and started early development of the Shaikan discovery (HUF 0.9 bn). development of our Group information system and HUF 0.9 bn on property We continued development in Egypt (HUF 1.9 bn) and in Angola (HUF 1.2 bn). In maintenance. Pakistan, MOL’s share in development costs of the Manzalai and Makori fields was HUF 0.7 bn. A further HUF 11.2 bn (9% of total) was spent primarily on upgrading the asset base of our drilling, well logging and seismic oilfield service subsidiaries Outlook on strategic horizon and general maintenance-type projects. MOL has become more international, In 2010 approximately half of the Group EBITDA was generated outside Hungary Refining & Marketing Refining and Marketing CAPEX was HUF 104.0 bn in 2010, down from HUF 107.9 more efficient and more upstream as share of international operation increased further considerably and we expect CAPEX down by 5% bn in 2009 reflecting the stringent CAPEX control across the Group. This segment driven this tendency to continue in the forthcoming years. The Upstream division’s consists of the following businesses: contribution has grown significantly in the past years, achieving almost twothird of the Group EBITDA in 2010 and became a strong growth pillar for the  efining and Wholesale expenditures were HUF 92.0 bn in 2010 versus R Group. Downstream integration strengthened in order to reinforce our regional HUF 95.7 bn in 2009. INA Group’s contribution to the CAPEX was HUF stronghold position. 50.0 bn, key part of which was related to the finalization of 1st Phase of the Modernization Program at Rijeka refinery, where with the MOL not just remained committed to keep its financial stability but continued the Management Discussion implementation of the grass-root hydrocrack complex all the motor key development projects, with which established an outstanding position for the fuels will comply with Euro V standards. CAPEX spending at MOL Plc. upturn period in each business division. We aim to exploit the significant organic (HUF 21.2 bn) and Slovnaft (HUF 14.4 bn) were mostly related to the growth potential of our integrated portfolio by operating the existing asset base and Analysis planned turnaround and other sustain operation type projects, while on maximum efficiency which integration of operation with INA remains the main IES spent HUF 5.8 bn mainly on completion of its multiple-year product driver. quality and environmental compliance related modernization program in Q2 2010. Gradual recovery is expected The global economy went through a transition period in recent years and signs of Retail CAPEX was HUF 11.7 bn, including HUF 2.6 bn spending on network to continue the recovery were already visible in 2010. MOL continuously adjusts its operation development in Hungary, INA Group’s HUF 2.0 bn, MOL Romania’s HUF to the external environment. We expect oil prices to remain at current levels for 2.2 bn and Energopetrol’s HUF 2.7 bn contribution. Retail CAPEX was the forthcoming years with possible fluctuations amounting at 94 USD/bbl level lower than the basis by HUF 0.3 bn in 2010. in 2013. MOL is expecting improving diesel crack spreads and stable gasoline crack spreads in line with the economic recovery (96 USD/t and 131 USD/t in 2013 Gas and Power Total CAPEX of the Gas and Power segment was HUF 89.2 bn in 2010, representing respectively) and stable HUF versus USD. CAPEX up by HUF 26.2 bn a 42% increase year-on-year. USD 5.5 bn CAPEX target in 2011-2013 In the 2011-2013 period MOL aims to finance its targeted USD 5.5 bn total CAPEX In 2010 the CAPEX spending of FGSZ was HUF 74.7 bn which is significantly higher financed from operating cash flow spending fully from the operating cash flow, focusing on high return projects at than HUF 31.7 bn in 2009. The investments are made up of implementation of the the two key business divisions, upstream and downstream. On the other hand Hungarian-Croatian cross border pipeline achieving the company’s strategy and MOL continuously monitors the macro environment and is ready to commence the reconstruction of the existing system. The pipelines completed in 2010 will be further growth projects depending on its cash flow generation. commissioned by the company in the first half of 2011. Upstream: focus on exploration and The main objective for the forthcoming years will be to maximize the value MMBF Ltd. spent HUF 2.2 bn on the last phase of works of underground gas storage active portfolio management of our existing portfolio, which is a solid basis for further growth with sizeable construction in 2010. The company developed the underground gas storage with production in 7 countries and exploration potential in 13 countries. The focus will a strategic mobile capacity of 1.2 bcm and 0.7 bcm commercial capacity. be on completing high return/early cash generative appraisal and development projects in Syria, CEE, Pakistan, Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Russia to increase In the Power segment in 2010 HUF 0.7 bn was spent on preparatory works and production levels, contributing significantly to Group-level EBITDA, growth. At technical studies in connection with combined cycle gas turbine power plants the same time, we further pursue to extend MOL’s outstanding efficiency to the (each with 830MW capacity) in 2010. For TPP modernization and capacity increase whole Upstream portfolio. Finally, we are carrying out extensive and intensifying (to 160 MW) HUF 8.8 bn was spent. exploration activity to further increase our reserve base and create the basis for further production growth beyond 2013. At Supply and Trading division there were further CAPEX utilization regarding gas infrastructure development with HUF 2.8 bn. Downstream: reinforce regional Regarding the downstream business MOL Group’s main goal is to reinforce its stronghold position regional stronghold position by focusing on market driven developments and Petrochemicals In 2010 Petrochemical CAPEX amounted to HUF 9.8 bn, which was lower by HUF efficiency improvement thus exploiting the gradually improving environment. CAPEX down by HUF 6.9 bn 6.9 bn year-on-year. The expenditures regarding the reconstruction works in the The Group is focusing on exploiting further synergies through the whole value chain, elevate Rijeka refinery to similar levels represented by our key refinery assets and increase the overall efficiency of Downstream portfolio. 78 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 79 Increased efficiency In addition, we will focus to extend our well-recognised efficiency to the whole Group. In Upstream the focus will remain on Croatian onshore areas where the targeted USD 50 mn EBITDA improvement was already delivered in 2010 while in Downstream we target to reach USD 280 mn annual EBITDA improvement from 2013 versus 2009, major part of which is coming from harmonising the operation of 5 refineries and 2 petrochemical units under one integrated supply chain management system and improved energy management and maintenance process Management Discussion and Analysis 80 MOL Group ANnual Report 2010 81 INDEPENDENT AuDITOR’S REPORT To the Shareholders of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Independent Auditors’ 1.) We have audited the accompanying 2010 consolidated annual financial statements of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc. (“the Company”), which comprises the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2010 showing a balance sheet total Limited Company and Subsidiaries Report of HuF 4,485,729 million and a profit for the year of HuF 108,717 million -, the related consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended and the summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. 2.) We issued an unqualified opinion on the Company’s consolidated annual financial statements prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Eu as at 31 December 2009 on 25 March 2010. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.) Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Eu. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS TOGETHER WITH THE accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. INDEPENDENT AuDITORS’ REPORT Auditor’s Responsibility 31 December 2010 4.) Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on the audit and to assess whether the consolidated business report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements. We conducted our audit in accordance with Hungarian National and International Auditing Standards and with applicable laws and regulations in Hungary. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. 5.) An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our work regarding the consolidated business report is restricted to assessing whether the consolidated business report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and does not include reviewing other information originated from non-audited financial records. 6.) We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 82 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 83 Opinion 7.) We have audited the elements of and disclosures in the consolidated annual financial statements, along with underlying records and supporting documentation, of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc. in accordance with Hungarian National and International Auditing Standards and have gained sufficient and appropriate evidence that the consolidated annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Eu. In our opinion the consolidated annual financial statements give a true and fair view of the equity and financial position of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc. as at 31 December 2010 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended. The consolidated business report corresponds to the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Budapest, 24 March 2011 MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc. and Subsidiaries Independent Auditors’ CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Report Judit Szilágyi Ernst & young Kft. Registered Auditor Registration No. 001165 Chamber membership No.: 001368 31 December 2010 Budapest, 24 March 2011 Zsolt Hernádi József Molnár Chairman of the Board of Directors Executive Vice President for Finance Chief Executive Officer 84 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 85 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 31 December 2010 31 December 2010 Notes 2010 2009 Notes 2010 2009 Restated Restated ASSETS HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Net revenue 24 4,298,709 3,254,700 Non-current assets Other operating income 25 25,839 112,038 Intangible assets 4 318,158 355,828 Total operating income 4,324,548 3,366,738 Property, plant and equipment, net 5 2,676,262 2,555,220 Raw materials and consumables used 3,254,939 2,555,587 Investments in associated companies 10 73,004 59,830 Personnel expenses 26 271,968 200,938 Available-for-sale investments 11 21,501 18,614 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment 279,069 207,140 Deferred tax assets 30 12,682 36,855 Other operating expenses 27 374,944 258,409 Other non-current assets 12 42,104 47,512 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (50,932) (55,837) Total non-current assets 3,143,711 3,073,859 Work performed by the enterprise and capitalized (44,498) (31,878) Current assets Total operating expenses 4,085,490 3,134,359 Inventories 13 418,061 328,010 Operating profit 239,058 232,379 Trade receivables, net 14 463,672 412,307 Financial income 28 25,872 16,388 Other current assets 15 141,508 116,635 Of which: Fair valuation difference of conversion option 28 Prepaid taxes 5,611 22,104 Financial expense 28 104,929 76,731 Cash and cash equivalents 16, 37 313,166 177,105 Of which: Fair valuation difference of conversion option 28 5,381 19,698 Assets classified as held for sale 31 37,587 Financial expense, net 28 79,057 60,343 Income from associates 12,013 (1,664) Consolidated financial Total current assets 1,342,018 1,093,748 TOTAL ASSETS 4,485,729 4,167,607 Profit before tax 172,014 170,372 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Income tax expense 30 63,297 80,131 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Profit for the year 108,717 90,241 statements (IFRS) Share capital 17 79,202 79,202 Attributable to: 103,958 95,058 Reserves 18 1,251,910 1,119,745 Equity holders of the parent Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 103,958 95,058 Non-controlling interests 4,759 (4,817) Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,435,070 1,294,005 Basic earnings per share 32 1,231 1,114 Non-controlling interests 539,407 535,647 Attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (HUF) Total equity 1,974,477 1,829,652 Diluted earnings per share 32 1,209 1,114 Non-current liabilities Attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (HUF) Long-term debt, net of current portion 19 947,910 829,111 Provisions 20 280,535 282,693 Deferred tax liabilities 30 118,312 122,376 Consolidated Statement of comprehensive income Other non-current liabilities 21 46,110 38,745 31 December 2010 Total non-current liabilities 1,392,867 1,272,925 Current liabilities Notes 2010 2009 Trade and other payables 22 800,958 737,826 Restated Current tax payable 10,672 2,784 HUF million HUF million Provisions 20 43,842 32,865 Profit for the year 108,717 90,241 Short-term debt 23 160,863 178,457 Other comprehensive income Current portion of long-term debt 19 102,050 103,577 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 29 42,875 755 Liabilities classified as held for sale 32 9,521 Available-for-sale financial assets, net of deferred tax 29 (1,423) 5,003 Total current liabilities 1,118,385 1,065,030 Cash-flow hedges, net of deferred tax 29 351 1,338 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,485,729 4,167,607 Share of other comprehensive income for associates 29 7,672 (9,383) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 49,475 (2,287) The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Total comprehensive income for the year 158,192 87,954 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 145,599 91,989 Non-controlling interest 12,593 (4,035) The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 86 MOL Group annual report 2010 87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 31 December 2010 Equity attributable to eqNon-controlling interests Profit for the year attribEquity component of Fair valuation reserve Translation reserve Retained earnings utable to equity holders Share premium debt and difference in Share capital buy-back prices Total reserves of the parent uity holders of the parent Total equity HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Closing balance 31 December 2008 72,812 (392,814) (1,455) 124,080 (8,074) 1,177,014 898,751 141,418 1,112,981 118,419 1,231,400 Retained profit for the year 95,058 95,058 (4,817) 90,241 Other comprehensive income for the year 9,802 (12,871) (3,069) (3,069) 782 (2,287) Total comprehensive income for the year 9,802 (12,871) (3,069) 95,058 91,989 (4,035) 87,954 Transfer to reserves of retained profit for the previous year 141,418 141,418 (141,418) Dividends to non-controlling interests (8,501) (8,501) Net change in balance of treasury shares held, net of tax 6,390 67,145 18,363 85,508 91,898 91,898 Consolidated financial Acquisition of non-controlling interests (2,863) (2,863) (2,863) (148) (3,011) Transactions with non-controlling interests 5,788 5,788 Consolidation of Subsidiaries previously accounted for as Associates 424,124 424,124 statements (IFRS) Closing balance 31 December 2009 79,202 (325,669) 8,347 111,209 (8,074) 1,333,932 1,119,745 95,058 1,294,005 535,647 1,829,652 Retained profit for the year 103,958 103,958 4,759 108,717 Other comprehensive income for the year (813) 42,454 41,641 41,641 7,834 49,475 Total comprehensive income for the year (813) 42,454 41,641 103,958 145,599 12,593 158,192 Transfer to reserves of retained profit for the previous year 95,058 95,058 (95,058) Dividends to non-controlling interests (8,729) (8,729) Net change in balance of treasury shares held, net of tax (4,534) (4,534) (4,534) (4,534) Transactions with non-controlling interests (104) (104) Closing balance 31 December 2010 79,202 (325,669) 7,534 153,663 (8,074) 1,424,456 1,251,910 103,958 1,435,070 539,407 1,974,477 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 88 MOL Group annual report 2010 89 Consolidated cash flow statement 31 December 2010 Notes 2010 2009 Notes 2010 2009 Restated Restated HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Profit before tax 172,014 170,372 Issuance of long-term notes 200,921 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment 279,069 207,140 Long-term debt drawn down 37 444,510 524,231 Non-cash gain recognized upon acquiring INA Group 7 (44,210) Repayments of long-term debt (580,699) (625,621) Write-off of inventories, net (138) (6,615) Changes in other long-term liabilities (319) 130 Increase / (decrease) in provisions 17,650 12,173 Changes in short-term debt 19,986 (28,483) Net (gain) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (2,228) (20,212) Interest paid and other financial costs (48,859) (39,697) Write-off / (reversal of write-off) of receivables (11,836) 13,541 Dividends paid to shareholders (19) (224) Unrealised foreign exchange (gain) / loss on trade receivables and trade payables 563 7,927 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (8,727) (8,531) Net gain on sale of subsidiaries (756) (25,665) Minority shareholders contribution 7,523 Interest income (7,437) (10,534) Issuance of treasury shares 959 Interest on borrowings 34,536 23,290 Repurchase of treasury shares Net foreign exchange (gain) / loss excluding foreign exchange differences on trade receivables Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities 26,794 (169,713) 46,722 3,216 and trade payables (Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents 124,175 (38,480) Fair valuation difference of conversion option (see Note 28) 5,381 19,698 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 178,703 222,074 Other financial (gain) / loss, net (16,365) 12,041 Exchange differences of cash and cash equivalents of consolidated foreign subsidiaries 638 (5,567) Share of net profit of associate (12,013) 1,664 Unrealised foreign exchange difference on cash and cash equivalents 9,650 676 Other non cash items 4,216 3,336 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 37 313,166 178,703 Consolidated financial Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 509,378 367,162 Decrease / (increase) in inventories (63,603) 13,437 Decrease / (increase) in trade receivables (16,339) 4,751 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. (2,242) 180 statements (IFRS) Decrease / (increase) in other current assets (Decrease) / increase in trade payables 5,874 36,921 (Decrease) / increase in other payables (21,902) 4,418 Income taxes paid (37,513) (28,978) Net cash provided by operating activities 373,653 397,891 Capital expenditures, exploration and development costs (303,339) (297,890) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 3,558 20,676 Acquisition of subsidiaries and non-controlling interests, net cash 37 (541) (6,666) Acquisition of associated companies and other investments (2,102) (1,066) Cash effect of consolidation of Subsidiaries previously accounted for as associates 19,166 Net cash inflow / (outflow) on sale of subsidiary undertakings (see Note 8) (1,513) 4,150 Proceeds from disposal of associated companies and other investments 630 Changes in loans given and long-term bank deposits 13,488 (11,287) Changes in short-term investments (5) (5,865) Interest received and other financial income 9,193 11,228 Dividends received 4,359 896 Net cash used in investing activities (276,272) (266,658) The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 90 MOL Group annual report 2010 91 and the activities of the Group, there is no difference in the policies applied by the Group between IFRS and IFRS that have been adopted by the EU. Presentation of the financial statements complies with the requirements of the relevant standards. With respect to the conversion option embedded in the perpetual exchangeable capital securities issued in 2006, the revaluation difference arising on this option has been presented as a separate line item on the face of the income statement. The management believes that by separating this non-cash item improves the transparency of the financial statements, since the gain or loss recognized thereon is not affected by the operations of the Group or any relevant factors of the external business environment influencing these operations. For further details on the conversion option see Note 17. ii) Basis of Preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations issued and effective on 31 December 2010. The Group has early adopted IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements in 2009 in advance of their effective date (1 July 2009). MOL Plc. prepares its statutory unconsolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of the accounting regulations contained in Law C of 2000 on Accounting (HAS). Some of the accounting principles prescribed in this law differ from IFRS. Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the purposes of the application of the Historical Cost Convention, the consolidated financial statements treat the Notes to the financial prepared in accordance with International Company as having come into existence as of 1 October 1991, at the carrying values of assets and liabilities determined at statements that date, subject to the IFRS adjustments. Financial Reporting Standards The financial year is the same as the calendar year. iii) Principles of Consolidation 1 General Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MOL Plc. and the subsidiaries that it controls. This control is MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company (hereinafter referred to as MOL Plc., MOL or the parent company) normally evidenced when the Group owns, either directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights of a company’s was incorporated on 1 October 1991 on the transformation of its legal predecessor, the Országos Kőolajés Gázipari share capital and is able to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to benefit from its activities. As Tröszt (OKGT). In accordance with the law on the transformation of unincorporated state-owned enterprises, the assets required by IAS 27, immediately exercisable voting rights are taken into account when determining control. and liabilities of OKGT were revalued as at that date. MOL Plc. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the Group or MOL Group) are involved in the exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas and other gas products, refining, The acquisition method of accounting is used for acquired businesses by measuring assets and liabilities at their fair values transportation and storage of crude oil and wholesale and retail marketing of crude oil products, production and sale of upon acquisition, the date of which is determined with reference to the date of obtaining control. The cost of an acquisition is olefins and polyolefins. The number of the employees in the Group as of 31 December 2010 and 2009 was 32,394 and 34,090, measured at the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest (formerly known respectively. The registered office address of the Company is 1117 – Budapest, Október huszonharmadika u. 18., Hungary. as minority interest) in the acquiree. The income and expenses of companies acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. The shares of the Company are listed on the Budapest and the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Depositary Receipts (DRs) are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and are quoted on the International Order Book in London and other over the counter Intercompany balances and transactions, including intercompany profits and unrealised profits and losses – unless the losses markets in New York, Berlin and Munich. indicate impairment of the related assets – are eliminated. The consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances. 2.1 Authorization, statement of compliance and basis of preparation Non-controlling interests represent the profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are shown separately in i) Authorization and Statement of Compliance the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement, respectively. For each business combination, noncontrolling interest is stated either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s These consolidated financial statements have been approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 March 2011. fair values of net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequently the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the initially recognised amount of those interests adjusted with the nonThese consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards controlling interests’ share of changes in equity after the acquisition. Total comprehensive income is attributed to nonand all applicable IFRSs that have been adopted by the European Union (EU). IFRS comprise standards and interpretations controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a negative balance. approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative Effective 1 January 2005, the change in the Hungarian Accounting Act allows the Group to prepare its consolidated financial interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair statements in accordance with IFRS that have been adopted by the EU. Currently, due to the endorsement process of the EU value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the company. 92 MOL Group annual report 2010 93 Joint ventures They did, however, give rise to additional disclosures. A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties (venturers) undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control. Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity – IFRS 1 – First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards require the unanimous consent of the venturers. A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the establishment of – IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment a company, partnership or other entity to engage in economic activity that the Group jointly controls with its fellow venturers. – IFRS 5 – Non-current assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations – IFRS 8 – Operating Segments The Company’s interests in its joint ventures are accounted for by the proportionate consolidation method, where a – IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements proportionate share of the joint venture’s assets, liabilities, income and expenses is combined with similar items in the – IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis. The financial statements of the joint ventures are prepared for – IAS 17 – Leases the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. The joint venture is proportionately – IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets consolidated until the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the venture. – IAS 39 – Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement When the Group contributes or sells assets to the joint venture, any portion of gain or loss from the transaction is recognized The principal effects of these changes are as follows: based on the substance of the transaction. When the Group purchases assets from the joint venture, the Group does not recognize its share of the profits of the joint venture from the transaction until it resells the assets to an independent party. IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Losses on intragroup transactions are recognised immediately if the loss provides evidence of reduced net realisable value of current assets or impairment loss. The amendment constitutes that only expenditure that results in asset recognition can be classified as “investing” in the statement of cash flows. Consequently, exploration costs recorded as an expense in the consolidated income statement are When the joint control is lost, the Group measures and recognises its remaining investment at its fair value unless the joint now presented as “operating” cash flow as opposed to its previous categorization of “investing”. This modification resulted control does not become a subsidiary or associate. The difference between the carrying amount of the joint entity and the in HUF 7,843 million and 5,790 million reclassification of cash outflow from investing to operating cash flow in 2010 and 2009, fair value of the remaining investment together with any proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. respectively. Comparative periods have been restated accordingly. Investments in associates 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies Notes to the financial statements An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity. i) Presentation Currency The Group’s investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, Based on the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances the functional currency of the parent company the investment in the associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Group’s share of and the presentation currency of the Group have been determined to be the Hungarian Forint (HUF). net assets of the associate. Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised. The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate. Where there has been a ii) Business Combinations change recognized directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. This involves assessing all assets and liabilities the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate. assumed for appropriate classification in accordance with the contractual terms and economic conditions and recognising identifiable assets (including previously unrecognized intangible assets) and liabilities (including contingent liabilities and The reporting dates of the associate and the Group are identical and the associate’s accounting policies conform to those excluding future restructuring) of the acquired business at fair value as at the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are used by the Group for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Investments in associates are assessed to determine whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If there is When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured evidence that the recoverable amount of the investment is lower than its carrying value, then the difference is recognised as to fair value as at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. impairment loss in the income statement. Where losses were made in previous years, an assessment of the factors is made to determine if any loss may be reversed. Contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are adjusted against the cost of acquisition, only if they qualify as When the significant influence over the associate is lost, the Group remeasures and recognises any retaining investment at period measurement adjustments and occur within 12 months from the acquisition date. All other subsequent changes in the its fair value. The difference between the carrying amount of the associate and the fair value of the retaining investment fair value of contingent consideration are accounted for either in profit or loss or as changes to other comprehensive income. together with any proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised. 2.2 Changes in Accounting Policies Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those applied in the previous financial years, apart from some minor liabilities. If the consideration transferred is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the acquiree, the fair valuation, as modifications in the classification of certain items in the balance sheet or the income statement, none of which has resulted in well as the cost of the business combination is re-assessed. Should the difference remain after such re-assessment, it is then a significant impact on the financial statements. While the comparative period has been restated, an opening balance sheet recognised in profit or loss as other income. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated has not been included as the reclassifications made were not considered material. In addition, the finalization of accounting impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition for the INA business combination and the cessation of classifying INA’s gas trading business as a discontinued operation gave date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units, or groups of cash generating units, that are expected to benefit rise to additional restatements of the amounts reported in the comparative period. from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year. Except as noted Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and is not larger than a segment based on the below, adoption of these standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group. Group’s reporting format determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. 94 MOL Group annual report 2010 95 Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit (or group of cash generating units) and part of the operation within Available-for-sale financial investments that unit (or group) is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance classified in any of the three preceding categories. After initial measurement, available for sale financial assets are measured is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognized as other comprehensive income in the fair valuation reserve. When the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded as other When subsidiaries are sold, the difference between the selling price and the net assets plus cumulative translation differences comprehensive income is recognized in the income statement. and un-amortised goodwill is recognized in the income statement. After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are evaluated on the basis of existing market conditions and iii) Investments and Other Financial Assets management intent to hold on to the investment in the foreseeable future. In rare circumstances when these conditions are no longer appropriate, the Group may choose to reclassify these financial assets to loans and receivables or held-to-maturity Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans when this is in accordance with the applicable IFRS. and receivables, held to maturity investments, or available for sale financial assets, as appropriate. When financial assets are recognized initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, Fair value directly attributable transaction costs. The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by reference to quoted market entity first becomes a party to it. prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date without any deduction for transaction costs. For investments where there is no quoted market price, fair value is determined by reference to the current market value of another instrument which Purchases and sales of investments are recognized on settlement date which is the date when the asset is delivered to the is substantially the same or is calculated based on the expected cash flows of the underlying net asset base of the investment. counterparty. iv) Classification and Derecognition of Financial Instruments The Group’s financial assets are classified at the time of initial recognition depending on their nature and purpose. Financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and unquoted financial Financial assets and financial liabilities carried on the consolidated balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents marketable Notes to the financial instruments and derivative financial instruments. securities, trade and other accounts receivable and payable, long-term receivables, loans, borrowings, investments, and bonds receivable and payable. The accounting policies on recognition and measurement of these items are disclosed in the statements Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss respective accounting policies found in this Note. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss. Financial instruments (including compound financial instruments) are classified as assets, liabilities or equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. Interest, dividends, gains, and losses relating to a financial instrument classified Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. Derivatives, as a liability, are reported as expense or income as incurred. Distributions to holders of financial instruments classified as equity including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective are charged directly to equity. In case of compound financial instruments the liability component is valued first, with the equity hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract. Gains or losses on investments held for trading are recognized as component being determined as a residual value. Financial instruments are offset when the Company has a legally enforceable finance income or finance expense in the income statement. right to offset and intends to settle either on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Financial assets may be designated at initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the following criteria are met: (i) The derecognition of a financial asset takes place when the Group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial the designation eliminates or significantly reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring the asset, which is normally the case when the instrument is sold, or all the cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed through to assets or recognising gains or losses on them on a different basis; or (ii) the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are an independent third party. When the Group neither transfers nor retains all the risks and rewards of the financial asset and continues managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management strategy; to control the transferred asset, it recognises its retained interest in the asset and a liability for the amounts it may have to pay. or (iii) the financial asset contains an embedded derivative that would need to be separately recorded. Such financial assets are recorded as current, except for those instruments which are not due for settlement within 12 months from the balance sheet v) Derivative Financial Instruments date and are not held with the primary purpose of being traded. In this case all payments on such instruments are classified as non-current. As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, no financial assets have been designated as at fair value through profit and loss. The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized Held-to-maturity investments at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets which carry fixed or determinable payments, have fixed Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. maturities and which the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. After initial measurement held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost. This cost is computed as the amount initially recognized minus Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference to net profit or loss for the year as financial income or expense. between the initially recognized amount and the maturity amount, less allowance for impairment. This calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts. Gains and losses are recognized in the income statement when the maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. investments are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. An embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative if all of the following conditions are met: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active – the economic characteristics and the risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic market. After initial measurement loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest characteristics of the host contract, method less any allowance for impairment. Amortised cost is calculated taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition – a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and and includes fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate and transaction costs. Gains and losses are recognized in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. – a hybrid (combined) instrument is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in current year net profit. 96 MOL Group annual report 2010 97 vi) Hedging Hedges of a net investment Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges. Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognized as other comprehensive income while any gains or losses – fair value hedges relating to the ineffective portion are recognized in the income statement. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognized as other comprehensive income is transferred to the income – cash flow hedges or statement. – hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation. vii) Impairment of Financial Assets A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Impairment hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes losses on a financial asset or group of financial assets are recognised only if there is an objective evidence of impairment identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the due to a loss event and this loss event significantly impacts the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value financial assets. or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective Assets carried at amortised cost throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The amount of the loss Fair value hedges is recognized in the income statement. Notes to the financial Fair value hedges are hedges of the Group’s exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, or an identified portion of such an asset, liability or firm commitment, that is attributable The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually statements to a particular risk that could affect the income statement. significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for financial assets, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. hedged, the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both are taken to the income statement. For fair Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognized are value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the adjustment to carrying value is amortised through the income not included in a collective assessment of impairment. statement over the remaining term to maturity. Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be reversal of an impairment loss is recognized in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. When an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as a hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in the fair value of the Available-for-sale financial investments firm commitment attributable to the hedged risk is recognized as an asset or liability with a corresponding gain or loss recognized If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any in the income statement. The changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are also recognized in the income statement. principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognized in the income statement, is transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement. Impairment The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the losses recognized on equity instruments classified as available for sale are not reversed; increases in their fair value hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation. after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses recognized on debt instruments classified as available for sale are reversed through the income statement; if the increase in fair value Cash-flow hedges of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in the Cash flow hedges are a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated income statement. with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect the income statement. The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized directly as other comprehensive income, while viii) Cash and Cash Equivalents the ineffective portion is recognized in the income statement. Cash includes cash on hand and cash at banks. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction convertible to known amounts of cash with maturity less than three months from the date of acquisition and that are subject affects the income statement, such as when hedged financial income or financial expense is recognized or when a forecast to an insignificant risk of change in value. sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts previously taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. ix) Trade Receivables If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognized in equity are transferred to the Receivables are stated at face value less provision for doubtful amounts. Where the time value of money is material, income statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, receivables are carried at amortized cost. A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income remain in other the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs. If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. Impaired debts are derecognized when they are assessed as is taken to the income statement. uncollectible. 98 MOL Group annual report 2010 99 If collection of trade receivables is expected within the normal business cycle which is one year or less, they are classified as xiii) Depreciation, Depletion and Amortisation current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Depreciation of each component of an intangible asset and property, plant and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis x) Inventories over their respective useful lives. Usual periods of useful lives for different types of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Inventories, including work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after provision for slowSoftware 3 – 5 years moving and obsolete items. Net realisable value is the selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of Buildings 10 – 50 years making the sale. Cost of purchased goods, including crude oil and purchased gas inventory, is determined primarily on Refineries and chemicals manufacturing plants 4 – 20 years the basis of weighted average cost. The acquisition cost of own produced inventory consists of direct materials, direct Gas and oil storage and transmission equipment 7 – 50 years wages and the appropriate portion of production overhead expenses including royalty. Unrealisable inventory is fully Petrol service stations 5 – 30 years written off. Telecommunication and automatisation equipment 3 – 10 years xi) Property, Plant and Equipment Depletion and depreciation of production installations and transport systems for oil and gas is calculated for each individual field or field-dedicated transport system using the unit of production method, based on proved and developed commercially Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost (or the carrying value of the assets determined as of 1 October recoverable reserves. Recoverable reserves are reviewed on an annual basis. Transport systems used by several fields and 1991) less accumulated depreciation, depletion and accumulated impairment loss. When assets are sold or retired, their cost other assets are calculated on the basis of the expected useful life, using the straight-line method. Amortisation of leasehold and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the accounts and any gain or loss resulting from their disposal is included improvements is provided using the straight-line method over the term of the respective lease or the useful life of the asset, in the consolidated income statement. whichever period is less. Periodic maintenance costs are depreciated until the next similar maintenance takes place. The initial cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable The useful life and depreciation methods are reviewed at least annually to ensure that the method and period of depreciation purchase taxes and any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to its working condition and location for its intended are consistent with the expected pattern of economic benefits from items of property, plant and equipment, and, if necessary, Notes to the financial use, such as borrowing costs. Estimated decommissioning and site restoration costs are capitalized upon initial recognition changes are accounted for in the current period. or, if decision on decommissioning is made subsequently, at the time of the decision. Changes in estimates thereof adjust xiv) Impairment of Assets statements the carrying amount of assets. Expenditures incurred after the property, plant and equipment have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhead costs (except from periodic maintenance costs), are normally charged to income in the period in which the costs are incurred. Periodic maintenance costs are capitalized as a separate component of Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances the related assets. indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized in the income statement for items of property, plant and equipment and Construction in progress represents plant and properties under construction and is stated at cost. This includes cost of intangibles carried at cost. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The construction, plant and equipment and other direct costs. Construction-in-progress is not depreciated until such time as the fair value is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction while value in use is the present value relevant asset is available for use. of estimated net future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. Recoverable amounts are estimated for individual assets or, if this is not practicable, for the cash-generating unit. The policy for accounting for exploration and development costs of oil and gas reserves is described in xv) below. The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses xii) Intangible Assets may no longer exist or may have decreased. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the impairment assumptions considered when the last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalized at cost and from a business acquisition are capitalized at fair value that the carrying amount of the asset neither exceeds its recoverable amount, nor is higher than its carrying amount net of as at the date of acquisition. Intangible assets are recognized if it is probable that the future economic benefits that are depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years. attributable to the asset will flow to the enterprise; and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to the class of intangible assets. The useful lives of these carrying value may be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of the cashintangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Amortisation is charged on assets with a finite useful generating unit (or group of cash-generating units), to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cashlife over the best estimate of their useful lives using the straight line method. The amortisation period and the generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) is less than the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit (group of amortisation method are reviewed annually at each financial year-end. Intangible assets, excluding development cash-generating units) to which goodwill has been allocated, an impairment loss is recognized. Impairment losses relating to costs, created within the business are not capitalized and expenditure is charged against income in the year in goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods. The Group performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at 31 December. which the expenditure is incurred. Intangible assets are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash generating unit level. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are monitored for impairment indicators throughout the year and are tested for impairment at least annually as of 31 December either individually or at the cash generating unit level, as appropriate. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is carried forward when its future recoverability can reasonably be regarded as assured. Following the initial recognition xv) Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditures of the development expenditure the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Costs in development stage can not be amortized. The carrying value of Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditure is accounted for using the successful efforts method of accounting. development costs is reviewed for impairment annually when the asset is not yet in use or more frequently when an indicator of impairment arises during the reporting year indicating that the carrying value may not be Licence and property acquisition costs recoverable. Exploration and property acquisition costs are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of exploration. Each property is reviewed on an annual basis to confirm that drilling activity is planned and it The policy for accounting for exploration and development costs of oil and gas reserves is described in xv) below. is not impaired. If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written 100 MOL Group annual report 2010 101 off. Upon determination of economically recoverable reserves (‘proved reserves’ or ‘commercial reserves’), amortization Provision for Decommissioning ceases and the remaining costs are aggregated with exploration expenditure and held on a field-by-field basis as proved The Group records a provision upon initial recognition for the present value of the estimated future cost of abandonment properties awaiting approval within intangible assets. When development is approved internally, the relevant expenditure is of oil and gas production facilities following the termination of production. The estimate is based upon current legislative transferred to property, plant and equipment, among land and buildings. requirements, technology and price levels. A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created. This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the facility or item of plant. Any Exploration expenditure change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the corresponding Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income as incurred. Costs directly associated property, plant and equipment. with an exploration well are capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated. These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay Provision for Retirement Benefits rentals and payments made to contractors. If hydrocarbons are not found, the exploration expenditure is written The Group operates three long term defined employee benefit programmes. None of these schemes requires off as a dry hole. If hydrocarbons are found and, subject to further appraisal activity, which may include the drilling contribution to be made to separately administered funds. The cost of providing benefits under those plans is of further wells (exploration or exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells), are likely to be capable of commercial determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial gains and development, the costs continue to be carried as an asset. All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial losses are recognized as income or expense immediately. Past service costs, resulting from the introduction of, or and management review at least once a year to confirm the continued intent to develop or otherwise extract value changes to the defined benefit scheme are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period from the discovery. When this is no longer the case, the costs are written off. When proved reserves of oil and until the benefits become vested. natural gas are determined and development is sanctioned, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment. xviii) Greenhouse gas emissions Development expenditure The Group receives free emission rights in Hungary and Slovakia as a result of the European Emission Trading Schemes. Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, and the drilling The rights are received on an annual basis and in return the Group is required to remit rights equal to its actual emissions. of development wells, including unsuccessful development or delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and The Group has adopted a net liability approach to the emission rights granted. A provision is only recognized when actual Notes to the financial equipment. emissions exceed the emission rights granted and still held. Where emission rights are purchased from other parties, they are recorded at cost, and treated as a reimbursement right, whereby they are matched to the emission liabilities and remeasured xvi) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings statements to fair value. All loans and borrowings are initially recognized at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated xix) Share-based payment transactions with the borrowing. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any Certain employees (including directors and managers) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment discount or premium on settlement. Gains and losses are recognized in net in the income statement when the liabilities are transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’). derecognized as well as through the amortisation process, except to the extent they are capitalized as borrowing costs. Equity-settled transactions xvii) Provisions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value is determined by applying generally accepted option pricing models (usually by the binomial A provision is recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event and it model). In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions is probable (i.e. more likely than not) that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle linked to the price of the shares of the parent company (‘market conditions’). the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the Group expects some or all of the provision to be reimbursed; the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognized, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in is actually certain. Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled The amount of the provision is the present value of the risk adjusted expenditures expected to be required to settle the to the award (‘vesting date’). The cumulative expense recognized for equity settled transactions at each reporting date until obligation, determined using the estimated risk free interest rate as discount rate. Where discounting is used, the carrying the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of amount of the provisions increases in each period to reflect the unwinding of the discount by the passage of time. This the directors of the Group at that date, based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will increase is recognized as interest expense. ultimately vest. Provision for Redundancy No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a The employees of the Group are eligible, immediately upon termination, for redundancy payment pursuant to the Hungarian market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that law and the terms of the Collective Agreement between MOL and its employees. The amount of such a liability is recorded all other performance conditions are satisfied. as a provision in the consolidated balance sheet when the workforce reduction program is defined, announced and the conditions for its implementation are met. Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognized as if the terms had not been modified. An additional expense is recognized for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, Provision for Environmental Expenditures as measured at the date of modification. Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future economic benefits are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to current or future Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not earnings are expensed. Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when environmental assessments or clean-ups are yet recognized for the award is recognized immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated. Generally, the timing of these provisions coincides with the designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites. The amount recognized modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. is the best estimate of the expenditure required. Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure. The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share. 102 MOL Group annual report 2010 103 Cash-settled transactions xxiv) Dividends The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at fair value at the grant date using the binomial model. This fair value is expensed over the vesting period with recognition of a corresponding liability. The liability is remeasured at each balance Dividends are recorded in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders. sheet date up to and including the settlement date to fair value with changes therein recognized in the income statement. xxv) Revenue Recognition xx) Leases Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the enterprise The determination whether an arrangement contains or is a lease depends on the substance of the arrangement at inception and the amount of the revenue can be measured reliably. Sales are recognized net of sales taxes and discounts when delivery date. If fulfilment of the arrangement depends on the use of a specific asset or conveys the right to use the asset, it is deemed of goods or rendering of the service has taken place and transfer of risks and rewards has been completed. to contain a lease element and is recorded accordingly. Interest is recognized on a time-proportionate basis that reflects the effective yield on the related asset. Dividends due Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the are recognized when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is established. Changes in the fair value of derivatives not leased item, are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the qualifying for hedge accounting are reflected in income in the period the change occurs. present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. xxvi) Borrowing Costs Finance charges are charged directly against income. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating a finance lease are Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalized. added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognized over the lease term on the same bases as the lease Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when the activities to prepare the asset are in progress and expenditures and borrowing income. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified costs are being incurred. Borrowing costs are capitalized until the assets are ready for their intended use. Borrowing costs include as operating leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a straightinterest charges and other costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds, including exchange differences arising from line basis over the lease term. foreign currency borrowings used to finance these projects to the extent that they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs. xxi) Government grants xxvii) Income Taxes Notes to the financial statements Government grants are recognized at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and The income tax charge consists of current and deferred taxes. all attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognized as income over The current income tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income the years necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate. Where the grant statement because of items of income or expense that are never taxable or deductible or are taxable or deductible in other years. The relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the Group’s current income tax is calculating using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting year. expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual instalments. Deferred taxes are calculated using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of xxii) Reserves temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates expected to apply to taxable Reserves shown in the consolidated financial statements do not represent the distributable reserves for dividend purposes. income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The measurement of deferred Reserves for dividend purposes are determined based on the company-only statutory earnings of MOL Plc. tax liabilities and deferred tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the enterprise expects, at the balance sheet date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Translation reserves The translation reserve represents translation differences arising on consolidation of financial statements of foreign Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and tax losses entities. Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that, in substance, forms part of the company’s net when it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax assets can be utilized, except: investment in a foreign entity are classified as other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements until the disposal of the net investment. Upon disposal of the corresponding assets, the cumulative revaluation or – where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial translation reserves are recognized as income or expenses in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the recognized. transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and – in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and Fair valuation reserves interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that the The fair valuation reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of effective cash flow hedges and available for temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the sale financial instruments. temporary differences can be utilised. Equity component of debt and difference in buy-back prices Equity component of compound debt instruments includes the residual amount of the proceeds from the issuance of the Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except: instrument above its liability component, which is determined as the present value of future cash payments associated with the instrument. The equity component of compound debt instruments is recognized when the Group becomes party to the – where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a instrument (see also iv). transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and xxiii) Treasury Shares – in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable The nominal value of treasury shares held is deducted from registered share capital. Any difference between the nominal that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. value and the acquisition price of treasury shares is recorded directly to share premium. 104 MOL Group annual report 2010 105 At each balance sheet date, the Company re-assesses unrecognized deferred tax assets and the carrying amount of deferred tax assets. The xxxi) Contingencies enterprise recognises a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. The Company conversely reduces the carrying amount of a deferred tax asset to the extent that Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements unless they are acquired in a business it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or the entire deferred tax asset to be utilised. combination. They are disclosed in the Notes unless the possibility of an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is remote. A contingent asset is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements but disclosed when an inflow of Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited directly to equity if the tax relates to items that are credited or charged, economic benefits is probable. in the same or a different period, directly to equity, including an adjustment to the opening balance of reserves resulting from a change in accounting policy that is applied retrospectively. 2.4 Significant accounting judgments and estimates Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against Critical judgments in applying the accounting policies current tax liabilities which relate to income taxes imposed by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. In the process of applying the accounting policies, which are described in note 2.3 above, management has made certain judgments that have significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements (apart from those involving xxviii) Foreign Currency Transactions estimates, which are dealt with below). These are detailed in the respective notes, however, the most significant judgments relate to the following: Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the reporting currency by applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the reporting currency and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. Exchange rate differences arising on the settlement Scope of environmental and field abandonment provision of monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recorded during the periods are recognized in the consolidated The Group recognised significant amount of provisions in connection with its operations having environmental income statement in the period in which they arise. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at impact. Regulations, especially environmental legislation do not exactly specify the extent of remediation work the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated required or the technology to be applied. Furthermore, since INA Group became part of MOL in the previous year, using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Foreign exchange differences on trade receivables and payables the extent to which such remediation requirements are identified is also limited. Management uses its previous Notes to the financial are included in operating profit, while foreign exchange differences on borrowings are recorded as financial income or expense. experience and its own interpretation of the respective legislation to determine the scope of environmental and field abandonment provisions. The amount of environmental provision is HUF 70,027 million and HUF 69,563 million, while statements Financial statements of foreign entities are translated at year-end exchange rates with respect to the balance sheet and at the weighted field abandonment provision amounts to HUF 184,792 million and HUF 188,348 million as of 31 December 2010 and average exchange rates for the year with respect to the income statement. All resulting translation differences are included in the 2009, respectively (see Note 20). translation reserve in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognized in the income statement. Any exchange differences Application of Successful Efforts method of accounting for exploration expenditures that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised, but they are not reclassified to profit or loss. Management uses judgment when capitalized exploration expenditures are reviewed to determine capability and continuing intent of further development. Carrying amount of capitalized exploration costs is HUF 171,791 million and HUF 202,964 In case of a partial disposal of a subsidiary without any loss of control in the foreign operation, the proportionate share million as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 4). of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. For all other disposals such as associates or jointly controlled entities not involving a change of accounting basis, the Sources of estimate uncertainty proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the the amounts reported in the financial statements and the Notes thereto. Although these estimates are based on the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ from those estimates. These are detailed in the respective notes, however, the most significant estimates relate to the following: xxix) Earnings Per Share Calculation the fair values of financial instruments The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders using the weighted average Fair valuation of financial instruments (especially the conversion option embedded in the perpetual exchangeable capital number of shares outstanding during the year after deduction of the average number of treasury shares held over the period. securities issued by a special purpose entity, Magnolia Finance Ltd, see Note 17) is performed by reference to quoted market prices or, in absence thereof reflects the market’s or the management’s estimate of the future trend of key drivers The calculation of diluted earnings per share is consistent with the calculation of basic earnings per share while giving effect of such values, including, but not limited to yield curves, foreign exchange and risk-free interest rates, and in case of the to all dilutive potential ordinary shares that were outstanding during the period, that is: conversion option and MOL’s call option on the 7% shareholding owned by CEZ, volatility of MOL share prices and dividend yield. Considering the worldwide financial crisis since 2008 and the consequent hectic changes on the markets of financial – the net profit for the period attributable to ordinary shares is increased by the after-tax amount of dividends and instruments, such fair value measurements contain an increased uncertainty. The management expects this uncertainty interest recognized in the period in respect of the dilutive potential ordinary shares and adjusted for any other to be decreasing during the forthcoming reporting period. In case of the conversion option embedded in MOL’s perpetual changes in income or expense that would result from the conversion of the dilutive potential ordinary shares. exchangeable capital securities, the market of the underlying convertible instrument has become inactive between October, – the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is increased by the weighted average number of 2008 and September, 2009, together with a significant decline in the market price of MOL shares and of the convertible additional ordinary shares which would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential instrument. Therefore the fair value of the conversion option has decreased to nil as of 31 December 2008. Since mid-2009, ordinary shares. the valuation of this option was performed with reference to prices on the market of convertible instruments. Further details of financial instruments are described in Note 34. xxx) Segmental Disclosure Quantification and timing of environmental and field abandonment liabilities For management purposes the Group is organised into four major operating business units: Exploration and Production, Refining and Management estimates the future cash outflow associated with environmental and decommissioning liabilities using Marketing, Gas and Power and Petrochemicals. The business units are the basis upon which the Group reports its segment information comparative prices, analogies to previous similar work and other assumptions. Furthermore, the timing of these cash flows to the management who is responsible for allocating business resources and assessing performance of the operating segments. reflects managements’ current assessment of priorities, technical capabilities and urgency of such obligations. Both the 106 MOL Group annual report 2010 107 amounts and the timing of these future expenditures are reviewed annually, together with expectations on the rates used to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure discount these cash flows. Long-term real discount rates are expected to be 4.8% (2009: 4.9%). Consequently, the carrying The amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures become effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January amount of these obligations (in case of environmental liabilities HUF 70,027 million and HUF 69,563 million, in case of field 2011 and must be applied retrospectively. The revised standard simplifies the disclosure requirements for entities that are abandonment provision HUF 184,792 million and HUF 188,348 million as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively, see controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by a government and clarifies the definition of a related party. As a Note 20) is exposed to uncertainty. result, such a reporting entity is exempt from the general disclosure requirements in relation to transactions and balances with the government and government-related entities. The amendment has no impact on the disclosures of the Group. Impairment of non-current assets, including goodwill The impairment calculation requires an estimate of the recoverable amount of the cash generating units, that is, the higher IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future The amendment to IAS 32 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010 and requires that rights, net cash flows. The most significant variables in determining cash flows are discount rates, terminal values, the period for options and warrants to acquire a fixed number of an entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed price of any currency are which cash flow projections are made, as well as the assumptions and estimates used to determine the cash inflows and equity instruments if certain criteria are met. The amendment will have no impact on the financial position of the Group. outflows, including commodity prices, operating expenses, future production profiles and the global and regional supplydemand equilibrium for crude oil, natural gas and refined products. While such cash flows for each non-current asset or IFRIC 14 – IAS 19-The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction investment reflects the management’s best estimate for the future, these estimates are exposed to an increased uncertainty The amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement was issued to remove the unintended consequence as a result of the general economic recession experienced worldwide and also in the Central-Eastern European region where in IFRIC 14 that in some cases entities are not permitted to recognize as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum the Group operates. Discount rates were derived from the USD-based weighted average cost of capital for the Group (2010: funding contributions. The amendment becomes effective 1 January 2011 and has no material impact on the Group. 8.4%, 2009: 8.0%) Increase in the rate reflects the increased risk factors due to the worldwide recession. In each case these rates are adjusted for segment-, countryand project-specific risks, as applicable. Impairment recorded in the consolidated IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments income statement amounts to HUF 17,548 million and HUF 13,066 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. These charges This interpretation addresses the accounting by an entity that issues equity instruments to settle financial liability. The equity include an impairment loss HUF 15,074 million on other intangible assets (2009: HUF 1,612 million and also impairment instrument is measured at fair value and the financial liability is derecognized, fully or partly, based on the “consideration loss of HUF 4,656 million on goodwill) an impairment loss of HUF 10,017 million (2009: HUF 9,059 million) and a reversal of paid”. The interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 and will have no material impact Notes to the financial impairment of HUF 7,543 million (2009: HUF 2,261 million) on property, plant and equipment. Carrying amount of goodwill on the Group. is HUF 71,031 million and HUF 70,126 million as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 4). statements Improvements to IFRSs Availability of taxable income against which deferred tax assets can be recognized Deferred tax assets are recognized for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available In May 2010 the Board issued its first collection of amendments to its standards, primarily to remove inconsistencies and against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of deferred clarify wording. These amendments will be effective from 1 January 2011 unless otherwise stated. The Group has not yet tax assets that can be recognized, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax adopted the following amendments but it is anticipated that these changes will have no material effect on the Group’s planning strategies. The carrying value of such recognized deferred tax assets was HUF 10,290 million and HUF 28,064 financial statements. million as of 31 December 2010 an 2009, respectively (see Note 30). IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Actuarial estimates applied for calculation of retirement benefit obligations The annual improvements to IFRS 1 include: a) accounting policy changes in the year of IFRS adoption if a first-time The cost of defined benefit plans is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making adopter changes its accounting policies or the use of exemptions in IFRS 1 after it has published its interim financial report assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases and mortality or fluctuation rates. Due to the long term nature of in accordance with IAS 34 but before its first IFRS financial statements, it should explain those changes; b) revaluation basis these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Provision for retirement benefit is HUF 15,144 million and as deemed cost – clarifies that a first-time adopter is permitted to use event-driven fair value as deemed cost during the HUF 14,416 million at 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 20). first IFRS period and c) use of deemed cost for operations subject to rate regulation for certain items of property, plant and equipment or intangibles. Outcome of certain litigations MOL Group entities are parties to a number of litigations, proceedings and civil actions arising in the ordinary course of IFRS 3 Business Combinations business. Management uses estimations when the most likely outcome of these actions is assessed and provision is Amendment to IFRS 3 specifies that the option to measure non-controlling interests either at fair value or at proportionate recognized on a consistent basis. Provision for legal claims is HUF 20,067 million and HUF 18,161 million at 31 December share of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets applies only to non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests. 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 20 and 35). All other components of non-controlling interests should be measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRSs. 2.5 Issued but not yet effective International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 3 specifies that requirements to measure awards of the acquirer that replace acquiree share-based payment transactions with regards to IFRS 2 applies also to such transactions of the acquiree that are not replaced. The amendment also clarifies At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not that market-based measurement of replacement awards applies to all replacement awards regardless of whether the acquirer yet effective: is obliged to replace the awards or does so voluntarily. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Classification and measurement The last amendment to IFRS 3 clarifies that IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 do not apply to contingent consideration from a business The IFRS 9 was issued on 12 November 2009 and is intended to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and combination which occurred before the effective date of the revised standard IFRS 3 in 2008. measurement. The standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets that must be applied starting 1 January 2013. According to IFRS 9 all financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. The All amendments to IFRS 3 are effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2010. standard also eliminates the available-for-sale and held-to-maturity categories currently existing in IAS 39. Classification of currently existing financial instruments of the Group will change accordingly. IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The improvement to IFRS 7 clarifies disclosure requirements regarding credit risk and collateral held in order to enable users better to understand the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments. 108 MOL Group annual report 2010 109 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 3 Segmental information The amendment to IAS 1 clarifies that the entity may elect to present the analysis of other comprehensive income by item either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements. IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The amendment to IAS 27 clarifies that amendments made to IAS 21, IAS 28, and IAS 31 as a result of IAS 27 revisions in 2008 Exploration Refining InterGas & PetroCorporate 2010 and and Power chemicals and other segment should be applied prospectively with some exceptions. The amendment is effective 1 July 2010. Production Marketing transfers Total IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Amendments to IAS 34 clarify how significant events and transactions in interim periods should update the relevant Net Revenue Sales to external customers 518,406 3,160,919 190,638 395,590 33,156 4,298,709 information presented in the most recent annual financial report. Inter-segment sales 253,854 475,873 327,074 128,615 131,330 (1,316,746) Total revenue 772,260 3,636,792 517,712 524,205 164,486 (1,316,746) 4,298,709 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Results Amendment to IFRIC 13 specifies that fair value of award credits should consider the discount or incentives that customers Profit/(loss) from operations 206,857 31,808 67,666 1,098 (68,716) 345 239,058 who have not earned award credits would otherwise received as well as any expected forfeitures. Net finance costs 79,057 Income from associates 12,013 12,013 Profit before tax 172,014 Income tax expense/(benefit) 63,297 Profit for the year 108,717 Exploration Refining InterGas & PetroCorporate 2009 and and segment Notes to the financial Power chemicals and other Production Marketing transfers Total HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million statements Net Revenue Sales to external customers 301,788 2,396,450 236,166 289,128 31,168 3,254,700 Inter-segment sales 188,075 324,389 277,590 99,152 133,510 (1,022,716) Total revenue 489,863 2,720,839 513,756 388,280 164,678 (1,022,716) 3,254,700 Results Profit/(loss) from operations 136,722 15,474 61,902 (15,219) 28,000 5,500 232,379 Net finance costs 60,343 Income from associates (1,664) (1,664) Profit before tax 170,372 Income tax expense/(benefit) 80,131 Profit for the year 90,241 Exploration Refining InterGas & PetroCorporate 2010 Assets and liabilities and and Power chemicals and other segment Production Marketing transfers Total HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Property, plant and equipment, net 1,065,969 972,857 429,791 176,587 96,268 (65,210) 2,676,262 Intangible assets, net 192,560 93,798 9,540 4,972 20,332 (3,044) 318,158 Inventories 39,708 355,215 2,036 14,633 9,965 (3,496) 418,061 Trade receivables, net 80,554 368,322 22,090 68,877 32,237 (108,408) 463,672 Investments in associates 73,004 73,004 Not allocated assets 536,572 Total assets 4,485,729 Trade payables 49,825 355,452 33,452 59,493 45,113 (110,387) 432,948 Not allocated liabilities 2,078,304 Total liabilities 2,511,252 110 MOL Group annual report 2010 111 The operating profit of the segments includes the profit arising both from sales to third parties and transfers to the other 2010 Other segment inforExploration and Refining and Gas & PetroCorporate Intersegment business segments. Exploration and Production transfers crude oil, condensates and LPG to Refining and Marketing and mation Production Marketing Power chemicals and other transfers Total natural gas to the Gas and Power segment. Refining and Marketing transfers chemical feedstock, propylene and isobutane to Petrochemicals and Petrochemicals transfers various by-products to Refining and Marketing. The subsidiaries of Corporate HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million segment provide maintenance, insurance and other services to the business segments. The internal transfer prices used are Capital expenditure: 109,324 103,482 88,011 9,828 7,237 317,882 based on prevailing market prices. Divisional figures contain the results of the fully consolidated subsidiaries engaged in the Property, plant and equipment 79,590 101,762 86,044 9,279 3,556 280,231 respective divisions. Intangible assets 29,734 1,720 1,967 549 3,681 37,651 Depreciation and amortization 127,639 99,100 19,899 17,847 18,038 (3,454) 279,069 From this: impairment losses recognized in income statement 19,128 5,067 448 210 238 25,091 4 Intangible assets From this: reversal of impairment (5,727) (1,816) (7,543) recognized in income statement Rights Software Exploration Goodwill Total costs Exploration Refining Inter2009 Assets and and Gas & PetroCorporate segment and liabilities Power chemicals and other HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Production Marketing transfers Total At 1 January, 2009 Gross book value 57,997 65,436 60,240 71,760 255,433 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Accumulated amortization and impairment (12,143) (42,992) (8,896) (64,031) Property, plant and equipment, net 1,029,595 950,683 357,778 183,080 101,328 (67,244) 2,555,220 Net book value 45,854 22,444 51,344 71,760 191,402 Intangible assets, net 228,481 93,764 5,980 4,766 23,086 (249) 355,828 Year ended 31 December, 2009 Notes to the financial Inventories 24,321 281,867 2,567 12,017 12,031 (4,793) 328,010 additions 2,581 3,510 17,738 23,829 Trade receivables, net 56,672 331,210 50,591 58,906 41,429 (126,501) 412,307 acquisition of subsidiary 14,175 6,863 138,703 3,655 163,396 Investments in associates 59,830 59,830 amortization for the year (7,641) (5,582) (76) (13,299) statements Not allocated assets 456,412 impairment (203) (627) (782) (4,656) (6,268) Total assets 4,167,607 disposals (33) (45) (78) Trade payables 57,302 331,508 54,669 49,232 47,589 (128,022) 412,278 exchange adjustment 231 45 (2,686) 1,583 (827) Not allocated liabilities 1,925,677 transfers and other movements 2,803 (1,637) (1,277) (2,216) (2,327) Total liabilities 2,337,955 Closing net book value 57,767 24,971 202,964 70,126 355,828 At 31 December, 2009 Gross book value 77,861 73,012 212,753 74,744 438,370 Accumulated amortization and impairment (20,094) (48,041) (9,789) (4,618) (82,542) 2009 Other Exploration Refining Gas & PetroCorporate InterNet book value 57,767 24,971 202,964 70,126 355,828 segment and and Power chemicals and other segment Year ended 31 December, 2010 information Production Marketing transfers Total additions 3,709 3,838 30,104 37,651 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million divestition of subsidiary (29) (29) Capital expenditure: 107,732 102,229 61,100 16,681 7,244 294,986 amortization for the year (5,925) (8,753) (192) (14,870) Property, plant and equipment 89,631 101,318 59,389 16,452 4,367 271,157 impairment (5,350) (50) (9,674) (15,074) Intangible assets 18,101 911 1,711 229 2,877 23,829 disposals Depreciation and amortization 67,536 93,494 15,691 18,308 15,227 (3,116) 207,140 exchange adjustment 2,988 224 7,016 905 11,133 From this: impairment losses transfers and other movements 1,946 (58,427) (56,481) 5,108 8,200 708 248 1,063 15,327 Closing net book value 53,160 22,176 171,791 71,031 318,158 recognized in income statement From this: reversal of impairment At 31 December, 2010 (1,271) (657) (21) (266) (46) (2,261) Gross book value 83,951 77,697 187,355 73,200 422,203 recognized in income statement Accumulated amortization and impairment (30,791) (55,521) (15,564) (2,169) (104,045) Net book value 53,160 22,176 171,791 71,031 318,158 The profit from operations of the Group in 2010 was influenced by HUF 25,754 million crisis tax implemented in the current year and also a non-recurring HUF 30,387 million retroactively paid mining royalty according to the declaration of the European Committee in 2010 (see Note 27). Impact of the crisis tax on the profit from operations of the reporting segments of the Group were as follows: HUF 2,652 million at Exporation and Production segment, HUF 21,896 million at Refining and Marketing segment, HUF 453 million at Gas and Power segment, HUF 302 million at Petrochemicals segment and HUF 541 million recorded at Corporate segment. The HUF 30,387 mining royalty paid retroactively has been recorded at Exploration and Production segment. The profit from operations of the Group in 2009 had been influenced by the following: HUF 28,156 million subsequent settlement from E.ON Ruhrgas International AG in connection with the gas business sales, HUF 21,285 million as part of the fair value of the net asset of INA and Energopetrol exceeding the purchase price and HUF 22,925 million as a fair valuation gain on the previous investment of INA and Energopetrol (see Note 7). These items were recorded in the profit from operations of Corporate segment. 112 MOL Group annual report 2010 113 Exploration costs – Discount rate assumptions – Management assessed discount rates based on the current and expected risk-free Transfers from exploration costs represent expenditures which, upon determination of proved reserves of oil and natural interest rate and the risks specific to the current activities of the unit. An increase of approximately 1.3 percentage gas are reclassified to property, plant and equipment (see Note 2.3 xv.). Impairment in 2010 related partly to exploration points in this rate would give a value in use equal to the carrying amount of Roth Group’s wholesale activities. activities qualified unsuccessful in Hungary and partly to certain Russian fields in the exploration and development phase. Impairment for those cash generating units has been triggered by the combined effect of the unfavourable changes in the Romanian retail network Russian oil and gas tax regime and the delayed scheduling of future development capital expenditures due to more stringent At 31 December 2010 goodwill of HUF 4,273 million was allocated to the Romanian retail network of the Group. For goodwill resource allocation policy. Impairment in 2009 related primarily to exploration activities qualified unsuccessful in Hungary. allocation purposes, the Romanian filling stations’ network as a whole (being a group of cash generating unit) is considered. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the Goodwill whole network and extrapolates cash flows for the average residual useful life of the filling stations assuming no growth rate Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected in gross margin, reflecting a competitive position. The rates used to discount the forecast cash flows reflecting risks specific to benefit from that business combination. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had to retail activities vary between 10% and 12% in the years considered. been allocated as follows: With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Romanian retail network, management believes that no reasonably 2010 2009 possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount. Net book Net book Net book Net book value before Impairment value before Impairment value value IES Group Impair-ment Impair-ment HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million At 31 December 2010 goodwill of HUF 40,664 million was allocated to the Italian refining and wholesale activities of the Refining and Marketing 66,728 66,728 70,502 4,618 65,884 Group. In 2009 an impairment of HUF 4,656 million was recognised on goodwill due to the combined effect of decreased Roth Group 6,644 6,644 6,455 6,455 crack spreads and increased discount rates reflecting the overall uncertainty regarding the economic slowdown. For goodwill allocation purposes, the Mantova refinery and its wholesale activity (being a single cash generating unit) is considered. Notes to the financial Romanian retail network 4,273 4,273 4,198 4,198 IES Group 40,664 40,664 44,128 4,618 39,510 The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management and Croatian retail network 14,045 14,045 14,705 14,705 extrapolates cash flows for the average residual useful life of the refining assets assuming no increase in the refinery capacity, I&C Energo 1,102 1,102 1,016 1,016 statements however, considering the quality improvement of refined products in the sales margins reflecting the in-progress refinery Petrochemicals 570 570 570 570 upgrade project. Crack spreads and wholesale margins used in the forecast represent management’s assumptions applicable TVK 477 477 477 477 TVK Polska 93 93 93 93 for MOL Group and for the specific Italian wholesale market, respectively. Rates used to discount the forecast cash flows Exploration and Production 3,733 3,733 3,672 3,672 reflecting risks specific to refining and wholesale activities vary between 9% and 10% in the years considered. Rotary (former DrillTrans) 3,733 3,733 3,672 3,672 Total goodwill 71,031 71,031 74,744 4,618 70,126 With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Italian refining and wholesale activities, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the recoverable recoverable amount. value of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit during its estimated remaining useful life and Croatian retail network also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. At 31 December 2010 goodwill of HUF 14,045 million was allocated to the Croatian retail network comprising of filling stations under INA and Tifon brands. For goodwill allocation purposes, the Croatian filling stations’ network as a whole (being a group The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in of cash generating units including the Tifon and INA brands) is considered. For the network cash flow forecasts are prepared use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and gross margins during the period. Management which are derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management and extrapolate cash flows for the estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks average residual useful life of the filling stations based on an estimated growth rate of 3%. The rates used to discount the specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Gross margins are based on past practices forecast cash flows reflecting risks specific to the Retail segment vary between 10% and 12% in the years considered. and expectations of future changes in the market. With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Croatian retail network, management believes that no reasonably Roth Group possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable At 31 December 2010 goodwill of HUF 6,644 million was allocated to the wholesale activities of Roth Group operating amount. mainly on the Austrian wholesale market, forming a separate cash generating unit within Refining and Marketing business segment. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved Exploration expenditures by management and extrapolates cash flows for the following years based on an estimated growth rate of 1%. This In addition to the capitalized exploration expenditures shown above, a further HUF 6,486 million and HUF 5,790 million rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant Austrian markets. The rates used to discount exploration expenses were incurred in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Consistent with the successful effort method of the forecast cash flows reflecting risks specific to the Refining and Marketing segment vary between 8% and 9% in accounting they were charged to various operating cost captions of the consolidated income statement as incurred. the years considered. Intangible assets with indefinite useful life For the wholesale activities of Roth Group, there are reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which could cause the In addition to goodwill, MOL Group has acquired the INA brand in 2009 which has an indefinite useful life, since practically carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount. The actual recoverable amount for the wholesale activity of the entire population in Croatia knows it and is perceived as a market leader with an extensive network of filling station. The Roth Group exceeds its carrying amount by HUF 1,487 million. The implications of the key assumptions on the recoverable Group does not intend to terminate this brand in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of the INA brand was HUF amount are discussed below: 12,990 million as of 31 December 2010. Since the brand is an integral part of the Croatian filling station network, it has been included in the carrying value of the group of cash generating units to which the corresponding goodwill has been allocated and has been tested for impairment accordingly (see above). 114 MOL Group annual report 2010 115 5 Property, plant and equipment, net Leased assets Property, plant and equipment includes machinery acquired under finance leases: Other Land and Machinery machinery 2010 2009 buildings and and Construction equipment equipment in progress Total HUF million HUF million Cost 8,112 8,340 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Accumulated depreciation (2,870) (2,437) At 1 January, 2009 Net book value 5,242 5,903 Gross book value 1,143,889 1,239,796 82,890 249,237 2,715,812 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (479,140) (756,585) (62,537) (351) (1,298,613) Net book value 664,749 483,211 20,353 248,886 1,417,199 Borrowing Costs Year ended 31 December, 2009 Property, plant and equipment include borrowing costs incurred in connection with the construction of certain assets. additions and capitalizations 230,747 127,191 5,273 274,391 637,602 Additions to the gross book value of property, plant and equipment include borrowing costs of HUF 18,058 million and HUF depreciation for the year (86,244) (86,172) (8,359) (180,775) 5,305 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2010 and 2009 the applicable capitalisation rates (including the impact of impairment (3,157) (4,402) (1,164) (336) (9,059) foreign exchange differences) were 5.5% and 2.4%, respectively. reversal of impairment 1,601 281 319 60 2,261 acquisition of subsidiary 678,342 82,920 18,883 273,895 1,054,040 Government Grants disposals (1,468) (132) (74) (19) (1,693) Property, plant and equipment include assets with a value of HUF 6,753 million financed from government grants (See Note exchange adjustment (3,427) 7,156 (167) (3,251) 311 transfer and capitalizations (518) 4,136 (56) (368,228) (364,666) 21). The total amount reflects mainly the assets of FGSZ, which were partly financed via a European Union grant for the Closing net book value 1,480,625 614,189 35,008 425,398 2,555,220 construction of the Hungary-Croatia natural gas interconnector, and the assets of Slovnaft which were financed by the grant received from Slovakian government in order to serve State Authorities in case of state emergencies. Notes to the financial At 31 December, 2009 Gross book value 2,049,830 1,458,394 104,666 425,584 4,038,474 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (569,205) (844,205) (69,658) (186) (1,483,254) Pledged Assets statements Assets with an aggregate net book value of HUF 120,527 million have been pledged by the Group of which HUF 11,305 million Net book value 1,480,625 614,189 35,008 425,398 2,555,220 as collateral for loans utilized by TVK-Erőmű Kft. and Tisza WTP Kft. as of 31 December 2010, HUF 2,294 million at Slovnaft Year ended 31 December, 2010 94,346 101,018 6,078 280,231 481,673 a.s., HUF 1,393 million at Rossi Biofuel Zrt., HUF 99,012 million at IES S.p.A. and HUF 5,930 million at INA d.d. As of 31 additions and capitalizations depreciation for the year (138,372) (98,045) (10,234) (246,651) December 2009 the net book value of pledged assets was HUF 95,151 million. impairment (3,502) (5,566) (421) (528) (10,017) reversal of impairment 6,244 1,008 279 12 7,543 disposals (1,025) (199) (63) (93) (1,380) exchange adjustment 27,389 9,837 398 5,148 42,772 transfer and capitalizations 52,609 7,358 (24) (212,841) (152,898) Closing net book value 1,518,314 629,600 31,021 497,327 2,676,262 At 31 December, 2010 Gross book value 2,276,114 1,569,842 106,183 497,667 4,449,806 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (757,800) (940,242) (75,162) (340) (1,773,544) Net book value 1,518,314 629,600 31,021 497,327 2,676,262 When capital projects are completed the carrying value is transferred out of construction in progress and treated as an addition in the respective asset category. Changes in estimates In 2010 based on the requirements of IAS 16 the Group has performed an annual revision of useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, having no significant impact on the consolidated profits. Impairment, net of reversal Reversal of impairment losses of HUF 284 million and impairment expense of HUF 2,688 million were recorded with respect to the revision of field abandonment provision of maturing and suspended oil and gas producing fields in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Impairment expense of HUF 1,688 million and HUF 612 million were recorded with respect to filling stations and retail sites in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2010, HUF 1,042 million was recognised as impairment expense related to expired catalysts and closure of certain facilities at the Danube and Bratislava refineries (2009: HUF 1,444 million). Additional impairment expenses of HUF 356 million and of HUF 464 million were recorded for certain gas transmission assets of FGSZ Földgázszállító Zrt. in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other individually non-material reversal of impairment losses of HUF 328 million and impairment losses (net of reversal of impairment) of HUF 1,589 million have been recognized in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 116 MOL Group annual report 2010 117 6 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities Country (Incorporation Range of activity Ownership Ownership Company name /Branch) 2010 2009 Country Ownership Ownership (Incorporation Range of activity USI Ltd Cyprus Exploration investment management 100% 100% Company name /Branch) 2010 2009 BaiTex LLC Russia Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Integrated subsidiaries Gas & Power 47% 47% CM European Power International B.V. INA-Industrija nafte d.d. Croatia Integrated oil and gas company Netherlands Power plant investment management 50% 50% (joint venture) Exploration and Production Adriagas S.r.l. Italy Pipeline project company 47% 47% CM European Power International s.r.o. Slovakia Power plant investment management 50% 50% (joint venture) BHM OIL-Invest Ltd Cyprus Exploration investment management 100% 100% CM European Power Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Operation of thermo-power plant 50%, a) 50%, a) Surgut Trading Ltd Russia Trade of crude oil 50% 50% BMN Investment Ltd Cyprus / India Exploration and production activity 100% 100% MOL-CEZ European Power Hungary Kft. Steam and hot water supply, electricity Hungary 50% 50% (joint venture) production Crosco Naftni Servisi d.o.o. Croatia Oilfield services 47% 47% FGSZ Földgázszállító Zrt. Hungary Natural gas transmission 100% 100% CorteCros d.o.o. Croatia Production of anticorrosion products 28% 28% MOL Commodity Trading Kft. Hungary Financial services 100% e) Crosco B.V. Netherlands Oilfield services 47% 47% MMBF Földgáztároló Zrt. Hungary Strategic natural gas storage 72% 72% Nordic Shipping Ltd. Marshall Islands Platform ownership 47% 47% Crosco International d.o.o. (Slovenia) Slovenia Oilfield services 47% 47% Importing and exporting energetical MOLTRADE-Mineralimpex Zrt. Hungary 100% 100% Bosnia and products Crosco International d.o.o. (Tuzla) Oilfield services 47% 47% Herzegovina Refining and Marketing Crosco International Ltd. United Kingdom Oilfield services 47% 47% Crobenz d.d. Croatia Trading of oil products b) 47% Crosco S.A. DE C.V Mexico Maintaining services 47% 47% Bosnia and United Arab Energopetrol d.d. Retail trade 49% 49% Geotechnika International LLC Oilfield services, drilling wells 23% 23% Herzegovina Emirates FPC Ltd. United Kingdom Trading of oil products 47% 47% Mideast Integrated Drilling & Well Services Integrated drilling Notes to the financial Oman 23% 23% Holdina (Guernsey) Ltd United Kingdom Trading of oil products 47% 47% Company LLC and completion services Rotary Zrt. Hungary Oilfield services 47% 47% Inter Ina (Guernsey) Ltd United Kingdom Trading of oil products 47% 47% Rotary Pumping Services Kft. Hungary Oilfield services c) 47% Holdina (Cyprus) Ltd Cyprus Intermediate holding company 47% 47% statements Drill-Trans Zrt. Hungary Road cargo transport f) 47% Holdina (Ireland) Ltd Ireland Supply of technical services 47% 47% Mobilgas Zrt. Hungary Road cargo transport f) 47% Bosnia and Holdina d.o.o. Trading of oil products 47% 47% Drill-Car Kft. Hungary Car rental f) 47% Herzegovina Sea Horse Shipping Inc. Marshall Islands Platform ownership 47% 47% Refinery and marketing IES SpA Italy 100% 100% Geoinform Kft. Hungary Hydrocarbon exploration 100% 100% of oil products Enersol S.c.r.l. Italy Marketing of oil products d) 81% Geophysical surveying GES Kft. Hungary 100% 100% Greengas S.r.l. Italy Hydrogen plant operation 49%, a) 49%, a) and data processing Nelsa S.r.l. Italy Marketing of oil products 74% 74% Geophysical surveying Geophysical Services Middle-East LLC Oman 70% 70% Panta Distribuzione S.r.l. Italy Marketing of oil products 100% 100% and data processing Greentrade Ltd Cyprus Exploration investment management 100% 100% INA d.o.o. Serbia Trading of oil products 47% 47% Matjushkinskaya Vertical LLC Russia Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Bosnia and INA BH d.d. Trading of oil products 47% 47% Herzegovina Switzerland / Hawasina GmbH Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Bosnia and Oman INA BL d.o.o. Trading of oil products 47% 47% Prirodni plin d.o.o. Croatia Natural gas trading 47% 47% Herzegovina INA Crna Gora d.o.o Montenegro Trading of oil products 47% 47% INA Naftaplin International Exploration and United Kingdom Exploration and production activity 47% 47% INA Hungary Kft. Hungary Trading of oil products 47% 47% Production Ltd INA Kosovo d.o.o Kosovo Trading of oil products 47% 47% Exploration investment management Kalegran Ltd Cyprus / Iraq 100% 100% INA-Osijek – Petrol d.d. Croatia Trading of oil products 36% 36% / Exploration and production activity Lamorak Enterprises Ltd Cyprus / Tunisia Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Interina d.o.o. Ljubljana Slovenia Trading of oil products 47% 47% MOL Caspian Oil and Gas Ltd Cyprus / Kazakhstan Exploration investment management 100% 100% Interina d.o.o. Skopje (under liquidation) Macedonia Trading of oil products 47% 47% Inter Ina Ltd United Kingdom Trading of oil products 47% 47% British Virgin Ural Group Ltd (joint venture) Exploration and production activity 28% 28% Intermol d.o.o. Serbia Retail trade of fuels and lubricants 100% 100% Island Ural Oil Group Ltd (joint venture) Kazakhstan Exploration and production activity 28% 28% Maziva Zagreb d.o.o. Croatia Lubricants production and trading 47% 47% MK Mineralkontor GmbH Germany Trade of oil products 100% 100% Netherlands / Syria MOL Central Asia Oil and Gas Co. B.V. Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Wholesale trade of lubricants / Kazakhstan MOL Austria GmbH Austria 100% 100% 100% 100% and oil products MOL CIS Oil and Gas Ltd. Cyprus Exploration investment management ZMB Ltd (joint venture) Russia Exploration and production activity 50% 50% MOL Tankstellen GmbH Austria Retail trade 100% 100% Netherlands / PakiRoth Heizöle GmbH Austria Trading of oil products 100% 100% MOL Pakistan Oil and Gas Co. B.V. Exploration and production activity 100% 100% stan Alpenkohle Mineralölhandels GmbH Austria Trading of oil products c) 100% MOL Yemen Oil and Gas (Cyprus) Ltd Cyprus / Yemen Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Egon von Lenz GmbH Austria Trading of oil products c) 100% Platounko Investments Ltd Cyprus Exploration financing 100% 100% Heizöl Blitz Stadler GmbH Austria Trading of oil products c) 100% Pronodar Ltd Cyprus / Cameroon Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Rumpold Energie & Brennstoffhandels Pyrogol Ltd Cyprus Exploration and production activity 100% 100% Austria Trading of oil products 100% 100% GmbH RUSI Services Ltd Cyprus Exploration financing 100% 100% MOL-LUB Kft. Hungary Production and trade of lubricants 100% 100% SHM Seven Investments Ltd Cyprus Exploration investment management 100% 100% Retail and wholesale trade of fuels MOL Western Siberia LLC Russia Exploration and production activity 100% 100% MOL Romania PP s.r.l. Romania 100% 100% and lubricants MOL-RUSS Ooo. Russia Management services 100% 100% MOL Slovenija d.o.o. Slovenia Retail trade of fuels and lubricants 100% 100% UBA Services Ltd Cyprus / Russia Exploration investment management 100% 100% Moltrans Kft. Hungary Transportation services 100% 100% Petrol d.d. Croatia Trading of oil products 39% 39% 118 MOL Group annual report 2010 119 Country 7 Business combinations (Incorporation Range of activity Ownership Ownership Company name /Branch) 2010 2009 Acquisitions in 2010 Polybit d.o.o. Croatia Production and trading 47% 24% Proplin, d.o.o. Croatia Production and LPG trading 47% 47% No major acquisition took place in 2010. Rossi Biofuel Zrt. (joint venture) Hungary Biofuel component production 25% 25% Refinery and marketing of oil Slovnaft a.s. Slovakia 98% 98% Acquisitions in 2009 and petrochemical products Apollo Oil Rohstoffhandels GmbH Austria Trading of crude oil d) 66% Apollo Rafinéria s.r.o. Slovakia Wholesale and retail trade 98% 98% INA Group Meroco a.s. (joint venture) Slovakia Production of bio-diesel component 25% 25% On 16 October 2008 MOL has increased its ownership in INA to 47.16% via a successful voluntary public offer, for a purchase (FAME) price of HRK 2,800 per share (equal to HUF 227,262 million for the 22.16% shareholding offered). INA was consolidated using MOL Slovensko spol s.r.o. Slovakia Wholesale and retail trade 98% 98% the equity method as of 31 December 2008. Until obtaining control (see below), INA Group contributed a loss of HUF 3,539 Slovnaft Polska S.A. Poland Wholesale and retail trade 98% 98% million to the profit for the Group in 2009, recorded as income from associates. Slovnaft Trans a.s. Slovakia Transportation services 98% 98% SWS s.r.o. Slovakia Transport support services 50% 50% Wholesale and retail trade, As a result of the successful voluntary public offer for INA shares MOL has become the largest shareholder of INA in October, Zväz pre skladovanie zásob a.s. Slovakia 98% 98% warehousing 2008. The parties have agreed to amend the Shareholders’ Agreement to reflect the new ownership structure of INA in the Slovnaft VÚRUP a.s. Slovakia Research & development 98% 98% corporate governance of the company. After closing the transaction, MOL gained control over the operations of INA. The Slovnaft Ceska Republika s.r.o. Czech Republic Wholesale and retail 100% 100% major changes of the Shareholders’ Agreement were as follows: Terméktároló Zrt. Hungary Oil product storage 74% 74% Tifon d.o.o. Croatia Retail trade of fuels and lubricants 100% 100% – MOL delegates five out of the nine members in the Supervisory Board and has controlling influence over the Petrochemicals Management Board. Notes to the financial Petrochemical production Slovnaft Petrochemicals s.r.o. Slovakia 98% 98% – The Government retains certain veto rights ensuring the national security of energy supply and some decisions and trading Petrochemical production with respect to strategic assets of INA. TVK Plc. Hungary 95% 95% statements and trading Tisza-WTP Kft. Hungary Feed water and raw water supply 0%, a) 0%, a) Upon obtaining the Croatian competition office approval, the shareholders’ meeting has been called on 10 June 2009 to elect Electricity production the new Supervisory Board of INA. The shareholder’s meeting was deemed to be the date when control is passed to MOL, TVK-Erőmű Kft. Hungary 25%, a) 25%, a) and distribution therefore the business combination has been accounted for as of that date (using 30 June 2009 as valuation date). TVK France S.a.r.l. France Wholesale and retail trade 95% 95% TVK Inter-Chemol GmbH Germany Wholesale and retail trade 95% 95% TVK Italia Srl. Italy Wholesale and retail trade 95% 95% The increase of MOL’s shareholding in INA was a core element of MOL’s regional growth strategy. The strategic plan of the TVK Polska Sp.Zoo. Poland Wholesale and retail trade 95% 95% Group regarding INA is to improve its business performance and market position in Croatia, South Eastern Europe and TVK UK Ltd United Kindgom Wholesale and retail trade 95% 95% in the Adriatic region via supporting focused investments of INA into its own asset base, improvement of its commercial TVK Ukrajna tov. Ukraine Wholesale and retail trade 95% 95% capabilities and enhanced customer orientation. Corporate and other Gas-utility development Balatongáz Kft. (under liquidation) Hungary 77% 77% and management EMS Management Services Ltd Cyprus Management services 100% 100% FER Tűzoltóság és Szolgáltató Kft. Hungary Fire service, ambulance service 92% 82% Hermész Tanácsadó Kft. Hungary Consultancy 100% 100% Hostin d.o.o. Croatia Tourism 47% 47% I&C Energo a.s. Czech Republic Power plant engineering 100% 99% ITR d.o.o. Croatia Car rental 47% 47% Magnolia Finance Ltd Jersey Financial services 0%, a) 0%, a) MOL Reinsurance Ltd Cyprus Captive insurance 100% 100% Petrolszolg Kft. Hungary Maintenance services 100% 100% Sinaco d.o.o. Croatia Security 47% 47% Slovnaft Montáže a opravy a.s. Slovakia Repairs and maintenance 98% 98% STSI integrirani tehnički servisi d.o.o. Croatia Technical services 47% 47% TVK Ingatlankezelő Kft. Hungary Real estate management 95% 95% a) Consolidated as required by SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities b) Sold in 2010 c) Merged into its parent company in 2010. d) Liquidated in 2010 e) Operating from 2009 f) Merged into Rotary Zrt. in 2010 120 MOL Group annual report 2010 121 The purchase price allocation for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been fully completed in the first half of Since the public offer for INA’s shares in 2008 and the amendment of the Shareholders’ Agreement in 2009 have been a 2010. Changes of significance resulted from the reviewed volume of oil and gas reserves (provisional fair values reflected single acquisition step, the Group has accounted for the purchase consideration as follows: preliminary reserve assumptions) and the consequent changes in deferred tax liability. Final and provisional fair values (as reported in prior year’s financial statements) as of 30 June 2009 were as follows: HUF million Fair value of previously held interest in INA (25%, consolidated using the equity method prior to June 30, 2009) 133,334 Provisional fair values Final fair values Cash consideration paid for 22.16% of the shares of INA in the public offering in October, 2008, adjusted with profit contrib218,443 HUF million HUF million uted by INA since that date Intangible assets 229,739 159,556 Fair value of previously held interest in Energopetrol 5,098 Property, plant and equipment 1,046,930 1,048,536 Total consideration 356,875 Investments 2,227 2,227 Available-for-sale investments 11,403 11,403 Deferred tax assets 17,882 17,882 To determine the fair value of MOL’s previously held 25% interest in INA Group as of 30 June 2009, prevailing quoted market Other non-current assets 36,184 36,184 prices of INA shares were used. Re-measurement and recycling of exchange and fair valuation differences previously recorded Inventories 111,357 111,357 in other comprehensive income resulted in a gain of HUF 22,462 million, recorded as other income in 2009. In addition, HUF Trade receivables 122,884 124,539 463 million was recorded as other income representing fair value difference of previously held interest in Energopetrol and Other current assets 32,258 32,258 recycling of exchange differences previously recorded in other comprehensive income. Prepaid taxes 3,108 3,108 Cash and cash equivalents 16,592 16,592 Assets classified as held for sale 23,397 23,397 Drill Trans Group Long-term debt, net of current portion (202,532) (202,532) Crosco d.o.o., a subsidiary of INA acquired 100% share of Drill Trans Group as at 25 August 2009. Provisions and contingent liabilities (133,860) (133,860) Deferred tax liabilities (95,671) (84,705) Determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities has been fully completed in 2010 with no significant difference Notes to the financial Other non-current liabilities (4,868) (4,868) compared to the provisional valuation as at the end of 2009. The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Drill Trade and other payables (249,583) (249,583) Trans Group as of 31 August 2009 were as follows: Current tax payable (488) (488) statements Short-term debt (89,646) (89,646) Current portion of long-term debt (4,361) (4,361) Fair values Liabilities classified as held for sale (15,275) (15,275) HUF million Fair value of net assets of INA Group 857,677 801,720 Intangible assets 185 Fair value of net assets of Energopetrol acquired with INA 221 221 Property, plant and equipment 1,108 Non-controlling interest in INA (52.8%) 453,240 423,669 Inventories 111 Non-controlling interest in Energopetrol (51.0%) 112 112 Trade receivables 2,031 Excess of fair value of net assets over consideration recorded as other 47,671 21,285 Other current assets 517 income (see Note 25) Cash and cash equivalents 148 Total consideration 356,875 356,875 Long-term debt (369) Trade and other payables (2,437) Short-term debt (1,145) The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interest in INA Group on its proportionate share of the fair value of Fair value of net assets of Drill Trans Group 149 net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,655 Total consideration 3,804 Intangible assets acquired include the INA brand, valued on the basis of relief from royalty method, and also the proved undeveloped and probable reserves of INA Group’s onshore and off-shore oil and gas activities. Proved developed reserves are recorded as property, plant and equipment. Fair value of these reserves have been determined based on market forecasts and expectations, actual operating costs and a discount rate calculated using industry-specific peer groups. Long-term crude 8 Disposals oil price have been forecasted at 75 USD / barrel, adjusted by inflation, while discount rate has been set to 10.4%, adjusted by country-specific risks. Crobenz The transaction of selling INA’s 100% ownership in Crobenz d.d. (“Crobenz”) to LUKOIL Croatia d.o.o. (“Lukoil”) was Inventories have been valued on prevailing market prices. The Group has also recorded a HUF 27,557 million contingent completed on 30 September 2010. The sale process was initiated based on INA’s obligation under the decision of the Croatian liability on certain environmental obligations at the Croatian refineries, depots and retail sites with high and medium risk Competition Agency (“the Agency”) of 9 June 2009. Following the signing of the First Amendment to the Shareholders profiles, where the extent of the pollution and the nature of remediation work cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability. Agreement between the Croatian Government and MOL on 30 January 2009, MOL’s gaining the operational control over The Group has assessed these liabilities on the basis of its similar operations at other locations. INA had been investigated by the Croatian Competition Agency, upon which the Agency passed its final Decision on 9 June 2009 approving the transaction under certain conditions including the sale of INA’s 100% ownership in Crobenz. Via acquiring INA, the Group has also acquired full control over Energopetrol, its former joint venture with INA (owning 33.5% On 21 July 2010, INA d.d. signed a sale agreement with LUKOIL for the disposal of its 100% interest in Crobenz. As decided of its shares directly and another 33.5% via INA Group). Upon fully consolidating Energopetrol, the Group has identified a by the Croatian Market Competition Agency (“the Agency”), the sale was conducted by a trustee. At a meeting held on 29 contingent liability of HUF 3,946 million relating to certain present obligations from employee claims. July 2010 the Agency decided to approve the transaction implementing the mandate from its Resolution on the conditional approval of the MOL/INA concentration and it also granted the necessary clearance for the Lukoil/Crobenz concentration. From the date of acquisition, INA Group has contributed HUF 437,189 million to the net sales revenue of the Group and HUF 22,000 million loss for the 2009 net income of the Group. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of that year, contribution to the revenue would have been HUF 804,809 million, while the contribution to the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent of the Group would have been the same, since INA Group has been consolidated using the equity method from the beginning of 2009. 122 MOL Group annual report 2010 123 Carrying amount of disposed assets and liabilities of Crobenz as of 30 September 2010 and analysis of cash outflow on sale Carrying amount of disposed assets and liabilities of MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. as of 31 December 2009 and analysis of net of the subsidiary is the following: cash outflow on sales of the subsidiary was the following: HUF million HUF million Intangible assets 29 Intangible assets 46 Deferred tax asset 79 Investments 19 Inventories 289 Inventories 2,177 Trade receivables 2,778 Trade receivables 18,231 Other current assets 17 Other current assets 633 Cash and cash equivalents 46 Cash and cash equivalents 5,149 Total assets 3,238 Total assets 26,255 Long-term debt, net of current portion 1,778 Other non current liabilities (28) Provisions and contingent liabilities 199 Trade and other payables (23,697) Trade and other payables 1,451 Total liabilities (23,725) Current tax payable 86 Net assets sold 2,530 Short-term debt 2,225 Sale price 25 Current portion of long-term debt 401 Fair value of non-controlling interest retained 14 Total liabilities 6,140 Loss on disposal (2,491) Net liabilities sold (2,902) The analysis of net cash outflow on sale of MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt.: (5,149) Net gain realized on disposal (see Note 25) 756 Net cash disposed of during the sale 25 Compensation of inter-company loan 1,414 Cash consideration Unsettled sales price payable by Lukoil (735) Net cash outflow (5,124) Notes to the financial Cash consideration paid (1,467) The analysis of cash outflow on sale of Crobenz: 9 Joint ventures statements Net cash disposed of during the sale (46) Cash consideration paid (1,467) Cash outflow (1,513) The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of ZMB and all the other joint ventures (see Note 6), which are MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. included in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows at 31 December 2010 and 2009 and for the years then ended: MOL Energiakereskedő Kft. (MET), the natural gas trading subsidiary of the Group was transformed to a company limited 2010 2009 by shares as of October 31, 2009. Subsequently, MOL agreed to sell 50% of its share in the entity to Normeston Trading Ltd as of December 18, 2009. Since MOL has not retained control over the operations of MET, its remaining shareholding ZMB Other Total ZMB Other Total HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million in the company has been recorded as an investment in associate at a fair value of HUF 14 million, determined on the basis of Current assets 4,469 9,018 13,487 3,694 3,155 6,849 estimated risk-adjusted future net cash flows. Non-current assets 16,531 13,671 30,202 17,212 7,449 24,661 21,000 22,689 43,689 20,906 10,604 31,510 Current liabilities 2,730 4,685 7,415 2,824 3,194 6,018 Non-current liabilities 1,183 977 2,160 1,098 2,311 3,409 3,913 5,662 9,575 3,922 5,505 9,427 Net assets 17,087 17,027 34,114 16,984 5,099 22,083 Net sales 49,750 16,497 66,247 42,598 13,638 56,236 Cost of sales (10,318) (15,472) (25,790) (9,214) (12,248) (21,462) Other expenses (17,123) (336) (17,459) (28,488) (961) (29,449) Financial (expense) / income, net (217) 170 (47) 8 (105) (97) Profit before income tax 22,092 859 22,951 4,904 324 5,228 Income tax expense (5,715) (127) (5,842) (2,060) (89) (2,149) Net profit / (loss) 16,377 732 17,109 2,844 235 3,079 124 MOL Group annual report 2010 125 10 Investments in associated companies MOL used 6,322,232 “A” series MOL shares from its treasury stock in exchange for the acquisition, the fair value of which has been determined on the basis of quoted share prices observed at that time. Net book Net book Ownership Ownership value of value of The Group’s interest (10%) as of 31 December 2010 in Pearl was as follows: investinvestment ment Company name Country Range of activity 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Pearl Petroleum Ltd. Iraq Exploration of gas 10% 10% 64,856 54,737 Share of the associate’s balance sheet: Non-current assets 75,259 66,183 MOL Energiakereskedő Current assets 7,199 2,941 Hungary Natural gas trading 50% 50% 3,307 14 Zrt. Non-current liabilities (16,320) (12,941) Current liabilities (1,282) (1,446) Mazzola & Bignardi S.r.l. Italy Hydrogen production 50% 50% 1,630 1,583 Net assets 64,856 54,737 Mazzola & Bignardi ComMarketing of oil prodShare of the associate’s income statement: Italy 40% 40% 1,217 1,182 merciale S.r.l. ucts Net sales 4,265 1,430 Production of technical Profit from operations 3,989 1,249 Messer Slovnaft s.r.o Slovakia 49% 49% 758 815 gases Net income attributable to equity-holders 4,095 1,249 Carrying amount of the investment 64,856 54,737 Batec S.r.l. Italy Bitumen production 50% 50% 699 679 Integrated oil and gas INA Group Croatia a) a) a) a) company The financial data representing the Group’s interest in Pearl above has been prepared in accordance with IFRS, using Notes to the financial Other associated comaccounting policies which conform to those used by the Group for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. 537 820 panies statements Total 73,004 59,830 MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. The Group’s interest (50%) as of 31 December 2010 in MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. was as follows: a) Fully consolidated from June 30, 2009 2010 2009 Pearl Petroleum Company Limited HUF million HUF million Share of the associate’s balance sheet: On 15 May 2009 MOL signed an agreement to acquire 10% stake in Pearl Petroleum Company Limited (Pearl) from Crescent Non-current assets 189 65 Petroleum and Dana Gas PJSC. Pearl holds all of the companies’ legal rights in Khor Mor and Chemchemal gas-condensate Current assets 25,649 26,190 fields in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. In exchange for a 10% ownership package of Pearl MOL paid 6,322,232 “A” series MOL Non-current liabilities 28 shares, representing 6% of its current registered capital and as a result Crescent Petroleum and Dana Gas each became 3% Current liabilities 19,906 23,697 shareholders in MOL. Since the agreement between the shareholders grant MOL a significant influence on Pearl’s operations, Net assets 5,932 2,530 the company is treated as an associated company and is consolidated accordingly. Share of the associate’s income statement: Net sales 106,148 n/a Profit from operations 10,354 n/a The fair values of MOL’s share in the assets and liabilities of Pearl as of 15 May 2009 were as follows: Net income attributable to equity-holders 7,723 n/a Carrying amount of the investment 3,307 14 Fair values HUF million Income statement of MOL Energiakereskedő Zrt. has been fully consolidated during 2009; the company has been partially Intangible assets 59,883 disposed of as at 31 December 2009, see Note 8. Property, plant and equipment 12,931 Inventories 284 Trade receivables 789 INA Group Other current assets 55 Cash and cash equivalents 138 INA Group has been fully consolidated in 2009 upon gaining control over its operations as of 10 June 2009 (see Note 7). Trade and other payables (1,504) INA Group’s first half year contribution to the 2009 profit for the Group was a loss of HUF 3,539 million and recorded as Shareholders’ loan (12,184) income from associates. Fair value of net assets 60,392 Consideration transferred for equity 60,392 Shareholders’ loan acquired from sellers 12,184 Consideration transferred (shares at fair value) 72,576 126 MOL Group annual report 2010 127 11 Available-for-sale investments The value of these stocks represents an amount of HUF 20,198 million and HUF 28,223 million at 31 December 2010 and 2009. Due to the national legislation, Slovnaft Polska, a Polish subsidiary is required to maintain a certain level of obligatory stocks Net book value Net book value of crude oil and liquid fuels. This level is determined from the volumes imported during the preceding calendar year and was of investment of investment an equivalent of HUF 16,176 million and HUF 16,803 million at 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively. 2010 2009 INA d.d. , the Croatian subsidiary of MOL is obliged by the national government to maintain a defined level of compulsory HUF million HUF million stocks of crude oil and oil products. The value of these stocks represents an amount of HUF 3,600 million and HUF 5,685 Quoted Jadranski Naftovod d.d. 13,460 12,473 million at 31 December 2010 and 2009. Nabucco Gas Pipeline International GmbH 2,453 897 Other ordinary shares – unquoted 5,588 5,244 Total 21,501 18,614 14 Trade receivables, net MOL Group’s investment in Jadranski Naftovod d.d. (JANAF), operator of Adria pipeline represents 12% of JANAF’s outstanding shares. The value of the equity share in JANAF was determined by reference to the market value of the shares as quoted on the 2010 2009 Zagreb Stock Exchange as of 31 December 2010. Investments in other unquoted equity instruments of certain non-core entities HUF million HUF million Trade receivables 477,660 441,086 are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, since determination of fair value is not practicable at this stage. Provision for doubtful receivables (13,988) (28,779) Total 463,672 412,307 12 Other non-current assets Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 days’ terms. 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Movements in the provision for doubtful receivables were as follows: Notes to the financial Loans given 23,431 20,707 Prepaid mining royalty 8,498 10,707 Net receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives as cashflow hedge (see Note 33 and 34) 4,116 4,139 2010 2009 statements Advance payments for assets under construction 2,852 9,249 HUF million HUF million Advance payments for intangible assets 1,450 914 At 1 January 28,779 20,416 Long-term receivables from operating agreements 1,126 1,398 Additions 7,631 14,436 Net receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 33 and 34) 155 Reversal (24,798) (3,644) Other 476 398 Amounts written off (167) (1,264) Total 42,104 47,512 Currency differences 2,543 (1,165) At 31 December 13,988 28,779 Loans given primarily contain the HUF 16,320 million shareholder loan acquired with respect to Pearl Petroleum Company (see Note 10), the purpose of which is to finance the field exploration and development activities of the associate. The loan As at 31 December 2010 and 2009 the analysis of the recoverable amount of trade receivables that were past due is as follows: has a market-based interest rate of LIBOR + 2%. Mining royalty of HUF 20,000 million in 2005 was prepaid for fixing the level of mining royalty payable in the future and for the extension of exploration rights at certain Hungarian upstream concessions. The prepayment is amortized to the income statement beginning from January 2006 based on the expected production level 2010 2009 of the fields until 2020. Amortization in 2010 and 2009 was HUF 2,209 million and HUF 2,540 million, respectively, and is HUF million HUF million Neither past due nor impaired 415,375 336,798 expected to maintain a similar pattern in the forthcoming years. Past due but not impaired 48,297 75,509 Within 90 days 33,251 45,282 13 Inventories 91 180 days 5,450 11,169 Over 180 days 9,596 19,058 2010 2009 Total 463,672 412,307 2010 Lower of 2009 Lower of At cost cost or net At cost cost or net realisable realisable value value HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Work in progress and finished goods 253,521 248,935 198,791 194,688 Other raw materials 76,008 62,582 67,689 57,620 Purchased crude oil 73,064 71,007 52,917 51,565 Other goods for resale 26,072 25,975 23,972 23,781 Purchased natural gas 12,727 9,562 250 356 Total 441,392 418,061 343,619 328,010 Reversal of impairment of HUF 138 million and HUF 6,615 million was recorded in 2010 and 2009, respectively. It is required by law to maintain a certain level of obligatory stocks of crude oil and oil products by IES, the Italian subsidiary. 128 MOL Group annual report 2010 129 15 Other current assets 16 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million 2010 2009 Cash at bank – EUR 50,215 33,548 HUF million HUF million Cash at bank HRK 9,382 1,649 Prepaid and recoverable taxes and duties (excluding income taxes) 60,471 65,780 Cash at bank – HUF 7,721 29,565 Fair value of the option on MOL shares transferred to CEZ (see Note 17 and Note 34) 28,858 3,989 Cash at bank – USD 5,758 8,724 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 13,055 9,354 Cash at bank – CZK 4,711 1,731 Security deposits 10,637 9,786 Cash at bank – RUB 2,126 592 Receivables from joint venture partners 7,697 4,522 Cash at bank – PLN 1,537 1,951 Advances paid 4,261 6,469 Cash at bank – other currencies 15,922 5,479 Interest receivable 1,360 1,088 Short-term bank deposits – EUR 143,984 71,865 Current portion of loans given 1,143 1,921 Short-term bank deposits – USD 31,409 2,345 Unsettled sales price on Crobenz divestiture payable by Lukoil 717 Short-term bank deposits – HUF 25,893 255 Fair value of firm commitments as hedged item under commodity price transactions (see Note Short-term bank deposits RUB 7,561 1,860 61 33 and Note 34) Short-term bank deposits – CZK 1,401 6,098 Receivables from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair-value hedge (see Note 34) 29 1,097 Short-term bank deposits – PLN 5,279 Net receivables from commodity price transactions (see Note 33 and Note 34) 21 146 Cash equivalents 1,076 1,892 Receivables from foreign exchange forward transactions (see Note 33 and Note 34) 8 65 Cash on hand – HUF 1,072 947 Fair value of share swap (see Note 17 and Note 34) 496 Cash on hand – other currencies 3,398 3,325 Other 13,190 11,922 Total 313,166 177,105 Total 141,508 116,635 Notes to the financial In case of cash at bank (current accounts) and short term bank deposits in different currencies the usual ranges of interest Analysis of loans given rates were the following: 2010 2009 statements 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Current accounts Current portion of loans given 1,473 4,963 EUR 0.100% 0.707% 0.54% Provision for doubtful loans receivable (330) (3,042) USD 0 0.076% 0.05% Total 1,143 1,921 HUF 3.78% 6.38% 5.12% 10.58% Short-term bank deposits Movements in the provision for doubtful loans receivable were as follows: EUR 0.05% 6.01% 0.01% 6.7% USD 0.01% 2.35% 0.01% 3.0% HUF 4.25% 7.00% 5.75% 11.15% 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million At 1 January Additions 3,042 343 17 Share capital Reversal (20) Amounts written off As of 31 December 2010, the issued share capital was HUF 104,519 million, consisting of 104,518,484 series “A”, one series “B” Reclassification between short-term and long-term (2,712) 2,712 and 578 series “C” shares. As of 31 December 2009, the issued share capital is HUF 104,519 million, consisting of 104,518,484 Acquisition / (sale) of subsidiaries 7 series “A”, one series “B” and 578 series “C” shares. Outstanding share capital as of 31 December 2010 and 2009 is HUF Currency differences 79,202 million and HUF 79,202 million, respectively. At 31 December 330 3,042 Ordinary shares of the series “A” have a par value of HUF 1,000 and ordinary shares of the series “C” have a par value of HUF 1,001. Every “A” class share with a par value of HUF 1,000 each (i.e. one thousand forint) entitles the holder thereof to have one vote and every “C” class share with a par value of 1,001 each (i.e. one thousand one forint) entitles the holder to have one and one thousandth vote, with the following exceptions. Based on the Articles of Association, no shareholder or shareholder group may exercise more than 10% of the voting rights with the exception the organization(s) acting at the Company’s request as depository or custodian for the Company’s shares or securities representing the Company’s shares. Series “B” share is a voting preference share with a par value of HUF 1,000 that entitles the holder thereof to preferential rights as specified in the present Articles of Association. The “B” series share is owned by MNV Zrt., exercising ownership rights on behalf of the Hungarian State. The “B” series share entitles its holder to one vote in accordance with its nominal value. The supporting vote of the holder of “B” series of share is required to adopt decisions in the following matters pursuant to Article 12.4. of the Articles of Association: decision on amending the articles regarding the B series share, the definition of voting rights and shareholder group, list of issues requiring supermajority at the general meeting as well as Article 12.4. itself. 130 MOL Group annual report 2010 131 Based on the authorization granted in the Articles of Association the Board of Directors is entitled to increase the share MOL, concurrently with the sale of ordinary shares, entered into a swap agreement with Magnolia that gave MOL a call capital until April 23, 2014 in one or more instalments by not more than HUF 30 billion in any form and method provided by option to buy back all or some of the Series “A” Ordinary Shares of MOL, in certain limited circumstances at a volume the Company Act. weighted average price during a certain period before exercising the option right, and in case the Capital Securities holders did not or partially exercised their conversion right, upon expiration of the Exchange Period and quarterly afterwards for the Treasury share transactions Series “A” ordinary shares which have not been exchanged yet. In case Magnolia redeems the Capital Securities after 2016 and the market price of ordinary MOL shares is below EUR 101.54 per share, MOL will pay the difference. Option agreements with BNP Paribas and ING Bank On 19 March 2009 the European put option on 1,404,217 “A” series MOL ordinary shares held by ING was cash-settled, with MOL does not have any direct or indirect equity interest in or control rights over Magnolia, but consolidates Magnolia for conditions specified in the agreement. In parallel MOL and ING signed a share purchase and share option agreement on 5,220,000 IFRS purposes in line with the requirements of SIC 12 – Consolidation: Special Purpose Entities. ‘A’ series MOL shares. As a result of the transaction MOL received an American call option and ING received a European put option on the same number of MOL shares from MOL. The maturity for both options is 1 year and the exercise price is EUR 30.98 per share. The issuance of Capital Securities by Magnolia resulted in an increase of equity attributable to non-controlling interest of HUF 121,164 million, net of transaction costs. Holders of the capital securities of Magnolia received a total coupon payment On 11 March 2010 MOL exercised its American call option with cash-settlement method regarding 5,220,000 ‘A’ series of HUF 6,702 million and HUF 6,874 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Coupon payments have been recorded directly MOL ordinary shares with conditions specified in the agreement. At the same time, MOL and ING signed a share option against equity attributable to non-controlling interest. agreement and as a result of these transactions, ING received a European put option with respect to its 5,220,000 ‘A’ series MOL shares and MOL received an American call option regarding those shares. The maturity for both options is 1 year. The The conversion option of the holders of Capital Securities has been recorded as Other non-current liability (see Note 21), the strike price for the call and put options is EUR 75.36 per share. fair valuation of which is recognized in income statement. The fair value of the conversion option is determined on the basis of the fair value of the Capital Securities, using investment valuation methods (market values), and depends principally on On 17 July, 2009 MOL exercised its American call option on 7,552,874 “A” series MOL shares held by BNP Paribas at a strike the following factors: price of USD 33.42 per share. – Quoted MOL share prices denominated in HUF Notes to the financial Since all shares held by these entities had put options attached, they were treated as financial liabilities in the consolidated – HUF/EUR exchange rate balance sheet. Upon exercising the call or put options, the corresponding liability has been settled. – Implied volatility of MOL share prices (calculated on EUR basis) statements – Investor’s dividend expectations on MOL shares Strategic Alliance with CEZ – EUR-based interest rate On 20 December 2007 CEZ and MOL signed an agreement to create a joint venture. To strengthen the strategic alliance, CEZ – Subordinated credit spread purchased 7,677,285 pieces of “A” series MOL shares (7% stake) at HUF 30,000 which was financially closed and settled on 23 January 2008. MOL also purchased an American call option for the shares with a strike price of HUF 20,000 per share which The fair value of this derivative financial liability upon inception has been HUF 37,453 million. The fair value of the conversion can be exercised within 3 years. The transaction became unconditional upon approval by the relevant competition offices on option as of 31 December 2010 and 2009 was HUF 25,079 million and HUF 19,698 million (see Note 21 and Note 34). 18 June 2008. The call option has been recorded as a derivative financial asset, initially measured at its fair value at that time (HUF 39,340 million), determined by applying the binomial valuation model. Spot market price (HUF 21,290 per share), implied The fair valuation impact of the option was HUF 5,381 million and HUF 19,698 million loss in 2010 and 2009, respectively, volatility (31.88%) and an expected dividend yield of 3.6% have been used as input to the model. During 2009 the terms of the recorded as financial expense in the accompanying consolidated income statement. call option has been renegotiated by the parties, extending it to 2014. The fair value of the option as of 31 December 2009 was HUF 3,989 million (see Note 15), determined by applying the binomial valuation model. Spot market price (HUF 17,247 per share), implied volatility (51.4%) and an expected dividend yield of 1.9% have been used as input to the model. The fair value of the option as of 31 December 2010 was HUF 28,858 million (see Note 15), determined by applying the binomial valuation model. Spot market price (HUF 20,870 per share), implied volatility (47.84%) and an expected dividend yield of 1.3% have been used as input to the model. Share swap agreement with OTP After the lending of 5,010,501 pieces of MOL shares to OTP has been terminated on 16 April 2009, MOL and OTP entered into a share – exchange and a share swap agreement. Under the agreements MOL transferred 5,010,501 “A” series MOL ordinary shares to OTP in return for 24,000,000 pieces OTP ordinary shares. The expiration of the share-swap agreements is on 11 July 2012 until that time each party can initiate a cash or physical settlement of the deal. As at 31 December 2010 the fair value of the swap was HUF 227 million which has been recorded as derivative liability (see Note 22 and 34). Fair value of the share swap agreement amounted to HUF 496 million as at 31 December 2009 which has been recorded as derivative financial asset (see Note 15 and 34). Issuance of exchangeable capital securities On 13 March 2006, MOL signed a share purchase agreement to sell 6,007,479 Series “A” Ordinary Shares of MOL held in treasury to Magnolia Finance Limited (“Magnolia”), incorporated in Jersey, which thereby acquired 5.58% influence in MOL. Magnolia issued EUR 610 million of perpetual exchangeable capital securities (the “Capital Securities”), exchangeable into the Series “A” Ordinary Shares of MOL between March 20, 2011 and March 12, 2016 (“Exchange Period”), to international financial investors outside the United States, Canada, Jersey, Japan, Hungary and Poland. Capital Securities were sold at nominal value and with a fixed coupon payment of 4.00% per annum for the first ten years, based on an exchange rate of HUF 26,670 per share. 132 MOL Group annual report 2010 133 Changes in the number of ordinary, treasury and authorized shares 19 Long-term debt Number Number of Shares Number of Authorised Weighted Weighted Series “A” and “B” shares of shares treasury under shares number of average inaverage inissued shares repurchase outstandshares terest rate terest rate Maturity obligation ing 2010 2009 2010 2009 31 December 2008 104,518,485 (8,781,365) (22,925,203) 72,811,917 120,811,879 % % HUF million HUF million Settlement of the option agreement with ING (1,404,217) 1,404,217 Unsecured bonds in EUR 4.76 3.80 2015 2017 424,982 204,109 Bank N.V. Unsecured bank loans in USD 0.67 1.05 2012 2018 205,280 250,574 New option agreement with ING Bank N.V 5,220,000 (5,220,000) Unsecured bank loans in EUR 1.55 1.49 2012 2017 73,597 224,384 Lending of shares to MFB Invest Zrt. 4,965,582 (4,965,582) Unsecured bonds in HUF 6.10 2012 5,099 Treasury shares call back from OTP Bank Plc. (5,010,501) 5,010,501 Unsecured bank loans in HUF 8.73 20,000 Share-exchange and share swap agreement 5,010,501 (5,010,501) Secured bank loans in USD 1.60 1.02 2017 155,947 189,471 with OTP Bank Plc. Secured bank loans in EUR 2.54 3.08 2013 – 2018 140,643 33,648 Treasury shares call back from OTP Bank Plc. (1,605,560) 1,605,560 Secured bank loans in HUF 8.05 6.25 2012 2014 30,115 469 Treasury shares call back from MFB Invest Zrt. (4,665,582) 4,665,582 Secured bank loans in HRK 5.10 7.53 2019 3,388 796 Treasury shares transferred as consideration 6,271,142 6,271,142 Financial lease payable 3.48 4.05 2011 2026 3,951 4,396 for 10% ownership in Pearl Other 0.53 0.04 2013 2015 6,958 4,841 Exercise of call options on MOL shares held by (7,552,874) 7,552,874 Total 1,049,960 932,688 BNP Paribas Current portion of long-term debt 102,050 103,577 Share sale on Budapest Stock Exchange 67,047 67,047 Total long-term debt net of current portion 947,910 829,111 Share transfer to Dana Gas and Crescent Petro51,090 51,090 leum to finance the 2009 work program of Pearl Notes to the financial 31 December 2009 104,518,485 (7,434,737) (17,882,552) 79,201,196 134,519,063 2010 2009 Settlement of the option agreement with ING HUF million HUF million (5,220,000) 5,220,000 Bank N.V. Maturity one to five years 690,852 623,822 statements New option agreement with ING Bank N.V 5,220,000 (5,220,000) Maturity over five years 257,058 205,289 31 December 2010 104,518,485 (7,434,737) (17,882,552) 79,201,196 134,519,063 Total 947,910 829,111 There were no movements in the number of issued ordinary shares of series “C”. All of the 578 shares are held as treasury Unsecured bank loans stock. Main elements of unsecured bank loans at MOL Plc. are the EUR 700 million and EUR 825 million syndicated multi-currency revolving loan facilities maturing in May, 2012 and in July 2013 and the EUR 500 million club facility maturing in 3 years. 18 Dividends Besides, INA has USD 1 billion syndicated multi-currency revolving loan facility, maturing partially in 2012 and partially in 2013. For financing of the strategic and commercial gas storage project MOL signed on 17 June 2009 an 8 year loan agreement The shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2010 approved to pay no dividend in respect of 2009. The total with EBRD (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development) as well. amount of reserves legally available for distribution based on the statutory company only financial statements of MOL Plc. is HUF 1,254,362 million and HUF 1,161,926 million as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively. Unsecured bonds in EUR The EUR 750 million fixed rate bond was issued by MOL Plc. in 2005. The notes are due on 5th October 2015, pay an annual coupon of 3.875% and are in the denomination of EUR 50,000 each. In 2010 MOL has also issued EUR 750 million fixed rate Eurobond notes. The notes have a 7 year maturity, pay an annual coupon of 5.875% and were priced at 315 bps above midswap rates. Both notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Unsecured bonds in HUF In 2010 MOL issued HUF 5,051 million fixed rate bond notes denominated in HUF. The notes have an 18 month maturity and pay an annual coupon of 6%. Secured bank loans in EUR Secured loans were obtained for specific capital expenditure projects and are secured by the assets financed from the loan. Financial lease payable The Group has finance leases or other agreements containing a financial lease element for various items of plant and machinery. These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. 134 MOL Group annual report 2010 135 Minimum lease payments and present values of payments as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively are as follows: Environmental Provision As of 31 December 2010 provision of HUF 70,027 million has been made for the estimated cost of remediation of past 2010 2010 2009 2009 environmental damages, primarily soil and groundwater contamination and disposal of hazardous wastes, such as acid Minimum lease Present value of Minimum lease Present value of tar, in Hungary, Croatia, Slovakia and Italy. The provision is made on the basis of assessments prepared by MOL’s internal payments payments payments payments environmental audit team. In 2006, an independent environmental auditor firm has reviewed MOL’s internal assessment HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million policies and control processes and validated those. The amount of the provision has been determined on the basis of existing Maturity not later than 1 year 788 674 824 703 technology at current prices by calculating risk-weighted cash flows discounted using estimated risk-free real interest rates. Maturity two to five years 2,811 2,197 2,861 2,203 Maturity over five years 1,452 1,080 2,092 1,490 The amount reported as at 31 December 2010 also includes a contingent liability of HUF 16,614 million recognized upon Total minimum lease payments 5,051 5,777 acquiring INA Group, representing its present environmental obligations and a further HUF 14,082 million environmental Less amounts representing financial charges (1,100) (1,381) contingent liability regarding the acquisition of IES (see Note 35). Present values of financial lease liabilities 3,951 3,951 4,396 4,396 Provision for Redundancy As part of a continuing efficiency improvement project, MOL Plc., Slovnaft a.s., INA d.d. and other Group members 20 Provisions for liabilities and charges decided to further optimize workforce. As the management is committed to these changes and the restructuring plan was communicated in detail to parties involved, the Group recognized a provision for the net present value of future redundancy payments and related tax and contribution. The closing balance of provision for redundancy is HUF 4,205 million and HUF Long term Field 3,330 million as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively. EnvironRedundancy employee operation Legal claims Other Total mental retirement suspension benefits HUF HUF HUF HUF HUF HUF HUF Provision for Field Operation Suspension Liabilities million million million million million million million As of 31 December 2010 provision of HUF 184,792 million has been made for estimated total costs of plugging and abandoning 39,702 3,656 8,878 97,312 1,083 2,348 152,979 wells upon termination of production. Approximately 15% of these costs are expected to be incurred between 2011 and Notes to the financial Balance as of 31 December 2008 Acquisition / (sale) of subsidiaries 28,869 213 5,177 84,192 15,398 18,881 152,730 2015 and the remaining 85% between 2016 and 2042. The amount of the provision has been determined on the basis of Additions and revision of previous estimates 1,136 444 1,376 (2,354) 2,745 17,151 20,498 management’s understanding of the respective legislation, calculated at current prices and discounted using estimated riskUnwinding of the discount 1,858 8 418 10,349 12,633 statements free real interest rates. Activities related to field suspension, such as plugging and abandoning wells upon termination of Currency differences 224 108 (86) (859) (297) 433 (477) Provision used during the year (2,226) (1,099) (1,347) (292) (768) (17,073) (22,805) production and remediation of the area are performed as a combination of hiring external resources (until 2014) and by Balance as of 31 December 2009 69,563 3,330 14,416 188,348 18,161 21,740 315,558 establishing such functions within the Group (from 2014 until 2042). Based on the judgment of the management, there will Acquisition / (sale) of subsidiaries (127) (67) (194) be sufficient capacity available for these activities in the area. As required by IAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment, the Additions and revision of previous estimates (157) 1,912 2,417 (3,770) 3,256 9,802 13,460 qualifying portion of the provision has been capitalized as a component of the underlying fields. Unwinding of the discount 3,697 419 12,103 16,219 Currency differences 975 (392) 191 2,035 466 144 3,419 Provision for Long-term Employee Retirement Benefits Provision used during the year (4,051) (645) (2,299) (13,924) (1,689) (1,477) (24,085) As of 31 December 2010 the Group has recognized a provision of HUF 15,144 million to cover its estimated obligation regarding Balance as of 31 December 2010 70,027 4,205 15,144 184,792 20,067 30,142 324,377 future retirement and jubilee benefits payable to current employees expected to retire from group entities. These entities Current portion 2009 4,913 354 1,906 293 7,422 17,977 32,865 Non-current portion 2009 64,650 2,976 12,510 188,055 10,739 3,763 282,693 operate benefit schemes that provide lump sum benefit to all employees at the time of their retirement. MOL employees Current portion 2010 4,957 1,460 1,697 457 9,844 25,427 43,842 are entitled to 3 times of their final monthly salary regardless of the period of service, while TVK and Slovnaft provide a Non-current portion 2010 65,070 2,745 13,447 184,335 10,223 4,715 280,535 maximum of 2 and 8 months of final salary respectively, depending on the length of service period. None of these plans have separately administered funds, therefore there are no plan assets. The amount of the provision has been determined using the projected unit credit method, based on financial and actuarial variables and assumptions that reflect relevant official statistical data and are in line with those incorporated in the business plan of the Group. Principal actuarial assumptions reflect an approximately 2% difference between the discount rate and the future salary increase. 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Present value of total defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 15,957 9,379 Past service cost not yet recognized at the beginning of the year 1,541 501 Balance as of the beginning of the year 14,416 8,878 Acquisitions / (disposals) 5,177 Past service cost 598 224 Current service cost 2,166 1,499 Interest costs 419 418 Provision used during the year (2,299) (1,347) Revision 86 100 Net actuarial (gain)/loss (434) (447) Exchange adjustment 192 (86) Balance as at year end 15,144 14,416 Past service cost not yet recognized at year end 1,423 1,541 Present value of total defined benefit obligation at year end 16,567 15,957 136 MOL Group annual report 2010 137 The following table summarises the components of net benefit expense recognized in the income statement as personnel 22 Trade and other payables expenses regarding provision for long-term employee retirement benefits: 2010 2009 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Current service cost 2,167 1,499 Trade payables 432,948 412,278 Revision 86 100 Taxes, contributions payable (excluding corporate tax) 147,738 170,937 Net actuarial (gain)/loss (434) (447) Shares sold with put and call options attached (see Note 17 and Note 34) 108,959 43,417 Past service cost 598 224 Amounts due to employees 25,861 19,703 Net benefit expense (See Note 26) 2,417 1,376 Advances from customers 14,068 8,555 Custom fees payable 11,100 10,433 Accrued expenses 9,623 11,083 The following table summarises the main financial and actuarial variables and assumptions based on which the amount of Discount payable to customers 6,901 4,500 retirement benefits were determined: Fee payable for strategic inventory storage 6,090 21,525 Liabilities to joint venture partners 5,002 3,885 Strategic capacity booking fee 4,594 1,047 2010 2009 Bank interest payable 3,761 2,493 Accrual due to E.ON price revision 2,793 4,309 Discount rate in % 2.0-4.3 3.0 – 5.0 Penalty payable to the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic 2,517 2,705 Average wage increase in % 0-2.3 1.0 – 3.0 Net payables from closed, but not settled derivative transactions 857 Mortality index (male) 0.06 – 3.45 0.06 – 3.45 Purchase price difference payable on Tifon and IC Energo acquisitions 340 1,500 Mortality index (female) 0.02 – 1.50 0.02 – 1.50 Fair value of MOL OTP share swap (see Note 17 and Note 34) 227 Notes to the financial Net payables from commodity price transactions designated as fair value hedge 61 (see Note 33 and Note 34) Legal and Other Provisions Payables from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 33 and 34) 53 statements Other 17,465 19,456 Legal and other provisions include provision for emission quotas and for cost of unutilised holiday and for other minor future Total 800,958 737,826 payment obligations. As of 31 December 2010 provision of HUF 20,067 million has been made for estimated total costs of litigations. As of 2010 MOL Group has been granted 6,372,038 emission quotas by the Hungarian, Slovak and Italian Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day terms. Contributions payable mainly include authorities. The total use of emission quotas amounted to 5,862,683 in 2010. In 2009 MOL Group sold a major part of the mining royalty, contributions to social security, value added tax and custom duties. quotas granted free of charge on the market and concurrently recognised a provision of HUF 12,719 million for the shortage of emission quotas. In 2010 the amount of such provision increased to HUF 13,513 million. 23 Short-term debt 21 Other non-current liabilities 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million 2010 2009 Secured bank loans in EUR 37,966 97,043 HUF million HUF million Secured bank loans in USD 25,022 47,394 Conversion option of exchangeable capital securities issued by Magnolia Secured bank loans in HRK 2,398 3,550 25,079 19,698 Secured bank loans in HUF 1,285 1,672 Finance Ltd (see Note 17) Government grants received (see Note 5) 6,753 5,136 Unsecured bank loans in EUR 79,712 9,698 Deferred income 5,109 6,113 Unsecured bank loans in HRK 8,116 7,450 Liabilities to Government of Croatia for sold apartments 2,827 2,993 Unsecured bank loans in PLN 3,541 5,758 Long term advances 1,656 2,006 Unsecured bank loans in USD 2,817 5,886 Payable from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 34) 205 362 Other 6 6 Other 4,481 2,437 Total 160,863 178,457 Total 46,110 38,745 Long-term liabilities to the government relates to obligation arising on the sale of housing units to employees under the government program of Croatia. According to the local law regulating housing sales, 65% of the proceeds from the sale of apartments to employees were payable to the state at such time as the proceeds were collected by INA. According to the Croatian law, INA has no liability to remit the funds unless and until they are collected from the employee. 138 MOL Group annual report 2010 139 24 Net sales revenues 26 Personnel expenses Sales by geographical area 2010 2009 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Hungary 1,236,270 1,139,292 Wages and salaries 160,979 124,879 Croatia 625,515 329,375 Social security 72,656 53,675 Italy 461,627 369,625 Other personnel expenses 33,719 19,048 Austria 362,909 254,555 Pension costs and post-employment benefits (see Note 20) 2,417 1,376 Slovakia 311,456 221,512 Expense of share-based payments (See Note 39) 2,197 1,960 Czech Republic 238,241 195,588 Total 271,968 200,938 Romania 186,008 137,925 Poland 166,807 119,431 Switzerland 136,332 115,372 63,566 88,228 27 Other operating expenses Germany Bosnia-Herzegovina 97,541 48,189 Serbia 61,454 47,409 Slovenia 46,775 37,727 2010 2009 Russia 29,818 22,714 United Kingdom 15,369 59,739 HUF million HUF million Rest of Europe 77,232 53,332 Mining royalties 166,156 98,230 Rest of Central-Eastern Europe 8,199 2,064 Rental costs 42,978 30,996 Notes to the financial Rest of the World 121,784 64,429 Taxes and contributions 36,341 28,049 Total 4,298,709 3,254,700 Crisis tax for Hungarian energy suppliers and retail activities 25,754 Other services 19,904 15,527 statements Exchange loss of trade receivables and payables 18,308 The Group had no single major customer the revenue from which would exceed 10% of the total net sales revenues in the Contribution to strategic inventory storage 17,667 17,065 years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009. Bank charges 8,927 4,878 Provision for legal and other claims 8,626 (12,660) Insurance 7,297 7,434 Consultancy fees 6,147 6,871 Sales by product types 2010 2009 Advertising expenses 5,846 6,353 Cleaning costs 5,187 4,517 HUF million HUF million Late payment penalties 4,672 6,472 Sales of oil products 2,717,833 1,989,818 Site security costs 3,692 3,582 Sales of petrochemicals 609,857 460,359 Outsourced bookkeeping services 3,378 3,380 Sales of natural gas 569,777 424,076 Environmental protection expenses, net 1,202 1,973 Rendering of services 244,965 210,535 Emission of greenhouse gases over quota allocated free of charge 757 12,514 Sales of crude oil 72,100 88,163 Environmental levy 707 720 Retail shop sales 84,177 81,749 Damages 200 197 Total 4,298,709 3,254,700 Environmental provision made during the year (157) 1,136 Provision for field abandonment (5,372) (211) Provision for doubtful receivables (11,885) 12,601 25 Other operating income Other 8,612 8,785 Total 374,944 258,409 2010 2009 Mining royalties include a one-off HUF 30,387 million reimbursement to the Hungarian state due to the decision of the EU HUF million HUF million Commission in 2010. An additional interest of HUF 4,840 million has been paid with respect to this reimbursement (see Penalties received 6,285 4,458 Note 28). Crisis tax of HUF 25,754 million has been imposed on various domestic energy supplying members of the Group Settlement of joint venture partner claim by natural gas transfer 3,591 (including the parent company) and the Hungarian retail shop selling activities of MOL Plc. by the Hungarian state from 2010. Allowances and subsidies received 3,315 1,316 Discounts received 2,288 373 The base of the tax charge is sales revenues of legal entities engaged in such activities. According to the relevant legislation, Gain on sales of intangibles, property, plant and equipment 2,228 20,212 crisis tax remains effective up until 2012 and is expected to have a similar magnitude in the forthcoming two years. Net gain realized on disposal of subsidiaries 756 25,665 Excess of fair value of INA’s and Energopetrol’s net assets over consideration (see Note 7) 21,285 Gain on the fair valuation of the previous investment in INA and Energopetrol (see Note 7) 22,925 Exchange gains of trade receivables and payables 6,510 Other 7,376 9,294 Total 25,839 112,038 HUF 28,156 million from gain on sales of subsidiaries in 2009 reflects the subsequent settlement from E.ON Ruhrgas International AG in connection with the gas business sales. 140 MOL Group annual report 2010 141 28 Financial (income) / expense 30 Income taxes Total applicable income taxes reported in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2010 2009 2009 include the following components: HUF million HUF million Interest received 7,437 10,534 Foreign exchange gain on borrowings 4,679 2010 2009 Net gain on derivative transactions 7,710 HUF million HUF million Net gain on sales of investments 313 Current corporate income taxes 31,780 52,182 Dividends received 714 430 Local trade tax and innovation fee 12,992 12,089 Other financial income, net 9,698 745 Deferred corporate income taxes 18,525 15,860 Total financial income 25,872 16,388 Total income tax expense/(benefit) 63,297 80,131 Foreign exchange loss on borrowings 42,231 Interest on borrowings 29,696 23,290 Interest on provisions 16,219 12,633 The Group’s current income taxes are determined on the basis of taxable statutory profit of the individual companies of Fair valuation loss on conversion option (see Note 17) 5,381 19,698 Interest on mining fee reimbursement (see Note 27) 4,840 the Group. The applicable corporate income tax rate on the taxable income of the companies of the Group operating in Net loss on derivative transactions 7,798 Hungary was 19% in 2010 and 16% in 2009. In addition, a solidarity surplus tax of 4% has been applicable for 2009 (cancelled Other financial expensis, net 6,562 13,312 from 1 January 2010 with the simultaneous increase of the corporate tax rate to 19%) and a further, temporary surplus tax Total financial expenses 104,929 76,731 of 8% applicable for domestic energy supplier entities until 2012. As per the Hungarian tax legislation, corporate tax rate Total financial expense, net 79,057 60,343 will decrease to 10% from 1 January 2013, however, the Hungarian Government announced its intention in March, 2011 to withdraw this decrease. Slovakian and Croatian tax rates were 19% and 20%, respectively, in both years. Italian tax rate was Notes to the financial Net gain on derivative transactions in 2010 contain HUF 10,149 million gain on the fair valuation of the call option held by the 36.9 % and 37.9% in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Enacted changes in tax rates are considered when calculating deferred tax Group on the MOL shares representing 7% of its share capital owned by CEZ (see Note 17). In 2009 fair valuation difference assets and liabilities. statements on CEZ option was HUF 3,745 million loss (see Note 17). Local trade tax represents another revenue-based tax for Hungarian subsidiaries, payable to local municipialities. Tax base is calculated by deducting certain production costs from sales revenue. Tax rates vary between 1-2% dependent on the 29 Components of other comprehensive income resolution of local governments where the entities have their business activities. There is no dividend withholding tax in Hungary on dividends paid to foreign tax resident legal entities. As regards dividend 2010 2009 paid to private individuals, a 10% personal income tax liability arises, also withheld at source. HUF million HUF million Exchange differences on translating foreign operations Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income Gains / (losses) arising during the year 42,875 640 Reclassification adjustments for gains and losses included in the income statement 115 42,875 755 2010 2009 Available-for-sale financial assets, net of deferred tax Gains / (losses) arising during the year 3,834 5,003 HUF million HUF million Reclassification adjustments for gains and losses included in the income statement (5,257) Deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income: (1,423) 5,003 Revaluations of available-for-sale financial assets (39) (730) Cash-flow hedges, net of deferred tax Revaluations of financial instruments treated as cash flow hedges 374 (391) Gains / (losses) arising during the year 351 1,775 335 (1,121) Reclassification adjustments for gains and losses included in the income statement (437) Reclassifications from equity to profit or loss: 351 1,338 Relating to available-for-sale financial assets (219) (595) Share of other comprehensive income for associates Relating to cash flow hedges 109 Gains / (losses) arising during the year 7,083 8,016 (219) (486) Reclassification adjustments for gains and losses included in the income statement 589 (17,399) Total income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 116 (1,607) 7,672 (9,383) 142 MOL Group annual report 2010 143 The deferred tax balances as of 31 December 2010 and 2009 in the consolidated balance sheet consist of the following items: No deferred tax assets have been recognized in respect of such losses elsewhere in the Group as they may not be used to offset taxable profits and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time. The amount of such tax Recognized in losses was HUF 4,116 million and HUF 5,548 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Balance sheet income statement 2010 2009 2010 2009 From the unused tax losses at the end of the period, HUF 48,967 million has no expiry, while HUF 50,902 million can be HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million utilized between 2011 and 2015. Breakdown of net deferred tax assets Unrealized gains on intra-group transfers 28,281 34,030 (6,072) (1,760) A numerical reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable tax rates Provisions 6,995 9,651 (2,643) 3,348 is as the follows: Depreciation, depletion and amortization (16,706) (14,439) (2,218) (4,046) Differences in accounting for domestic oil and gas exploration and devel(4,622) (5,937) 1,315 (999) opment 2010 2009 Capitalization of certain borrowing costs (4,661) (3,235) (1,422) (57) HUF million HUF million Embedded derivatives (412) (786) Profit before tax per consolidated income statement 172,014 170,372 Foreign exchange differences 1,739 1,262 478 1,798 Tax at the applicable tax rate (19%, 2009: 16%) 32,683 27,260 Valuation of financial instruments (522) (730) 207 (236) Surplus taxes and local trade tax 16,400 33,907 Capitalized periodic maintenance costs (975) (1,111) 135 (133) Differences not expected to reverse 3,800 15,259 Statutory tax losses carried forward 2,519 14,419 (11,919) (18,702) Effect of different tax rates (4,889) (2,212) Receivables write off 378 3,190 (2,957) 2,534 Losses of subsidiaries not recognized as an asset 7,357 6,720 Other 668 541 (17) 49 Non-taxable income (1,783) (387) Deferred tax assets 12,682 36,855 Revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities 3,147 (4,213) Breakdown of net deferred tax liabilities Impact of changes in Hungarian tax legislation 6,082 4,854 Notes to the financial Fair valuation of assets on acquisitions (111,756) (125,778) 11,529 2,843 Other 500 (1,057) Depreciation, depletion and amortization (27,638) (23,553) (3,576) (1,306) Total income tax expense / (benefit) at the effective income tax rate of 37% (2009: 47%) 63,297 80,131 Provisions 7,591 10,842 1,593 417 7,771 13,645 (6,089) 3,359 statements Statutory losses carried forward Differences not expected to reverse primarily include the tax impact of gains on treasury share transactions (see Note 17) Elimination of inter-company transactions (98) (124) 29 (284) which have been realized under Hungarian accounting standards and included in current year tax base. Under IFRS, however Receivables write off 507 685 (310) 60 these have not and will never be recognized in the consolidated income statement. Capitalization of borrowing costs (504) (447) (44) (134) Foreign exchange differences (59) (33) (93) 340 Inventory valuation difference 5,788 3,629 1,901 247 Valuation of financial instruments 2,524 1,174 1,228 (462) 31 Discontinued operations and disposal groups Other (2,438) (2,416) 420 (2,736) Deferred tax liabilities (118,312) (122,376) Net deferred tax asset / (liability) (105,630) (85,521) Discontinued operations Deferred tax (expense) / income (18,525) (15,860) Based on the Gas Master Agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and MOL on 30 January 2009 and amended on 16 December 2009, the Croatian Government should have taken over INA gas trading business before Analysis of movements in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year December 1, 2010. Since this has not happened and the ongoing negotiations do not yet indicate a revised timeline, this activity no longer meets the criteria for discontinued operations. Consequently, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are disclosed among continuing activities within the Exploration and Production segment. Income statement of the comparative 2010 2009 period has been restated accordingly. HUF million HUF million Net deferred tax asset / (liability) at 1 January (85,521) 17 Disposal Groups Recognized in income statement (18,525) (15,860) Considering the requirements of the conditional approval of the Anti-Monopoly Office of Croatia on the Amendment to the Recognized directly in fair valuation reserve 213 (1,121) Acquisition of subsidiaries (see Note 7) (68,236) Shareholders’ Agreement signed by and between MOL and the Government of Croatia retail activities of Crobenz d.d. a Sale of subsidiaries (see Note 8) (79) 100% subsidiary of INA d.d. should be sold. The sale obligation has been met in September, 2010, see Note 8. Exchange difference (1,718) (321) Net deferred tax asset / (liability) at 31 December (105,630) (85,521) The unrealized gains on intra-group transfers contain primarily the results of the gas unbundling. Due to the fact that this gain increased the tax base of the assets, but has been eliminated in the consolidation, the increase in the future depreciation gives rise to a deferred tax asset. Significant tax losses arose in 2008 at MOL Plc. as a result of the tax-deductible book value of shares cancelled in the capital decrease and the tax-deductible loss on fair valuation of certain options attached to shares held by third parties. Such tax losses have been fully used by the parent company in 2010. Additional tax losses arose at INA in 2009 and at IES S.p.a., TVK Plc. and some of TVK’s subsidiaries in 2009 and 2010. Since the Group estimates that these companies will have taxable profits available in the future to offset with these tax losses, a deferred tax asset of HUF 10,290 million and HUF 28,064 million has been recognized as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively. 144 MOL Group annual report 2010 145 As of 31 December 2009, the following assets and liabilities of INA’s gas trading business and of Crobenz were classified as 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies held for sale: As financial risk management is a centralized function in MOL Group, it is possible to integrate and measure all risks at group INA gas trading Retail activities level in a model using Value at Risk approach. A monthly Financial Risk Report is submitted to the senior management. business of Crobenz Total As a general approach, risk management considers the business as a well-balanced integrated portfolio and does not hedge HUF million HUF million HUF million particular elements of its commodity exposure in a businessasusual scenario. Therefore, MOL actively manages its Assets commodity exposures for the following purposes only: Intangible assets 66 66 Property, plant and equipment, net 769 769 – Corporate Level Objectives – maintenance of financial ratios, protection against large cash transaction exposures Total non-current assets 835 835 etc. , Inventories 19,614 234 19,848 Trade receivables, net 11,352 193 11,545 – Business Unit Objectives – To reduce the exposure of a Business Unit’s Cash-Flow to market price fluctuations in Other current assets 3,736 25 3,761 case of changes from the normal course of business (ex: planned refinery shutdowns) Cash and cash equivalents 1,598 1,598 Total current assets 36,300 452 36,752 MOL follows two different strategies based on the level of Net Gearing. In the two scenarios, Risk Management focuses on the followings: Assets classified as held for sale 36,300 1,287 37,587 Liabilities – In a High Gearing situation, the prime objective of risk management is to reduce the probability of breaching debt Long-term debt net of current portion 688 688 covenants, where a breach would seriously impair the company’s ability to fund its operations. Provisions 21 38 59 Deferred tax liabilities (646) (646) – In Low Gearing status, the focus of risk management shall be directed more toward guarding of shareholder value Other non-current liabilities 11 11 by maintaining discipline in CAPEX spending, ensuring risk-aware project selection. Trade and other payables 9,083 181 9,264 In line with MOL’s risk management policy, no speculative transactions are allowed. Any derivative transaction the company Notes to the financial Current portion of long-term debt 138 138 Short-term debt 7 7 may enter is under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements. Liability directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 9,122 399 9,521 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 27,178 888 28,066 statements MOL Commodity Trading Limited was established in 2009 with the purpose to centralize and manage MOL’s needs in oil and oil products derivatives, to optimize the Group-level CO2 quota position and to manage the procurement of electricity. In order to improve control over the resulting market risks, Value-at-Risk limits are applied and monitored on an on-going basis. 32 Earnings per share Continuous stress-tests and scenario analyses provide additional cushion for the safety in the trading book. Key Exposures Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders (net Group Risk Management identifies and measures the key risk drivers and quantifies their impact on the Group’s operating profit for the period less dividends on preference shares) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding results. MOL uses a bottom-up model for monitoring the key exposures. According to the model, the diesel crack spread, the during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated considering the dilutive effect of the convertible bonds and dated Brent price and gasoline crack spread have the biggest contribution to the cash-flow volatility. The cash-flow volatility the potentially dilutive effect of the conversion option embedded in the Perpetual Exchangeable Capital Securities in the implied by the FX rates, the other refined and petrochemical products are also significant. number of outstanding shares and by excluding the fair valuation difference of the conversion option from the net income attributable to equity holders of the parent. Due to the significant anti-dilutive effect of the fair valuation of the conversion Commodity Price Risk Management option in 2009, the diluted EPS was equal with the basic EPS in the comparative period. MOL Group as an integrated oil and gas company is exposed to commodity price risk on both the purchasing side and the sales side. The main commodity risks stem from long crude oil position to the extent of its Group level production, long Income Weighted average Earnings per refinery margin position to the extent of the refined product volumes and long petrochemical margin position. (HUF million) number of shares share (HUF) Basic Earnings Per Share 2009 95,058 85,324,368 1,114 MOL can enter into hedging transactions for the above mentioned Corporate Level Objectives and Business Unit Objectives Diluted Earnings Per Share 2009 95,058 85,324,368 1,114 purposes only. Basic Earnings Per Share 2010 103,958 84,421,196 1,231 Diluted Earnings Per Share 2010 109,399 90,428,675 1,209 In 2010 MOL concluded short term commodity swap transactions for inventory hedging purposes. These transactions are linked to potential price movements during the non business as usual refinery activities (e.g. maintenance periods), crude oil 2010 2009 procurement and other trading possibilities. As of 31 December 2010 the fair value of open commodity derivative transactions designated as fair value hedge was a net payable of HUF 61 million (see Note 22). The fair value of accompanying firm HUF million HUF million commitments as hedged items under commodity derivative transaction designated as fair value hedges was a net receivable Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic earnings per share 103,958 95,058 of HUF 61 million (see Note 15). In 2009 there were no commodity derivative transactions designated as hedge. Fair value of conversion option 5,381 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for diluted earnings per share 109,339 95,058 As of 31 December 2010 and 2009 the fair value of open commodity derivative transactions were a net receivable of HUF 21 million and HUF 146 million (see Note 15), respectively. 2010 2009 Foreign Currency Risk Management Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 84,421,196 85,324,368 Effect of dilution – Weighted average number of conversion of perpetual exchangeable securities 6,007,479 At group level, the Group has a net long USD, EUR, RON, HRK, and net short HUF, RUB operating cash flow position. Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 90,428,675 85,324,368 When MOL is in high gearing status, the Group follows the basic economic currency risk management principle (‘natural hedge’) that the currency mix of the debt portfolio should reflect the net operating cash flow position of the Group. 146 MOL Group annual report 2010 147 The Group may use cross currency swaps to adjust the currency mix of the debt portfolio. As of 31 December 2010 and 2009, Sensitivity analysis for key exposures there were no open cross currency transactions. In line with the international benchmark, Group Risk Management prepares sensitivity analysis. According to the Financial Risk Management Model, the key sensitivities are the following: The Group has two long-term international gas transit agreements (expiring in 2017 and 2019) under which consideration is calculated in SDR. The contractual provisions prescribing price calculation in SDR have been identified as a SDR/USD swap, being an embedded derivative under IAS 39, as the Group considers USD price setting to be closely related to the host 2010 2009 contract. This derivative has been separated from the host contract and designated as a cash flow hedge to the host gas Effect on profit from operations HUF billion HUF billion transit contract. The fair value of the embedded SDR derivative is a net receivable of HUF 4,116 million (HUF 3,704 million (including INA) (excluding INA) Brent crude oil price (change by +/5 USD/bbl; with fixed crack spreads and petrochemical margin) net of deferred tax) as of 31 December 2010 (see Note 12). The corresponding figure as of 31 December 2009 was HUF 4,139 Refining and Marketing + / 4.8 + / 2.0 million net receivable (HUF 3,353 million net of deferred tax). The decrease in the fair value of this instrument has been Exploration and Production +15.8 / 15.0 + 3.8 / 4.2 debited to equity. Petrochemical / + 5.4 / + 3.5 Crack spread (change by +/10 USD/t) INA has concluded certain longterm contracts on gas and crudeoil storage and transport, what contain embedded Refining and Marketing + / 42.3 + / 33.2 derivatives as defined by IAS 39. These derivatives has been separated from the host contracts and designated as fair value Exploration and Production + 5.3 / 3.1 + 0.7 / 0.8 hedge to the host gas and crudeoil contracts. The fair value of the embedded derivatives is a net receivable of HUF 184 Integrated petrochemical margin (change by +/10 EUR/t) Petrochemical + / 3.0 + / 3.1 million as of 31 December 2010 (see Note 12 and Note 15). The corresponding figure as of 31 December 2009 was HUF 1,097 Exchange rates (change by +/10 HUF/USD; with fixed crack spreads) million net receivable. Refining and Marketing + / 16.6 + / 11.6 Exploration and Production + 15.3 / 15.4 + 5.9 / -6.1 The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts and currency exchange options either as fair value hedges, in case of Petrochemical / + 13.1 / + 9.6 debts, either as cash-flow hedges in case a designated hedging relationship exist or as stand-alone derivatives and carries Exchange rates (change by +/10 HUF/EUR; with fixed crack spreads / them at fair values. targeted petrochemical margin) Notes to the financial Refining and Marketing + / 3.6 + / 2.6 Petrochemical + / 10.6 + / 11.4 As of 31 December 2010 and 2009 the fair value of open foreign exchange forward transactions was a net of receivable of Retail + / 0.2 + / 0.5 statements HUF 8 million and HUF 65 million (see Note 15), respectively. Interest rate risk management Other Exposures As an energy company, MOL has limited interest rate exposure. The ratio of fix/floating interest debt is determined by the Board of Directors on the basis of the suggestion of Group Risk Management from time to time, based on international best Credit risk practice. The Group provides a variety of customers with products and services, none of whom, based on volume and creditworthiness, present significant credit risk. Group procedures ensure that sales are made to customers with appropriate credit history and As result of the 750M EUR Bond transaction in 2005, 750M EUR Bond transaction in 2010 and 5,051 million Hungarian retail do not exceed an acceptable credit exposure limit. bond transaction also in 2010, the fixed portion of the total debt increased substantially. As of 31 December 2010 and 2009, 32.6% and 17.7% of the Group’s debt was at fixed rates respectively. Customers are allocated to 12 segments in order to provide better transparency and to achieve more conscious diversification. The different characteristics of the segments support the mitigation of credit risk. The Group may use interest rate swaps to manage the relative level of its exposure to cash flow interest rate risk associated with floating interest-bearing borrowings. For segments with higher risk profile the ratio of secured credit limits is also higher. Credit insurance, collateral, bank guarantee, letter of credit and lien are the most preferred insurance types. As of 31 December 2010 and 2009, there was no open interest rate swap transaction. As a result of being a major player in the Central-Eastern European region, approximately 70% of our customers is situated in that region; nevertheless our customer portfolio is very diversified from geographical point of view. Group procedures ensure that sales are made to customers with appropriate credit history and do not exceed an acceptable credit exposure limit. Individual credit limits are calculated and defined after external and internal assessment of customers. Information on existing and possible customers is gathered from well-known and reliable Credit Agencies. Internal assessment shall be done on the basis of information obtained, where individual credit limits are calculated by pre-defined algorithms. The internal semi-automated assessment shall be considered as an international best practice with conservative credit management approach. Sophisticated software solutions (SAP, CRM, Endur) ensure online monitoring of credit exposures, breach and expiry of credit limits and also overdue receivables. When such credit situations occur, shipments shall be blocked. Decisions on the unblocking of the shipments shall be made by authorized managers both on Financial and on Business side. The level of the Managerial decisions is regulated in Group policies. 148 MOL Group annual report 2010 149 Liquidity risk The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2010 and 2009 based on The Group policy is to maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents or have available funding through an adequate amount contractual undiscounted payments. of committed credit facilities to cover the liquidity risk in accordance with its financing strategy. The amount of undrawn major credit facilities as of 31 December 2010 consists of the following: 31 December 2010 On Less than 1 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Total HUF million demand 1 month months years years Long term loan facilities available (general corporate purpose) 421,487 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Short term facilities available 129,621 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Total loan facilities available 551,108 Obligations under financial leases 45 743 2,811 1,452 5,051 Floating rate long-term bank loans 1,097 53,486 33,725 432,054 142,456 662,818 Floating-rate other long-term loans 10 109 4,653 4,772 MOL Group’s diversified, long-term funding portfolio consists of renewable, revolving, syndicated and club loans, issued Floating-rate short-term bank loans 24,101 114,038 138,139 bonds and of loan facilities concluded with multilateral financial institutions. Floating-rate other short-term loans 24,210 24,210 Fixed rate bonds 20,687 295,799 233,627 550,113 Considering the refinancing of MOL’s EUR 1.5 billion syndicated multi-currency revolving loan facility with a maturity of Other Non-interest bearing long-term liabilities 20 796 5,286 5,096 11,198 October 2010, besides the EUR 525 million Forward Start facility, concluded in Q4 2009 with tenor of 18+6 months, MOL Transferred “A” shares with put and call has issued EUR 750 million fixed rate Eurobond notes. The notes have a 7 year maturity, pay an annual coupon of 5.875% and options attached 109,659 109,659 were priced at 315 bps above mid-swap rates. The notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. As a result, MOL Maximum exposure under financial 10,087 10,087 cancelled EUR 975 million from the EUR 1.5 billion revolving syndicated credit facility in Q3 2010. guarantees (see Note 35) Trade and other payables (excluding In September, 2010 due to the stabilizing commercial banking environment and MOL’s improved credit rating the Forward Transferred “A” shares with put and call Notes to the financial 15,480 270,744 242,090 528,314 options attached and taxes and contriStart facility was replaced by a new EUR 500 million club facility with more favourable conditions compared to those of the butions) Forward Start credit facility. The tenor of the facility is 3 years which can be extended by further 1 year. Total 26,664 348,406 546,057 740,603 382,631 2,044,361 statements Furthermore in September, 2010 INA has concluded a long term EUR 210 million loan facility for financing its refinery modernization program. EBRD participated with an amount of EUR 150 million in the total loan facility, the ICF-Debt Pool with EUR 50 million and the Cordiant Capital Fund with EUR 10 million. 31 December 2009 On Less than 1 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Total demand 1 month months years years HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million In November, 2010 MOL has signed a long term investment loan agreement with the European Investment Bank, in the Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: amount of EUR 150 million to finance the construction of 205 km long natural gas transmission pipeline between Városföld Obligations under financial leases 43 781 2,861 2,092 5,777 and the Hungarian-Croatian border. Floating rate long-term bank loans 67,844 44,311 616,416 23,620 752,191 Floating-rate other long-term loans 77 3 80 To further diversify the funding portfolio of MOL Group, MOL has set up a 100 billion HUF bond program for 2010-2011, and Floating-rate short-term bank loans 1,283 81,034 82,317 in October, 2010 MOL has issued an HUF 5 billion retail HUF bond with a tenor of 18 months under it. Floating-rate other short-term loans 27,930 27,930 Fixed rate bonds 7,871 31,485 211,001 250,357 Other The existing bank facilities ensure both sufficient level of liquidity and financial flexibility for the Group. Non-interest bearing long-term liabilities 8 206 5,219 5,171 10,604 Transferred “A” shares with put and call 43,805 43,805 options attached Maximum exposure under financial 13,576 13,576 guarantees Trade and other payables (excluding Transferred “A” shares with put and call 71,318 250,399 174,582 496,299 options attached and taxes and contributions) Total 84,894 319,577 380,597 655,984 241,884 1,682,936 150 MOL Group annual report 2010 151 Capital management Types and fair values of financial assets (excluding trade receivables, other current assets and cash and cash equivalents) and The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables) are the following: capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain 2010 2009 or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders HUF million HUF million Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income or issue new shares. Treasury share transactions (see Note 17) are also used for such purposes, No changes were made in the Cash flow hedges objectives, policies or processes during the years end 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. Net receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives as cash-flow hedge (see Note 12) 4,116 4,139 Total financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,116 4,139 The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives designated as hedges Receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair-value hedge (see Note 12) non current 155 2010 2009 Receivables from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair-value hedge (see Note 15) current 29 1,097 Fair value of firm commitments as hedged item under commodity price transactions (see Note 15) 61 HUF million HUF million Derivatives not designated as hedges Long-term debt, net of current portion 947,910 829,111 Fair value of the option on MOL shares transferred to CEZ (see Note 15) 28,858 3,989 Current portion of long-term debt 102,050 103,577 Fair value of share swap (see Note 15) 496 Short-term debt 160,863 178,457 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 313,166 177,105 Net receivables from commodity price transactions (see Note 15) 21 146 Net debt 897,657 934,040 Receivables from foreign exchange forward transactions (see Note 15) 8 65 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,435,070 1,294,005 Total financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 29,132 5,793 Non-controlling interest 539,407 535,647 Notes to the financial Loans and receivables Total equity 1,974,477 1,829,652 Loans given, net of current portion (see Note 12) 23,431 20,707 Capital and net debt 2,872,134 2,763,692 Current portion of loans given (see Note 15) 1,143 1,921 Gearing ratio (%) 31.3% 33.8% statements Total loans and receivables 24,574 22,628 Available for sale investments (see Note 11) Quoted equity shares – Jadranski Naftovod d.d. 13,460 12,473 34 Financial instruments Unquoted equity shares 8,041 6,141 Total available for sale investments 21,501 18,614 Total financial assets 79,323 51,174 Financial instruments in the balance sheet include investments, other non-current assets, trade receivables, other current Total non-current 49,203 43,460 assets, cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term debt, other long-term liabilities, trade and other payables. Total current 30,120 7,714 Derivatives are presented as other non-current assets, other non-current liabilities, other current assets and trade and other payables. Fair value of fixed rate bond which is carried at amortized cost is based on market prices. 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Conversion option of exchangeable capital securities by Magnolia Finance Ltd 25,079 19,698 (see Note 17 and Note 21) Derivatives designated as hedges Net payables from commodity price transactions designated as fair value hedge 61 (see Note 22 and Note 33) Payables from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 21) 205 362 Payables from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 22) 53 Derivatives not designated as hedges Fair value of share swap (see Note 22) 227 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 25,625 20,060 Financial liabilities at amortized cost Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,044,492 928,147 Current interest bearing loans and borrowings 160,863 178,457 Transferred “A” shares with put and call options attached (see Note 17 and 22) 108,959 43,417 Non-interest bearing long-term liabilities 5,468 4,541 Total financial liabilities at amortized cost 1,319,782 1,154,562 Total financial liabilities 1,345,407 1,174,622 Total non-current 1,075,244 952,748 Total current 270,163 221,874 152 MOL Group annual report 2010 153 Carrying amounts and fair values of the financial instruments are the following: The financial assets and liabilities measured by the Group at fair value as at 31 December 2010 are categorised as follows: Carrying amount Fair value 31 Dec 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 2009 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million Financial assets Financial assets Net receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives (see Note 12) 4,116 4,139 4,116 4,139 Available for sale investment in JANAF d.d. (see Note 11) 13,460 13,460 Available-for-sale investments (see Note 11) 21,501 18,614 21,501 18,614 Net receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives (see Note 12) 4,116 4,116 Loans given (see Note 12 and 15) 24,574 22,628 24,574 22,628 Receivables from currency risk hedging derivatives (see Note 12 and 15) 184 184 Trade receivables (see Note 14) 463,672 412,307 463,672 412,307 Fair value of firm commitments as hedged item under commodity price transac61 61 tions (see Note 15) Receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair-value hedge Net receivables from commodity price transactions (see Note 15) 21 21 184 1,097 184 1,097 (see Note 12 and 15) Fair value of firm commitments as hedged item under commodity price transacReceivables from foreign exchange forward transactions (see Note 15) 8 8 61 61 tions (see Note 15) Fair value of the option on MOL shares transferred to CEZ (see Note 15 and 17) 28,858 28,858 Receivables from foreign exchange forward transactions (see Note 15) 8 65 8 65 Financial liabilities Net receivables from commodity price transactions (see Note 15) 21 146 21 146 Conversion option of exchangeable capital securities by Magnolia Finance Ltd Fair value of the option on MOL shares transferred to CEZ (see Note 15) 28,858 3,989 28,858 3,989 25,079 25,079 (see Note 17 and Note 21) Fair value of share swap (see Note 15) 496 496 Fair value of share swap (see Note 22) 227 227 Other current assets (excluding derivatives, Loans given and prepaid and recoverable 50,917 43,141 50,917 43,141 Net payables from commodity price transactions designated as fair value hedge taxes, see Note 15) 61 61 (see Note 22 and Note 33) Cash and cash equivalents (see Note 16) 313,166 177,105 313,166 177,105 Payable from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 21 Financial liabilities 258 258 and 22) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Notes to the financial Obligations under financial leases 3,951 4,396 3,951 4,396 Floating rate long-term bank loans 608,970 719,342 608,970 719,342 31 Dec 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Floating rate other long-term loans 1,490 300 1,490 300 HUF million HUF million HUF million HUF million statements Floating rate short-term bank loans 160,857 178,451 160,857 178,451 Financial assets Floating-rate other short-term loans 6 6 6 6 Available for sale investment in JANAF d.d. (see Note 11) 12,473 12,473 Fixed rate bonds 430,081 204,109 383,154 165,937 Net receivable from currency risk hedging derivatives (see Note 12) 4,139 4,139 Non-interest bearing long-term liabilities 5,468 4,541 5,468 4,541 Receivables from currency risk hedging derivatives (see Note 15) 1,097 1,097 Conversion option of exchangeable capital securities by Magnolia Finance Ltd 25,079 19,698 25,079 19,698 Net receivables from commodity price transactions (see Note 15) 146 146 (see Note 17 and Note 21) Receivables from foreign exchange forward transactions (see Note 15) 65 65 Transferred “A” shares with put and call options attached (see Note 17 and 22) 108,959 43,417 108,959 43,417 Fair value of the option on MOL shares transferred to CEZ (see Note 15 and 17) 3,989 3,989 Fair value of share swap (see Note 17 and 22) 227 227 Fair value of share swap (see Note 15) 496 496 Payables from currency risk hedging derivatives as fair value hedge (see Note 21 258 362 258 362 Financial liabilities and 22) Conversion option of exchangeable capital securities by Magnolia Finance Ltd Net payables from commodity price transactions designated as fair value hedge 19,698 19,698 61 61 (see Note 17 and Note 21) (see Note 22 and Note 33) Payable from currency risk hedging derivatives (see Note 21) 362 362 Trade and other payables (excluding derivatives, Transferred “A” shares with put 519,619 487,762 519,619 487,762 and call options attached and taxes and contributions, see Note 22) The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 35 Commitments and contingent liabilities technique: Guarantees – Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities The total value of guarantees undertaken to parties outside the Group is HUF 10,087 million. – Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are Capital and Contractual Commitments observable, either directly or indirectly. The total value of capital commitments as of 31 December 2010 is HUF 64.0 billion, of which HUF 25.4 billion relates to – Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based capital and contractual commitments of INA, HUF 32.4 billion relates to capital and contractual commitments of Slovnaft on observable market data. and HUF 2.5 billion relates to MOL Plc. (the majority of which will arise in 2011). Gas Purchases Obligation, Take or Pay Contract TVK Erőmű Kft. has concluded a long-term gas purchase contract with E.ON Földgáz Trade Zrt. in order to ensure continuous operation of the power plant. As of 31 December 2010, 653 million cubic meters of natural gas (of which 555 mcm under takeor-pay commitment) will be purchased during the period ending 2018 based on this contract. Starting from 1 January, 2011 Prirodni plin d.o.o. concluded a new import contract with ENI Italy for procurement of app 2,250 million cubic meters of natural gas until 31 December 2013. 154 MOL Group annual report 2010 155 Operating leases In relation to the above described EU Commission decision the former paraffin customers may have the right to claim private Operating lease liabilities are as follows: damages from the paraffin cartel participants, i.e. from MOL, too. Currently a proceeding is going on against the decision of the European Commission before the European Court of Justice; accordingly for the time being and in the current phase MOL is not in the position to make any legal or fiscal estimation about the potential claims, if any. 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Proceedings with respect to Slovnaft Due not later than 1 year 6,806 7,561 The Anti-Monopoly Office of the Slovak Republic, Abuse of Dominance Department notified Slovnaft in a letter dated 21 Due two to five years 12,226 6,874 November 2005 on the commencing of administrative proceedings against Slovnaft due to a possible breach of the Act Due over five years 214 1,566 Total 19,246 16,001 No. 136/2001 on the Protection of Competition. Such administrative proceedings were focused on the investigation of Slovnaft’s price and discount policy on the diesel and gasoline market. In the decision issued on 22 December 2006 the Abuse of Dominance Department of the Anti-Monopoly Office stated that Slovnaft had abused its dominant position in the Out of the outstanding operating lease liabilities as of 31 December 2010 HUF 2,622 million were contracted by Slovnaft, relevant diesel and gasoline wholesale markets by applying the discounts in a discriminative manner against its individual HUF 3,917 million were contracted by INA and HUF 9,096 million were contracted by MOL Plc. customers and imposed a fine of SKK 300 million on Slovnaft. Slovnaft filed an appeal against the decision. The Council of the Antimonopoly Office adopted its final decision on 7 December, 2007 and confirmed the obligation of Slovnaft to pay the Authority procedures, litigation fine, which was paid by Slovnaft according to this decision on February 25, 2008. Legal proceedings by Surgutneftegas In January 2008 Slovnaft a.s. filed an action against the decision of the Anti-Monopoly Office of the Slovak Republic with Surgutneftegas has brought five legal proceedings against MOL Plc., three of which are litigations initiated before the the Regional Court in Bratislava for reviewing the lawfulness of the decision of the Council of the Anti-Monopoly Office Metropolitan Court of Budapest and the other two are judicial reviews initiated before the Metropolitan Court of Budapest and the procedure precedent to that decision including the first instance decision of the Anti-Monopoly Office. That action acting as Court of Registration. was accompanied by a motion to suspend the enforcement of the decision of the Council of the Antimonopoly Office. The obligation of Slovnaft a.s. has been suspended until a final and legally binding court decision on the merits of the case and full Notes to the financial In the first claim Surgutneftegas alleged that the Resolution of the Board of Directors which in the absence of the amount of the penalty was transferred by the Anti-Monopoly Office back to Slovnaft, a.s. on 8 April 2008. acknowledgement of notice of the Hungarian Energy Office prevented the incorporation of Surgutneftegas into the share statements register in 2009 violates the provisions of relevant laws. On 16 November 2010 the Metropolitan Court of Appeal as court of On 15 December 2009 the Regional Court in Bratislava set aside the first and second instance decisions and referred the second instance confirmed the decision of the Metropolitan Court dismissing the claim of Surgutneftegas. case back to the Anti-Monopoly Office for new proceedings, since the court found several serious defects in the proceedings held by the Anti-Monopoly Office and stated that the calculation of the imposed penalty was excessive, incorrect and In the second proceeding Surgutneftegas is seeking primarily for the repeal of all the resolutions of the AGM held on 23 April inappropriate relative to the alleged breach of competition law by Slovnaft, a.s. 2009 and alternatively for the repeal of the resolutions of the same AGM amending the Articles of Association of MOL Plc. The Metropolitan Court as court of first instance dismissed the claim of Surgutneftegas on 5 November 2010, but the legal The first instance decision in the new proceedings has been issued by the Anti-Monopoly Office on 10 December 2010. The proceedings will continue before the Metropolitan Court of Appeal. Office held that Slovnaft violated the Competition Act in relation to the market of gasoline wholesale in year 2006 and in relation to the market of diesel wholesale in years 2005 and 2006. The penalty imposed by the Office represents an amount In the third litigation Surgutneftegas claims that the Resolution of the Board of Directors refusing the incorporation of the of EUR 9 million. As Slovnaft does not agree with the findings and the conclusions of the Office, on 29 December 2010 it filed Company into the share register in 2010 violates the provisions of respective laws. The first hearing was held on 3 December an appeal with the Council of the Antimonopoly Office challenging the first instance decision. The result of that proceeding 2010 and the next hearing is set for 6 April 2011. is uncertain. Surgutneftegas has also initiated a judicial review before the Metropolitan Court of Budapest, acting as Court of Registration The International Commercial Arbitration Court at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation (Moscow in order to investigate the lawfulness of the resolution of the Board of Directors which in the absence of the acknowledgement Arbitration Court) imposed upon Slovnaft, as defendant, a duty to pay Mende Rossi, a Russian company which claimed that of notice of the Hungarian Energy Office refused the incorporation of the Surgutneftegas into the share register. The it entered into a contract with Slovnaft in 1993, an amount of USD 15.7 million together with 16% default interest per annum Metropolitan Court of Budapest, acting as Court of Registration terminated the judicial review proceedings with its resolution on the amount of USD 9 million from 24 June 1994 until payment and the costs related to the court proceedings for failing the issued on 26 January 2010 and dismissed the motion of Surgutneftegas for initiating judicial review procedure parallel with consideration of the alleged crude oil supplies as per the resolution of the court of arbitration issued in April 1996. the civil law suit. Surgutneftegas did not appeal against the decision. Mende-Rossi applied for the enforcement of the decision of the Moscow Arbitration Court first in Slovakia and then in Austria In the second judicial review before the same court Surgutneftegas supplemented its motion specified above (requesting in 1997. After the applications for enforcement was refused by final and binding decisions in both countries, in 2005 Mendethe investigation of the lawfulness of the resolution of the Board of Directors when refusing the incorporation of the Rossi sought enforcement in the Czech Republic, where proceedings are still ongoing. The probability of success in the case Surgutneftegas into the share register) by requesting at the same time the Metropolitan Court of Budapest, acting as Court cannot be quantified, since it is an extremely complicated matter both factually and legally. of Registration to repeal all the resolutions of the annual general meeting held on 23 April 2009. The Metropolitan Court of Budapest, acting as Court of Registration terminated the second judicial review procedure similar to the first one with its The District Court Prague 4 as the court of first instance passed a decision in September 2005 ordering the enforcement resolution issued on 2 February 2010. Surgutneftegas did not appeal against this decision either. of the Moscow Arbitration Court ‘s decision on Slovnaft´s property. According to the decision of the Municipal Court of Prague adopted on 24 February 2009 the decision of the court of first instance is now binding. However, there is a parallel Paraffin cartel infringement proceeding in the Czech Republic brought by Slovnaft aimed at preventing this enforcement. The District Court Prague 4 on The European Commission started an investigation in April 2005, based upon the alleged cartel activity of paraffin producers 22 November 2005 held that enforcement of its original decision is on hold whilst a decision is reached regarding Slovnaft’s and traders in Europe. The investigation affected some 10 major paraffin producers and traders throughout Europe. The application to prevent the enforcement. decision was adopted in October 2008 and stated that the companies harmonized their commercial activities on the European (European Economic Area) paraffin market and participated in a continuous cartel infringement. In case of MOL Pending court proceedings in the Czech Republic the amount of fine was set in EUR 23.7 million which was paid by MOL in early 2009. On 12 October 2005 Slovnaft filed against Ashford (who subsequently purchased the right to claim against Slovnaft from Mende-Rossi) a separate petition to stop or terminate the enforcement of the decision of the Moscow Arbitration Court. This procedure is still in progress. 156 MOL Group annual report 2010 157 On 29 May 2009 Slovnaft also filed an Extraordinary Appeal (Dovolanie) to the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic against investigation and submit the results and technical specifications to the authorities. Based on these results the authorities the decision adopted by the Municipal Court of Prague on 24 February 2009 ordering enforcement against the property of are expected to specify a future environmental risk management plan and to bring a resolution requiring TVK and MOL to Slovnaft. jointly perform this plan in order to manage the underground water contamination. The amount of obligation originating from this plan cannot be estimated currently, but it is not expected to exceed HUF 4 billion. Proceedings concerning the action to nullify an agreement concluded in 2006 between Slovnaft and MOLTRADE Mineralimpex Zrt on the transfer of ownership of Slovnaft Česká republika, spol. s r.o. company are pending. The participants in these open Furthermore, the technology applied in oil and gas exploration and development activities by the Group’s Hungarian court proceedings are Ashford and MOLTRADE Mineralimpex Zrt. There is not any new development in this dispute. predecessor before 1976 (being the year when the act on environmental protection and hazardous waste has become effective) may give rise to future remediation of drilling mud produced. This waste material has been treated and disposed Court proceedings at INA Group: of in line with environmental regulations ruling at that time, however, subsequent changes in legal definitions may result In the course of 2010 NAFTNA INDUSTRIJA SRBIJE A.D. (“NIS) filed a series of 7 lawsuits against INA and INA-OSIJEK in further re-location and remediation requirements. The existence of such obligation, and consequently the potential PETROL d.d. (INA-OSIJEK), as well as PETROL d.d., GRADITELJ d.d. u stečaju and FEROIMPEX d.o.o. as co-defendants, expenditure associated with it is dependent on the extent, volume and composition of drilling mud left behind at the before Croatian courts. In these proceedings, NIS claims from INA and/or INA’s subsidiaries the title over various pieces of numerous production sites, which cannot be estimated currently, but is not expected to exceed HUF 3-5 billion. real estate, primarily filling stations. Further to more detailed site investigations to be conducted in the future and the advancement of national legislation or NIS claims the title as legal successor of Serbian-based entities NAFTAGAS PROMET and JUGOPETROL, who were registered authority practice, additional contingent liabilities may arise at the industrial park around Mantova refinery and the Croatian owners of the pieces of real estate in question. The claims are based on alleged illegality of INA’s and its subsidiaries’ refineries, depots and retail sites which have been acquired in recent business combinations. As at 31 December, 2010, on acquisition of real estate through privatisation process, and/or as a consequence of Decree on Ban of Disposal with Fixed Group level the aggregate amount of contingent liabilities recorded on the balance sheet as environmental liabilities was Assets, Movable Property and Rights of Certain Enterprises and Other Legal Entities on the Territory of the Republic of HUF 30.7 billion (HUF 41.3 billion at 31 December, 2009). Croatia (Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia No. 39/91), and the Law on Ban of Disposal and Takeover of Funds of Certain Legal Entities on the Territory of the Republic of Croatia (Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia No. 29/94), made in favour of the Republic of Croatia, legal predecessor of INA or INA-OSIJEK, consequently the proceedings involve complex 36 Events after the reporting period Notes to the financial issues of state succession and privatisation. Enforceable decisions are not expected any time soon. Exercise of call option and share option agreement with ING statements General On 4 January 2011 MOL exercised its American call option right arising from the share option agreement signed on 11 March None of the litigations described above have any impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements except 2010 with ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) regarding 5,220,000 MOL Series “A” Ordinary shares with cash-settlement method, in as explicitly noted. MOL Group entities are parties to a number of civil actions arising in the ordinary course of business. respect of all shares. The strike price was EUR 75.4 per share. Settlement took place on 7 January 2011. Currently, no further litigation exists that could have a material adverse affect on the financial condition, assets, results or business of the Group. Simultaneously, MOL and ING signed a share option agreement on 4 January 2011. As a result of the transactions, MOL received an American call option and ING received a European put option regarding 5,220,000 MOL Series “A” Ordinary The value of litigation where members of the MOL Group act as defendant is HUF 41,428 million for which HUF 20,067 shares owned by ING. The maturity for both options is one year. The strike price for both call and put options is EUR 78.6 per million provision has been made. share. MOL Group has also filed suits, totalling HUF 218 million. General offer on INA freefloat shares On 14 December, 2010, MOL has announced on the Zagreb Stock Exchange a general offer to the shareholders of INA, d.d., Environmental liabilities not acting in concert with MOL, to purchase not more than the total of 800,910 un-encumbered and fully paid off INA, d.d. MOL’s operations are subject to the risk of liability arising from environmental damage or pollution and the cost of any ordinary shares, each in nominal value of HRK 900 for the price of HRK 2,800 per share. Such a General offer was not subject associated remedial work. MOL is currently responsible for significant remediation of past environmental damage relating to to provisions of the Croatian Takeover Act. The shareholders offered altogether 10,082 INA shares. The financial settlement its operations. Accordingly, MOL has established a provision of HUF 70,027 million for the estimated cost as at 31 December of the transaction was on 31 January 2011. 2010 for probable and quantifiable costs of rectifying past environmental damage (see Note 20). Although the management believes that these provisions are sufficient to satisfy such requirements to the extent that the related costs are reasonably Share sale and option agreement with UniCredit estimable, future regulatory developments or differences between known environmental conditions and actual conditions MOL entered into a share sale and a share option agreement with UniCredit Bank A.G. („UniCredit”) on 8 February 2011. As could cause a revaluation of these estimates. a result of this transaction, UniCredit owns a total number of 2,914,692 MOL Series “A” Ordinary shares. Under the share option agreement MOL has an American call option and UniCredit a European put option in relation to such shares. Both In addition, some of the Group’s premises may be affected by contamination where the cost of rectification is currently options mature in one year, such maturity being subject to yearly extensions with one year, up to a maximum total tenor of not quantifiable or legal requirement to do so is not evident. The main case where such contingent liabilities may exist three years. The strike price for both the call and the put options is EUR 85.8 per share. Due to the attached option structure, is the Tiszaújváros site, including both the facilities of TVK and MOL’s Tisza refinery, where the Group has identified the transaction has been recorded as a non-current financial liability. potentially significant underground water and surface soil contamination. In accordance with the resolutions of the regional environmental authorities combined for TVK and MOL’s Tisza Refinery, the Group is required to complete a detailed 158 MOL Group annual report 2010 159 37 Notes to the consolidated statements of cash-flows In case the position of the Chairman is not occupied by a non-executive director, it is the non-executive vice Chairman who is entitled for this payment. Directors who are not Hungarian citizens and do not have permanent address in Hungary are Cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December provided with EUR 1,500 on each Board meeting (maximum 15 times a year) when travelling to Hungary. Number of shares held by members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and the management 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Cash and cash equivalents according to Balance Sheet 313,166 177,105 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents as part of Disposal Group 1,598 Number of shares Number of shares Total Cash and cash equivalents 313,166 178,703 Board of Directors 306,017 421,490 Supervisory Board 380 547 Senior Management (except executive Board members) 109,566 156,191 Analysis of net cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries and non-controlling interest Total 415,963 578,228 2010 2009 Transactions with the Officers and Management of the Company HUF million HUF million Mr. Sándor Csányi, deputy chairman of the Board of Directors is also the Chairman-CEO of OTP Bank Plc. MOL Plc. and Cash consideration (541) (6,814) some of its subsidiaries have contractual relationship with the members of OTP Group, including having bank accounts and Cash at bank or on hand acquired 148 deposits, using credit card and brokerage services and obtaining loan financing. No transactions out of the usual conduct of Net cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures (541) (6,666) business have been concluded with OTP in 2009 or 2010. All of these transactions are on an arm’s-length basis. Issuance of long-term debt Mr. Martin Roman, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the Chairman of the Board of directors and CEO of Notes to the financial ČEZ, a.s. MOL and CEZ have established a JV which operates the boiler park at the Danube Refinery and the thermo-power plant at the Bratislava refinery and through which the preparatory work of planned construction of CCGTs at the refineries 2010 2009 statements of the Group in Bratislava and Százhalombatta is carried out. In addition to the cooperation presented above, in 2010 CEZ HUF million HUF million entered in the following business transactions with members of MOL Group: Increase in long-term debts 456,891 521,009 Non cash-flow element: unrealised exchange gains / (losses) (12,381) 3,222 – CEZ sold electricity to MOL Commodity Trading Kft. in the value of HUF 589 million; Total issuance of long-term debt 444,510 524,231 – I&C Energo a.s. provided various service works and delivery of material to CEZ in the value of HUF 7,375 million; – AFRAS Energo s.r.o. supplied spare parts for technology units and services related to these spare parts to CEZ in the value of HUF 478 million; 38 Related party transactions – Slovnaft Česká republika, a.s. delivered oil and lubricants to CEZ in the value of HUF 2 million. Mr. Miklós Dobák, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company is an international partner in consulting company Transactions with associated companies in the normal course of business IFUA Horváth & Partners Kft. In 2010 the company provided consulting services to the Group in the value of HUF 6 million. Mr. László Parragh, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company is also a member in Board of Directors of Malév 2010 2009 Magyar Légiközlekedési Zrt. and GYSEV Zrt. In 2010 the Group has sold goods to Malév and GYSEV in the value of HUF 80 HUF million HUF million million and 6,154 million, respectively. Trade and other receivables due from related parties 17,444 19,004 Trade and other payables due to related parties 5,763 6,475 Mr. Slavomír Hatina, member of the Supervisory Board has an indirect interest of a Slovakian company Granitol a.s. through Net sales to related parties 57,026 47,491 Slovintegra a.s. The Group has sold polyethylene to this company in 2010 and 2009 amounted to HUF 4,668 million and HUF 3,153 million respectively, carried out on usual commercial terms and market prices. Additionally, Mr. Hatina has an indirect The Group purchased and sold goods and services with related parties during the ordinary course of business in 2010 and interest of a Slovakian company Real–H.M. s.r.o. through BAITEC Group a.s. The Group has sold goods to this company in 2009. All of these transactions were conducted under market prices and conditions. INA Group has been consolidated using amount of HUF 31 million and HUF 2,614 million carried out on usual commercial terms and market prices during 2010 and the equity method until June 30, 2009, therefore transactions have been included in the balance of net sales above until that 2009, respectively. date. Mr. Oszkár Világi, a member of the Executive Board of the Company and Slovnaft’s Chief Executive Officer is a partner in Remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board legal firm Ruzicka Csekes s.r.o. The company and its predecessor CVD s.r.o provided legal services to the Group in the value Directors’ total remuneration approximated HUF 158 million and HUF 122 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, of HUF 48 million and HUF 104 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. the non-executive directors participate in a long-term incentive scheme details of which are given below. Total remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board approximated HUF 81 million in 2010 and HUF 84 million in 2009. Key management compensation The amounts disclosed contains the compensation of managers who qualify as a key management member of MOL Group. Directors are remunerated with the following net amounts in addition to the profit sharing program: In order to consistently adopt this presentation method, amounts presented in the comparative period have been adjusted by excluding the compensation of managers who qualify as key managers only for Slovnaft or TVK. – E xecutive and non-executive directors 25,000 EUR/year – Chairman of the Board, Deputy Chairman of the Board 31,250 EUR /year 160 MOL Group annual report 2010 161 Details of the share option rights granted during the year were as follows: 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 964 1,575 shares in shares in average Termination benefits conversion average exconversion exercise Post-employment benefits options ercise price options price Other long-term benefits 3 2010 2010 2009 2009 Share-based payments 1,575 share HUF/share share HUF/share Total 967 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 658,112 18,410 451,165 22,974 Granted during the year 214,402 15,893 248,573 10,960 Forfeited during the year (27,375) 17,506 (41,626) 23,392 Loans to the members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board Exercised during the year (100,746) 20,170 Expired during the year (4,124) 20,170 No loans have been granted to Directors or members of the Supervisory Board. Outstanding at the end of the year 740,269 17,465 658,112 18,410 Exercisable at the end of the year 133,882 21,146 115,040 20,170 39 Share-based payment plans As required by IFRS 2, this share-based compensation is accounted for as cash-settled payments, expensing the fair value of the benefit as determined at vesting date during the vesting period. As a consequence of increasing share prices, HUF 2,197 million expenses have been incurred in 2010, recorded as personnel-type expenses with a corresponding increase in Trade The expense recognized for employee services received during the year is shown in the following table: and other payables. In 2009 HUF 1,960 million expenses was recorded with respect to this scheme. Liabilities in respect of share-based payment plans amounted to HUF 5,435 million as at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: HUF 2,742 million), recorded in Other non-current liabilities and Other current liabilities. Notes to the financial 2010 2009 HUF million HUF million Fair value as of the balance sheet date was calculated using the binomial option pricing model. The inputs to the model were Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions statements as follows: Expense / (reversal of expense) arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions 2,197 1,960 Total expense / (reversal of expense) arising from share-based payment transactions 2,197 1,960 2010 2009 The share-based payments are described below. Weighted average exercise price (HUF / share) 17,465 18,410 Share price as of 31 December (HUF / share) 20,870 17,247 Expected volatility based on historical data 44.79% 44.25% The share-based payments serve the management’s long term incentive. The Complex long term managerial incentive Expected dividend yield 1.26% 1.93% system employs two incentive systems in parallel: profit sharing incentive – based on value added methodology – and the Estimated maturity (years) 2.72 2.82 option based incentive. Risk free interest rate 1.46% 2.08% Share Option Incentive Schemes for management Profit sharing incentive The incentive system based on stock options launched in 2006 ensures the interest of the management of the MOL Group in The profit sharing incentive relates to long-term, sustainable increase of profitability, based on the value added methodology, the long-term increase of MOL stock price. thus ensuring that the interest of the participants of the incentive system corresponds with that of shareholders of the Group. The incentive stock option is a material incentive disbursed in cash, calculated based on call options concerning MOL shares, It is a cash-settled annual net bonus calculated on the basis of increase in the value added. (Value added: recognises a profit with annual recurrence, with the following characteristics. performance generated on top of the cost of capital invested) – covers a 5-year period starting annually, where periods split into: Since the basis of determining one unit of the profit-sharing incentive for any given year is the audited financial statement for – a 3-year waiting period and a 2-year redemption period in case of managers staying in the previous system that year approved by the Annual General Meeting of the parent company, the incentive should be disbursed subsequent to for 2009, such Meeting closing the given year. – a 2-year waiting period and a 3-year redemption period in case of managers choosing the new system already for 2009, and it is valid for all of the entitled managers from 2010. No payment is expected with respect to 2010 based on this new incentive system. – its rate is defined by the quantity of units specified by MOL job category – the value of the units is set annually (in each year since the initiation of the scheme, 1 unit equals to 100 MOL shares). According to the new system it is not possible to redeem the share option until the end of the second year (waiting period); the redemption period lasts from 1 January of the 3rd year until 31 December of the 5th year. The incentive is paid in the redemption period according to the declaration of redemption. The paid amount of the incentive is determined as the product of the defined number and price increase (difference between the redemption price and the initial price) of shares. 162 MOL Group annual report 2010 163 Historical Summary Historical Summary of Financial Information (IFRS) of Financial Information Consolidated Income Statements for the Years Ended 31 December 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 restated restated restated restated restated HUF millions HUF millions HUF millions HUF millions USD millions* HUF millions USD millions*** Net revenue and other operating 2,992,149 2,669,014 3,554,752 3,366,738 16,642 4,324,548 20,781 income Total operating expenses 2,582,577 2,313,509 3,355,528 3,134,359 15,494 4,085,490 19,632 Profit from operations 409,572 355,505 199,224 232,379 1,149 239,058 1,149 Historical summary of Profit for the year attributable to 329,483 257,796 141,418 95,058 470 103,958 500 equity holders of the parent Consolidated Balance Sheets as at 31 December financial information 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 restated restated restated restated restated HUF millions HUF millions HUF millions HUF millions USD millions** HUF millions USD millions**** Non-current assets 1,301,035 1,544,236 2,027,899 3,073,859 16,341 3,143,711 15,063 Current assets 864,297 888,521 888,514 1,093,748 5,815 1,342,018 6,430 Total assets 2,165,332 2,432,757 2,916,413 4,167,607 22,156 4,485,729 21,494 Equity attributable to equity 1,079,666 792,164 1,112,981 1,294,005 6,879 1,435,070 6,876 holders of the parent Minority interest 191,537 127,417 118,419 535,647 2,848 539,407 2,585 Non-current liabilities 410,987 861,702 943,516 1,272,925 6,767 1,392,867 6,674 Current liabilities 483,142 651,474 741,497 1,065,030 5,662 1,118,385 5,359 Total equity and liabilities 2,165,332 2,432,757 2,916,413 4,167,607 22,156 4,485,729 21,494 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended 31 December 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 restated restated restated restated restated HUF millions HUF millions HUF millions HUF millions USD millions* HUF millions USD millions*** Net cash provided by operating 529,508 315,506 347,203 397,891 1,967 373,653 1,796 activities Net cash provided by / 111,669 (336,978) (474,792) (266,658) (1,318) (276,272) (1,328) (used in) investing activities Net cash provided by / (287,481) (245,951) 209,070 (169,173) (836) 26,794 129 (used in) financing activities (Decrease)/increase 353,696 (267,423) 81,481 (38,480) (190) 124,175 597 in cash and cash equivalents * 2009 average HUF/USD 202.3 ** 2009 year-end HUF/USD 188.1 *** 2010 average HUF/USD 208.1 **** 2010 year-end HUF/USD 208.7 164 MOL Group annual report 2010 165 Key Group operating data Gross reserves (according to SPE rules)* Natural gas Crude oil Combined Natural gas Crude oil Combined Proved reserves Proved reserves MCM Bcf kt million bbl million boe MCM Bcf kt million bbl million boe Hungary as of December 31, 2007 18,249.9 644.5 7,768.2 58.6 169.8 INA d.d. (25%) as of December 31, 2007 7.893 281.3 2,447.9 18.1 67.4 Revision of previous estimates (1,552.4) (54.8) (3,315.6) (25.0) (26.1) Revision of previous estimates 113.5 4.0 73.2 0.6 1.7 Extension and discoveries 50.9 1.8 7.8 0.1 0.4 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (2,619.8) (92.5) (811.2) (6.1) (23.0) Production (568.3) (20.1) (203.2) (1.5) (5.4) Key Group operating data Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 6,656.8 235.1 2,054.6 15.2 56.5 Hungary as of December 31, 2008 14,128.6 498.9 3,649.2 27.6 121.1 INA d.d. (47,16%) as of December 31, 2008 14,166.8 500.3 4,372.6 32.3 120.2 Revision of previous estimates 335.0 11.8 764.1 5.8 2.0 Revision of previous estimates (825.7) (29.2) 1,158.3 8.7 11.0 Extension and discoveries 413.3 14.6 66.3 0.5 3.4 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (2,751.3) (97.2) (780.1) (5.9) (23.6) Production (2,500.4) (88.3) (777.0) (5.8) (20.7) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 15,873.1 560.6 4,899.2 36.2 134.7 Hungary as of December 31, 2009 12,125.6 428.2 3,699.5 27.9 102.9 INA d.d. as of December 31, 2009 26,713.8 943.4 9,653.1 71.4 245.3 Revision of previous estimates 868.1 30.7 727.2 5.5 10.9 Revision of previous estimates 1,888.8 66.7 767.9 9.5 24.7 Extension and discoveries 279.6 9.9 0.0 0.0 1.8 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (2,678.6) (94.6) (726.9) (5.5) (22.0) Production (3,018.4) (106.6) (799.4) (6.0) (23.9) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Hungary as of December 31, 2010 10,594.6 374.1 3,699.8 27.9 93.6 INA d.d. as of December 31, 2010 25,584.2 903.5 9,621.7 75.0 246.1 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2007 1,787.6 63.1 13,434.8 95.6 107.5 Total (domestic+int') hydrocarbon Revision of previous estimates 0.0 0.0 230.0 1.9 1.7 28,002.2 988.9 23,650.9 172.3 344.7 reserves as of December 31, 2007 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 448.4 3.3 3.3 Production (53.1) (1.9) (1,191.7) (8.6) (9.0) Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon 30,029.9 1,060.5 20,943.3 152.0 344.8 reserves as of December 31, 2008 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2008 1,734.5 61.3 12,921.5 92.1 103.5 Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon 40,505.7 1,430.4 25,690.2 187.3 447.0 Revision of previous estimates 0.0 0.0 435.6 3.2 3.2 reserves as of December 31, 2009 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (68.2) (2.4) (1,019.5) (7.4) (7.8) Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon 37,434.2 1,322.0 24,708.4 184.0 429.1 reserves as of December 31, 2010 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2009 1,666.3 58.8 12,337.6 87.9 98.8 * The reserves include information about 100% of MMBF Ltd’s reserves. In case of INA, d.d. reserves data include MOL’s share proportionate to its ownership from reserves of INA, Revision of previous estimates (175.1) (6.2) 64.4 0.4 (0.6) d.d. till 31 December, 2008. Due to full consolidation of INA, d.d. reserves data from 31 December, 2009 include 100 % of INA’s reserves. In case of INA revision, extensions, discoveries and production figures are calculated by assuming 47.16% of MOL’s share for 2009. Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (235.9) (8.3) (1,015.0) (7.4) (8.9) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2010 1,255.4 44.3 11,387.0 81.0 89.3 * The reserves include information about 100% of MMBF Ltd’s reserves. In case of INA, d.d. reserves data include MOL’s share proportionate to its ownership from reserves of INA, d.d. till 31 December, 2008. Due to full consolidation of INA, d.d. reserves data from 31 December, 2009 include 100 % of INA’s reserves. In case of INA revision, extensions, discoveries and production figures are calculated by assuming 47.16% of MOL’s share for 2009. 166 MOL Group annual report 2010 167 Gross reserves (according to SPE rules)* Natural gas Crude oil Combined Natural gas Crude oil Combined Proved and probable reserves Proved and probable reserves MCM Bcf kt million bbl million boe MCM Bcf kt million bbl million boe Hungary as of December 31, 2007 23,003.1 812.3 9,477.5 71.6 209.8 INA d.d. (25%) as of December 31, 2007 11,189.5 395.2 3,198.4 23.6 93.6 Revision of previous estimates 1,063.4 37.6 (2,457.4) (18.6) (5.1) Revision of previous estimates 989.1 34.9 90.0 0.7 7.4 Extension and discoveries 96.9 3.4 194.3 1.5 2.2 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (2,619.8) (92.5) (811.2) (6.1) (23.0) Production (568.3) (20.1) (203.2) (1.5) (5.4) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 10,291.4 363.4 2,734.8 20.2 84.7 Hungary as of December 31, 2008 21,543.6 760.8 6,403.3 48.3 183.8 INA d.d. (47,16%) as of December 31, 2008 21,901.7 773.4 5,820.1 43.0 180.3 Revision of previous estimates 2,514.3 88.8 938.9 7.1 11.1 Revision of previous estimates (8,770.5) (309.7) 1,156.0 8.7 (36.6) Extension and discoveries 1,044.5 36.9 196.6 1.5 8.5 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (2,751.3) (97.2) (780.1) (5.9) (23.6) Production (2,500.4) (88.3) (777.0) (5.8) (20.7) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 24,539.5 866.6 6,521.0 48.2 202.1 Hungary as of December 31, 2009 22,351.2 789.3 6,758.7 51.0 179.8 INA d.d. as of December 31, 2009 35,170.3 1,242.0 12,720.1 94.1 325.1 Revision of previous estimates 841.0 29.7 544.8 4.1 10.5 Revision of previous estimates (161.4) (5.7) 279.0 2.0 3.4 Extension and discoveries 629.7 22.2 12.9 0.1 4.1 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (2,678.6) (94.6) (726.9) (5.5) (22.0) Production (3,018.4) (106.6) (799.4) (6.0) (23.9) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Key Group operating data Hungary as of December 31, 2010 21,143.2 746.7 6,589.5 49.8 172.5 INA d.d. as of December 31, 2010 31,990.4 1,129.7 12,199.8 90.2 304.6 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2007 1,947.6 68.8 16,557.6 118.0 130.8 Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon reserves Revision of previous estimates 0.0 0.0 1,316.1 10.1 9.9 36,140.2 1,276.3 29,233.5 213.1 434.2 as of December 31, 2007 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 5,046.6 36.7 36.7 Production (53.1) (1.9) (1,191.7) (8.6) (9.0) Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon reserves 45,339.8 1,601.2 33,952.0 247.5 532.6 as of December 31, 2008 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2008 1,894.5 66.9 21,728.7 156.1 168.5 Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon reserves Revision of previous estimates 0.0 0.0 (73.7) (0.5) (0.6) 59,347.8 2,095.8 40,114.3 293.4 665.1 as of December 31, 2009 Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (68.2) (2.4) (1,019.5) (7.4) (7.8) Total (domestic+int’) hydrocarbon reserves 54,731.5 1,932.8 37,071.7 271.0 618.8 as of December 31, 2010 Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2009 1,826.3 64.5 20,635.5 148.2 160.1 * The reserves include information about 100% of MMBF Ltd’s reserves. In case of INA, d.d. reserves data include MOL’s share proportionate to its ownership from reserves of INA, Revision of previous estimates 7.4 0.3 (1,338.1) (9.8) (9.5) d.d. till 31 December, 2008. Due to full consolidation of INA, d.d. reserves data from 31 December, 2009 include 100 % of INA’s reserves. In case of INA revision, extensions, discoveries and production figures are calculated by assuming 47.16% of MOL’s share for 2009. Extension and discoveries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Production (235.9) (8.3) (1,015.0) (7.4) (8.9) Purchase/sale of minerals in place 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia, Pakistan as of December 31, 2010 1,597.9 56.4 18,282.4 131.1 141.7 * The reserves include information about 100% of MMBF Ltd’s reserves. In case of INA, d.d. reserves data include MOL’s share proportionate to its ownership from reserves of INA, d.d. till 31 December, 2008. Due to full consolidation of INA, d.d. reserves data from 31 December, 2009 include 100 % of INA’s reserves. In case of INA revision, extensions, discoveries and production figures are calculated by assuming 47.16% of MOL’s share for 2009. 168 MOL Group annual report 2010 169 Average production costs* 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009** 2010*** Natural gas transmission volume (mcm) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Crude oil (USD/bbl) 6.28 6.33 9.98 13.53 15.49 18.98 20.96 Hungarian transmission 17,714 17,278 14,961 15,140 14,913 13,833 Natural gas (USD/MMcf) 937.7 861.3 936.3 1,347.6 997.7 1,477.2 1,822.9 Transit 2,570 2,386 2,390 2,427 1,768 2,201 Total (USD/boe) 6.05 5.87 8.03 11.16 11.21 14.06 15.41 *Excluding MMBF Plc. production from 2008 Transmission fee (HUF/cm) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 **Including INA H2 ***With INA, costs are exclusive of fair value depreciation and impairment. Hungarian transmission fee 3.03 3.16 3.68 3.89 4.44 4.75 Exploration and 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009** 2009*** 2010** Crude oil processing (kt) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010** development wells* Wells tested 41 (28) 19 (15) 52 (31) 32 (24) 73 (54) 57 (45) 103 (80) Domestic crude oil 908 852 800 771 1,052 1,146 of which exploration wells (of which Imported crude oil 11,503 11,673 12,487 14,259 15,529 17,109 12 (2) 7 (3) 16 (3) 12 (6) 17 (8) 13 (5) 20 (8) foreign) Total crude oil processing 12,411 12,525 13,287 15,030 16,581 18,255 crude oil (of which foreign) 1 (0) 2 (0) 0 (0) 2 (1) 5 (3) 3 (1) 7 (5) Condensates processing 210 214 162 197 254 297 natural gas (of which foreign) 2 (1) 1 (0) 8 (0) 6 (2) 6 (2) 6 (2) 7 (0) Other feedstock 2,433 2,371 2,854 2,914 2,865 3,282 dry/non commercial well (of which foreign) 9 (1) 4 (3) 8 (3) 4 (3) 6 (3) 4 (2) 6 (3) Total throughput 15,054 15,110 16,303 18,141 19,700 21,834 of which development wells (of which foreign) 29 (26) 12 (12) 36 (28) 20 (18) 56 (46) 44 (40) 83 (72) Contract and joint processing 0 0 0 0 0 0 crude oil (of which foreign) 29 (26) 11 (11) 31 (26) 17 (16) 43 (41) 41 (39) 70 (65) Key Group operating data Average distillation capacity used Duna Refinery % 91 89 91 88 81 83 natural gas (of which foreign) 0 (0) 1 (1) 3 (2) 2 (2) 12 (4) 3 (1) 10 (5) Average distillation capacity used Slovnaft % 95 98 98 100 95 97 dry well (of which foreign) 0 (0) 0 (0) 2 (0) 1 (0) 1 (1) 0 (0) 3 (2) * MOL Group with INA from 1July, 2009 *Foreign (without Hungary and Croatia) **With INA **MOL and INA ***MOL Crude oil product sales (kt) 2005 2006 2006 2008 2009* 2010** Hydrocarbon production** without LPG and gas products 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009*** 2010***** Sales in Hungary 4,065 4,630 4,701 4,753 4,751 4,194 (gross figures) (kt) Crude oil (domestic)* 884 857 799 743 715 715 647 Gas and heating oils 1,919 2,345 2,438 2,577 2,614 2,447 Crude oil (international) 1,369 1,310 1,323 1,181 1,011 1,446 1,793 Motor gasolines 1,148 1,286 1,331 1,297 1,319 1,102 Condensates (domestic) 206 216 162 163 146 146 128 Fuel oils 166 132 161 75 90 27 Condensates (international) 0 0 10 11 8 78 176 Bitumen 244 300 163 207 197 142 LPG (domestic) 206 200 157 133 125 125 113 Lubricants 26 24 26 20 21 22 LPG (international) 0 0 0 0 0 28 56 Other products 562 543 582 577 510 454 Other gas products (domestic) 51 43 41 33 29 29 28 Sales in Slovakia 1,378 1,464 1,524 1,626 1,427 1,519 Other gas products (international)**** 0 0 0 0 0 37 73 Gas and heating oils 719 786 838 905 807 926 Motor gasolines 420 406 444 457 412 407 *Excluding separated condensate Lubricants 15 11 10 8 9 5 **Excluding MMBF Plc. production from 2008 ***Including INA H2 Bitumen 96 99 85 93 77 69 ****2009: contains products produced from 20 MCM of net dry gas. 2010: contains products produced from 37 MCM of net dry gas. Other products 128 162 147 163 122 112 ***** With INA Sales in Croatia 1,457 2,061 Gas and heating oils 784 1,194 Motor gasolines 314 507 Natural gas production** Lubricants 6 9 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009*** 2010**** (net dry) (MCM) Bitumen 70 67 Natural gas production (domestic)* 2,966 3,028 2,488 2,480 2,280 2,280 2,192 Other products 283 284 Natural gas production (international) 31 51 58 53 68 1,102 2,838 Exprot sales 6,004 5,714 6,576 8,810 9,242 10,561 * From 2006 excluding original cushion gas production from MOL Natural Gas Storage due to the sale of storage Gas and heating oils 3,264 3,254 3,671 5,013 4,949 5,498 **Excluding MMBF Plc. production from 2008 Motor gasolines 1,534 1,263 1,365 1,667 1,911 2,136 ***Including INA H2 Lubricants (without base-oil) 28 28 26 22 24 22 ****With INA Bitumen 191 128 300 885 878 989 Other products 987 1,041 1,214 1,223 1,480 1,916 Total crude oil product sales 11,447 11,808 12,801 15,189 16,877 18,335 * MOL Group with INA from 1July, 2009 **With INA 170 MOL Group annual report 2010 171 Petrochmical production (kt) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Ethylene 796 775 870 812 789 794 LDPE 284 263 270 246 231 216 HDPE 353 360 404 361 387 417 PP 441 496 545 515 511 510 Petrochemical sales (kt) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Domestic sales 468 479 491 447 385 462 Slovakia 69 72 84 78 80 82 Export sales 758 819 912 833 881 871 Total product sales 1,295 1,370 1,487 1,358 1,346 1,415 Average headcount (person) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010** Key Group operating data Exploration and Production 1,502 1,428 1,504 1,516 1,498 1,486 Refining and Marketing 2,953 2,796 2,836 2,882 2,854 2,836 Gas and Power 6 1 0 17 33 37 Corporate Services 580 504 539 539 521 502 Headquarters and other 489 461 427 430 439 446 MOL Nyrt. total 5,530 5,190 5,306 5,384 5,345 5,307 Subsidiaries 10,056 9,121 9,194 10,606 20,189 28,107 MOL Group 15,586 14,311 14,500 15,990 25,534 33,414 * MOL Group with INA from 1July, 2009 ** With INA Closing headcount (person) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010* MOL Nyrt. 5,348 5,096 5,305 5,421 5,264 5,270 Subsidiaries 9,312 8,765 9,753 11,792 28,826 27,124 MOL Group 14,660 13,861 15,058 17,213 34,090 32,394 * MOL Group with INA 172 MOL Group annual report 2010 173 Sustainability: non-financial performance Sustainability: non-financial performance Sustainability Duna Refinery in Hungary 174 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 175 Interview György with Mosonyi Group Chief György Mosonyi Executive Officer, Chairman of the Sustainable But, for an oil and gas company, climate change is an Development unavoidable issue. Does MOL have any ideas about Committee what kind of business model it will follow in the lowcarbon economy? We are aware of the importance of the topic, which is why we created a climate change statement for The strategic period 2006-2010 ended last year. How MOL Group in 2009. Moreover, my colleagues do you evaluate group achievements in the field of from strategic development have prepared a very sustainability? thorough and detailed study about the potential risks The performance of recent years can be considered successful and opportunities MOL may face due to the transition because in September 2010 MOL was listed on the Dow What are the new directions for the next period from a to a low-carbon economy. As a result, in the next Jones Sustainability World Index, which is based on the sustainable development point of view? decade we aim to enter into the power generation best-acknowledged sustainability assessments in the world. Our principle, that sustainability is the basis for business business, construct geothermal energy-based power Moreover, we not only managed to be listed but we received a operations and not a ‘greenwashing’ PR exercise or simple plants, and, in line with EU objectives, continue high rating in all three dimensions of sustainable development; charity, has not changed. For the years ahead we have the development of more efficient and sustainable long-term economic, environmental and social criteria. But this defined our objectives as being in the following six focus biofuels. And energy efficiency will remain a focus. outcome is also supported by the several awards we received areas: climate change, environment, health and safety, in previous years. However, the growth of the Group creates communities, human capital and economic sustainability. newer challenges: our aim is that every company and business Every business and functional area contributes to the division of the continuously developing MOL Group will How do you evaluate performance efforts necessary to reach our targets, and they are valid manage environmental and social issues at the same high level. in 2010 in the light of sustainability in all countries. objectives? If I look only at the figures, then just like with our financial data, Sustainability What are the issues you will put special emphasis last year was successful: our on? environmental targets were mainly The above-mentioned six focus areas cover these met, employee engagement has issues. In our industry, occupational health and further increased, the satisfaction safety, the protection of the natural environment of our customers remained at a high and the prevention of unexpected events and level, we successfully supported incidents take utmost priority. This is why we social programs and we made fair have set strict and challenging targets in work progress towards our sustainability safety and that is also the reason we have made project related goals. But on the other HSE leadership training compulsory for every hand, the incident rate could not be newly-appointed manager. Another area is regular maintained at its good low level of dialogue with stakeholders, which is important previous years, and unfortunately, fatal incidents also occurred, which is unacceptable. MOL became a truly international player in the not only because of rising social expectations, oil and gas industry. What challenges does this but because it will play an increasingly important bring? role in the international operations of the coming The values of the Group are common, therefore years. But I should also mention the most essential the commitment of our mother company towards a contributors to the success of the company: we can number of international initiatives such as the United achieve our goals only with the help of properly Nations Global Compact – are valid for all members trained, motivated and engaged employees. And of the Group. And although is easy to formulate more valuable human capital contributes also to these words, it can take long years to extend and social progress in general. implement these policies, systems, processes and corporate culture, which represent these values, to all units. Fortunately, regular external acknowledgments like the recent ‘Gold Class’ ranking from SAM for sustainability – give us feedback that we are on the right track. 176 MOL Group annual report 2010 177 Sustainability: 1 Overview and Targets 1.1 2010 Results Sustainability: non-financial performance Overview of 2010 (targets and achievements related to the seven strategic Sustainable Development initiatives): non-financial performance Objective Result Fulfillment of the task * 1. Strengthen Good Governance and Risk Management Complete; finalisation of the brief version of the Code for Review and amend the Code of Ethics and related processes suppliers is ongoing Ethics e-learning and exam was passed by MOL Plc, TVK Plc. Increasing ethical awareness among employees through and Slovnaft a.s. employees; Ethics training sessions were held communication and e-learning in several other companies; internal communication has been on schedule The boundaries of the data contained in the sustainability chapter of the Annual Report are different to the boundaries used for financial data see details in ‘Notes on Non-Financial Reporting’ (p. 202). To have an appropriate basis for HAZID, HAZOP and WRA assessments have been completed Set up HSE Risk Map of PSM (Process Safety Management) critical comparison when evaluating environmental trends and the achievements of targets, INA Group (Croatia), IES (Italy) processes for the PSM critical processes which provide the base information for the Risk Map and Tifon (Croatia) data are excluded. In the detailed tables provided below we present the long-term trends in the ‘change’ column while a comparison has been made between data from 2010 and the first year with complete data. 2. Concentrate on Future Portfolio Steering Test water reservoirs based on MOL’s selected existing nonBusiness and technical model has been developed and tested productive hydrocarbon wells, and develop business model for with successful results geothermal energy production Feasibility study, sample measurements and main technical Take further steps towards realising the biogas project aims and financial parameters were estimated; other aspects of related to our biodiesel plant implementation are being investigated by experts and will be finished by the end of Q1 2011 Research on algae-based technology for CO2 fixation and Continue the investigation of possibilities to use renewable energy biocomponent production; R&D on new generation biofuels; sources in refineries scaling-up of this technology is ongoing 3. Focus on Internal and External Customer Relations Maintained high levels of customer satisfaction in retail and Maintain a high level of customer satisfaction in all business wholesale; customer loyalty has slightly decreased in the divisions Petrochemical Division: however it still coincided with market trends Sustainability A comprehensive branding project was initiated; milestones Define an integrated international branding process for MOL and key deliverables have been defined and approved by top Group management 4. Enhance Trust and Credibility Among Stakeholders Internal good practice workshop was held; necessary modifications to communication regulations have been Set up and/or formalise stakeholder engagement processes drafted; related regulations will be updated during the next review and will later be implemented. Concept and protocols were developed; implementation and Introduce and regulate Corporate Volunteering in MOL Plc. pilot period in 2011 Not only qualitative, but a quantitative analysis was prepared evaluating the social impact of the Greenbelt Programme from Prepare a Qualitative Analysis of the Social Impact of the the perspectives of value creation, community building and ’Greenbelt’ Donation Programme raising environmental awareness. The assessment revealed that the programme has been an outstanding success and has had a positive impact on local communities. 5. Reduce Environmental Footprint Largely achieved. Between 4.2% increase to 12.9% decrease Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 1% as a direct result of depending on business division resulting from energy greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction initiatives efficiency projects and changing production patterns Reduce MOL Group fresh water consumption by 10% Reduction of total water withdrawal by 35% compared to 2008 Environmental Impact Identification (ENVID) methodology was extended with biodiversity-relevant questions; the Group Level Set up biodiversity systems at both group and business unit levels Biodiversity Action Plan and Strategy (BAP) will be completed in 2011 Duna Refinery in Hungary * – level of fulfillment of the task ( =100%) 178 MOL Group annual report 2010 179 Communities Objective Result Fulfillment of the task * – Define general rules valid for all MOL Group companies engaged in advertising to guarantee 6. Manage Opportunities, Risk and Liabilities responsible marketing. in the Value Chain Have a total reportable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) of There were no occupational illnesses in MOL Group Human Capital zero – Enhance employer branding (strategy and image design) based on the results of the Have each business unit contribute by involving at least 75% of employees in the Workplace Health Promotion Programme The participation rate at our STEP Programme reached 81%, Employer Branding Survey of 2010; (‘STEP’), and keep Absence Rate under 2.5% (MOL, SN, SPC, while the absence rate was 1.8%,far better than the target – Preparation for the extension of the Employee Performance Management System in INA; TVK) – E xtend the Equal Opportunities Plan to major Hungarian subsidiaries; Have no work-related fatalities in MOL Group (staff, contractors 1 own staff, 2 contractor, 1 third party fatality – Continue the Professional Competency Development Program (Petroskills) in Exploration and Production and and third parties) extend to R&M and HSE. Within the MOL Group (excluding INA), the LTIF rate rose Reduce lost time injury frequency (LTIF) to below 1.0 above our target (1.5), but most of the injuries were not technology related (22 slips/ trips/falls out of the total 40 LTIs) Economic Sustainability – Issue a Business Continuity Management regulation valid for the MOL Group, and roll out first phase; Road accident rate (RAR) should not exceed 1.6 RAR of 1.22, far better than our target – Increase ethics awareness, improve the ethics management at the Group level, and implement all 7. Capitalise on Human Resources actions planned for 2011. Extend the Employee Performance Management System EPMS now covers more than 80% of Hungarian to Hungarian MOL Group companies (MOL-LUB, FGSZ and MOL Group employees Petroszolg) 2 Environmental Performance Base principles were integrated in the New Europe Programme Create a Group level guideline for equal opportunities and worksigned at the beginning of 2011 by the European Workers' life balance; prepare our first equal opportunity plan (EOP) Council. A handbook on how to make an EOP was prepared for 2.1 Climate change subsidiaries. In 2010, we spent our efforts on continuing the implementation of the action plans defined in the framework of MOL Group’s Climate Change Statement that was adopted in 2009. * – level of fulfillment of the task ( =100%) At the legislative level, a CO2 benchmarking system was developed by the European Commission in dialogue with stakeholders. This benchmarking system will drive CO2 reductions at least until 2020. MOL Group, via its membership 1.2 New strategic sustainable development (SD) objectives in industrial associations, took an active part in the effort to balance challenging benchmarks with ensuring the In 2010, the seven SD strategic initiatives for the period 2006-2010 were reviewed and updated. After a series of discussions competitiveness of our businesses on a global scale. and workshops, six SD focus areas were defined for the period 2011-2015: climate change, environment, health and safety, As in previous years, MOL also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2010, where climate change related data communities, human capital and economic sustainability. The six focus areas cover 20 topics, all of them considered essential are collected on behalf of major global investors. Parallelly, we enhanced our reporting of indirect GHG emissions. to the successful management of the long-term economic, social and environmental challenges MOL Group faces in the future. The strategic objectives have been broken down by business division and country/company level. We aim to finalise the Renewable energy Sustainability target setting and action planning process by mid-2011. The achievements of the key renewable energy projects are summarised below: The main objective at the Group level is to ’achieve and maintain an internationally acknowledged leading position (top – Second generation biofuel research: Based on broader feedstock, MOL is preparing for the timely fulfillment 20%) in sustainability performance.’ of the EU Renewable Energy Directive through the production of bio-components in a more economic and efficient manner. The first phase of the project resulted in patented results and the consortium submitted a new 1.3 Targets for 2011 in the six focus areas of sustainability tender to the National Office for Research and Technology (NKTH) for phase II. Climate Change – Biogas produced from the organic waste of our bio-diesel factory can substitute approximately 10% of the Duna – Reduce specific GHG emissions by 1% (baseline YE2010); Refinery’s heating needs, currently provided by natural gas. Following the completion of the feasibility study, – Obtain geothermal concession for the pilot project and executing geothermal related R&D activities; sample measurements and an estimation of the main technical parameters, the financial viability of the project – Finalise the integration of the biogas plant into refinery systems and start the construction work; is currently under investigation. – Continue the investigation of possibilities to use renewable energy sources in refining: – Algae oils are third-generation bio-fuel feedstock for biodiesel production: MOL DS Development has started an Continue research on algae-based technology for CO2 fixation and biocomponent production; algae research project in Százhalombatta. Based on our laboratory experiments, we have installed a pilot reactor R&D on new generation biofuels and further improvement of technology including to continue our research towards capturing CO2 from refinery flue gases and profitable algae oil production. algal biomass utilisation as biogas or biodiesel feedstock; – Geothermal energy: In line with European renewable targets, a new technological and business model was Increase the ratio of recycled vegetable oil (used cooking oil) in the fuel pool. developed by the Supply and Trading Division to utilise geothermal potential in Hungary and Croatia. Based on available assets (available 2D and 3D seismic data), some of the suitable reservoirs have been explored. Through Environment CEGE (company owned 50% by MOL), EUR 1.4 million was spent on this research with promising results. From – Using a risk-based approach, decrease the amount of known (YE2010) environmental liabilities both the technical and financial point of view, the project is ready to be launched with the aim of starting the across MOL Group by 5%; production by 2014. – Establish a group and business unit biodiversity system. – More efficient biofuels: since European regulations support biodiesel production from non-edible and waste feedstock, important steps have been taken to realise a project dealing with the municipal collection of used Health and Safety cooking oil as feedstock for our joint venture biodiesel company, Rossi (HU). Collection will occur at MOL’s own – Ensure total reportable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) of zero; filling stations. – Achieve 15% regularity rate in the STEP (WHP) Programme by the end of the year (MOL , TVK , SN , SPC); – Achieve zero work-related fatal accidents across MOL Group (staff, contractors and third parties); Energy efficiency and GHG emissions – Ensure LTIF is less than 1.0; MOL’s continued focus on improving energy efficiency was reflected in the reduction of CO2 emissions from installations – Ensure RAR is not higher than 1.6. subject to the emission trading scheme (ETS). In practice, 96% of all CO2 releases within the MOL Group (without INA) 180 MOL Group annual report 2010 181 are conditional on the EU Emissions Trading System (with INA: 67%). Verified emissions reached the level of 5.13 Mt CO2 At Exploration and Production, the biggest area for operational improvement was at INA Upstream, where the IPO Project in 2009. While in 2010, emissions before verification stand at 4.87 Mt; representing a 5% reduction. (assessment of INA d.d. hydrocarbon production activities at Posavina and Slavonija) was launched in 2010. Last year we In addition to a reduction in absolute figures, we have also met our internal target ‘to reduce specific CO2 emissions by reduced our internal gas consumption (feed gas, heating). one percent year over year’ in the Refining Division (-12.9%). However, due to three unplanned shutdowns in 2010, the At Refining, we have focused on basic pollutant emission reductions. The Leakage Detection and Repair (LDAR) Programme specific emissions of Petrochemicals slightly increased (+4.2%). at the Slovnaft Refinery for monitoring of volatile organic compounds (VOC) has been operating for several years, and we have now started a similar programme at the Danube Refinery as well. The aim is to have more reliable information on Direct and indirect energy consumption by source (GJ) VOC emissions, creating the basis for a VOC reduction programme. Through the ongoing energy efficiency programme, we can reduce the air pollutant emissions from flared gas. Change 2010 2009* 2010* 2009-2010 Total MOL There were two major projects in the Petchem Division. In order to meet the air emission standards within our operating (%) Group permit, we increased the capacity and renovated the quench oil unloading station. The second project was the installation Natural Gas 20,556,116 20,511,218 -0.2% 26,855,282 of fixed roofs on floating roof tanks. The aim was to reduce the evaporation of raw materials. Other hydrocarbon (e.g. fuel) 54,311,663 52,273,334 -3.8% 76,982,160 Compared to the Refining or Petchem Divisions, the Logistics and Retail Divisions are not so significant in terms of air Total primary energy consumption 74,867,779 72,784,552 -2.8% 103,837,442 emissions, but we do not consider being of lower priority though. With the aim of VOC reduction in mind, we began Electricity 7,476,690 8,080,860 +8.1% 9,301,736 reconstruction of the Vapor Recovery Unit (VRU) at the Komárom Logistics Depot, and initiated a programme (LDAR) to Other indirect energy (steam, heat, etc.) 9,204,196 8,604,808 -6.5% 9,924,985 measure VOCs at the Korneuburg Depot. Total indirect energy consumption 16,680,887 16,685,668 0.0% 19,226,722 Total energy consumption 91,548,666 89,470,220 -2.3% 123,064,164 2.3 Water management * excluding IES and INA Water withdrawals Each division involved contributed its share to this positive performance. Energy efficiency improvement at the Refining Considering the same set of reporting companies as previous years, at a group level we achieved a further reduction Division, covered by the ‘EIFFEL Programme’ and managed by DS Development, delivered an estimated reduction of fuel in total water withdrawals. Compared to our baseline year 2008 the amount of water withdrawn decreased by nearly consumption by 35 TJ/y (Terajoules/year). Some reductions were also due to a decrease in crude oil processing and general 35% as a combined effect of a decrease in production due to turnarounds, a change in the product slate, minor turnarounds (general offstream period). technological improvements and the outsourcing of the Slovnaft Thermal Power Plant to CEZ-MOL joint venture Similar programmes have been running in the Exploration and Production Divisions as well. In Hungary, the ENRAC (Energy company in 2009. Rationalization) Project’s goal has been to increase energy and maintenance savings resulting in reduced upstream CO2 emissions. Lower As a result of INA and IES consolidation, the total volume of water withdrawals in MOL Group increased by 68%. emissions have mainly been achieved by modernising heating systems and changing compressor drives from gas to electric engines. Compared to 2009, the volume of wastewater recycled and reused also increased by 25% and reached 2.7% of total Flaring is a specific issue for Exploration and Production installations. Our goal is to flare or vent gas only for technological water withdrawals. At the Sisak Refinery (INA) we plan several technological developments aimed at achieving a 17% reasons and in case of emergencies. This goal has been fulfilled 100% in Hungary. In Pakistan, we achieved a thirty-five percent reduction of water withdrawals in the near future. In Mantova Refinery (IES) a study was prepared on water consumption reduction in the volume of flared gas, while in Russia we are working on the utilisation of associated gas instead of flaring. reduction. In the Petrochemical (Petchem) Division, we have established a Demand Management Team responsible for the monitoring In our petrochemical plants we reduced water withdrawals by 6.5% (compared to the baseline year 2008) and the ratio of Sustainability and optimisation of energy utilisation from the source to the consumer, and for the investigation of losses. Improved steam recycled wastewater compared to 2009 raised by half. Based on water technology improvements planned in TVK, a saving management resulted in a 1.3 TJ reduction in steam losses at TVK (HU), and an additional 3 TJ cut in steam consumption at of 0.6 million m3 /y water can be achieved from 2011. SPC (SK). Almost 3 kt of CO2 were saved as a result of better process regulation and the revamp of furnaces at the SPC Steam Cracker, thus saving 15 million m3 of natural gas. Total water withdrawals by source (th m3) At the Natural Gas Transmission Division, MOL reduced energy consumption through the optimisation of gas turbine operation and boiler performance. Through the application of new techniques during pipeline servicing and maintenance, 2010 Change 2010 we reduced the volume of flared gases. 2008* 2009* (without 2008-2010 Total MOL In 2010, the energy efficiency audit of key production plants was continued by the MOL Energy Efficiency Team. The audit of TVK INA) (%) Group was completed, and we aim to begin implementation of the action plan in 2011. The audit of the Exploration and Production Algyő Municipal water supplies or other water utilities 2,186.4 2,175.5 2,449.1 +12.0% 3,523.7 Gas Preparation Plan (HU) was also initiated in mid-2010, and will be finalised in Q1 of 2011. Surface Water Withdrawals 65,612.4 50,653.2 36,267.6 -44.7% 68,512.4 Ground Water Withdrawals 9,421.9 8,950.4 10,610.4 +12.6% 14,766.4 2.2 Air emissions Rainwater Collected Directly and Stored 591.1 583.8 9.0 -98.5% 565.3 In 2010, the total air emissions (excluding GHG) decreased significantly (by 11.7%) compared to 2009, if we take into account Wastewater from Other Organisations 8,233.9 6,054.6 6,794.3 -17.5% 6,794.3 the same set of companies. If we include the air emission data of IES and INA, then air emissions practically doubled. Total Water Withdrawals 86,045.8 68,417.5 56,130.4 -34.8% 94,162.1 Total air emissions (excl. GHG) by type (t) *2008 and 2009 data were restated to correct local misinterpretation of the indicator: groundwater withdrawals from remediation processes at the Slovnaft Refinery were excluded. 2010 Change 2010 2008 2009 (without 2008-2010 Total MOL Water discharge INA) (%) Group Compared to 2009, the total discharge volume and the amount of contaminants such as total petroleum hydrocarbon SO2 (Sulphur Dioxide) 8,805 4,389 2,940 -66.6% 13,142 (TPH), chemical and biological oxygen demand (COD, BOD) and suspended solids (SS) increased due to data consolidation NOx (Nitrogen Oxides) 5,054 3,937 3,442 -31.9% 7,874 (TPH 69%, COD 32%, BOD 50%, SS 16%). Without incorporating data from INA and IES our performance was stable with VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) 5,627 3,683 4,133 -26.5% 4,211 no significant changes in the amount of emitted contaminants. CO (Carbon Monoxide) 824 880 864 +4.8% 1,599 In line with the Water Framework Directive, our focus has shifted from the physical and chemical quality of water to its PM (Particulate Matter) 298 205 184 -38.2% 361 biological quality. We utilise Whole Effluent Assessment (WEA) methodology, comprising ecotoxicity, persistence and Total 20,608 13,094 11,563 -43.9% 27,187 bioaccumulation tests in the Hungarian and the Slovakian refineries to assess the ecological impacts of final refinery 182 MOL Group annual report 2010 183 effluents. We found that the persistent organic content of effluents has a strong potential to accumulate and make the Spills discharged wastewater moderately ecotoxic. Our ecological impacts on the aquatic environment can be reduced by In 2010, there were 15 spills into the environment (over 1 m3) by the MOL Group (excluding INA). Another 11 cases happened recycling and reuse of the final effluents. at our Croatian operations. The majority of spills happened at Exploration and Production due to ruptures on mainly oily At the Zala Refinery the capacity of the waste water treatment unit was improved by 100%, allowing us to reduce the COD water delivery pipelines. Some of the causes of the ruptures included the age of the pipelines, changed fluid composition of discharged water. In order to manage the COD level we connected our system to the public sewage system, so final at oil fields, and intention of stealing the condensate from pipelines. In order to prevent further spills, Exploration and cleaning is carried out in the waste water treatment unit of the town. Production has invested great effort to replace or repair critical pipeline corridors. Furthermore, due to pipeline sealing problems or other technological reasons, additional spills occurred at Refining and 2.4 Waste management, spills and site remediation Marketing (10). The total volume of the spills amounted to 186 m3 in 2010. After detecting the incidents, all necessary measures for aleviating the damage and its consequences were immediately put Waste management into effect. In 2010, the total amount of waste from MOL Group operations (without INA and IES) was approximately 157 thousand tons, the same as in 2008, but signalling an 18% increase compared to 2009. Due to our efforts the ratio of reused or Remediation recycled waste has increased by 15% since 2008. MOL Group spent nearly HUF 3 billion for remediation of environmental damage in 2010. The share of responsibilty was divided among the Group as follows: MOL Plc. HUF 1.07 billion, Slovnaft HUF 1.45 billion, TVK HUF 0.12 billion and IES HUF Total weight of waste by type (t) 0.2 billion. Remediation actions were also necessary in other countries, including Bosnia, though the order of magnitude was lower. Remediation tasks are managed at the group level, and are gradually being extended to the member companies. In INA, an 2010 Change 2010 2008Total assessment of provision-based environmental liabilities and the subsequent provisions (in line with the IFRS requirements) 2006 2007 2008 2009 (without 2010 MOL was completed in 2010. The primary goal of 2011 is the preparation of the future remediation programme and beginning the INA) (%) Group process of to eliminating environmental burdens. Hazardous Waste 167,589 85,171 98,791 66,782 88,083 -10.8% 92,918 The majority of our remediation and monitoring tasks are naturally in Hungary and Slovakia, with the number of related Non-hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 57,619 66,873 69,246 +20.2% 77,604 locations exceeding 250. Liabilities arise along the entire value chain. Besides the refineries, petrochemical and logistic sites, Total n.a. n.a. 156,410 133,655 157,329 +0.6% 170,522 we also aim to improve the environmental status of various production facilities and filling stations. We have focused on monitoring activities, since in this way we can receive feedback regarding the success of remediation and risk minimisation actions. In 2010, we completed remediation at seven locations, and closed the post-monitoring phase at twenty further sites. The increase in waste production resulted from several turnarounds and other maintenance works which had been In 2010, with the support of the National Office of Research and Technology (NKTH), we continued our four-year (2009postponed from the previous year. For example, the disposal of a large amount of oily sludge accumulated in the Danube Refinery’s waste water treatment plant led to 5,900 tons reported in additionally in the Refining Division. The quantity of 2012) innovation programme in cooperation with TVK Plc. and external partners. The project titled ’Chemical Sector and non-hazardous waste increased by 9000 tons due to an obligation to clean the designated area for the construction of the Liveable Environment – Development of Innovative Technologies in the Protection of the Environment’ supports the analysis new CCGT Power Plant at the Danube Refinery. and validation of sustainability criteria in remediation activities, as well as operating technologies with minimal power consumption and low waste or no-waste production (contaminated water, soil, filters, etc.). Successful tests of innovative Total weight of waste by disposal method (t) barrier technologies were executed in the shallow and deep zones, which we aim to continue in 2011 as well. Sustainability 2.5 Biodiversity 2010 Change 2010 In 2010, the Environmental Impact Identification (ENVID) methodology was extended to cover an initial biodiversity 2006 2007 2008 2009 (without 2008Total 2010 MOL assessment and plan. We aim to conduct a pilot risk and impact assessment in 2011. This baseline biodiversity questionnaire INA) (%) Group has two objectives: first, to identify or confirm species, habitats, and ecosystems that are wholly or partly within the site or project boundaries, along with their related functions and services; and secondly, to identify statutory designations and Waste Disposed / Landfilled 256,429 74,959 92,175 68,198 68,975 -25.2% 80,202 Waste Reused / Recycled 55,016 86,180 64,235 65,456 88,355 +37.5% 90,320 priority species, habitats and ecosystems. Meeting these objectives we established the baseline for future monitoring of Total: 311,445 161,139 156,410 133,655 157,329 +0.6% 170,522 impacts and of the performance of the MOL Group Biodiversity Action Plan and Strategy (BAP) aligned to the existing HSE Ratio of reused/recycled management system and processes. n.a. n.a. 41% 49% 56% 53% waste (%): In Exploration and Production Hungary, agreements with local national parks were signed to carry out biodiversity studies for our operations and to train our employees on how to coexist with the sensitive flora and fauna. In Pakistan, all projects are internally monitored. Third party audits of our operations were also carried out in environmentally sensitive areas. All project Examples of waste management actions: sites were restored and rehabilitated after completion of various activities. – Instituted waste reduction methods at the Rijeka Refinery in order to reduce the creation of oily sludge. Sludge was treated utilising the decanter and centrifuge technique (partial reuse); 2.6 HSE Penalties – Treatment of 3000 tons of oil-based mud cuttings has been managed through bioremediation in Pakistan. In 2010, the MOL Group had to pay a total of HUF 11.06 million in HSErelated penalties. Moreover, the lower penalties in this Treated cuttings were later used in construction as fill material; year compared to the previous one (2009: HUF 14.7 million) also contain the penalties paid by companies of the INA Group – Launched the Green Office Programme at several sites and countries. Measures included digitalization of (HUF 2.63 million). If the data is compared, excluding the INA Group, both the number and the total amount of penalties documents, reduction of paper use (recycled paper use, 2-sided printing), installation of shared printers and demonstrated a marked decrease (HUF 8.43 million in 2010). refilling toner cartridges. Certain administrative mistakes in environmental data reporting (HUF 1.5 million) or the faulty performance of our contractors (HUF 1.91 million) were responsible for some of the fines. However, occasional minor breaches of work-safety In our Lubricants Division, 19% (2009: 9.2%) of sold products were recollected and used as raw material for bitumen regulations were also the cause of 0.9 million HUF in penalties. production in our refineries. Considering the HSE aspects of the oil and gas industry, the level of compliance has clearly improved in recent years. However, we still are not satisfied with this figure and our goal is to reduce all health, safety and environmentally related penalties to zero throughout the entire MOL Group. MOL did not receive any HSE-related non-monetary sanctions in 2010. 184 MOL Group annual report 2010 185 3 Social Performance – One contractor fatality ocurred in Hungary at the MOL Logistics’ Csepel base depot during a tank cleaning by contractors when an explosion killed the worker inside. The investigation was closed and corrective actions are 3.1 Personal Safety being implemented under the upgraded Contractor Safety Programme. – One third party fatality happened in Croatia when a child playing near the railroad close to the Sisak Refinery fence Workforce Safety was hit by a railway tank car (RTC) train. In 2010, as in previous years, we preserved the challenging target of 1.0 for Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF, number of injuries / mn worked hours), valid for the whole MOL Group excluding INA and IES. A total of 38 lost time injuries happened Road Safety during the year, resulting in an LTIF value of 1.56. Although this number is still much better than the industry benchmark In the interest of safer traffic, we have expanded the Defensive Driving Programme. Those colleagues whose work requires (CONCAWE downstream, 1.9 for both 2008 and 2009), it is unacceptable according to our HSE targets. regular driving take part in a theoretical defensive driving course, and then participate in a monthly distance learning programme to keep their newly-acquired knowledge fresh. Participants also attend practical training sessions complete with Number and frequency of lost time injuries personal evaluations. We recommend and offer the possibility to our drivers to take part in a supplemental driving course as well. The four modules of the course include: ‘Slippery road’, ‘Off-road’, ‘Drive at night and poor visibility conditions’, and the ‘Untrained drivers’ training. In 2010, approximately 400 employees of MOL Group participated in this programme. As Change 20062010 2010 a result of our efforts, compared to 2009, we have decreased our road accident rate (RAR, number of road accidents per 2006* 2007* 2008* 2009* 2010* 2010 INA Total 1 million km driven) from 1.62 to 1.22. (%) In order to provide the possibility for drivers to refresh themselves by simple and fun physical exercises (‘fit to drive’ concept), Lost Time Injury (LTI) 58 37 24 28 38 -34% 64 104 an outdoor fitness park with exercise equipment was installed in one FS each in Hungary, Slovakia and Croatia (Tifon). Lost Time Injury Our external company magazine, Stílus & Lendület, regularly publishes road safety alerts called ’70 Rules for Safe Driving’ 2.20 1.52 0.99 1.18 1.56 -29% 3.1 2.25 Frequency (LTIF) for customers of our filling stations. * excluding ISE and INA Contractor Safety Activities regarding contractor safety in 2010 were mainly influenced by an unfortunate event involving our on-site contractor In the Refining and Marketing division several initiatives were launched to improve the HSE cultural level of employees: (fatality of contractor’s employee) which happened in March of that year at the MOL Hungary Csepel site. The company – Revitalisation of the Behavior Audit system (’Walk2Talk’) analysed the accident and identified all shortcomings and areas for improvement in Contractor HSE Management. HSE and – New internal quick reports of all events and sharing information on HSE weekly reports to the whole staff all relevant businesses are now focused on system improvement, primarily in contractor pre-qualification, proper training – Restructuring of the HSE training system to increase its efficiency (more interactive) prior to job execution, on-site inspection of contractors during implementation, and a motivation system to ensure that – In Logistics the ’Program ZERO’ was started (commitment to Zero fatality, injury and occupational illness) contractors abide by all HSE rules relevant to the on-site work environment. – A Logistics-level HSE Committee structure has been established Besides these activities, we continued external audits of our strategic and key on-site contractors. A total of 147 audits were conducted, in which 53 percent of audited contractors achieved the advanced rating. In INA d.d. the LTIF was 3.1 for 64 LTI cases, which is slightly below the previous year’s level. INA Exploration and Production was much better than the INA average (LTIF was 1.1; better than LTIF for European Exploration and Production as defined by Number and ratio of audited key contractors by HSE performance Sustainability OGP). However, the situation is not the same at INA Refining and Marketing, which had an LTIF 4.8; far above the European R&M average according to CONCAWE. 2009 2010 It must be noted that the Croatian legal system regarding definitions and compensation for injuries at work is different (number 2009 (number 2010 of audits) (%) of audits) (%) than the general industry standard. Hence, there are disparities concerning the motivation of employees to declare some injuries as work-related injuries. Moreover, 40% of the injuries that occurred at INA d.d. were the result of robberies at INA Basic 41 46% 57 39% filling stations (post traumatic stress disorder) and 87% were treated as light injuries. Analysing the statistics, one can also Advanced 43 48% 78 53% distinguish a seasonal distribution of injuries (majority during winter and harvest periods). Excellent 5 6% 12 8% Total 89 147 In order to improve the safety performance of INA, a number of actions are being taken, including: – an Incident Reporting and Investigation System (IRIS) was established, with obligatory investigation of all injuries and the use of TRIPOD root-cause analysis for all medium and major incidents based on the MOL Group IRIS System; 3.2 Health Protection and Promotion – a new Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Regulation was established at INA with clear definitions of OHS responsibilities; Occupational Health – a network of OHS and HSE Committees was established at all levels, and the transfer of the MOL Group HSE Largely due to a well-regulated Occupational Health Policy supported by high quality external operating staff, we once again management system is accelerated. recorded no occupational illnesses in our business divisions in 2010. In line with the most recent international trends regarding human resource management, our occupational health processes One of the main causes of LTIs remains the improperly managed winter conditions, and lack of proper attention to pedestrian are based on a detailed Workplace Risk Assessment. In 2010, in addition to all health and safety workplace-related risks, we traffic and on-site activities. Subsequently, a number of slips, trips and falls resulted in largely minor injuries. Collisions with succeeded in fully assessing the psycho-social and ergonomic risks to our employees. The subsequent data served as a basis objects in the working environment and transport-related injuries must also be noted. to manage these risks. Moreover, a specific instrumental measurement methodology was introduced to assess the psychosocial risks of the most vulnerable target group, the shift employees. We deeply regret that even with our vigilance, there were fatal accidents to one of our own staff, two contractors and one We are strongly committed to protect our employees. Staff are regularly monitored through biological monitoring to third party: minimise occupational exposure to less than 50% of the legally required limit. – One staff member was found dead in a water utility pit at the Slovnaft Refinery. External and internal investigations were conducted and corrective actions have been implemented to avoid similar accidents in the future. Workplace Health Promotion (STEP) – One contractor was fatally wounded in Pakistan when a security contractor’s armed guard was hit during a firefight The key objective of the current phase of our workplace health promotion programme (STEP – Take a Step for your Health) initiated by local tribal forces. is to create an adequate company health culture and to invest in the development of health-promoting employee behaviour. 186 MOL Group annual report 2010 187 The main programme elements are Extra Screening, STEP Active, Effective Health Communication and the Stop Smoking 3.4 Investment in Human Capital Campaign. The recent inclusion of IES and MOL Romania brought the total of participating MOL Group member companies to 14 in seven countries. STEP now covers 45 percent of the total workforce (excluding INA). Attracting Employees Competitive compensation and career opportunities provided by the expansion of MOL Group coupled with a prosperous New programs were started in several locations in 2010, including: relationship with secondary and higher education institutes and active career management has enabled us to retain key – An office package including office gymnastics and mobile massage. Office employees participated 688 times in employees and constantly attract new talent. gymnastics and took advantage of the mobile massage 1,856 times; – A total of 28 teams and more than 185 employees participated in the ’together-easier’ competition at MOL Competitive compensation Hungary. The drive was aimed to motivate colleagues to lose weight and improve their fitness level; Our job grading system is based on the HAY Methodology. By extending the system to our subsidiary companies in 2010, – Many improvements were also realised in the organisation of STEP screenings and STEP communication. about 75 percent of MOL Group employee positions (excluding INA) were graded. HAY enabled the company to manage a single, logical, transparent and consistent system that ensures the adequate treatment of our employees based on the Almost 6600 employees took part in different STEP programmes – 3,653 in different sport activities in 2010, including 2,254 nature of their work and their position within the company. Moreover, the results of the grading process provided the basis new participants. The cumulative participation rate of 81% exceeded our 75% target for 2010. for a fair compensation system. The health-related absence rate was only 1.80% (related to total scheduled working hours at MOL, Slovnaft, TVK and SPC); Compensation packages – based on HAY grades and performance appraisals – are aimed at the top 25% of the local market an outstanding result even at the EU level. level but also take into consideration the financial resources and special needs/situation of local companies. 3.3 Process Safety and Risk Management Range of ratios of corporate minimum wage compared to local minimum wage at significant (more than 100 employees) operating locations (%) COMPASS – the HSE risk assessment framework For the successful implementation of our HSE risk assessment framework, we have perpetuated our COMPASS Project Country (Company) 2009 2010 (comprehensive risk assessment). The programme applies ten internationally accepted risk assessment methodologies that Austria (Roth Heizöle GmbH) n.a. 111% cover the workplace, technological processes and environmentally-related areas of risk analysis (HAZID, ENVID, JSA, EIA, Bosnia Herzegovina (Energopetrol d.d.) n.a. 148% etc.). Croatia (INA d.d.) 133% 133% Hungary (MOL Plc.) 171% 173% Main achievements in 2010 include: Italy (IES S.p.A.) n.a. 168% – implementation of COMPASS, focused on the sites of MOL, Slovnaft and SPC in which qualitative analyses covered Romania (MOL Romania PP s.r.l.) n.a. 152% exploration and production, refining, logistics and retail activities following HSE risk assessment standards; Pakistan (MOL Pakistan Ltd.) 250% 349% Russia (BaiTex LLC) n.a. 142% – HAZOP assessments were executed with regards to quantitative processrelated risks, resulting in the coverage Serbia (Intermol d.o.o.) 113% 112% of approximately 80% of critical operations; Slovakia (Slovnaft a.s.) 152% 170% – an IT tool named ’COMPASS ITSS’ was developed, providing a ’smart tool’ for line management’s risk-based Slovenia (MOL Slovenija d.o.o.) n.a 100% decisions. COMPASS ITSS will be expanded in the future to support other risk-related Group processes, e.g. Sustainability Enterprise Risk Management. The compensation system is dependent upon performance. Taking their annual performance into consideration, employees In 2011, COMPASS is aimed to be extended to INA, IES, Tifon, MOL Austria, MOL Romania and MOL Pakistan, while its receive an annual bonus. The managerial compensation system consists of shortand long-term incentive elements such as implementation at the Group level is aimed to be completed by the end of 2012. bonuses, a complex long-term incentive linked to the MOL stock price, and the company’s performance/results. Our fringe benefit system, amounting to 20-40 percent of the annual compensation package, is subject to national tax, Process Safety Management health and pension requirements. The system ensures the flexible choice of social (e.g. health care services/payments, childMOL Group has continued operating and further improving the Process Safety Management (PSM) System, first and/or pension care, insurance, etc.) and other non-social (e.g. Internet, etc.) fringe benefits according to individual needs. implemented in 2006. The main reason for PSM is to minimise the number of process-related incidents (including low hazard operations without strict legal standards) which could result in fire, explosion, property damage, and harm to people or the Investing in education environment. Measuring the efficiency and evaluation of the implementation were the main focuses in 2010. Specific PSM According to the results of the survey carried out by AON-Hewitt and Figyelő among fresh graduates, MOL was the second key performance indicators (KPI) were defined and applied to measure the progress, perform internal benchmarking, and most desired company in 2010, and the top one in the financial sector. This is the highest recognition of our long-term efforts to establish necessary actions for the future. We also started an auditing process to observe the implementation process in to attract and retain talent. detail at individual operations and for individual PSM elements. Partnership with secondary schools Emergency preparedness and response MOL has been maintaining close and regular cooperation with secondary schools. A lack of natural science experts has been Even though the mainstay of our fire safety strategy is prevention, and modern and effective fire-detection and built-in observed in the market. Therefore, special attention has been given to promote natural science studies among secondary fire-fighting systems, renewal of fire water networks as well as the most modern firefighting agents and equipment has schools. contributed even further to the improvement of MOL Group’s firefighting efficiency. In 2010, we supported more than 70 vocational schools and offered internships for 293 students at MOL Group – primarily In 2010, a total of 23 fires were reported within the MOL Group, excluding INA. The majority of the blazes were caused by some small for those attending chemical, gas and mechanical studies. Furthermore, MOL sponsored numerous competitions in leakages where the escaping hot hydrocarbons were self-ignited. Thankfully, none of the conflagrations resulted in injuries, asset mathematics, physics and chemistry. loss or any other real damages. However, some serious fires also occurred, mainly at Exploration and Production or its contractors. The most serious fire/explosion happened at the Csepel base depot where a contractor lost his life while cleaning a tank. Two of the main elements of successful emergency preparedness are exercises and drills. The entire workforce underwent many exercises together with the local fire brigades (e.g. the Exploration and Production Division held 15 exercises at the Group level). Emergency drills and exercises are conducted regularly on all sites, especially in refineries and on petrochemical sites. Twenty-eight emergency drills were executed in 2010 within Petchem alone. 188 MOL Group annual report 2010 189 Also in 2010, new initiatives were launched aiming to make natural sciences more popular among secondary school students Growww – our fresh graduate programme and identify future talents at an early stage: MOL Group’s one year-long Growww Programme offers job opportunities for new graduates in a fast-growing, international – The ’Together for the Future Engineers Association’ was established in May 2010 by MOL and eleven other organisation. Besides local and international career opportunities, MOL offers above-average compensation packages. Over Hungarian multinational companies (Bosch, Siemens, Ericsson, etc.). The aim of the association is to garner the last four years, nearly 600 new graduates participated in the programme; 92% of them still work for MOL Group (in greater prestige for the engineering profession and natural sciences amongst the next generation. Hungary, Slovakia, Italy, Pakistan and Romania), and a few of them have already been promoted to managerial positions. The – A s a MOL initiative, the ’MesterM Award’ (‘My Master’) was introduced in Hungary. This award is given to programme is supported and supervised by top management. Growww primarily focuses on students with an engineering secondary school teachers for their outstanding efforts in promoting subjects in the natural sciences. In 2010, a background. In 2010, from among more than 3,900 applicants from seven countries (Hungary, Slovakia, Italy, Romania, total of 160 nominations arrived from university students. Pakistan, Russia and Croatia) a total of 261 fresh graduates (105 in INA) were offered the opportunity to join MOL. In 2011, – ’Junior Freshhh,’ a natural science competition for secondary school students, was launched with great success. A the number of participants is expected to exceed 290. total of 900 3-member teams took part in the competition, with the best 6 teams invited for the Live Final at Duna Refinery (Százhalombatta) in December. Number of participants by division Investment in education by the type of support provided in Hungary Division 2007 2008 2009 2010 Exploration & Production 7 39 18 42 2008 2009 2010 Refining & Marketing 30 39 39 97 Petrochemicals 19 13 6 15 Internship 307 332 293 Retail 6 6 0 10 Vocational school (institution) 51 62 79 Development support Lubricants 3 3 1 2 Universities (institution) 9 10 12 Supply and Trading n.a. 2 2 1 Study support (person) 34 27 20 Functional areas 32 46 11 94 Scholarship PhD (person) 5 7 6 Total 97 148 77 261 Professorship (person) 1 1 1 University partnerships Retaining and Motivating Employees There are eleven Hungarian and Slovakian universities already working with MOL Group as strategic partners, and in 2010, the first steps to build university relations were taken in Croatia. Performance management The long-term cooperation initiative covers internship programmes, support of student communities, support through MOL’s Employee Performance Management System (EPMS), already operating in TVK Plc., Slovnaft a.s. and MOL Plc. was corporate lectures and site visits, competitions, MOL Group managers’ contributions to regular educational courses and extended and fine-tuned incorporating the rules and values of the managerial Performance Management System (PMS). In education programmes with company managers and specialists, student projects on corporate issues, diploma assignments 2010, we implemented IT support for the EPMS system at MOL LUB Ltd. (200 employees), Petrolszolg Ltd. (850 employees), and consulting, scholarships, support given via foundations, sponsorship, and research and development projects. and extended the EPMS process to other subsidiaries without IT support (880 employees). In 2010, renovations began at the MOL Chair at the University of Pannonia (MSc). A new and modern laboratory, staff rooms The managerial Performance Management System comprises various elements at the Group and company level, all of which and classrooms were redecorated in order to ensure the infrastructural quality of MOL-specific education. The renovation focus on ensuring a link between MOL Group objectives, actions, plans and individual performance. The complexity of the Sustainability will continue in 2011. Nine students began their studies under the MOL Chair in 2010, and another fourteen are planned to system ensures that regular feedback on performance defines bonus payouts and salary increases, provides input to careerstart their studies in 2011. potential evaluations, and links current performance to long-term career growth. As sustainable development (SD) is one of our main values, we intend to inspire our executives to also strive for sustainabilityFreshhh – MOL Group’s international contest related objectives along with business-as-usual financial and operational figures. This is why we set social performance Freshhh is an international oil and gas industry-focused contest run by MOL Group. Five years ago, MOL established a new targets (e.g. health and safety indicators) and other objectives related to SD for most top managers, which later can be tradition with this dual-aimed programme. Freshhh is a professional challenge for students interested in engineering and delegated to lower managerial and also non-managerial levels. science, as well as a recruitment channel for our Growww Graduate Programme. Teams consisting of three students can From 2009, the pre-condition of payouts has been the fulfilment of specified business results (defined as being a certain level participate in the contest. More than 1,700 graduates from 25 countries were involved in 2010. Two of the four topics of of the targeted MOL Group’s EBIT). the tasks were Sustainable Development (SD) and Health, Safety and Environment (HSE). Of course, participants are also motivated by valuable prizes. The best participants were offered a job or internship opportunity at one of the MOL Group Number and ratio of positions in performance management systems companies, and a number of scholarship contracts have been signed with the most talented undergraduates. Inspired by the success of the program in 2010, the first Internal Freshhh was also launched in order to enhance the competitive spirit and Number of Number of Ratio to the Ratio to the team cohesion among MOL Group employees. A total of 83 teams from ten countries took part in the contest. As a result of participants participants total number total number the two competitions, many useful and cost-effective ideas arose that might be introduced in the future. Employee group 2009 2010 of positions of positions without INA with INA 2009 2010 2007 2008 2008 2010 Managerial positions (PMS) 745 820 100% 100% Number of teams 271 273 342 580 Non-managerial positions 70% without and 8,900 10,700 50% Number of countries 12 29 35 25 (EPMS) 40% with INA Number of universities 35 60 95 117 Career management The objective of the Career Management System (CMS) is to identify and support the accurate and attuned planning for successions and organisational/employee development based on the requirements set by the business strategy. To date, 1,200 participants from 37 MOL Group companies have been appraised under CMS, including about 40 INA managers/experts. Further involvement of local INA managers is planned for 2011. 190 MOL Group annual report 2010 191 Employee engagement Refining and Marketing We conduct a Group level employee engagement survey bi-annually to measure the engagement and satisfaction level of our In the Downstream Division (Refining), the Refining Vision Statement was defined in 2008 and will stay in effect until employees. In order to monitor progress, we use a similar set of questions for each of the MOL Group companies. Questions in 2011. This document aims to establish the values, objectives and operational models of the refinery. The vision statement the survey cover, among others, the following areas: work environment, employee recognition and compensation, quality of concentrates on organisational and human values in order to maintain flexible and successful adaptation to current and work, effective operation, professional growth, direct/unit/top management, processes and responsibilities, stress level, work future challenges. Furthermore, it specifies the path of business processes specific to the Division. load and reputation of the company. The survey was conducted for the third time in 2010. Twenty-two MOL Group companies We believe that success can be achieved through our Navigátor Development Programme, which was initiated in 2009. participated, covering 85% of the total workforce. INA was involved for the first time, with a response rate of almost 50 percent. Leaders and experts are seen as the focal points and facilitators of change in the realisation of the vision statement. The The analysis of the results and the setting up of the unit-level action plans are aimed to be completed by May 2011. learning process is founded on real-life situations derived from MOL’s everyday operations and best practices. Navigator continued in 2010 with the participation of 60 employees focusing on new target groups. For those who have already Overview of the employee engagement survey participated in the programme, special training days were organised to keep their knowledge up-to-date. A new programme started in 2010 at the Slovnaft Refinery. Master Academy involves 55 shift leaders in three groups, and deals with the following topics: ’get to know your organisation’, ’the role of a shift leader in the organisation’, ’appraisal’, 2010 2010 2006* 2008* 2010 * INA Total MOL ’development of an employee’, ’selection of employees’ and ’establishing good working relationships.’ Due to its success, the Group Group programme is planned to be continued in 2011 with 4 new groups of employees. Coverage (%) 90 90 90 81 85 Another Downstream training is the Logistics’ Dynamism Programme, which is based on common values and goals. Response rate (%) 34 50 64 46 50 Competency development is designed globally but conducted locally according to local needs. In 2010, the programme Engagement level (%) 65 67 70 69 69.5 focused on the managerial succession pool and on 71 employees who recently joined MOL. * excluding INA The Commercial Department manages a Leadership Reinforcement Programme based on the results of previous competency assessments. Among the most important goals of the programme are the combination of individual competencies and Human capital development organisational culture. The Leadership Reinforcement Programme aims to develop talents, leadership competencies like Our business success is built upon well-educated, professional and engaged employees. Therefore, we provide a complex business and professional, personality, methodological and social competencies as well as a leadership toolkit. Implementation system of professional and leadership competency development. occurs through onand off-the-job strategies supported by mentoring, goal setting and feedback discussions. There are also methodological elements such as the Mirror Workshop, the Big Picture, the Best Practice Forum and case studies. These Training and development data in MOL Group multifaceted methodologies ensure that competencies are embedded into the organisational strategy and functions. The programme is backed up by top management sponsors and Human Resources Management, in the form of managerial coaches. The Leadership Reinforcement Programme is continuing in 2011 within the framework of the expansion of the 2009 2010 2010 (without INA with managerial succession pool. INA) Group INA Average hours of trainings per employee (hours) 21 25 18 Petrochemicals Average training cost per employee (HUF) 55,876 60,472 43,098 Following the success of the Staféta Programme in 2010, the Petrochemicals Division promoted shift leader development involving 11 employees. The Staféta Basic and Advanced Programmes (lasting 2 years) in 2010 developed experts, engineers, Sustainability Complex Development Programs in 2010 plant leaders and mid-line managers in order to achieve a wide set of employee and leadership competencies, foster crossunit cooperation and share knowledge with the 62 participants. Exploration and Production In the Upstream Division, great emphasis has been put on investing in young people in terms of managerial skills development to maintain Functional units the efficiency of our activities. The one year-long Upstream Talent Programme 1 (UTP 1) is aimed at measuring and identifying those In 2010, skill mapping and training was undertaken by 20 employees from MOL Plc.’s IT Department. The IT Development employees that can be successfully prepared for leadership and expert leadership tasks. The mission of the Upstream Talent Programme Programme, a continuation and completion phase of the previously organised Development Centre, ensures both 2 (UTP 2) was to find those employees that are capable of performing outstandingly in an intercultural environment in the case of perspective for the company to increase its competitiveness, and motivation for its employees in planning their career acquisitions. Upstream Talent Programme 3 (UTP3) was prepared in 2010. The programme is planned to be conducted at the MOL Group paths. The programme focuses mainly on strengthening competencies employees will have necessity for in the near level within the framework of an international project. Modern technology such as video conferencing and the Internet will be employed. future, and thus results in better individual and overall performance. Several learning methods were integrated to Furthermore, special attention will be given to the topics of cooperation between different cultures, and the use of advanced English. form the IT Development Programme, including trainings, mentoring, workshops, learning groups, rotation and onthe-job development. In 2011, we will focus on the managerial and expert level, contributing to the enlargement of the Results of the Upstream Talent programmes succession pool. Leadership development Number Number of Number of Number Number The MOL Group Leadership Competency Model serves as the heart of our HR systems. The model incorporates elements registered and participants participants in nominated to nominated to such as selection, career management, talent management, and learning and development processes. Our model defines tested in assessment training and managerial higher expert centres (AC) development positions positions five generic roles along the leadership pipeline, and classifies what MOL Group believes makes a successful leader at each of those stages. UTP1 113 40 25 8 4 Based on competency profiles, we have created a competence-based leadership training catalogue, containing approximately UTP2 72 30 12 3 1 40 different learning solutions available to all MOL Group subsidiary managers. Total 185 70 37 11 5 The MOL Group Managerial Talent Programme aspires to build an internal pool of candidates that can make the successful transition to Group level manager. Following a rigorous selection process, candidates took part in a development programme A new concept for shift leader/front line leader training was designed and implemented in Upstream in 2009 to strengthen consisting of on-the-job learning in the form of strategic projects, coaching from senior management and formal education formal and informal managerial skills such as labour code, feedback methods and performance evaluation. This programme such as tailored part-time MBAs. An unexpected benefit of this programme has been locating senior managers who could was continued in 2010. A total of 130 leaders participated in the workshops and analysed the results of the engagement fulfil the role of internal coaches. Identified personnel then actively participate in the development of the next generation of survey. The workshop outcomes resulted in several actions reflecting in the results of the survey. MOL Group leaders. 192 MOL Group annual report 2010 193 Professional competency trainings Number and ratio of part time employees Additional development programmes continued in 2010. For example, the Upstream Jolly Joker Programme successfully improved the maintenance skills of operators, supporting them in everyday maintenance-related tasks. The training not only Change increases the value of human capital, but also helps to reduce maintenance costs. 2007In the Downstream, MOL extended the Refinery Complex Programme. This special education project focuses primarily on 2007 2008 INA) INA 2010 Group blue collar workers in order to keep their knowledge regarding technological, maintenance and safety issues up-to-date. (%) During the course of the project, a professional competency system was elaborated. The long-term goal is to define both Part time employees (people) 92 125 114 143 +55% 191 general and professional competencies to be developed, and to match educational material to the scope of specific work Ratio of part time employees 0.60% 0.73% 0.64% 0.79% +32% 0.59% competencies. The Refinery Complex Programme will cover all blue collar workers (shift leaders, controllers and system to the total workforce (%) operators) in each and every facility. The programme is planned to be continued in 2011, but be enhanced to include the revision of professional skill development for shift workers at Refineries in Hungary and Slovakia, and competency development for shift leaders. 3.5 Ethics Also in 2009, as part of longer term capacity development, we launched a technical competency management pilot programme within the Upstream Division using PetroSkills, a leading oil industry alliance’s learning and development Ethical framework package. After a successful pilot project, we joined the alliance as a member company, and rolled out the system for the In 2010, we placed special emphasis on updating the Code of Ethics and Rules of Procedure, implementing e-learning and entire white collar Upstream staff of the mother company (and also covered around 25% of INA d.d. Upstream). For 2011, continuing ethical communication according to the following: we plan to continue the roll-out for MOL Group’s Upstream companies and to launch a pilot programme in Refining. Our – The Code of Ethics, adopted three years ago, was reviewed based on experiences gained after the Code had approach to competency management consists of an annual cycle of repeated (re)definition of competency requirements, been adopted. Other codes of ethics in this industry sector, provisions of law and suggestions and sustainability on-line assessment to test the required competencies , and planning and delivery of learning and development interventions evaluation criteria were also used in the evaluation. The revised Code of Ethics emphasises that the norms to address identified gaps in competency. The results of the competency gap analysis are utilised as a basis of the Upstream formulated in the Code cover all stakeholders, and that the managers exercise special responsibility for integrating professional training planning process. ethical norms into everyday corporate practice. Regulations for accepting gifts and rules of ethical procedures From 2011, we will set up the Upstream Corporate University as a forum for internal Upstream professional skill and were also changed. The position of Ethics Officer was introduced for the companies of the MOL Group; competency development. – Ethics e-learning aimed at improving awareness was successfully completed by 99% of MOL Plc employees with Intranet access, by 97% of TVK Plc employees with Intranet access, and 100% of Slovnaft employees with Intranet Commitment to Fair Employment access. In addition, live ethics training sessions were held in several companies of the MOL Group; As Hungary has ratified the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning – IES, the Italian member of the Group, has also adopted the Code of Ethics; Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, MOL Group considers – Within the framework of internal communication, three articles were published in the internal company magazine, these agreements as compulsory codes. Panoráma, which dealt with the ethics evaluation of 2009, the results of the e-learning courses, and the positions taken by the Ethics Council on promoting awareness of acceptable behavior in particular situations; Equal opportunity and diversity – Ethical expectations and Key Performance Indicitors (KPI) were defined for all Country Chairperson; We ensure equal opportunities to all current and future employees. In fact, MOL goes beyond national regulations: equal – INA adopted the Code of Ethics in 2010, and the INA Ethics Council was established with an independent expert Sustainability treatment for all is guaranteed through collective agreements, our Code of Ethics, Trade Union agreements, Group-wide appointed as Council Chairman. In 2010, the INA Ethics Council received one notification, and its investigation is in guidelines and internal regulations. progress. In June 2010, MOL managers and employee representative bodies signed the Equal Opportunity Plan (EOP) of MOL Plc valid for 2010-2012. It is the first document in the Group that, besides declaring the necessity of equal opportunity and formulating a ban Ethical cases on discrimination, specifies the responsible staff and establishes deadlines for actions. We are confident that the EOP will help to Only the ethics cases reported to the Ethics Council are summarised below. The task of the Council is to ensure that all MOL increase the social awareness of our managers and members of certain employee groups which require more attention. Group employees comply with the Code. Among the most important of the Council’s duties and responsibilities is replying The scope of this plan covers all the employees of MOL Plc., with special respect to women, single parents, parents with two to complaints and questions, and conducting consequent investigations. At Slovnaft, questions related to ethical issues or more children under ten years of age, those with any kind of disability, and employees over 50 or belonging to a national are answered by the in-house Ethics Advisory Service in conjunction with the Ethics Council. In 2010, the Ethics Council or ethnic minority. Moreover, an Equal Opportunity Board has been established and an equal opportunity officer has been responded to 89 questions related to harassment, discrimination, conflicts of interest and business gifts. designated. In 2011, we would like to extend EOP to all Hungarian subsidiaries. A handbook with the necessary guidlines for In 2010, the Ethics Council received ten notifications. The Ethics Council investigated seven of the ten cases, and in four cases implementing EOP at subsidiaries have already been compiled. the Corporate Security department was asked to conduct investigations. Ethical misconduct was proven in four cases out of In 2010, MOL joined the Employers' Equal Opportunity Forum, the first professional lobby group bringing together equal seven. opportunity mediators within companies, and providing them with a stronger platform to fight for equal opportunity. The increasing number of notifications and questions means that employees now pay more attention to ethical issues and The Forum was initiated by the Salva Vita Foundation (Hungarian NGO), and it was founded with the participation of ten display increasing trust in the Ethics Council. Hungarian and multinational companies. Work-life balance Although there is not presently a Group level set of policies addressing work-life balance, MOL has taken initial steps towards the encouragement of non-typical employment. Part-time work and telecommuting are not an option for those involved in production activities because of the type of work (shift-working); however, they are accessible for other employees in certain positions. Although only 12 employees at MOL Plc. were telecommuting in 2010, the rate of those who have gained approval to work from home, after managerial approval, is much higher in certain cases. In the future, we intend to disseminate the currently ad hoc best practices, and establish value-based standards. As the first step, these principles were integrated into the Group level agreement on social issues signed with trade unions in 2010. 194 MOL Group annual report 2010 195 Ethical notifications received and investigations conducted by stakeholder group – Acceptance of offers of accomodation – Several managers of MOL Group participated in an an unofficial professional conference held by a supplier during their holiday. The managers did not seek permission from their Topic of Type of Ethical supervisor. The managers infringed the Code of Ethics that states that employees: ’[may] not accept offers of Stakeholders notification investigation misconduct travel, holidays and/or accommodation made by a business partner, third party contractor or company acting on behalf of MOL Group (consultants, agents, franchise partners, etc.). In certain cases (e.g. professional training, or Customers Harm to customer Ethical investigation No Shareholders Misappropriation (anonymous) Security investigation No invitations to make presentations) acceptance of such offers of travel and accommodation is permitted, if it has Jeopardising company property Security investigation No been approved by the supervisor exercising employer’s rights.’ The Ethics Council suggested that the managers Fuel theft (anonymous) Security investigation No concerned should be held responsible for breaching ethical standards and for unexemplary behaviour. Employees Harassment -* -* Unfair wages -* -* The Ethics Council regularly reported all ethical issues to the Executive Board and took measures to raise awareness. Unfair wages (2) Ethical investigation No Religious discrimination Ethical investigation No Compliance (anonymous) Improper employee behaviour Ethical investigation Yes MOL Group is committed to fair marketing behaviour without corruption and improvement of the culture of competition. Health, safety and the environment Failure to report an accident Ethical investigation Yes In 2010, a new organisational unit, the Compliance Team, was established and made responsible for the execution of the Violation of health and safety group-level Compliance Programme. The aim is to clearly identify compliance the risk elements (cartel, abuse of dominant Ethical investigation Yes regulations position) of the business operations of MOL Group and make proper suggestions to eliminate such risks. Compliance officers Government and involvement in INA and Slovnaft have also been nominated. In 2011, the team aims to support the MOL Group member companies in in politics implementation and to continue training courses and conducting market analysis and inspections. Local communities and the general public Suppliers, business partners Conflict of interest (anonymous) Security investigation No 3.6 Social investments Acceptance of offers of Ethical investigation Yes accommodation MOL Group is committed to demonstrating leadership in the field of good corporate citizenship. MOL has created a Competitors Unfair competition -* -* structured, transparent and regulated charity donation policy, allowing it to avoid responding in an ad hoc way to queries. MOL Group’s commitment towards social investment is focused on the following main areas: * The Ethics Council considered the accusations unfounded and did not initiate an ethics investigation. – New Europe Foundation – Talent Support Programme – Arts and Sciences In order to promote ethical awareness, the Ethics Council annually publishes details of cases with proven ethical misconduct. – Talent Support Programme – Sports The cases to date are as follows: – Child Healing Programme – Culture and Sciences – Improper employee behaviour Getting into a stressful traffic situation and entering a security area. One of MOL – Environment and Health Sustainability Group’s employees was not willing to identify himself when a security guard asked him to do so. He used vulgar – Education and offensive words and hit the guard’s arm. His behaviour clearly breached the Code of Ethics that states: ’As a – Sports MOL Group employee you must never engage in behaviour that could be characterised as offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting’, and ’you must never humiliate or injure another person’. Since security rules were violated, In 2010, MOL Group received nearly three thousand applications from individuals, associations, institutions and foundations the Ethics Council recommended taking measures related to labour law. In addition, the Council proposed the of all types. MOL Group allocated a total budget of HUF 1,861.1 million solely for charity purposes, from which the main publication of the incident at meetings and via Intranet, and the taking of proper measures in order to prevent projects amounted to HUF 1,330.3 million. similar situations from the occurring in the future. – Failure to report an accident – One of the business partners of MOL Group asked for employee volunteers MOL, Slovnaft and MOL Romania to assist with some cleaning. One of the employees was injured during the course of the work and was given Donations to organizations in the acting and performance sector treatment by a paramedic. The business partner breached the Code of Ethics that states that it is mandatory to: MOL has supported more than 40 Hungarian theatres and other enterprises with HUF 1,085.7 million in 2010. ’promptly report to local management any accident, injury, illness, unsafe or unhealthy conditions, incident, spill or release of material to the environment, so that immediate steps can be taken to correct, prevent or control MOL Talent Support Programmes such occurrences.’ The Ethics Council notified the Retail Division that the business partner had breached MOL’s In 2010, a total of 145 talented young athletes and 79 talented young artists and scientists received HUF 48 million in financial ethical standards and HSE rules, and recommended that the partner be fined, participate in training sessions on support in Hungary. In Slovakia, 42 talented children were supported with the sum of EUR 66,500 (HUF 18.3 million). In the Ethics Code, and be made better aware of HSE rules. Romania, 130 young athletes and artists have been awarded EUR 60,000 (HUF 16.5 million) in support. – Violation of health and safety requirements One of the business partners of MOL Group working at a location in a situation hazardous to human health did not report that the workers had not been provided protective MOL Child Healing Programme clothing in proper sizes, and therefore performed the work without protective clothing. Performance of these The budget for this programme in Hungary was HUF 43.5 million, which was apportioned among 31 non-profit organisations. tasks without regard to safety requirements not only endangered the partner’s health, but also the health of his In Romania, EUR 60,000 (HUF 16.5 million) has been distributed between 20 successful applicants. colleagues. The MOL Group manager who delegated the work did not insist that the work be perfomed only in protective clothing, and neglected giving priority to HSE criteria. The stakeholders violated the Code of Ethics MOL Talent Care Award that holds: ’MOL Group is committed to providing all employees – and those of other companies working on our Four teachers and four coaches were awarded with HUF 500,000 each in 2010. premises – with a safe and secure work environment, where no one is subject to unnecessary risk.’ The Ethics Council did not suggest introducing penalties for workers who breached the Code of Ethics due to extraordinary Greenbelt Programme circumstances, and instead recommended that personnel be made aware of the importance of HSE criteria and In 2010, HUF 18.9 million was allocated to the Ökotárs Foundation in Hungary, while an additional EUR 66,400 (HUF 18.3 culture. million) was granted to the Ekopolis Foundation in Slovakia. In Romania, applicants to the Greenbelt programme received 196 MOL Group annual report 2010 197 donations amounting to EUR 175,000 (HUF 48.2 million) via its partner, the Partnership Foundation. Both MOL and the Corporate giving in significant locations in 2010 Partnership Foundation were awarded the most prestigious awards for corporate social responsibility (CSR) in Romania. MOL won the Best Community Programme Award at the People for People Gala in 2010, the most important event in terms Indicator Unit Hungary Slovakia Croatia Romania Pakistan Italy Total of recognising companies for their social involvement. Donations in cash mn HUF 1,641.3 110.1 26.3 81.2 0 2.2 1,861.1 INA In-kind giving Culture (Products and mn HUF 17.5 1.5 4.6 1.7 21.8 0 47.1 The Al-Marqab Project describes the Syrian-Hungarian archaeological mission to restore the Al-Marqab fortification. The services) restoration is being performed by the Syro-Hungarian Archaeological Mission (SHAM) Cultural Public Foundation located in Corporate Hours 1,680 133.5 160 320 0 10 2,303.5 Budapest. HRK 150,000 (HUF 5.7 million) has been allocated for this project. volunteering Judged by INA, the grant to promote Croatian culture throughout the world is an annual award with a proud 16 year tradition. Part of the grant includes a HRK 50,000 (HUF 1.9 million) prize to the individual or organisation that most effectively and Corporate volunteering – kindergarten painting in Croatia creatively promoted Croatian culture and heritage abroad in the past year. Young talents Several projects of Croatian youth (students and high school pupils) were supported. The projects were mostly connected to international scientific research and international competitions in which Croatian students distinguished themselves. The total amount awarded was HRK 32,000 (HUF 1.2 million). Humanitarian aid A donation of HRK 50,000 (HUF 1.9 million) to the SOS Children’s Village Ladmirevci, empowered the institution to perform necessary construction and repairs. INA contributed to improving the living conditions of the children. A grant of HRK 45,000 (HUF 1.7 million) to the Association for Promoting Conductive Pedagogy Rijeka by INA helped to cover therapy costs for twenty children from Rijeka, Kostrena, Bakar, Opatija and Cres, as well as furnishing the Association’s office. MOL Pakistan Community development projects undertaken by MOL Pakistan are of a diversified need-based nature focusing on immediate requirements to bring respite to the lives of the poor and underprivileged. Free Eye Medical Camp Sustainability MOL sponsored its first Eye Camp with the sum of USD 4,775 (HUF 1 million). A total of 795 patients were examined and supplied with much needed medicine and spectacles. Out of 72 patients that were recommended for surgery, 55 operations were performed. A second Eye Camp was funded with USD 3,871 (HUF 0.8 million). During the second camp, 730 patients were examined. Among seventy patients recommended for surgery, 59 have undergone treatment and the rest of the treatments are planned to be undertaken shortly as per availability of the patients. A total of 351 pairs of spectacles were also distributed to the patients at the second camp. More information: www.mol.hu/en/about_mol/social_investments Special humanitarian assistance: Due to the huge devastation caused by heavy rains and subsequent flooding, MOL Group has provided the following relief to flood-stricken areas: – In Hungary, the company supported flood victims with a HUF 15 million donation; – MOL gave HUF 5 million to Hungarian Interchurch Aid through the Országlánc Campaign; – Initiated an internal campaign to collect donations for flood victims, amounting to HUF 4.3 million from MOL Group employees; – MOL Pakistan supplied tents, food items, medicine, etc. valued at USD 95,965 (HUF 20 million) to the victims of the flood disaster. In reaction to the toxic Hungarian Red Sludge Disaster: – MOL immediately gave HUF 5 million to the Directorate for Disaster Management and offered the assets and professional knowledge of MOL to assist in remediation efforts; – MOL donated an additional HUF 1.5 million to the village of Devecser, and launched a Christmas Card Campaign from which MOL was able to support the victims with a further HUF 1 million. 198 MOL Group annual report 2010 199 4 Sustainability data (Performance table) 2010 Change 2010 2010 Change 2010 GRI GRI Indicator Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009* without 2009MOL Indicator Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009* without 2009MOL 2010 (%) Group** code 2010 (%) Group code INA INA Economic Data*** Air Emissions Revenues bn HUF 3,009.8 2,691.1 3,669.5 3,383.1 n.a. 29% 4,350.4 EC1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) mn t 5.92 5.65 6.56 5.29 5.01 -5% 7.14 EN16 Financial assistance received from Carbon Dioxide (CO2) under ETS mn t 4.00 4.09 6.40 5.13 4.87 -5% 4.87 EN16 bn HUF 35.3 0.8 0.4 0.5 n.a. 300% 2.0 EC4 government Methane (CH 4)** t n.a. n.a. 279.0 437.0 951.7 118% 951.7 EN16 Operating costs bn HUF 2,161.4 1,906.8 2,881.7 2,592.8 n.a. 27% 3,300.8 EC1 mn t Total Direct GHG n.a. n.a. 6.56 5.30 5.09 -4% 7.17 EN16 Company cash bn HUF 848.4 784.3 787.8 790.3 n.a. 33% 1,049.6 EC1 CO2 eq Employee wages and benefits bn HUF 109.3 117.3 139.7 200.9 n.a. 35% 272.0 EC1 mn t Total Indirect GHG*** n.a. n.a. n.a. 1.19 1.25 5% 1.47 EN17 Capital investors bn HUF 73.1 69.8 164.2 31.8 n.a. 154% 80.7 EC1 CO2 eq Payments to governments bn HUF 215.7 227.8 249.3 197.7 n.a. 41% 278.4 EC1 mn t Total Indirect GHG from product use n.a. n.a. 43.33 42.27 42.48 0% 55.44 EN17 Economic value retained bn HUF 450.3 369.4 234.5 359.8 n.a. 16% 418.6 EC1 CO2 eq Energy Consumption Data**** Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) t 13,455.0 10,059.0 8,804.7 4,389.4 2,939.6 -33% 13,142.2 EN20 Total primary energy GJ n.a. n.a. n.a. 74,867,779 72,784,552 -3% 103,837,442 EN3 Nitrogen Oxides (NO X) t 5,555.0 5,378.8 5,054.2 3,937.0 3,442.1 -13% 7,874.2 EN20 Total indirect energy (electricity, heat) GJ n.a. n.a. n.a. 16,680,887 16,685,668 0% 19,226,722 EN4 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) t 4,394.0 4,325.2 5,626.8 3,683.2 4,133.5 12% 4,210.9 EN20 Total energy consumption GJ n.a. n.a. n.a. 91,548,666 89,470,220 -2% 123,064,164 Carbon Monoxide (CO) t 1,052.0 869.0 824.5 879.5 863.8 -2% 1,599.0 EN20 Customer Satisfaction***** Particulate Matter (PM) t 412.0 336.0 298.2 204.8 184.4 -10% 360.7 EN20 Wholesale customer satisfaction Water % 87 88 88 86 88 2% n.a. PR6 (MOL) Total Water Withdrawal th m3 n.a. n.a. 86,045.8 68,417.5 56,130.4 -18% 94,162.1 EN8 Wholesale customer satisfaction Total Water Discharge th m3 n.a. n.a. 90,120.6 84,710.0 76,186.3 -10% 106,784.1 EN21 % 84 83 88 90 90 0% n.a. PR6 level (Slovnaft) Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons (TPH) t 62.0 36.0 29.8 44.1 46.2 5% 74.8 EN21 Average Retail customer Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) t 2,018.0 1,945.0 1,802.0 1,807.0 1,773.4 -2% 2,376.5 EN21 % 34 39 38 44 43 -2% n.a. PR6 satisfaction level Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) t 498.0 490.0 378.0 387.4 433.7 12% 582.7 EN21 Petrochemicals customer loyalty index % 12.96 13.28 14.39 19.52 15.5 -21% n.a. PR6 Solid Substances (SS) t 605.0 703.0 978.0 909.3 948.3 4% 1,055.5 EN21 Waste We indicate with ’n.a.’ where we have no data available. Hazardous Waste t 167,589.0 85,171.5 98,791.0 66,782.0 88,083.2 32% 92,918.4 EN22 Exchange rate based on Y2010 average, 1 HRK=37.79 HUF Non-hazardous Waste t n.a. n.a. 57,619.1 66,872.5 69,246.2 4% 77,603.7 EN22 *MOL Group 2009 without INA Group except financial data (EC1, EC4) which covers MOL Group including INA Group 2009 H2 Waste Disposed / Landfilled t 256,429.0 74,959.0 92,175.0 68,198.4 68,974.5 1% 80,201.8 EN22 **Total MOL Group including INA d.d. (without its subsidiaries), except financial data (EC1, EC4) which covers MOL Group including INA Group Sustainability ***Data is calculated according to GRI definition, see in details on MOL's website Waste Reused / Recycled**** t 55,016.0 86,180.0 64,235.0 65,456.5 88,354.9 35% 90,320.4 EN22 ****To have an appropriate basis for comparison, IES was excluded from '2010 without INA' data Reused/recycled ratio % n.a. n.a. 41% 49% 56% 15% 53% *****Methodologies are different, see details on MOL's website. The Retail survey covers HU, SK and RO. Spills and Discharges Number of Spills pcs 8 3 12 17 15 -12% 26 EN23 Volume of Spills m3 n.a. n.a. 912.2 244.7 144.4 -41% 186.2 EN23 Other HSE Related Penalties mn HUF 141.0 95.4 92.23 14.68 8.43 -43% 11.06 EN30 Environmental investments mn HUF n.a. n.a. 16,558.91 6,996.70 6,815.10 -3% n.a. EN30 Environmental operating costs mn HUF n.a. n.a. 9,223.80 11,149.10 12,347.70 11% 24,362.70 EN30 We indicate with ’n.a.’ where we have no data available. *Total MOL Group without INA Group except Total Indirect GHG from product use which covers Total MOL Group **The reason for the increase is the improvements made in our reporting (emissions from gas motors in HU are included) ***To have an appropriate basis for comparison, IES was excluded from '2010 without INA' data ****Waste data from 2008 has been restated due to the specification of the definition 200 MOL Group annual report 2010 201 2010 Change 2010 GRI Indicator Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009* without 2009MOL 2010 (%) Group** code INA Health and Safety Lost Time Injury (LTI) pcs 58.0 37.0 24.0 28.0 40.0 43% 104.00 LA7 Lost Time Injury 2.20 1.52 0.99 1.13 1.50 33% 2.25 LA7 Frequency (LTIF) Total Reportable Occupational Illnesses 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.00 0% 0.00 LA7 Frequency (TROIF) Lost day rate (LDR) % n.a. n.a. n.a. 0.05 0.05 0% 0.27 LA7 Absentee Rate (AR) % n.a. n.a. 2.65 2.17 2.08 -4% 2.97 LA7 Number of fatalities pcs 0 0 0 1 1 0% 1 LA7 for emloyees Number of fatalities pcs 1 0 2 1 2 100% 2 LA7 for contractors Number of fatalities pcs 1 2 2 0 0 0% 1 LA7 for 3rd parties Number of fires pcs 19 9 14 12 23 92% 29 mn Fire damage 387.2 26.7 49.4 55.8 863.6 1448% 975.4 HUF Employees Total workforce pple 13,861 15,058 17,338 17,963 17,882 -0.5% 32,601 LA1 Number of pple n.a. 92 125 114 143 25% 191 LA1 part-time employees Leavers pple 707 1,540 1,136 988 1,480 50% 3,243 LA2 Employee turnover rate % 5.1 10.2 6.6 5.5 8.3 51% 9.9 LA2 Employees represented % 97.3 85.5 93.3 91.4 92.8 2% 94.5 LA4 by trade unions Sustainability Employees covered by collective % n.a. n.a. 94.5 93.4 92.7 -1% 94.5 LA4 bargaining agreement Diversity Ratio of women % 26.0 24.6 24.8 22.6 22.7 0.4% 23.1 LA13 in total workforce Ratio of women in non-managerial % n.a. n.a. 25.1 22.9 22.9 0.1% 23.3 LA13 position Ratio of women in % 14.1 18.5 19.4 12.3 14.6 18.7% 18.2 LA13 managerial position Other Social Ethical notifications pcs n.a. 3 13 8 10 25% 11 Ethical investigations pcs n.a. 0 7 6 7 17% 7 Ethical misconducts pcs n.a. 0 1 4 4 0% 4 Average hours of hours n.a. n.a. n.a. 21 25 19% 18 LA10 training per employee mn Donations 665.1 540.2 752.0 1,116.2 1,834.8 64% 1,861.1 EC8 HUF In-kind giving mn n.a. n.a. n.a. 23.1 42.5 84% 47.1 EC8 (products and services) HUF Corporate volunteering hours n.a. n.a. n.a. 3,508.0 2,143.5 -39% 2,303.5 EC8 We indicate with ’n.a.’ where we have no data available. Exchange rate based on Y2010 average, 1 HRK=37.79 HUF *Total MOL Group without INA Group **Total MOL Group 2010 including INA d.d. (without its subsidiaries), except Employee data (LA1, LA2) which covers total MOL Group Summer Party – Lake Balaton in Hungary 202 MOL Group annual report 2010 203 5.4 GRI, Global Compact and IPIECA Index 5 Notes on Non-Financial Reporting Global IPIECA 5.1 Our reporting approach GRI Indicator Compact Subject Page Principle Indicator As a demonstration of MOL’s resolve to integrate a sustainability approach into everyday business operations, management decided to merge our Annual and Sustainable Development Reports and move towards an ’integrated’ reporting approach Strategy and Profile in 2008. Consequently, the company now follows the Triple Bottom Line approach; presenting the economic, social and 1.1 Chief executive statement 176-177 environmental performance of MOL Group in one comprehensive report. 1.2 Description of key risks and opportunities 10-45, 224-225 The ’Sustainability: non-financial performance’ section of the Annual Report contains information on the key achievements, 2.1–2.10 Organizational profile, structures, markets 4, 10 challenges and data of the given year about the most relevant topics for MOL in the area of sustainability. Beyond this report, 3.1, 3.3 Reporting period and cycle 1, 204 one will find a general presentation of MOL’s policies, management approaches and other regularly maintained and updated 3.4–3.13 Report scope, assurance 204, 208-209 4.1–4.7 Corporate governance 214-222 SD-related information at www.mol.hu/sd. While the Annual Report’s main audience is assumed to be our shareholders, 4.8–4.13 Guidelines and policies 92, 148, 196, 204 investors and sustainability analysts, our webpage is tailored to answering the information needs of all stakeholders. 4.14–4.17 SE1 Stakeholder engagement The sustainability performance data contained within this report was reviewed by Ernst and Young (please see the assurance Economic performance indicators statement for the specific scope) and the assurance process was planned and performed in accordance with the International Management approach 1, 4, 6, 7 Detailed reference in GRI compliance table (web) Federation of Accountants’ ISAE3000 standard. EC1 SE4, SE13 Economic value generated and distributed 200 EC2 7, 8, 9 Financial implications due to climate change This Annual Report, together with MOL’s website, meets the requirements of the A+ rating of the GRI G3 Sustainability EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations 200 Guidelines in accordance to the GRI (see the assurance statement on p. 208.) EC4 Significant financial assistance from government 200 EC5 Standard entry level wage/local minimum wage 189 EC6 SE5, SE7 Locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation The GRI Compliance Table can be viewed at the following website: www.mol.hu/annualreport2010/sustainability/gri, EC7 6 SE5, SE6 Local hiring while local reports are available on the websites of individual MOL Group companies: www.ina.hr/sd, www.slovnaft.sk/sd, EC8 SE4 Investments for public benefit 197 www.tvk.hu/sd, www.molpakistan.pk/sd and www.iesitaliana.it/sd. Environmental performance indicators Management approach 7, 8, 9 Detailed reference in GRI compliance table (web) 5.2 Report Content and Materiality EN1–EN2 7, 8, 9 Materials used All of the topics that reflect MOL’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts, and which might have an impact EN3–EN7 7, 8, 9 E2, E3 Energy 181 on our stakeholders, are treated as material concerns. When determining these issues, we take into consideration GRI G3 EN8–EN10 8, 9 E6 Water 183 guidelines, recommendations by our industry’s professional association (IPIECA) and industry-specific evaluation criteria EN11-EN15 8 E5 Biodiversity 185 from sustainability analysts such as the SAM Group and Oekom. Moreover, issues related to governmental initiatives EN16–EN20 7, 8, 9 E1, E4, E7 Emissions 182 EN21 8 E9 Wastewater 183 connected to SD might also be judged to be significant, for example compliance with certain legislation. Priority is given EN22 8 E10 Waste 184 to topics where our company has more substantial impacts and where MOL can make efforts to improve its performance. Sustainability EN23 8 E8 Spills 185 Issues relevant to local sites are managed and reported locally. EN26 7, 8, 9 Products and services 45 MOL follows the GRI G3 reporting guidelines and has achieved an A+ rating. Since there is no available oil and gas sectorEN27 8, 9 HS4 Packaging materials reclaimed 184 specific supplement, we strived to follow the IPIECA-API ’Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability EN29, EN30 7, 8, 9 Environmental expenditures 201 Reporting’ to determine additional, industry-specific indicators. This Annual Report, in conjunction with the information available on our website, comprises MOL Group’s sustainability reporting and thus complies with GRI requirements. 5.3 Scope and Boundary MOL applies the ‘control’ approach to consolidate information. The company accounts for 100 percent of the sustainability data from operations over which it has control. This includes all companies/operations where MOL or one of its subsidiaries acts as operator. In the case of HSE data, we consider only operations which might have a significant impact on health, safety and the environment. Moreover, the MOL Group SD & HSE Department has been given 3 years to integrate any new acquisitions into its reporting system. Therefore, HSE performance data does not necessarily contain the figures from operations acquired in the last three years. Noteworthy changes compared to 2009 include IES and Tifon being accounted for in the 2010 data. It is planned that the subsidiaries of INA d.d. will be integrated into the reporting only from 2012. Our human resources organisation uses an IT application called BI (Business Intelligence) Data Port to gather, among other information, sustainability-related HR data from MOL Group companies. In 2010, the scope covered 29 companies including INA d.d. Coverage for the entire MOL Group has reached 78%, or 91.5% excluding INA. Companies that do not exceed 20 employees are not, and probably will not ever be integrated into this reporting process. Due to data supply problems, the following subsidiaries are largely excluded from the present report: MOL Romania, MOL Pakistan, MOL-Russ Ooo., Greentrade Ltd., USI Ltd. and Tifon d.o.o. The absence of this data may have caused significant variations in the case of certain indicators. To see the full list of reporting companies see: www.mol.hu/annualreport2010/sustainability/subsidiaries 204 MOL Group annual report 2010 205 Global IPIECA GRI Indicator Compact Subject Page Principle Indicator Social performance indicators Labour practices and labour quality Management approach 1, 3, 6 Detailed reference in GRI compliance table (web) LA1–LA5 1, 3, 6 SE6, SE15 Employment 189 LA7, LA8 1 HS2, HS3 Occupational health and safety 186 LA10, LA11 1 SE17 Vocational and further training 189 LA13 1, 6 SE15 Composition of governance bodies 226-232 LA14 1, 6 SE15 Equal employment 194 Human rights 1, 2, 3, 4, Management approach Detailed reference in GRI compliance table (web) 5, 6 1, 2, 3, 4, HR1 SE8 Significant investment agreements 197 5, 6 1, 2, 3, 4, HR2 SE9 Screening of suppliers 5, 6 HR4 1, 2, 6 SE18 Non-discrimination 195 HR5 1, 2, 3 Freedom of association, collective bargaining 195 HR6, HR7 1, 2, 4, 5 Child labor, forced labor, compulsory labor 195 Society Management approach Detailed reference in GRI compliance table (web) SE1, SE2, SO1 SE3, SE4, Community SO5 SO2–SO4 10 SE11, SE12 Corruption 195 SO5, SO6 1-10 SE14 Political contributions 195 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines 155 Product stewardship Management approach Detailed reference in GRI compliance table (web) PR 1 1, 7 HS4 Consumer health and safety PR 3 8 Product and service information PR 5 Customer satisfaction 200 Sustainability PR 6 HS4 Advertising, promotion and sponsorship PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines 155 5.5 Notes on sustainability data The indicators are mainly based on measurements and calculations, and in some cases on estimations, depending on the specific topic and site. Data is generated and collected at the local level following the relevant corporate guidelines. Group level data is collected through the different business or functional divisions. The completeness and accuracy of the reported data is supervised at the corporate level. Depending on site circumstances and local regulations, we discharge treated wastewater streams into surface waters or into the municipal sewage system. According to the nature and quantity of pollutants, the most commonly used wastewater treatment strategies at our facilities are mechanical and/or biological (but extending to chemical treatment steps where needed) technologies. We believe that data breakdown by destination and treatment method is not material, therefore we do not report on it. According to information provided by our contractors, waste disposal methods have been determined using European Union guidelines. Employee engagement level: the first 9 questions of the survey are related to general engagement of the employees, rated on a 1-4 scale. Three groups can be distinguished by the following cluster borders : 2,5 >= disengaged; 3,2 >= partly engaged >= 2,56; 3,22 <= engaged. In order to make the data more informative, we use percentages. Duna Refinery in Hungary 206 MOL Group annual report 2010 207 6 Assurance statements 6.1 Independent assurance statement to MOL Limitations of our review Ernst & Young Advisory Ltd was commissioned to provide limited assurance over sustainability performance data relating – Our scope of work was limited to the sustainability performance data included in the Sustainability Report. to 2010 contained within the ‘Sustainability: Non-Financial Performance’ chapter of MOL Group’s Annual Report 2010 (the – We did not undertake a comprehensive review of all sustainability data reported to corporate by each of the sites Sustainability Report). The management of MOL Group (MOL) have prepared the Sustainability Report and are responsible we visited, but examined selected data sources and reviewed the processes for reporting data to corporate. for the collection and presentation of the information within it. Our responsibility in performing our work is to MOL – Our review of sustainability data processes at an operational level was limited to the four sites we visited. management only, in accordance with the scope of work agreed with them. We do not, therefore, accept or assume any – We have not sought evidence to support the statements and claims presented within the Sustainability Report. responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Any reliance any such third party may place on We have not reviewed historical data, or trends described in the Sustainability Report that relate to sustainability this independent assurance statement is entirely at its own risk. performance data. WHAT DID WE DO TO FORM OUR CONCLUSIONS? OUR CONCLUSIONS Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000 . The sustainability performance Based on our review: data have been evaluated against the criteria of the application of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Sustainability Reporting – We are not aware of any material reporting units which have been excluded from the scope of the sustainability Guidelines (the Guidelines) and against completeness, consistency and accuracy criteria agreed with the management of data, with the exception of those reporting units disclosed within the Sustainability Report. MOL as follows: – Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability data has not been properly collated from the information reported by sites. Completeness – We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the reported sustainability data. – Whether all material data sources have been included and that boundary definitions have been appropriately – Based on our review, including consideration of the Sustainability Report, MOL’s Sustainable Development Web interpreted and applied. content and elements of the MOL Annual Report 2010, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that MOL management’s assertion that their sustainability reporting meets the requirements of the GRI Accuracy A+ application level of the Guidelines is not fairly stated. – Whether there is supporting information for the sustainability data reported by sites to corporate level. – Whether corporate level quality reviews have been completed and outstanding issues resolved or reported. – Whether data have been accurately transposed from corporate level systems to the Sustainability Report and OUR OBSERVATIONS assumptions and limitations to the data have been correctly reported. Areas for potential improvement in the sustainability reporting process have been addressed in a separate report to MOL GRI management. Our observations do not affect our conclusions on the Sustainability Report set out above. Sustainability – Whether the Sustainability Report meets the requirements of the A+ application level of the GRI G3 Guidelines In order to form our conclusions we undertook the steps outlined below: OUR ASSURANCE TEAM 1. Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating, and reviewing sustainability data at corporate level. 2. Reviewed a selection of management documentation and reporting tools including templates, guidance documents and Our assurance team has included members from our global Climate Change and Sustainability Services network, which databases. undertakes similar engagements to this with a number of significant multinational businesses. 3. Undertook four visits to key locations to examine the systems and processes in place for collecting and reporting sustainability data against the reporting definitions and guidance prepared by MOL, and to test the accuracy of a sample of reported data at a site level. The following sites were visited: – IES Mantova Refinery (Italy, Mantova) – INA Rijeka Refinery (Croatia, Rijeka) – TVK Petrochemical Plant (Hungary, Tiszaújváros) – E&P MOL Algyő (Hungary, Algyő) 4. Reviewed and challenged the sustainability data validation and collation processes at corporate reporting level and tested the completeness of coverage of reporting units. Our procedures included following the sample of sustainability data collected at each sites visited through to the Group reported performance data, and reviewing the processes applied by MOL management for corporate level review and challenge of the sustainability data. 5. Reviewed the Sustainability Report for the appropriate presentation of the data including the discussion of limitations and assumptions relating to the data presented. 6. Reviewed whether MOL’s reporting has applied the GRI G3 Guidelines to a level consistent with the A+ application level. Ernst & Young Advisory Ltd Budapest Level of assurance 4 April 2011 Our evidence gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a sufficient level of evidence to provide a limited level of assurance in accordance with ISAE3000. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. 208 MOL Group annual report 2010 209 6.2 GRI Application Level Check Statement Sustainability 210 MOL Group annual report 2010 211 Corporate Corporate Governance Governance Corporate Governance MOL Headquarter in Hungary 212 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 213 appear in the Yearbook. MOL Group received the Bronze qualification in the last year, as well as being selected as the best “Sector Mover”. All the good work performed last year enabled the company to enter the SAM Gold Class category. To qualify for the SAM Gold Class, the SAM Sector Leader must achieve a minimum total score of 75%. Peer group companies whose total scores are within 5% of the SAM Sector Leader also enter the SAM Gold Class. This year out of 113 global oil companies, 68 were examined in detail with 17 being selected to appear in the Yearbook of which 8 entered the Golden Class category. According to SAM’s assessment, the Corporate Governance practice of MOL is outstanding, and its result is above the industry average. The evaluation criteria consisted several topics, e.g. board structure, corporate governance policies or transparency. Board of Directors MOL’s Board of Directors acts as the highest managing body of the Company and as such has collective responsibility for all corporate operations. The Board’s key activities are focused on achieving increasing shareholder value with considerations onto other stakeholders’ interest; improving efficiency and profitability and ensuring transparency in corporate activities and sustainable operation. It also aims to ensure appropriate risk management, environmental protection and conditions for safety at work. Given that MOL and its subsidiaries effectively operate as a single unit, the Board is also responsible for enforcing its aims and policies and for promoting the MOL culture throughout the entire Group. The principles, policies and goals take account of the Board’s specific and unique relationship with MOL’s shareholders, the executive management and the Company. The composition of the Board reflects this with the majority (eight of eleven Corporate Governance members) made up of non-executive directors*. At present, 8 members of the Board of Directors qualify as independent on the basis of its own set of criteria (based on NYSE and EU recommendations) and the declaration of directors. The members of the Board of Directors and their independence status (professional CVs of the members are available on corporate homepage): Zsolt Hernádi, Chairman-CEO non-independent Dr. Sándor Csányi, Vice Chairman independent Mulham Al-Jarf independent Dr. Miklós Dobák independent MOL has always been committed to implementing the highest standards of corporate governance structures and practices. Dr. Gábor Horváth independent This is not only with regard to national expectations but also with reference to the continually evolving and improving Zsigmond Járai* independent standards of good governance on an international level. As a result MOL is geared towards shareholders’ interests, whilst József Molnár non-independent taking into account the interests of a broader group of stakeholders inevitably necessary to enhance the generation of György Mosonyi non-independent exceptional value for MOL’s shareholders and people. Dr. László Parragh* independent Iain Paterson independent Among other things, the voluntary approval of the declaration on the Budapest Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Dr. Martin Roman* independent Corporate Governance Recommendations by the Annual General Meeting in 2006, before the official deadline, served as testament to the *Before Zsigmond Járai, Dr. László Parragh and Dr. Martin Roman, until 29 April 2010 László Akar, Miklós Kamarás and Dr. Ernő Kemenes Company’s commitment to corporate governance. In addition, MOL made a declaration concerning the application of the were the members of the Board of Directors. corporate governance recommendations of the Warsaw Stock Exchange prior to the admission of its shares to the Warsaw Stock Exchange in December 2004. The Company submits its declaration on this topic to both stock exchanges each year. Operation of the Board of Directors The Board acts and makes resolutions as a collective body. MOL’s corporate governance practice meets the requirements of the regulations of the Budapest Stock Exchange, the The Board adopted a set of rules (Charter) to govern its own activities when the company was founded in 1991; these rules recommendations of the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority and the relevant regulations of the Capital Market Act. MOL were updated in October, 2010 to ensure continued adherence to best practice standards. also subjects its policies to regular review to ensure that they take account of continually evolving international best practice in this area. MOL’s Corporate Governance Code containing the main corporate governance principles of the Company has been The Board Charter covers: adopted in 2006 and has been updated in 2010. This Code summarises its approach to shareholders’ rights, main governing bodies, – scope of the authority and responsibilities of the Board, remuneration and ethical issues. The Corporate Governance Code has been published on the homepage of the Company. – scope of the committees operated by the Board, – the scope of the information required by the Board and the frequency of reports, In 2011, MOL Group, the only Central & East European company to be in the running, has qualified for the SAM Gold – main responsibilities of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman, Class based on its performance in the field of corporate sustainability. This was announced in The Sustainability Yearbook – order and preparation of Board meetings and the permanent items of the agenda, and edited by SAM (Sustainable Asset Management) which conducts the performance research and analysis for the Dow – decision-making mechanism and the manner in which the implementation of resolutions is monitored. Jones Sustainable Index. The 2,500 largest global companies, based on the Dow Jones Stock Market Index, are invited to undergo the research. The independent assessors examine the three dimensions of sustainability: long-term economic, Members of the Board have signed a declaration on conflict of interest and they have reported their position as director in social and environmental performance. Accordingly, the top 15% of companies from 58 business sectors are selected to the Board to their employer or principal as regards other key management positions. 214 MOL Group annual report 2010 215 The Board of Directors prepares a formal evaluation of its own performance (the Committees evaluate their performance as Responsibilities: well) and it reviews continuously its activity on a yearly basis. – review of financial and related reports, – monitoring the efficiency of the internal audit system, Report of the Board of Directors on its 2010 activities – review of planning, scope and results of the audit, In 2010, the Board of Directors held 6 meetings with an average attendance rate of 86%. Alongside regular agenda items, such as reports – oversight of the risk management, by the Committees’ chairmen on the activities pursued since the last Board meeting, update on key strategic issues or an overview of – monitoring the liquidity position of the Company, the financial and operational risks as well as the methodology capital market developments, the Board of Directors also individually evaluates the performance of each of the company’s business units. and strategy of management thereof, review the operation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system, – ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. The Board of Directors respectively paid highlighted attention to the treatment of the significantly changed external environment, the financial, operation and efficiency improvement challenges regarding INA consolidation and the strategy update process. MOL Sustainable Development Committee: continuously adjusts its operation to the external environment and became more international, more efficient and more upstream Members and dates of appointment (professional backgrounds of members are available on company homepage): driven in the recent years. MOL not just remained committed to keep its financial stability but continued the key development – György Mosonyi – Chairman, 29 June 2006 projects, hereby established an outstanding position for the upturn period in each business division. – Dr. László Parragh, 29 April 2010* – Iain Paterson, 29 June 2006 The Company’s key task for the coming years is to maximize the value of its extended portfolio by harmonizing the operation and exploiting the synergies. * Before Dr. László Parragh until 29 April 2010 Dr. Ernő Kemenes was the member of the Sustainable Development Committee. Committees of the Board of Directors Responsibilities: – control of the operation under long-term economic, environmental and social aspects, The Board operates committees to increase the efficiency of the Board’s operations, and to provide the appropriate professional background – evaluation of objectives and results regarding sustainable development, for decision making. These Committees have the right to approve preliminary resolutions concerning issues specified in the Decision– supervision of the non-financial (sustainability) chapter and the audit process of the annual report, making and Authorities List, which sets out the division of authority and responsibility between the Board and the executive management. – accountability for sustainability performance of business divisions and subsidiaries. – The responsibilities of the Committees are determined by the Board of Directors. Report of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee on its 2010 activities – The Chairman of the Board of Directors may also request the Committees to perform certain tasks. In 2010, the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee held 6 meetings with a 85% average attendance rate. In addition to the issues of corporate governance, remuneration and the composition of the management, the Committee The members and chairs of the Committees are elected by the Board of Directors. The majority of the committee members discussed a number of key strategic and results-related topics prior to their presentation to the Board of Directors for discussion. is non-executive and independent. Report of the Finance and Risk Management Committee on its 2010 activities The Board allocates responsibilities to the various Committees as follows: In 2010, the Finance and Risk Management Committee held 5 meetings with a 100% average attendance rate. In addition to the regular items on the agenda, including the audit of all public financial reports, providing assistance with the auditor’s work Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee: and the regular monitoring of internal audit, the Committee reviewed the major risk factors of the Company, considering the Members and dates of appointment (professional backgrounds of members are available on company homepage): changed international financial position and the status reports on risk management actions attached to these factors. The – Dr. Sándor Csányi – Chairman, 17 November 2000 Committee provides for duties of Slovnaft a.s Audit Committee. – Zsolt Hernádi, 8 September 2000 – Dr. Gábor Horváth, 8 September 2000 Report of the Sustainable Development Committee on its 2010 activities – Dr. Martin Roman, 29 April 2010 * In 2010, the Sustainable Development Committee held 4 meetings with a 100% attendance rate. The Committee evaluated – Mulham Al-Jarf, 23 April 2008 the accomplishment of the actions in 2010, formed opinion on sustainability reporting and decided on 2011 directions and targets. The Committee considered with highlighted attention the results of the assessment related to the Dow Jones Corporate Governance * Before Dr. Martin Roman until 29 April 2010 Miklós Kamarás was the member of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee. Sustainability indexes and the sustainability performance reports of business units. Responsibilities: Relationship between the Board and the Executive Management – analysis and evaluation of the activities of the Board of Directors, – issues related to Board membership, The governance of the Company is carried out in line with standardised corporate governance principles and practice, and, – promoting the relationship between shareholders and the Board, within its framework, the Board of Directors will meet its liabilities for the integrated corporate governance by defining the – procedural, regulatory and ethical issues, responsibilities and accountabilities of the Executive Board, established by the Board and securing the corporate operative – reviewing corporate processes, procedures, organisational solutions and compensation and incentive systems activities, operating and organisational procedures, as well as standardised system for target-setting, reporting and audit and making recommendations on the introduction of best practice standards. (performance control system and business control system). Finance and Risk Management Committee: A consistent document prescribes the distribution of decision-making authorities between the Board of Directors and the Members and dates of appointment (professional backgrounds of members are available on company homepage): company’s organisations, defining the key control points required for efficiently developing and operating MOL Group processes. – Dr. Miklós Dobák – Chairman, 25 October 2002 – Zsigmond Járai, 29 April 2010 * Control and management of MOL Group will be implemented through business and functional organisations. The Executive – Iain Paterson, 8 September 2000 Board (hereinafter “EB”) will be responsible for harmonising their activities. * Before Zsigmond Járai until 29 April 2010 Dr. Ernő Kemenes and László Akar were the members of the Finance and Risk Management Committee. The EB is a forum for decision preparation and its role is to provide a direct link between the Board of Directors and the Company’s staff and at the same time canalize the matters submitted to the full Board. The EB renders preliminary opinions 216 MOL Group annual report 2010 217 and advises the Board members on certain proposals submitted to the full Board, the EB is also responsible for the oversight 2.Relative performance incentive of the execution of the Board’s resolutions. The basis of the relative incentive is 10% of the annual base wage, and is determined on the basis of rank of manager-specific performance ratings. On the EB meetings each member has an obligation to express their opinion, on the basis of which final decision is made by the Chairman-CEO. In case of a difference of opinion between the Chairman-CEO, GCEO or GCFO, the decision shall be made 3.Complex long term managerial incentive system by the Board of Directors. The complex long term managerial system which changes and supplements the previous, solely stock option based system, has been implemented uniformly in the Company as of 1st January 2010. The Executive Board (EB) members are: Zsolt Hernádi Chairman-CEO (C-CEO) Purpose of the new incentive system is the implementation of a new and outstanding, long-term incentive system for top György Mosonyi Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) managers which corresponds to the incentive system of the members of the Board of Directors and keeps management’s József Molnár Group Chief Financial Officer (GCFO) long term interest in the increase of the MOL stock price. Zoltán Áldott Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production, President of the Management Board, INA d.d. Two incentives employed parallel in the new system: Ferenc Horváth Executive Vice President, Refining and Marketing József Simola Executive Vice President, Corporate Centre 50% Incentive based on option + 50% Profit-sharing incentive Oszkár Világi * Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Slovnaft a.s. * From 1st April, 2010. Main characteristics of the two incentives: In 2010, the Executive Board held 46 meetings and discussed 11 issues on a meeting on average. a) Incentive stock option Purpose of the incentive: to create the long-term interest of MOL Group management in the increase of MOL stock price. The incentive Incentives provided for Board of Directors stock option is a material incentive disbursed in cash, calculated based on call options concerning MOL shares; it is determined as a gross benefit. Cycle time: 5 year periods (2 year long waiting period and 3 year long redemption period) starting annually. To ensure uniformity and transparency, in addition to fixed remuneration, MOL operates an incentive scheme for directors, which supports commitment of the participants and by taking the Company’s profitability into consideration can ensure that b) Profit sharing incentive the interests of the participants in the compensation program can coincide with those of the shareholders. The Profit-sharing incentive incites the long-term, sustainable increase of profitability, based on the value added methodology, The basis of the effective incentive scheme for directors was approved by the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 23rd April 2008. thus ensuring that the interest of the participants of the incentive system corresponds with that of shareholders of MOL Plc . The Profit-sharing incentive is a cash-paid annual net bonus calculated on the basis of the increase of the value added. (Value Elements of the incentive scheme: added: recognises a profit performance generated on top of the cost of capital invested). – Profit sharing incentive system (based on value added methodology) From January 2009, the incentive system changed from convertible bond program to a value added, profit sharing incentive system. Since the base of the determination of one unit of the profit-sharing incentive for the given year is the audited financial The annual incentive of the Board Members will be determined according to an economic value added methodology. The statement for the given year approved by the AGM (MOL Plc.), the incentive should be disbursed following the AGM (MOL Economic Value Added will recognize performance as a result on top of the cost of capital invested. Plc.) summoned to close the given year . The incentive will consist of two parts: an absolute part (recognizing the performance only of the given year) and an incremental part (recognizing the performance of the given year compared to the average of the previous years). Other Fringe Benefits The profit sharing based incentive system supports the commitment of the participants, thus the methodology will reward These include company cars (also used for private purposes), life insurance, accident insurance, travel insurance, liability the Board Members for increasing shareholder value on long-term and as a sustainable improvement. insurance, and an annual medical check up. The new incentive system applies to non-executive and executive Board members as well. Supervisory Board – Fixed remuneration: In addition to the Profit sharing incentive as of 1st January 2009, directors are provided with Corporate Governance the following fixed net remuneration, following each AGM: The Supervisory Board is responsible for monitoring and supervising the Board of Directors on behalf of the shareholders. In accordance with MOL’s Articles of Association, the maximum number of members is nine (present membership is nine). In Directors 25,000 EUR/year accordance with Company Law, 1/3 of the members shall be representatives of the employees, accordingly three members of Chairmen of the Committees 31,250 EUR/year the MOL Supervisory Board are employee representatives with the other six external persons appointed by the shareholders. Other benefits The members of the Supervisory Board and their independence status: Directors who are not Hungarian citizens and do not have a permanent address in Hungary are provided with gross 1,500 Dr. Mihály Kupa, Chairman independent EUR for each Board or Committee meeting (maximum 15 times) they travel to Hungary for. Lajos Benedek non-independent (employee representative) John I. Charody independent Incentive system for the top management Dr. Attila Chikán, Deputy Chairman independent Slavomír Hatina independent The incentive system for the top management from 2010 included the following elements: Attila Juhász non-independent (employee representative) Sándor Lámfalussy Prof independent 1.Incentive (bonus) József Kohán non-independent (employee representative) The maximum bonus amount is 40-100% of the annual base salary, paid in cash on the basis of the evaluation following the AGM. István Töröcskei * independent The elements of the incentive system include: a) Corporate and division level key financial and non financial indicators (e.g. ROACE, operating cash-flow, lost time * Before István Töröcskei, until 29 April 2010 István Vásárhelyi was the member of the Supervisory Board. injury frequency, CAPEX efficiency, unit production, processing, operating, logistics costs, etc.). b) Particular individual targets related to the responsibilities of the particular manager in the given year. 218 MOL Group annual report 2010 219 The chairman of the Supervisory Board will be the permanent invitee to the meetings of the Board of Directors and the relevant regulations. The auditors ensure the continuity of the audit by scheduling regular on-site reviews during the year, Finance and Risk Management Committee. participating in the meetings of MOL’s governing bodies and through other forms of consultation. The auditors also review the stock exchange reports issued quarterly; however they do not perform an audit of or issue any opinion on such reports. Regular agenda points of the Supervisory Board include the quarterly report of the Board of Directors on company’s operations and the reports of Internal Audit and Corporate Security. In addition, the Supervisory Board reviews the proposals Ernst & Young also provided other services to MOL Plc. Summary of the fees paid to the auditors in 2010 and 2009 are as for the Annual General Meeting. The Supervisory Board reviews its annual activity during the year. follows (HUF mn): 2010 2009 In 2010 the Supervisory Board held 5 meetings with an 83% attendance rate. Audit fee for MOL plc (including audit fee for interim 156 156 financial statements) Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board Audit fee for subsidiaries 427 425 The General Meeting held on April 27, 2005 approved a new remuneration scheme for the Supervisory Board. Under the Other non-audit services 73 10 new scheme, the members of the Supervisory Board receive remuneration of EUR 3,000/month, while the Chairman of Tax advisory services 90 40 the Supervisory Board receives remuneration of EUR 4,000/month. In addition to this monthly fee, the Chairman of the Total 746 631 Supervisory Board is entitled to receive EUR 1,500 for participation in each Board of Directors or Board Committee meeting, up to 15 times per annum. Other non-audit services in 2010 included primarily the comfort letter issued with respect to the issuance of MOL’s EUR Audit Committee 750M bond and various due diligence and valuation services. The Board of Directors does not believe that non-audit services provided by Ernst & Young compromised their independence as auditors. In 2006, the general meeting appointed the Audit Committee comprised of independent members of the Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee strengthens the independent control over the financial and accounting policy of the Company. The Relationship with the shareholders, insider trading independent Audit Committee’s responsibilities include the following activities among others: The Board is aware of its commitment to represent and promote shareholders’ interests, and recognises that it is fully – providing opinion on the report as prescribed by the Accounting Act, accountable for the performance and activities of the MOL Group. To help ensure that the Company can meet shareholders’ – proposal for the auditor and its remuneration, expectations in all areas, the Board continually analyses and evaluates developments, both in the broader external – preparation of the agreement with the auditor, environment as well as at an operational level. – monitoring the compliance of the conflict of interest rules and professional requirements applicable to the auditor, co-operation with the auditor, and proposal to the Board of Directors or to the Supervisory Board on measures to be Formal channels of communication with shareholders include the Annual Report and Accounts and the quarterly results reports, taken, if necessary, as well as other public announcements made through the Budapest Stock Exchange (primary exchange) and the Warsaw Stock – evaluation of the operation of the financial reporting system, proposal on necessary measures to be taken, and Exchange. Regular and extraordinary announcements are published on PSZÁF (Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority) – providing assistance to the operation of the Supervisory Board for the sake of supervision of the financial publication site and on MOL’s homepage. In addition, presentations on the business, its performance and strategy are given reporting system. to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Regular Roadshow visits are also made to various cities in the UK, the US and Continental Europe where meetings are held with representatives of the investment community, including MOL shareholders and Members of the Audit Committee and dates of appointment (professional backgrounds of members are available on holders of MOL’s Global Depository Receipts. Furthermore, investors are able to raise questions or make proposals at any time company homepage): during the year, including the Company’s General Meeting. Investor feedbacks are regularly reported to the Board of Directors. – John I. Charody, 27 April, 2006 In 2010 MOL participated in 8 roadshows and investor conferences (3 US and 5 European) having over 220 meetings with – Dr. Attila Chikán 27 April, 2006 potential and existing shareholders. A 2 day Investor and Analyst day was organised in Croatia (Pula), where our key financial – Dr. Mihály Kupa 27 April, 2006 investors and analysts participated. 8 top managers hold presentations on MOL Group’s growth opportunities focusing and in case of long-term incapacitation of any of the permanent members, Sándor Lámfalussy Prof. on the key projects of upstream and downstream divisions. An offshore platform visit to an exploration and a production Corporate Governance platform were organised for the participants as well. In 2010, MOL issued EUR 750 million fixed rate note and participated Report of the Audit Committee on its 2010 activities on a European roadshow afterwards. In 2010, the Audit Committee held 5 meetings with an 87% average attendance rate. In addition to the regular items on the agenda, including the audit of all public financial reports, providing assistance with the auditor’s work and the regular MOL has an Investor Relations department which is responsible for the organisation of the above activities as well as for monitoring of Internal Audit, the Committee reviewed the major risk factors of the Company, considering the changed the day-to-day management of MOL’s relationship with its shareholders (contact details are provided in the “Shareholder international financial position and the status reports on risk management actions attached to these factors. The Committee Information” section at the end of Annual report). Extensive information is also made available on MOL’s website (www.mol. continuously monitored the Company’s financial position in particular with regard to the impacts caused by the crisis. The hu), which has a dedicated section for shareholders and the financial community. Committee reviewed the materials of the Annual General Meeting (i.e. financial reports, statements of the Auditor). MOL Group is committed to the fair marketing of publicly-traded securities. Insider dealing in securities is regarded as External auditors a criminal offence in most of the countries in which MOL Group carries out business. Therefore, we require not only full compliance with relevant laws, but also the avoidance of even the appearance of insider securities trading and consultancy. The MOL Group was audited by Ernst & Young in both 2010 and 2009, excluding INA Group and Energopetrol (audited by Deloitte in both years) and the operating company of the Fedorovsky Block and (audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, in MOL Group requests from its employees, in line with the laws and MOL’s insider trading regulation, that they: both years). Within the framework of the audit contract, Ernst & Young performs an audit of statutory financial statements, – should not buy or sell shares in MOL Group or any other company while in possession of insider information. including interim financial statements of MOL Plc. prepared in accordance with Law C of 2000 on Accounting and the – should not disclose insider information to anyone outside the company, without prior approval. consolidated annual financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS, – should be careful, even with other MOL Group employees, should disclose insider information to a co-worker formerly IAS). Audits of the above mentioned financial statements are carried out in accordance with the Hungarian if they have permission to do so and to the extent it is necessary to do their job. National Standards on Auditing, the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), the provisions of Accounting Law and other – should protect insider information from accidental disclosure. 220 MOL Group annual report 2010 221 Exercise of shareholders’ rights, general meeting participation Voting rights on the general meeting can be exercised based on the voting rights attached to shares held by the shareholders. Each “A” Series share entitles its holder to one vote. The actual voting power depends on how many shares are registered by the shareholders participating in the general meeting. A condition of participation and voting at the general meeting for shareholders is that the holder of the share(s) shall be registered in the Share Register. The depositary shall be responsible for registering the shareholders in the Share Register pursuant to the instructions of such shareholders in line with the conditions set by the general meeting invitation. According to Article 8.6 of Articles of Associations: „Each shareholder – at the shareholder’s identification related to the closing of the share registry prior to the next general meeting –, shall declare whether he, or he and any other shareholder belonging to the same shareholder group as specified in Articles 10.1.1 and 10.1.2 holds at least 2% of the Company’s shares, together with the shares regarding which he asks for registration.” If the conditions described in the previous sentence are met, the shareholder requesting registration is obliged to declare the composition of the shareholder group taking into account Article 10.1.1 and 10.1.2. Further, the shareholder shall, for the request of the Board of Directors, immediately identify the ultimate beneficial owner with respect to the shares owned by such shareholder. In case the shareholder fails to comply with the above request or in case there is a reasonable ground to assume that a shareholder made false representation to the Board of Directors, the shareholder’s voting right shall be suspended and shall be prevented from exercising it until full compliance with said requirements. According to Article 10.1.1 of Articles of Associations: „No shareholder or shareholder group (as defined below) may exercise more than 10% of the voting rights with the exception of the organization(s) acting at the Company’s request as depository or custodian for the Company’s shares or securities representing the Company’s shares (the latter shall be exempted only insofar as the ultimate person or persons exercising the shareholder’s rights represented by the shares and securities deposited with them do not fall within the limitations specified here below).” In accordance with the Company Act the shareholders have the right to participate, to request information and to make remarks and proposals at the General Meeting. Shareholders are entitled to vote, if they hold shares with voting rights. The shareholders having at least one per cent of the voting rights may request the Board of Directors to add an item to the agenda of the General Meeting, and may submit resolution proposals with respect to the points of the agenda. The conditions to participate in the general meeting are published in the invitation to the general meeting. Invitations to the general meeting are published on company homepage according to the Articles of Association. The ordinary general meeting is usually held in late April, in line with the current regulation. The ordinary general meeting, based on the proposal of Board of Directors approved by the Supervisory Board, shall have the authority to determine profit distribution, i.e. the amount of the profit after taxation to be reinvested into the Company Corporate Governance and the amount to be paid out as dividends. Based upon the decision of the general meeting, dividend can be paid in a noncash form as well. The starting date for the payment of dividends shall be defined by the Board of Directors in such way as to ensure a period of at least 10 working days between the first publication date of such announcement and the initial date of dividend distribution. Only those shareholders are entitled to receive dividend, who are registered in the share register of the Company on the basis of shareholders identification executed on the date published by the Board of Directors in the announcement on the dividend payment. Such date relevant to the dividend payment determined by the Board of Directors may deviate from the date of the general meeting deciding on the payment of dividend. 222 MOL Group annual report 2010 223 The main role of Financial Risk Management (FRM) as part of the ERM is to handle short-term, market related risks. Commodity price, FX and interest rate risks are measured by using a complex model based on Monte Carlo simulation (which takes into account portfolio effects as well) and are managed – if necessary with risk mitigation tools (such as swaps, forwards and options). This function concentrates on a 12-month time horizon. Reports on compliance with limits linked to strategic and financial objectives of the Group are compiled for the senior management on a monthly basis whereby mitigation action plans are proposed by Risk Management on an ad-hoc basis when required. Transferring of excess operational risks is done by Insurance Management (IM). It means purchase of insurance, which is an important risk mitigation tool used to cover the most relevant operational and liability exposures. The major insurance types are: Property Damage, Business Interruption, Liability, and Control of Well Insurance. Due to the peculiarity of the insurance business major tasks of this function are set around a yearly cycle (i.e. annual renewal of most insurance programs). Since Integrated risk management insurance is managed through a joint program for the whole group (including MOL, INA, Slovnaft, TVK, IES and Slovnaft Petrochemicals), MOL Group is able to exploit considerable synergy effects. function – at work Business Continuity Management (BCM) is the process of preparing for unexpected disruptions that have low probability for occurrence but high impact. Business Continuity Plans (BCP) and Crisis Management (CM) processes, Incident Management, Disaster Recovery and other risk control programs (like regular engineering reviews) are crucial in such a business like MOL Group’s where operational risk exposure is significant as a result of the chemical and physical processes underlying most of the operations. The quality of both BCP and CM is often measured in financial terms when dealing with insurance agencies during annual renewals, and consequently may decrease insurance costs. Valuable synergies can be exploited when risk is approached in a comprehensive way The existence of an integrated risk management function enables MOL to exploit the synergies between the above detailed pillars of risk management. The methodology and input sources of modeling financial risks are applied in ERM as well. Similarly, the accumulated information on operational risks gained through managing insurances is also an important factor in the ERM development. The results of ERM on operational risks (i.e. the impact hierarchy of operational risks) can give a Integrated risk management function – at work better direction to insurance management by highlighting which are those areas that shall be covered by insurance as a must It is an accentuated aim for Risk Management to deal with all of the external challenges (including new industry-specific and which are those where further analysis is required to make decisions on how to manage the related risks. Both ERM and Integrated Risk Management taxes) in order to support the stable and sustainable financial position of MOL. It is a necessity to have an effective and insurance management produce inputs to BCM as a priority list of key areas to focus on. BCM and IM have anyway strong comprehensive risk management as a prerequisite tool of good corporate governance. MOL Group can state that it has relationship as they both deal with operational risk management. For example an effective BCM can reduce the exposure of developed risk management function as an integral part of its corporate governance structure. This was confirmed by SAM MOL Group for business interruption risk and hence reduces the extent of insurance coverage to be bought. Risk awareness Research AG again in its 2010 benchmarking report for Dow Jones Sustainability Index that ranked MOL’s risk management culture across the whole organization had already been enhanced as well, especially via the group-wide involvement of the Function as one of the best in class with 88% performance, 28 percentage points above the sector’s average underlying MOL’s group’s divisions and units during ERM and BCM processes. well-defined responsibility for risk and crisis management, our extensive risk definitions, the applications of risk mapping, quantification, stress testing and sensitivity analysis for all financial and non-financial risks and our well-defined risk response Decision making support of capital allocation strategy. The most important role of ERM is not just to provide information on which the most imperative risks are that MOL Group faces with, but to enable top management and the Board of Directors to make more educated decisions on investments, Multi-pillar system for managing a broad variety of risks taking into consideration the risk profile of each project as well. In order to serve this purpose Group Risk Management is Incorporation of the broadest variety of risks into one long-term, comprehensive and dynamic system is arranged by involved in the evaluation of each major project and potential acquisitions and divestitures through the utilization of its ERM Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) on group level for all division. ERM integrates financial and operational risks along with capabilities to provide opinion on capital allocation and financial headroom. a wide range of strategic and reputation risks. Following identification, different classes of risks are quantified using a unified methodology. The time horizon of the model emphasises long term view (according to strategic horizons): up to 10 years and Last year the whole oil and gas industry felt the aftermath of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. In the meantime a red sludge even beyond, when analysing the variability of net present values. The ERM process identifies the most significant risks to flood in Hungary further increased the importance of operational safety and the liability issue towards environment and civil the performance of the company (both on divisional and on group levels) and calls for a decision to be made regarding which society. Both these events demonstrated that in spite of disposing insurance programs, operating risks have knock-on effect risks should be retained and which should be mitigated and how. Some of the risks are managed centrally, while some are on a company’s financial position and reputation. At MOL we made immediate steps in reconciling the status of operational dealt with the divisions, overseen by nominated risk owners. Risk Management regularly controls the realization of these risk risks in the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework with current experiences and lessons learned. Together with that mitigation actions – in a form of quarterly required reports from the risk owners. we re-validated our insurance program together with the Business Continuity Management (BCM). 224 MOL Group annual report 2010 225 1. Mr. Zsolt Hernádi (50) Chairman of the Board of Directors since 7th July, 2000, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer since 11th June, 2001, member of the Board since 24th February, 1999. Member of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee. Between 1989-1994 he occupied various posts at the Kereskedelmi és Hitelbank Plc., and between 1992-1994 he was its Deputy General Manager. He was CEO of the Central Bank of Hungarian Savings Cooperatives between 1994 and 2001, and a member of its Board of Directors between 1994 and 2002. Between 1995 and 2001, Mr. Hernádi was Board member of the Hungarian Banking Association. Since 2001, he has been a member of the European Round Table of Industrials. Since September, 2009 he has become the honorary citizen of the Corvinus University of Budapest. 2. 2. Dr. Sándor Csányi (57) 4. Member of the Board of Directors since 20th October, 2000, and Vice Chairman since 2001. Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee. Specializing in finance at university, where he also took doctorate, he later became licensed pricing specialist and a chartered accountant, and his first job was at the Ministry of Finance. He also worked for the Ministry of Food & Agriculture and at the Hungarian 1. Credit Bank. From 1989 to 1992 he was Deputy CEO of the Commercial & Credit Bank (K&H), and since 1992, he has been the Chairman & CEO of the National Savings and Commercial Bank Plc. (OTP Bank Plc.). On 28th April, 2006, the annual shareholders meeting reelected him for an other five-year term as Chairman & CEO of OTP Bank Plc. He is European Board member of MasterCard, one of the world’s leading payment systems and co-chairman of the National Association of Entrepreneurs & Employers (VOSZ), member of the Board of the Hungarian Banking Association. He is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of OTP Bank Group member, DSK Bank in Bulgaria. He has been an honorary professor of the University of Western Hungary since 2004. Dr. Sándor Csányi is a member of the 5. International Association of Business Leaders, and of the Institut International d’Etudes Bancaires. 3. Mr. Mulham Al-Jarf (40) Member of the Board of Directors since 24th April 2008. He graduated international Business and Finance from the USA and he is registered Barrister at Law of the Bar of England 6. and Wales. He is the deputy CEO of Oman Oil Company since 2004. He is member of the board in the following companies: Sohar Aluminium Co LLC, Oman Arab Bank SAOC, Oman Oil Marketing Co SAOG, Takamul Investments SAOC, and China 3. Gas Holdings Ltd. And director in the Gulf Energy Maritime PSC. He has work experience in Oman Gas Company, Ministry of Oil and Gas and General Telecommunications Co in Oman. He is a citizen of Oman. 4. Dr. Miklós Dobák (55) Member of the Board of Directors since 29th May 1996. Chairman of the Finance and Risk management Committee. He is Chairman of the Institute of Management and Professor of the Department of Management & Organisation at Corvinus University. He is an international partner of Horváth & Partners Consulting Company. 5. Dr. Gábor Horváth (54) Member of the Board of Directors since 24th February, 1999. Member of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee. Board of Directors He has headed up an independent attorney’s office since 1990. His main activities cover corporate, corporate financial and company Board of Directors organisations law. He is the Vice president of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of OTP Bank Plc. 6. Mr. Zsigmond Járai (59) Member of the Board of Directors from 29th April, 2010. Member of the Finance and Risk Management Committee. Various managerial positions in the State Development Bank between 1976-1986. In the mean time consultant in the Ministry of Water Supply of Mongolia in 1977-78. Director, then Deputy General Manager in Budapest Bank Plc. in 1987-1989. Deputy minister in the Ministry of Finance and Director of State Bank Supervision in 1989-90. In 1990-92 Director of EastEurope in James Capel & Co., London. Between 1993 and 1995 Managing Director of Samuel Montagu Financial Consultant and Securities Company. Between 1995 and 1998 Chief Executive Officer, then Chairman & CEO of ABN AMRO Bank Rt. (formerly Hungarian Credit Bank Ltd.). At the same time Chairman of Budapest Stock Exchange in 1996-1998. Minister of Finance between 1998 and 2000, then Chairman of the National Bank of Hungary from 2001 until 2007. From 2007 founder and Chairman of Supervisory Board of CIG Pannonia Life Insurance Ltd. From 2010 chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary. 226 MOL Group annual report 2010 227 7. Mr. József Molnár (55) Member of the Board of Directors since 12th October 2007. Group Chief Financial Officer since 3rd September, 2004. From 1978 to 2001, Mr Molnar held various management positions at BorsodChem Plc, including Head of Pricing Department from 1982 to 1987, and Head of Controlling Department from 1987 to 1991. Between 1991 and 2001, as Chief Financial Officer and first deputy to the CEO, he contributed to the crisis management and reorganisation of the company, and later to the creation of its vision, and subsequent privatisation. He played a key role in the stock exchange listing of BorsodChem shares. He was CEO of TVK between 2001 and 2003, and MOL Group Planning & Controlling Director until his appointment as Group CFO in September 2004. Between 2004 and 2008 he was a Board member of SLOVNAFT a. s. Since April 2001, he has been a Board member of TVK, and he is also a member of INA Supervisory and Audit Committee since April 2010. 8. 9. 8. Mr. György Mosonyi (61) Group CEO and member of the Board of Directors since 19th July, 1999. Chairman of the Sustainable Development Committee. Chairman of the Board of Directors of TVK Plc. 7. From 1974 onwards, he worked for the Hungarian Agency of Shell International Petroleum Co. and from 1986 he held the position of commercial director. In 1991 he worked at Shell headquarters, London. Between 1992-93 he was managing director of Shell-Interag Ltd and between 1994-1999 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Shell Hungary Plc. During this period he became Chairman of Shell’s Central & East European Region and CEO of Shell Czech Republic in 1998. Vicechairman of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce & Industry., vice president of Confederation of Hungarian Employers and Industrialists. 11. 9. Dr. László Parragh (48) Member of the Board of Directors from 29th April, 2010. Member of the Sustainable Development Committee. From 1989 Chairman of the Parragh Trade and Holding Ltd. From 1993 member of the Presidium of the Confederation of Hungarian Employers and Industrialists (MGYOSZ), between 1994-2000 Vice President. Member of the Advisory Committee for Economic Affairs of the Prime Minister between 1998-2002. Since 2000 President of the Hungarian Chamber 10. of Commerce and Industry, between 2003-2010 Vice President of GYSEV Plc. Since 2009 Chairman of KAVOSZ Garantiqa Plc. and the Economic and Social Council. Between 2002-2010 Board of Directors’ membership in MEHIB Ltd, EXIM Bank Plc, GYESEV Plc. Since 2010 member of the Board of Directors of MALEV. Since 2003 Chairman of the Supervisory Board of KA-VOSZ Financial Services Trading Close Co. Since 2009 Honorary Professor of the Budapest Business School and the University of West Hungary. 10. Mr. Iain Paterson (63) Member of the Board of Directors since 24th February, 1999. Member of the Finance and Risk management Committee and the Sustainable Development Committee. From 1970 onwards, he held various positions at British Petroleum Plc in Great Britain, USA and the Middle East. Between 1984 and 1998, he was with Enterprise Oil Plc, serving from 1991 as a Main Board member with responsibility for international activities. He is currently also Chairman of ITE Group Plc, Chairman of AnTech Limited and Chairman of Plebble Loyalty Board of Directors Limited Mr. Paterson is a British citizen. 11. Dr. Martin Roman (41) Member of the Board of Directors from 29th April, 2010. Member of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee Martin Roman started his professional career as sales director of the Czech branch of Wolf Bergstrasse; in 1994 he became CEO of Janka Radotín, where he was appointed Chairman of the Board after the entry of a strategic partner, the US company LENNOX. Between 2000 and 2004 he restructured a traditional Czech mechanical engineering company, becoming Chairman and CEO of the new ŠKODA HOLDING. Since February 2004, Mr. Roman has been the Chairman of the Board and CEO of ČEZ, a. s. Besides his membership in CEZ and MOL Boards, Mr. Roman is also Member of the Supervisory Board of the Prague Stock Exchange, Member of the Board of Directors of Akenerji Elektrik Üretim A.S.; Vice President of the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic (he served as Member of the Supervisory Board of Czech Railways in 2007-2009). In 2010 he became Member of the Supervisory Board of VIG (Vienna Insurance Group). In addition, Mr. Roman is a member of governing or supervisory bodies in several foundations and academic institutions. He is a Czech citizen. 228 MOL Group annual report 2010 229 1. Mr. Zsolt Hernádi (50) Chairman of the Board of Directors since 7th July, 2000, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer since 11th June, 2001, member of the Board since 24th February, 1999. Member of the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Committee. Between 1989-1994 he occupied various posts at the Kereskedelmi és Hitelbank Plc., and between 1992-1994 he was its Deputy General Manager. He was CEO of the Central Bank of Hungarian Savings Cooperatives between 1994 and 2001, and a member of its Board of Directors between 1994 and 2002. Between 1995 and 2001, Mr. Hernádi was Board member of the Hungarian Banking Association. Since 2001, he has been a member of the European Round Table of Industrials. Since September, 2009 he has become the honorary citizen of the Corvinus University of Budapest. 2. 2. Mr. György Mosonyi (61) 4. Group CEO and member of the Board of Directors since 19th July, 1999. Chairman of the Sustainable Development Committee. Chairman of the Board of Directors of TVK Plc. From 1974 onwards, he worked for the Hungarian Agency of Shell International Petroleum Co. and from 1986 he held the 1. position of commercial director. In 1991 he worked at Shell headquarters, London. Between 1992-93 he was managing director of Shell-Interag Ltd and between 1994-1999 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Shell Hungary Rt. During this period he became Chairman of Shell’s Central & East European Region and CEO of Shell Czech Republic in 1998. Vicechairman of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce & Industry., vice president of Confederation of Hungarian Employers and Industrialists. 5. 3. Mr. József Molnár (55) Member of the Board of Directors since 12th October 2007. Group Chief Financial Officer since 3rd September, 2004. From 1978 to 2001, Mr Molnar held various management positions at BorsodChem Plc, including Head of Pricing Department from 1982 to 1987, and Head of Controlling Department from 1987 to 1991. Between 1991 and 2001, as Chief Financial Officer and first deputy to the CEO, he contributed to the crisis management and reorganisation of the company, and later to the creation of its vision, and subsequent privatisation. He played a key role in the stock exchange listing of BorsodChem 3. 6. shares. He was CEO of TVK between 2001 and 2003, and MOL Group Planning & Controlling Director until his appointment as Group CFO in September 2004. Between 2004 and 2008 he was a Board member of SLOVNAFT a. s. Since April 2001, he has been a Board member of TVK, and he is also a member of INA Supervisory and Audit Committee since April 2010. 4. Mr. Zoltán Áldott (42) Exploration and Production Executive Vice President since September, 2004. 7. Between 1990 and 1991, he was an associate at Creditum Financial Consulting Ltd., and then, between 1992 and 1995, he held various positions at Eurocorp Financial Consulting Ltd. From 1995 to 1997, he was the Manager of MOL Privatization Executive Department, and from 1997 until 1999 Director of Capital Markets. From 1999, Mr. Áldott served as Director of Strategy & Business Development. From November 2000, he acted as Chief Strategy Officer and then, since June 2001, as Group Chief Strategy Officer. Since September 2004, he has been the Executive Vice President of MOL Exploration & Production Division Board and together with this position from 1st April 2010 he has been the President of the Management Board of INA d.d. He is also Executive Board a member of the Board of Directors of the Budapest Stock Exchange. Executive Board 5. Mr. Ferenc Horváth (50) Executive Vice President of MOL Refining & Marketing Division, a unit integrated with SLOVNAFT since November 2003. He is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of IES Mantua since November, 2007 and he has member of the Board of Directors of SLOVNAFT since May, 2007. From 1984 until 1991, he worked for Mineralimpex, the Hungarian Foreign Trade Company for Oil & Mining Products, in the fields of crude oil and natural gas imports, and crude oil product exports. Between 1991 and 1997, he was Managing Director of Allcom Trading Co., the Hungarian Mineralimpex-Phibro Energy joint-venture, dealing with the European trading of crude oil and crude oil products. He joined MOL Plc in 1998 as Director of LPG Business Unit, and worked from January 2001 onwards as Sales Director, being responsible for the sales of MOL’s entire product range (petrol, diesel, petroleum products, bitumen, LPG, lubricants, and so on). In 2002, he became Commercial Director, sales activities having broadened to encompass the supply of crude oil and raw materials necessary for the refining of crude oil. 230 MOL Group annual report 2010 231 6. Mr. József Simola (44) Corporate Centre Executive Vice President since April 2006. From 1991 to 1992 he was employed as an SAP expert at General Electric – Tungsram. He subsequently joined Arthur Andersen as an auditor and consultant. In 1996 he moved on to the Boston Consulting Group, where he held various managerial positions in Hungary, Germany and Australia. Mr. Simola joined MOL Plc. in 2003 and has been a member of the Executive Board since April 2006. His current positions are: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of SLOVNAFT a. s., Member of the Supervisory Board of INA d.d, and Member of the Board of Directors of IES S.p.A. 7. Mr. Oszkár Világi (47) Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of SLOVNAFT. Mr. Világi graduated from the Faculty of Law at the Commenius University in Bratislava in 1985 and achieved the academic title D.C.L. Since 1992 he is the member of the Slovak Bar Association. During 1990-1992 he was the member of the Czechoslovak Parliament in Prague. From 1996 he was performing in governing bodies of various Slovak companies including former Poľnobanka, Slovenská poisťovňa and Slovak Railways (ŽSR). He has been the legal advisor of several foreign investors in big restructuring projects of Slovak industry (US Steel, France Telecom, OTP, MOL), since 2002 he was member of the team preparing strategic partnership and integration of SLOVNAFT and MOL. Before becoming a member of the Board of Directors in SLOVNAFT in 2005 he was a member of its Supervisory Board. In March 2006 Mr. Világi was appointed CEO of SLOVNAFT. In April 2010 he became the Member of the Executive Board of MOL Group. Executive Board 232 MOL Group annual report 2010 233 1. Dr. Mihály Kupa (69) Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 11th October, 2002. Chairman of the Audit Committee and contributes to the Board and to the Finance and Risk Management work Between 1969 and 1975 he held various senior positions in the Statistical Office, between 1975-1984 in the Financial Research Institute, and between 1984-1990 in the Ministry of Finance. Between 1990 and 1993 he was Minister of Finance, and from 1992 to 1993 Vice-President of the Council of Governors and President of the World Bank and IMF in 1993 in Hungary. From 1991, and again in 1998 he was Member of the Parliament (Independent). He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Theatre Company. 2. Dr. Attila Chikán (66) Member of the Supervisory Board since 30th April, 2004, Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 5th December, 2005. Member of the Audit Committee. Since 1968 he has been working for Budapest University of Economic Sciences. (Until 2004 predecessor of Corvinus University of Budapest). Between 1989 and 1998 he was Head of the Business Economics Department. In 1998 and 1999 he acted as Minister of Economic Affairs. He was Rector of Budapest University of Economic Sciences between 2000 and 2003. Since then he has been Director of Competitiveness Research Centre of the University. He is a Corresponding Member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. At present he holds several positions in Hungarian and international professional organisations, and membership of the editorial boards of several international journals. He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Richter Gedeon Plc. 3. Mr. Lajos Benedek (38) Member of the Supervisory Board since 12th October, 2007, as an Employee Representative. Mr. Benedek joined MOL in 1996. During the whole employment he has held various positions in the E&P Division, he has been Manager of Reservoir Technology Department since 2009. He has also been member of the MOL Trade Union of Mining Workers and Work Council. 4. Mr. John I. Charody (83) Member of the Supervisory Board since 11th October, 2002. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the British Empire and Justice of Peace, he worked in the Geophysical Institute of the Oil Exploration and Development Company between 1953 and 1956. Then he was a director in Australia of various companies including Bridge Oil Ltd., Aurora Minerals, Project Mining and CEO of Winton Enterprises Pty. Ltd. and Galina Investment international consulting company. Fellow of the Institute of Australian Directors since 1971, fellow of the Australian Institute of Management since 1967, Justice of Peace since 1972, he was awarded the M.B.E. by H.M. the Queen for service to Australia in 1973. In 1990 he was appointed Minister of Commerce in Budapest by the Federal Government of Australia with regional responsibilities in 12 countries. In 1997, the President of the Republic of Hungary awarded him the Officer Cross of the Republic of Hungary for his services to fostering Australian-Hungarian financial and commercial relationship. Board Member of Pick Rt. and Csányi Foundation. Consultant of MFB Invest Zrt. Supervisory Board 5. Mr. Slavomír Hatina (63) Supervisory Board Member of the Supervisory Board since 11th October, 2002. Mr. Hatina joined Slovnaft in 1970, working in various positions. From 1994 to December 2001, he worked for Slovnaft a.s., Bratislava (1994-1998 as CEO, 1998-2001 as President). From 1994 to February 2005, Mr. Hatina was Chairman of the Board of Slovnaft,a.s. A Doctorate Honoris Causa was bestowed on Mr Hatina by the Slovak University of Technology in 2001. He is Chairman and CEO of Slovintegra a.s. Mr Hatina is a citizen of Slovakia. 6. Mr. Attila Juhász (47) Member of the Supervisory Board since 12th October, 2007, delegated by the employees. Joined the Company in 1986. During his total employment held various positions in the Exploration and Production. Vice Chairman of the MOL Trade Union of Production Workers, and member of the Workers Council since its foundation. Presently acting as an observer in the Workers Council. 234 MOL Group annual report 2010 235 7.Mr. József Kohán (59) Member of the Supervisory Board since 1th May, 2009, delegated by the employees. Employed by MOL as a chemical engineer M.Sc. since 1977. Held various positions in the Refining business. At Downstream Development he is working as responsible for preparing development projects in the area of refining since 1998. Author of several technical publications, member of the Society of Hungarian Chemists. Member of MOL Plc. Oil industrial Tradeunion. 8. Dr. Sándor Lámfalussy (81) Member of the Supervisory Board since 24th February, 1999. Between 1955 and 1975 he worked at the Banque de Bruxelles, first as economist, and during the second part of this period as member, and later as Chairman, of the of the Management Board. On a leave of absence from his bank he was visiting professor at Yale University during the academic year 1961-62. In 1976 he joined the Bank for International Settlements as member of the management and Economic Adviser, and became the Bank’s CEO from 1984 until 1993. From 1994 until July 1997 he was President of the European Monetary Institute, the forerunner of the European Central Bank. In 2000-2001 he was Chairman of the Committee of Wise Men on the Regulation of European Securities Markets, the recommendations of which was accepted by the European Council, and is now being implemented. Throughout his professional carrier he was teaching at the Catholic University of Louvain (Belgium), of which he is now a Professor Emeritus. He is a Belgian citizen. 9. Mr. István Töröcskei (61) Member of the Supervisory Board since 29th April, 2010. Held senior positions in the following banks between 1973 and 1989: National Bank of Hungary, HIB London. In 1989-1991 Managing Director of Hungarian Credit Bank Ltd., in 1991-1992 Chairman of Kultúrbank Ltd., then between 1992 and 1994 CEO, then Chairman-CEO of Hungarian Credit Bank Ltd. Between 1995 and 1997 Chairman of Interbanka Prague, and also Advisor in T and T Ltd. From 1997 until 2007 CEO of Equilor Investor Ltd., then from 2007 again Advisor in T and T Ltd. Chairman of the Supervisory Board in Hír TV and Gresco Ltd., and member of the Board of Directors in PannErgy Ltd., Pro-Aurum Ltd. Chairman of the Széchenyi Credit Cooperative and Széchenyi Commercial Bank Ltd. Supervisory Board 236 MOL Group annual report 2010 237 For the MOL Group a total of 127 companies were fully, and a further 16 companies were partially consolidated, using the equity method. Last year the ownership structure changed: at the end of 2010, compared to the end of last year the shareholding of foreign institutional investors increased from 25.7% to 26.1%, while the ownership of domestic institutional and private investors decreased from 8.4% to 8.3%. According to the received request for the registration of the shares and the published shareholders notifications the Company had seven shareholders that held more than 5% voting rights on the 31st December 2010. The Company held 7.1% treasury shares at the end of December 2010. The global economy went through a transition period in recent years, the signs of the recovery were already visible in 2010 and MOL closed a successful year. MOL continuously adjusts its operation to the external environment and became more international, more efficient and more upstream driven in the recent years. Despite the challenging macro and regulatory environment, MOL not just remained committed to keep its financial stability but continue the key development projects, hereby established an outstanding position for the upturn period in each business division. MOL aims to exploit the significant organic growth potential of our integrated portfolio by operating the existing asset base on maximum efficiency. Report of the Supervisory Board The share of international operations in profit contribution increased significantly in 2010 and the Company expects this tendency to continue further in the coming years. In 2010 approximately half of the Group EBITDA was generated outside Hungary as share of international operation increased further considerably. In the first full financial year together with INA, integration stepped on a higher level, which accompanied with effects of previous investments and ongoing efficiency improvement projects already reflected in the improving contribution. The Company’s main goal for the coming years is to maximize the value of its extended portfolio by harmonizing the operation and exploiting the synergies. The Supervisory Board endorses the recommendation of the Board of Directors not to pay dividend in 2011 connected to the year ended 31 December 2010 and the total net income shall increase retained earnings. The Supervisory Board performed its duties in full accordance with its statutory obligations, held 5 meetings during the year, regular agenda points of the meetings include the quarterly report of the Board of Directors on Company’s operations The Supervisory Board proposes that the General Meeting approves the audited financial statements of MOL Plc for 2010, and the reports of Internal Audit, Corporate Security and Audit Committee. In addition, the Supervisory Board reviewed with a balance-sheet total of HUF 2,949 billion, net income for the period of HUF 103 billion, and tie-up reserve of HUF 153 the proposals for the Annual General Meeting. The report of the Supervisory Board has been prepared pursuant to the billion and the audited consolidated financial statements of the MOL Group for 2010, with a balance sheet total of HUF 4,486 report of the Board of Directors, the opinion of the auditors, the scheduled regular midyear reviews and the work of the billion and profit attributable to equity holders of HUF 104 billion. Audit Committee. In its meetings during 2010, the Supervisory Board dealt in detail with the business situation of the MOL Group, the strategic development of the Group and its Divisions. The Supervisory Board regularly got information about the Report of the Supervisory decisions of the Board of Directors and issues concerning the Company. Budapest, 31st March, 2011 MOL is a leading integrated energy company in Central and Eastern Europe, and with the parent company’s net sales of HUF 2,161 billion and the Group’s net sales of HUF 4,299 billion according to the International Financial Reporting Standards Board (IFRS), one of the largest company in Hungary. MOL is a decisive Company in the region with its USD 10 billion market For and on behalf of the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee of MOL Plc: capitalisation. In 2009, the weighted average stock exchange price of MOL shares was HUF 12,595, while in 2010 it increased to HUF 19,505. MOL’s share price increased from the HUF 17,000 closing price of the last year to HUF 20,790 by the end of 2010. The Company’s 2010 financial statements in accordance with Accounting Law provide a true and fair picture of its economic activities and were audited by Ernst & Young Kft. The accounting methods applied in developing the financial reports are supported by the report of the Audit Committee, comply with the provisions of the Accounting Act and are consistent with Dr. Mihály Kupa the accounting policies of the Company. All figures in the balance sheet are supported by analytical registration. Assessment Chairman of the Supervisory Board and payment of tax obligations were implemented as prescribed by law. 238 MOL Group annual report 2010 239 Ownership Structure 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 Par value of Par value of shares shares (HUF th) % (HUF th) % Foreign investors 26,910,802 25.7 27,268,101 26.1 Surgutneftegas OJSC 22,179,488 21.2 22,179,488 21.2 CEZ MH B.V. 7,677,285 7.3 7,677,285 7.3 Oman Oil (Budapest) Limited 7,316,294 7.0 7,316,294 7.0 Magnolia Finance Ltd. 6,007,479 5.7 6,007,479 5.7 ING Bank N.V. 5,220,000 5.0 5,220,000 5.0 Crescent Petroleum 3,161,116 3.0 3,161,116 3.0 Dana Gas PJSC 3,161,116 3.0 3,161,116 3.0 OTP Bank Plc. 6,707,832 6.4 6,446,999 6.2 Hungarian institutional and private investors 8,742,336 8.4 8,645,870 8.3 MOL Plc. (treasury shares) 7,435,316 7.1 7,435,316 7.1 Total: 104.519.064 100,0 104.519.064 100,0 Please note, that data above do not fully reflect the ownership structure in the Share Registrar. It is based on the received request for registration of the shares and the published shareholders notifications. The registration is not mandatory. The shareholder may exercise its rights towards the company, if the shareholder is registered in the Share Registrar. According to the Articles of Association no shareholder or shareholder group may exercise more than 10% of the voting rights. Share Information MOL share prices are published by the majority of Hungarian daily newspapers and available on BSE web site (www.bet.hu). Indicative bid and ask prices of MOL’s DRs on IOB can be monitored using the RIC code MOLBq.L on Thomson Reuters or MOLD LI on Bloomberg. MOL shares and DRs are traded on one of the US OTC market, Pink Sheet. MOL share prices on the Budapest Stock Exchange can be followed on Thomson Reuters using the RIC code MOLB.BU or Corporate and Shareholder Information on Bloomberg using code MOL HB. The following table shows trading data on MOL shares each quarter of 2010. Period BSE volume BSE closing price (HUF/share) 1st quarter 12,609,785 20,100 2nd quarter 12,460,311 19,400 3rd quarter 8,489,583 21,295 4th quarter 10,075,619 20,790 Date of foundation of MOL Plc.: October 1, 1991. Registered by the Budapest Court of Justice acting as Court of Registration Corporate and shareholder on June 10, 1992 with effect as of October 1, 1991, under file number 01-10-041683. Treasury shares Legal predecessor: Országos Kőolajés Gázipari Tröszt (OKGT National Oil and Gas Trust) and its subsidiaries. During 2010 the following treasury shares transactions happened: information The effective Articles of Association were accepted at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 23 April, 2009. Access Reasons for change Number of A series shares Number of C shares to the Articles of Association can be requested from the Company or electronic version can be downloaded from Company’s Number of Treasury shares on 31 December 2009 7,434,737 578 web site. The option contracted with ING Bank N.V. was settled 5,220,000 New option agreement with ING Bank N.V. -5,220,000 On 16 October, 2008 the Court of Registry registered the capital decrease of MOL, which was decided by the AGM held on 23 Number of Treasury shares on 31 December 2010 7,434,737 578 April 2008. Accordingly, the share capital of MOL decreased from HUF 109,675,502,578 to HUF 104,191,727,578 by cancelling 5,483,775 pieces of registered ordinary shares of the series “A” with a par value of HUF 1,000, owned by the Company. On 16 October, 2008 the Court of Registration registered the capital increase of MOL, which was made as part of the convertible bond programme approved by the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 1 September 2003. The share capital of the company increased from HUF 104,191,727,578 to HUF 104,519,063,578. Registered share capital as of 31 December 2010: 104,518,484 registered A series ordinary shares with a par value of HUF 1,000 each, 1 registered “B” series preferred share with a par value of HUF 1,000 with special preferential rights attached and 578 registered C series ordinary shares with a par value of HUF 1,001 each. 240 MOL Group annual report 2010 241 Changes in organisation and senior management On 26 February 2010. President of INA Management Board, Mr. László Geszti announced to resign from his position due to health reasons. Mr. Zoltán Áldott, Executive Vice President of Exploration and Production Division of MOL Group is nominated as his successor, while retaining his position in MOL Plc. Mr. László Geszti will continue to serve MOL Group as senior advisor to Mr. Zsolt Hernádi, Chairman and CEO of MOL Plc. At the meeting held on 31 March 2010, the Supervisory Board of INA unanimously elected Mr Zoltán Áldott as new President of the Management Board of INA commencing as of 1 April 2010 with a five year term of office. On 12 April 2010 Mr. László Akar, Mr. Miklós Kamarás and Dr. Ernő Kemenes, the members of the Board of Directors of MOL notified the Board of Directors about their intention to resign by the Annual General Meeting which will be held on 29 April 2010. The Board of Directors of MOL acknowledged their resignation from their membership. The AGM approved to elect Mr. Zsigmond Járai, dr. László Parragh and dr. Martin Roman to be member of the Board of Directors from April 29 2010 to April 28 2015 and the AGM elected István Töröcskei as member of the Supervisory Board from April 29 2010 to April 28 2015. MOL securities held by Directors and Officers of the company as of 31 December, 2010 Name Current position Number of MOL shares Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Zsolt Hernádi 178,951 Chairman of the Board of Directors member of the Board of Directors, Dr. Sándor Csányi 5,000 Vice-Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer, György Mosonyi 62,920 member of the Board of Directors Executive Vice President of Finance, József Molnár 18,201 member of the Board of Directors Mulham Basheer Abdullah Al Jarf member of the Board of Directors 0 Dr. Miklós Dobák member of the Board of Directors 20,000 Dr. Gábor Horváth member of the Board of Directors 14,945 Zsigmond Járai member of the Board of Directors 0 Dr. László Parragh member of the Board of Directors 0 Iain Paterson member of the Board of Directors 6,000 Dr. Martin Roman member of the Board of Directors 0 Dr. Mihály Kupa Chairman of the Supervisory Board 0 member of the Supervisory Board, Lajos Benedek 0 representative of the employees John I. Charody member of the Supervisory Board 0 Dr. Attila Chikán Deputy-Chairman of the Supervisory Board 0 Slavomir Hatina member of the Supervisory Board 0 Corporate and shareholder member of the Supervisory Board Juhász Attila 0 representative of the employees Dr. Sándor Lámfalussy member of the Supervisory Board 380 member of the Supervisory Board József Kohán 0 information representative of the employee István Töröcskei member of the Supervisory Board 0 Executive Vice President, Zoltán Áldott 65,000 Exploration and Production Senior Vice President, Ábel Galácz 58 Corporate Business Development Executive Vice President, Ferenc Horváth 28,198 Refining and Marketing Executive Vice President, József Simola 16,310 Corporate Centre Slovnaft a.s. Oszkár Világi 0 Chief Executive Officer 242 MOL Group annual report 2010 243 Glossary Crack Spread Difference between product’s quoted price and crude oil price. The crack spread figures change according to global oil market trends (like consumption seasonality, refinery supply, changes of stocks). Glossary Cracking Collective noun for operations/technologies aiming at production of a mixture of lighter hydrocarbons (having lower boiling point) by cracking longer carbon chains (through splitting carbon-carbon bonds) of heavier hydrocarbon molecules. Cracking can be purely a thermal process as well as catalytic (in this case the cracking process promoted by using of catalysts). One of the most important method of the modern mineral oil processing, is a cracking process, promoted by using catalysts, at the temperature of 480-540 ˚C, during which hard distillates and distillate residues are used to produce motor oil having good quality, while other malleable gases arise. Average production cost Distillation capacity utilisation Total cost of lifting, gathering and processing of crude oil and natural gas The utilisation of the primary distillation capacity of a refinery. Biofuels Downstream Biofuels means liquid or gaseous fuel for transport produced from biomass, where “biomass” means the biodegradable Refining and Marketing and Retail fraction of products, waste and residues from biological origin from agriculture (including vegetal and animal substances), forestry and related industries including fisheries and aquaculture, as well as the biodegradable fraction of industrial and Dry well municipal waste. An investigated borehole, which does not confirm the existence of a hydrocarbon site or is not able to profitably produce crude oil or natural gas. Boe (barrel of crude oil equivalent) Volume equivalent obtained after conversion of the heating value of gas to crude oil on the basis of its thermal quantity. In Enhanced oil recovery (EOR) its practical application, 1 boe is, in general, 6000 cubic feet (about 170 normal m3) of gas. Processes/technologies that can be used to recover more oil relative to the primary and secondary methods. Barrel FAMEFatty acid methyl esther Anglo-Saxon unit of measurement applied in the oil sector, one ton crude oil is nearly equal with 7-7,5 barrel. (Conversion rate Biocomponent blended in dieselgasoil applied onto crude oil grades in Hungary is 7,55 bbl/ton). FCCFluid Catalytic Cracking plant Brent type crude oil FCCFluid Catalytic Cracking plant Mix of North Sea crude oils whose quoted price is considered as a benchmark in the international crude oil market. Field development Brent-Ural Spread Process of implementing underground and aboveground facilities necessary for the recovery of hydrocarbon reserves. Difference between Brent and Ural crude oil’s international price. The price of Ural type crude oil is quoted in Rotterdam (FOB ROT) and Mediterran (CIF MED) region. Geothermal energy Geothermal energy is energy generated from heat stored in the earth, or the collection of absorbed heat derived from Condensates underground. General term for a group of liquid phase hydrocarbons in which light components dominate and which are extracted at the surface by natural gas separation. Geothermal Power Plant Geothermal Power Plants are intended to utilize geothermal energy by producing power or heat out of it. Cogeneration plant Coal or natural gas fuelled power station that is suitable for the simultaneous generation of electric and thermal energy. Gross production Total quantity of crude oil and natural gas from hydrocarbon fields prior to the deduction of royalties. Combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) In a combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant, a gas turbine generator generates electricity and the waste heat is used to HDPE produce steam to generate additional electricity via a steam turbine; this last step enhances the efficiency of electricity High density polyethylene generation (average net electric efficiency of new CCGTs is 58%). Hydrocrack Commercial gas storage Cracking of light or heavy gas oils or residue hydrocarbons, mixed with hydrogen, under high pressure and temperature, in Glossary Natural gas industry activity, which aims to balance the volatilities in the seasonal natural gas supply and demand as well as the presence of a catalyst, to produce light oils. business transactions. In Hungary gas storage is an activity unbundled legally from natural gas trade operations, thus the Horizontal drilling Drilling at which horizontal or near horizontal range is created in the target layer following the vertical ownership right and operation of the infrastructure are separated from the title and right of disposal of natural gas stored in section in order to expand the inflow cross-section. such storage facilities. Hungarian Petroleum Product Association (MÁSZ) Company Association of the most important Hungarian crude oil product trading companies. MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company 244 MOL Group annual report 2010 245 Increased oil recovery (IOR) Net dry natural gas production A comprehensive term to define increased petroleum recovery methods, which includes all methods or processes other than Total gas recovered, reduced by the quantity of produced or separated carbon dioxide and/or the condensates. production based on the energy of and in the reservoir (enhanced oil recovery (EOR), secondary and updated primary methods). Net electrical efficiency Kyoto Protocol The net efficiency of an entity (a device, component, or system) in electronics and electrical engineering is defined as useful The Kyoto Protocol is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC or FCCC), an power output divided by the total electrical power consumed (a fractional expression) and adjusted with its own consumption. international environmental treaty, which is intended to achieve “stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system.” Net production Total crude oil and natural gas quantity from the hydrocarbon fields following the deduction of mining royalties. Liquified Propane Gas (LPG) Hydrocarbon gas compound mainly consisting of propane and buthane, liquefied under high pressure, which is sold in Olefin cylinders for household purposes. These days the motoric usage of LPG spreads. This fuel is the „autogas”. This is collective noun for open-chained hydrocarbons including unsaturated double carbon-carbon bond(s). The simplest representatives of these compounds, ethylene and propylene are basic petrochemicals. The most important asset in olefin LDPE production is the so-called steam cracker (olefin plant), which converts naphtha, chemical gasoil and other light hydrocarbons Low density polyethylene to key products as ethylene and propylene by cracking and dehydrogenation. M bbl Polyethylene Thousand barrel This is a kind of thermoplastics produced by polymerisation of ethylene. Today polyethylene has the largest share among commodity plastics. Parameters (such as pressure, temperature, applied additives and catalysts) of industrial processes MM bbl aiming at production of PE show significant differences, consequently a wide range of products with different characteristics Million barrel can be produced. All of them can be classified into two groups according to their density: LDPE (low-density polyethylene) and HDPE (high-density polyethylene).There are significant differences at molecular level: LDPE shows inordinate structure, M boe a mixture of heavily branched components resulting in softer, more flexible material, while HDPE is a denser, harder and Thousand barrel of crude oil equivalent stronger (with higher tensile strength) plastic due to its more structured hydrocarbon chains. MMSCF Polyolefins Million cubic feet. The key imperial measure used in the natural gas industry. One cubic meter is equivalent to 35.314 cubic feet. This is collective noun for thermoplastics produced by polymerisation (polyaddition) of olefin monomers (e.g. ethylene and propylene). The most important commodity plastics, polyethylene and polypropylene belong to this class. MEH Hungarian Energy Office. Polypropylene (PP) A thermoplastic produced by polymerisation of propylene. Has a significant and increasing share among commodity Mining royalty plastics. Parameters (such as pressure, temperature, applied additives and catalysts) of industrial processes aiming at In accordance with international practice and the relevant provisions of the Mining Law, the Hungarian State requires to pay PP production show significant differences, consequently a wide range of products with different characteristics can be a mining royalty after any and all crude oil and natural gas produced in Hungary (except production applying EOR methods). produced. Addition of ethylene into the polymerisation process as co-monomer leads to PP copolymers. PP can be used in a The rate of this royalty has been 12% since January 1, 1998, except the extra mining royalty payable after the natural gas wide variety of application sit has good resistance to heat and low water absorption. produced from fields developed prior to 1998. PPM MOL filling station operated in franchise PPM is a measure of the concentration of a substance in a liquid, used where low levels of concentration are significant. The Filling station operated under MOL-logo and with MOL product slate, but not owned by MOL. ppm value is equivalent to the absolute fractional amount multiplied by one million. For example, 10 ppm equals 10 kilogram of a substance for a million kilogram (one kiloton) of a liquid. Monomers Basic compounds of polymers (plastics, rubbers), basic elements (links) of polymer chains in high-molecular-weight materials. Production Sharing Agreement (PSA) Nowadays the most important monomers, the basic petrochemicals are short-chained olefins (ethylene, propylene, Agreement for sharing the production of an oil field or a gas field between the State and the Investors, having the production butadiene) along with their simple derivatives, and the simplest aromatic compound: benzene. Primary sources of all these license for the field. monomers are the olefin plants. Proved developed producing reserve MSZKSZ The reserve that can be extracted from existing wells with existing facilities, during the period of time available for production. Hungarian Hydrocarbon Stockpiling Association responsible for the strategic stockpiling of crude oil, crude oil product and natural gas. Proved reserve Estimated quantity of crude oil, natural gas and liquefied gas products that can commercially be extracted from already Glossary Natural gas liquids known reservoirs with a high degree of certainty (over 90%) under the prevailing economic and operating conditions. Liquefied hydrocarbons separated from natural gas, ranging from propanes to gasolines and also containing heavier components. Proved undeveloped reserve Reserve that can be extracted from new wells located in areas where no drilling has been made yet or from existing wells in NCI (Nelson complexity index) which relatively significant expenditure is required for development. The Nelson complexity index, developed by Wilbur Nelson in 1960, is a measure of the secondary conversion capacity of a petroleum refinery relative to the primary distillation capacity. 246 MOL Group annual report 2010 247 Putting into production supply in case of supply crisis , under the terms and conditions published in the relevant minister’s decree and such reserve Accomplishment of surface and underground facilities necessary for the production of hydrocarbon reserves. shall be replenished. Pyrolysis Thermal Power Plant Thermal cracking of hydrocarbons at high (usually above 650°C) temperature and low (few bars) pressure, which is the basic A thermal power station is a power plant in which the prime mover is steam driven. Water is heated, turns into steam and process in operation of olefin plants. Process is conducted in the presence of steam in order to minimize coke-formation. spins a steam turbine which drives an electrical generator (regional average net electric efficiency of existing thermal power plants is approximately 35%). Pyro-naphtha Mixture of valuable by-products with significant aromatic content, having boiling points within the range of naphtha, arising Term contract/sales besides main products (ethylene and propylene) in the course of pyrolysis of petrochemical feedstocks (naphtha, chemical gasoil Long term contract, usually for one year or longer term and other light hydrocarbons) in olefin plants. Can be converted to basic aromatics (benzene, toluene, xylenes, etc.) by further processing, while after appropriate hydrogenation it can also be used as high-quality, high-octane mogas blending component. Toe (tonne of crude oil equivalent) Mass equivalent received from the heating value of gas following conversion to crude oil on the basis of heat unit. As a rule, Refinery margin 1,200 Nm3 gas is equivalent to 1 toe. Difference between product’s international quoted price and the actual crude oil price. Or: The unit profitability of a (theoretical or actual) refinery, which is determined by crude oil product, as well as unit refining costs. Transit Gas transmission through pipeline, which crosses the border of one member of the European Economic Area and its starting Refinery complexity or end-point is outside the European Economic Area. Refinery complexity demonstrates, what white product yield can be achieved from 1 barrel of crude oil. The more complex the refinery, the higher is the white product yield from the same quality crude oil ie. the less fuel oil it produces. One of the Transmission pipeline best measure for complexity is Nelson index, which calculates complexity from the existence of different refinery plants and This pipeline, including its accessories and fittings, is used for transmitting natural gas, and its starting or kick-off points are from the the ratio of their capacity to distillation capacity. the national border of the country, inlet points of gas production facilities, inlet and outlet points of underground gas storage facilities, and the end or terminal points are the national border of the country, outlet points of gas transfer stations (city Refining cover gates), inlet and outlet points of underground gas storage facilities. Total refining capacity divided by total volumes of product sold Ural Blend Residue upgrading Russian, export quality crude oil. Heavy and sour (with high sulphur content) crude oil, therefore the price of Ural Blend is To transform residues (heavy fuel oil) into more valuable white products. lower than that of light Brent crude oil, which has low sulphur content. Russian export blend (API degree: 32.5, sulphur content: 1.25%) Mix of Russian crude oils whose quoted price is considered as a benchmark in the Financial Terms international crude oil markets. ADR SAPPO American Depository Receipt, depository certificates issued by a foreign depository on the issuers shares, which are Slovak Association of Petroleum Industry and Trade deposited with a Hungarian custodian. Steam cracker (olefin plant) CAPEX Technology for production of key basic petrochemical products (olefins: ethylene, propylene, and aromatics: benzene, toluene, Capital Expenditures xylenes), on the basis of thermal decomposition (cracking) and dehydrogenation of petrochemical feedstocks (naphtha and chemical gasoil) produced by the refineries or lighter saturated hydrocarbons (ethane, propane, butane) in the presence of steam. Cash Flow at Risk (CF@R) Main products of the process (ethylene, propylene) are raw-materials of polyethylene and polypropylene production, while the Methodology to measure the risks of the MOL Group. It takes into account the exposures to external factors (product price, by-products can widely be used in organic chemical industry, plastics and rubber production or as gasoline blending components. rate of interest) of the different businesses within the MOL Group portfolio, as well as the volatilities and correlation between those factors. SCM (Supply Chain Management) Supply Chain Management coordinates the procurement of crude oil, other refinery feedstock and products, as well as EBITDA (Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) refining, logistics related to procurement or sales, and the wholesale of crude oil products. It targets to maximise MOL Group Operating profit plus depreciation and amortisation profit with optimising through the whole value chain. EBITDA margin SPE based reserve valuation Ratio of EBITDA divided by net sales revenues Method used by the Society of Petroleum Engineers Glossary EPS Spot contract/sales Earnings per Share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders using the weighted average number of shares Short term sales, usually in a contract for one delivery. outstanding during the year after deduction of the average number of treasury shares held over the period. Strategic gas storage Financial Covenant The mobile natural gas reserve and the relevant peak withdrawal capacity aiming at implementing the Law XXVI. of 2006 It is the rate calculated from specific terms of P&L, Balance Sheet and Cash-Flow. (Eg.: Net Debt per EBITDA, EBITDA per on strategic storage of natural gas. This reserve and capacity can be exclusively used for ensuring the security of natural gas Total Interest Expense) Financial Covenants are primarily applied in loan facility agreements to limit lenders’ credit risk. 248 MOL Group annual report 2010 249 Gearing ETS (Emission trading scheme) Ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity The Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading scheme of the European Union is a market based instrument for cost effective reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Net debt Net debt = Long-term debt, net of current portion + short-term debt + current portion of long-term debt – short term FTE investments – cash and cash equivalents Full-time equivalent IFRS GHG (Greenhouse gases) International Financial Reporting Standards, formerly International Accounting Standards (IAS) Gases that contribute to the formation of an undesirable insulating blanket around the Earth by trapping heat from infrared radiation (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6). ISDA (International Swap Dealers Association) The ISDA Master Agreement is a general agreement between counterparties to provide legal assistance with regards to GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) derivative transactions. A multi-stakeholder process and independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Market capitalisation Number of shares (issued share capital excluding Treasury stock) multiplied by the actual stock market price. HSE Health, Safety and Environment Net income Attributable to equity holders of the parent Profit after taxation after the Groups share of associated companies and the LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) deduction of profits due to minority interest. The number of incidents of lost time injury (LTI) per one million hours worked NOPLAT PM (Particulate Matter) Net Operating Profit Less Adjusted Taxes Particulate matter is finely dispersed solid matter produced by burning and other technological processes; the most dangerous are fractions finer than 10 µm (PM10). Operating cash flow Net cash provided by operating activities to be used for investment activities, interest payments and dividend payments to RAR (Road accident rate) shareholders. The number of road accidents per 1 million km driven Remediation ROACE (Return on average capital employed) Preventing, minimising, remedying or mitigating the effects of pollution in relation to contaminated land or water, or Operating profit after taxation / average capital employed restoring such land or water to its former state. Operating profit after taxation = operating profit x (100% calculated corporate tax ratio) SD (Sustainable Development) Average capital employed = opening capital employed/2 + closing capital employed/2 “Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their Capital employed = total assets – long term financial investments – work in progress – cash and cash equivalents – short term own needs” (source: UN / Brundtland Report). liabilities + short term loans and credits Spills ROE (Return on Equity) Unintended or uncontrolled release of hazardous materials exceeding 1 cubic metre to the external environment (groundwater, Net income divided by shareholders equity surface water, soil), except spills contained in impervious containments. Shareholder’s return SS (Solid Substances) Return resulting from the movements of the share price and the amount of dividend paid Particles which do not dissolve in water Short position TPH (Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons) Exposure to a factor (e.g. commodity price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate) where the profit and/or the cash flow of a Oil substances. A parameter expressing the pollution of surface water by organic oil substances. company is negatively influenced by an increase of such factor. VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) Any organic compound with a vapour pressure of 0.01 kPa or higher at 293.15 K (20 ºC), or which has similar volatility under Sustainable Development the actual conditions of use (methane is not included); most ground-level ozone (smog) results from a reaction between NOX and VOCs. BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) Glossary The rate of wastewater pollution expressed by the amount of oxygen required by micro organisms for the biological oxidation VRU of organic waste in a unit volume of waste water. Vapour recovery unit COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) A parameter similar to BOD, differing only in that the oxidation of components in waste water is based on the use of chemicals. 250 MOL Group annual report 2010 251 Content table Topic of interest Covered in Online information Topic of interest Covered in Online information this report this report About MOL Quality Management mol.hu/our_company Investor presentation mol.hu/ir Click: IR presentation Renewables 181 mol.hu/environment Click: Climate Change About MOL Key Group data 6, 166 mol.hu/ir Click: About MOL Risk Management mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group MOL mol.hu/ir Click: About MOL Road Safety 187 mol.hu/people Click: Health and Safety Sustainability Ownership structure 241 mol.hu/ir Click: About MOL Safety at work 186 mol.hu/people Click: Health and Safety Regulated information mol.hu/ir Click: Regulated information Social investments 197 mol.hu/people Click: Social Investments Subsidiaries 118 mol.hu/ir Click: About MOL Stakeholder Engagement mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group Financial reports and Our Our businesses Supply Security mol.hu/economic Click: Generating Value for Stakeholders Exploration and Production update of MOL mol.hu/ir Click: Financial reports and presentations Talent Attraction and Retention 189 mol.hu/people Click: Managing our Human Capital Strategic presentations mol.hu/ir Click: Financial reports and presentations Targets and Results 179 mol.hu/sd Click: Introduction Financial reports and presentations Waste Management 184 mol.hu/environment Click: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Annual report 2010 online mol.hu/ir Click: Financial reports Coporate governance mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group presentations businesses Financial and operational data from 2001 Articles of association mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance mol.hu/ir Click: Financial reports (excel file) Charter of the Board of Directors, Committees mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Financial presentations and reports mol.hu/ir Click: Financial reports Charter of the Supervisory Board mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Quarterly flash reports mol.hu/ir Click: Financial reports Composition of Board committees 216 mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Sustainability: Corporate Governance Code mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Coporate governance non-fi nancial performance Corporate Governance Declaration mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Air Emissions 182 mol.hu/environment Click: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Budapest Stock Exchange Awards and Recognitions 5 mol.hu/sd Click: Awards and recognitions Corporate Governance Declaration mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Biodiversity 185 mol.hu/environment Click: Biodiversity Warsaw Stock Exchange Business Ethics 195 mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group Corporate Governance Policy mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Climate Change 181 mol.hu/environment Click: Climate Change Corporate Governance Report 212 mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Code of Ethics 195 mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group Independence criteria for the Members mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Commitments to External Initiatives mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group of the Board of Directors Contractor Management 187 mol.hu/people Click: Health and Safety Insider training principles in MOL Plc. according Sustainability Customers mol.hu/economic Click: Product Responsibility to the Corporate Governance Recommendation mol.hu/ir Click: Corporate governance Diversity 194 mol.hu/people Click: Managing our Human Capital of the Budapest Stock Exchange Energy efficiency 181 mol.hu/environment Click: Improving energy efficiency Other Global Compact (UNGC) 205 mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group AGM documents mol.hu/ir Click: General meetings Glossary/definitions 244 mol.hu/sd Click: Introduction AGM Resolutions mol.hu/ir Click: General meetings GRI compliance 205 mol.hu/sd Click: Introduction Dividend mol.hu/ir Click: General meetings Health Protection 187 mol.hu/people Click: Health and Safety Financial Calendar mol.hu/ir Click: Events Other HSE Policy mol.hu/sd Click: Managing the Group IR Contacts mol.hu/ir Click: IR services Human Capital Development 192 mol.hu/people Click: Managing our Human Capital RSS mol.hu/ir Click: RSS Human Rights 194 mol.hu/people Click: Protecting Human Rights Share Price mol.hu/ir Click: Share Price Information Letter from the Chairman 8 mol.hu/sd Click: Introduction Content table Materiality 204 mol.hu/sd Click: Introduction Product Stewardship mol.hu/economic Click: Product Responsibility 252 MOL Group annual report 2010 253 Warsaw Stock Exchange Giełda Papierów Wartosciowych w Warszawie S.A. 4 Ksiazeca Street 00-498, Warsaw Poland Phone: (+4822) 628 32 32 Fax: (+4822) 628 17 54 E-mail: gpw@gpw.pl DR Information The Bank of New York Mellon Slawek Soltowski, Vice President 101 Barclay Street, 22 West New York, NY 10286 USA Phone: 00 1 212 815 3503 Fax: 00 1 212 571 3050 Email: slawek.soltowski@bnymellon.com Announcements The company publishes its announcements in MOL’s website: www.mol.hu and in Budapest Stock Exchange’s website: www.bet.hu Investor Relations H-1117 Budapest, Október huszonharmadika u. 18. Phone: (+36-1) 464-1395 Fax: (+36-1) 464-1335 E-mail: investorrelations@mol.hu Investor Relations Director Richárd Benke E-mail: rbenke@mol.hu Professional Secretary Rita Palicska Contact Information E-mail: rpalicska@mol.hu Analyst and shareholder contacts Ádám Horváth E-mail: adhorvath@mol.hu Gábor Horváth E-mail: gabhorvath@mol.hu Attila Czafit E-mail: aczafit@mol.hu Corporate Address MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc. (MOL Plc.) Small shareholder and custody contact H-1117 Budapest, Október huszonharmadika u. 18. Zoltán Fogarasi H-1502 Budapest, Pf.: 22 E-mail: zfogarasi@mol.hu Phone: (+36-1) 209-0000, 209-1010, 209-2020 Sustainable Development Share Registrar Pál Kapusy KELER Zrt. E-mail: sd@mol.hu Contact Information H-1075 Budapest, Asbóth u. 9-11. Phone: (+36-1) 483-6251, (+36-1) 483-6289 Stock Exchange Trading Information Budapest Stock Exchange Imprint H-1062, Budapest, Andrássy út 93. Executive publisher: Dóra Somlyai, Richárd Benke, Pál Kapusy Phone: (+36-1) 429-6857 Managing editor: Attila Czafit, Rita Palicska, Gábor Haraszti Fax: (+36-1) 429-6899 Design: Virág Simon E-mail: info@bse.hu Publisher: Hamu és Gyémánt Kiadó 254 MOL Group annual report 2010 255 Statement responsibility of undersigned, authorized representatives of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company (MOL plc.) the issuer of MOL ordinary shares, hereby declare that MOL Plc. takes full responsibility for the announced Annual Report of MOL Group for the year ended on 31 December 2010, which has been prepared to the best of our knowledge in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit of MOL Plc. and its subsidiaries and presents a fair review of the position, development and performance of MOL Plc. and its subsidiaries together with a description of principal risks and uncertainties. Budapest, 29 April 2011 György Mosonyi József Molnár Contact Information Group Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President of Finance 256 MOL GROUP AnnUAL REPORT 2010 257
