Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Contents 2 Foreword 4 Our company 6 Challenges and strategy 6 Stakeholder dialogue 6 Materiality analysis 8 Fields of tension in global air traffic 9 Sustainability program 12 Organization and governance 12 Organization 13 Corporate compliance and risk management 14 Our fields of action 16 Owners 16 Fraport share and shareholders 17 Value-based management 18 Investments 20 Customers 21 Passenger satisfaction 22 Efficient hub airport 24 Safety and security 26 Employees 27 Working conditions and co-determination 28 Training and career development 29 Equal opportunities and diversity 31 Attractive employer 32 Job safety and occupational health 34 Environment 35 Climate protection 38 Traffic 38 Air 39 Biodiversity 40 Resource efficiency 41 Environmental management worldwide 42 Region and community 42 Noise abatement 45 Community responsibility 49 Our facts and figures 49 Accounting principles for sustainable development 64 GRI Content Index and Progress Report on the UN Global Compact 70 Glossary, publishing information The sustainability report can be accessed online by going to www.sustainability-report.fraport.com. This link takes you to all the information in this report and to more extensive and in-depth detailed information. We refer you to additional information at the appropriate places in the document with numbered quick links 1 2 3 ...These can be called up on a quick link list from the start page listed above. Any use of the male form is for purposes of readability and includes female and male genders throughout. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 1e Challenges and strategy An airport connects. That’s its mission. It connects cities and people that are located far apart. It connects trading centers and markets. A good airport also connects contradictory goals like individual mobility and global environmental protection. And it unites responsibility for its employees with responsibility for neighboring residents in the region. The principle of Fraport is based on bringing together faraway places and ensuring sustainably that the connections are maintained. Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Profile Fraport statistics Employees (annual average, persons/2010 share in %) 2009 2010 Our business activities are Fraport Group 19,970 19,792 presented by four segments: Aviation, Retail & Real Estate, Aviation 6,337 6,074 30.7 % Ground Handling, and Retail & Real Estate 603 606 3.0 % External Activities & Services Ground Handling 8,254 8,564 43.3 % External Activities 4,776 4,548 23.0 % & Services Aviation Majority shareholdings in airports The Aviation segment is responsible for the business activities flight and terminal operations, and safety and Frankfurt*, Germany security at Frankfurt Airport. This segment is also respon­ Frankfurt Airport with around 53 million passengers is one of the Top 10 sible for airport expansion in Frankfurt – one of Germany’s airports in the world. On a European comparison, it was ranked in third biggest privately financed investment projects. EBITDA for place for the year 2010 after London Heathrow and Paris Charles de Gaulle. Frankfurt is the only airport worldwide which – including he the segment is € 131.6 million, representing a contribution volume of cargo transported – ranks among the world’s biggest hubs. of 18.5 % to Group EBITDA. Number of employees** 17,479 Passengers (persons) Retail & Real Estate 53,009,221 The Retail & Real Estate segment pools all activities and Airfreight (metric tons) expertise of Fraport AG for commercial development and 2,275,107 marketing of floor­space not used for flight operations at Frankfurt Airport. EBITDA amounted to € 294.7 million in 2010. This segment has the biggest margins and earnings and contributed a share of 41.5 % to Group EBITDA. Ground Handling The business of the Ground Handling segment covers services revolving around passengers, baggage and cargo in Frankfurt. Ground­handling services are a very person­ nel­intensive area subject to international competition. Margins are modest. However, the high quality of the services provided from a single source represents a big competitive advantage for the quality of the hub at Frank­ furt. EBITDA amounted € 44.1 million and this corresponds to a share of 6.2 % in the Group EBITDA. External Activities & Services Lima The External Activities & Services segment is responsible for all Fraport activities outside Frankfurt Airport. The segment also carries out the IT and facility management Additional investments in airports Dakar, services at the Frankfurt site. The global marketing of air­ Senegal port know­how and the operation of 13 Group airports Form of shareholding Management contract have now become a significant factor for revenue and earn­ ings. The segment generated EBITDA of € 240.2 million and Shares in the company – this represents 33.8 % of the corresponding Group value. Number of employees** 3 1 Fraport Worldwide Passengers (persons) – Airfreight (metric tons) – *Employees for the Group in Frankfurt ** annual average according to IFRS Sales EBITDA (€ million/2010 share in %) (€ million/2010 share in %) 2009 2010 2009 2010 2,010.3 2,194.6 569.7 710.6 685.1 693.9 31.6 % 117.3 131.6 18.5 % 362.4 403.1 18.4 % 282.9 294.7 41.5 % 619.9 658.6 30.0 % 14.1 44.1 6.2 % 342.9 439.0 20.0 % 155.4 240.2 33.8 % Lima, Peru Varna, Bulgaria Burgas, Bulgaria Antalya, Turkey Form of shareholding Form of shareholding Form of shareholding Majority holding Majority holding Majority holding Shares in company Shares in company Shares in company 70.01 % 60 % 50 % Number of employees** Number of employees** Number of employees** 518 945 453 Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) 10,278,493 1,227,442 1,894,109 22,144,161 Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) 271,794 77 5,654 – St. Petersburg Hanover Frankfurt Varna Burgas Antalya Xi‘an Cairo Riyadh Jeddah Delhi Dakar Hanover, Cairo, St. Petersburg, Jeddah, Riyadh, Delhi, Xi‘an, Germany Egypt Russia Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia India China Shareholding Management contract Shareholding Management contract Shareholding Shareholding 30 % – 35.5 % – 10 % 24.5 % 662 4 3,608 27 1,479 2,019 5,060,956 16,135,898 8,443,753 – 28,531,607 18,010,379 15,829 310,899 – – 595,518 158,054 Herbert Mai Executive Director Labor Relations Foreword Dear Readers, The year 2010 was very gratifying for Fraport. We recorded significant growth in passengers and airfreight, despite the bad winter weather, strikes with the airline companies and air traffic controllers in Europe, and the airspace embargo on flying due to the cloud of volcanic ash. Work on expanding the airport in Frankfurt has been proceeding according to plan, and external busi­ ness is developing well. While we were focusing Dr. Stefan Schulte on all these objectives, we kept our perspective Chairman of the Executive Board on a very important goal: connecting sustainably. In 2010, we prepared a materiality matrix for Dr. Matthias Zieschang the first time. This presents the most important Executive Director Controlling and Finance fields of action for our future development. Right at the top of the list of priorities are safety and security for air traffic, climate protection, and aircraft noise. Other priorities were employer appeal, profitability of investments, and customer satisfaction. Our sustainability program is based on the materiality matrix. It defines concrete targets for all areas of action with the aim of ensuring a consistent, sustainable orientation for our activities. The key issue for air traffic above all others is safety and security. A continuous review of all processes governing safety and security, training of personnel, and a safety management system enable us to make a significant contribution to safety and security. We tested our deployment capability during an emergency in October 2010 at our airport in the biggest disaster protection exercise in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany. An array of different measures was implemented for climate protection. One focus was again on Peter Schmitz rationalizing the energy processes in buildings. Executive Director Operations The new corporate Head office under construction was awarded a Preliminary Certificate in Gold by the German Sustainable Building Council. Con­ version of our vehicle fleet to electric drives is also progressing well. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 3 Expansion of the airport is on schedule. Con­ In 2011, we will be celebrating the 75th struction work, in particular at the new runway for aircraft landings including a comprehensive landmark anniversary of the existence of program of nature conservation and measures for restoring natural habitats, is well advanced. We Frankfurt Airport. An important target for are confident that operations on the north­west runway will start up as planned in October 2011. our future: connecting sustainably. The airport expansion has a large number of We are also in a position to report advances positive effects for the region – it strengthens the achieved by our Group companies. An environ­ economy and creates many new jobs. However, mental management system was implemented in it also entails higher noise exposure. We are there­ Varna and Burgas. The system has already been fore participating in the Expert Group “Active certified in Lima and Antalya. Our value manage­ Noise Abatement” in the “Airport and Region ment system has been introduced at all Group Forum” with the objective of developing effec­ sites involving majority­owned investments. We tive measures for proactive noise avoidance. expressly observe and support the principles of During the summer of 2010, an initial package of the UN Global Compact. measures was adopted. These measures are being implemented gradually and they will contribute In 2011, we will celebrate the 75th landmark to noise abatement. anniversary of the existence of Frankfurt Airport. When the new runway starts up operations in We have achieved a number of successes with October, we will have created the infrastructure customer satisfaction. A new initiative started in system required for Germany’s most important 2010 has the motto “Great to have you here!”. air traffic hub to continue on a profitable trajec­ A raft of measures has been implemented and tory into the future. In order to ensure that we we are seeing the desired positive effects. continue “connecting sustainably” over the long term in a business environment characterized Our employees produced an awesome perform­ by increasingly scarce resources, climate change ance in this area and elsewhere in 2010. There and demographic challenges, we are continuing are a number of examples of their massive com­ to make progress on developing our business mitment. They have mastered unexpectedly high activities to meet the challenges of air traffic in increases in traffic. They have given the utmost tomorrow’s world. We are very confident that dedication in emergencies, for example when the taking this route will bring new opportunities. cloud of volcanic ash cleared the skies and they were superb “hosts” at this difficult time. Every day they have made new contributions to out­ standing quality in the interests of our customers. We would like to express our sincere thanks for their commitment. We are very proud of the Dr. Stefan Schulte Herbert Mai extent to which our staff identify with our airport. This dedication is confirmed every year with the results of our annual surveys. Peter Schmitz Dr. Matthias Zieschang “Lots of flight connections, short transfer times – that “Traveling can be fairly makes our airport strong. exhausting, particularly at Good baggage logistics a big airport like Frankfurt. is the platform. My work The best thing about my job contributes to this.” in the middle of the terminal Frank Brehmer, special equipment driver for Ground Handling Services, Fraport AG is the pleasure expressed by the passengers who I’m able to help.” Corina Klingebiel, information assistant employed in the Passenger Service, Fraport AG “Fraport has a strong financial platform. And it should stay like that. This is because financial stability and profitability form the foundation for everything else, including the security of our jobs.” Peter Krieg, Head of Accounting, Fraport Group Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 5 Our company Flying is the epitome of freedom. It represents a cosmopolitan lifestyle, internationality and prosperity. However, it also opens up diverse fields of tension where we are active as an airport operator. 6 Challenges and strategy 6 Stakeholder dialogue 6 Materiality analysis 8 Fields of tension in global air traffic 9 Sustainability program 12 Organization and governance 12 Organization 13 Corporate compliance and risk management 6 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Challenges and strategy Stakeholder dialogue Fraport has a broad network of institutionalized, structured communication media to promote Even though an airport operator is only responsi­ dialogue and a regular exchange of views with ble for a small proportion of the environmental our stakeholder groups. The central functions of impacts caused by the air­traffic industry, it pro­ the two sustainability bodies Sustainability Board vides an indispensable platform for the provision and Sustainability Working Group (see section of services to all the other players in the air­traffic “Organization and governance”, p. 13) involve industry. Airports are the focus of public interest collating the information obtained relating to and they form a point of crystallization for the specific areas and integrating the data system­ public debate on fundamental issues affecting atically within the strategic process. the industry. We like to focus on securing the future and we Materiality analysis Stakeholder dialogue therefore seek a dialogue with our business part­ ners, our customers, and with politicians. Another Concrete measures and fundamental aspects of Key of our objectives is to exchange ideas with our strategic alignment are derived from the stake­ stakeholder critics, particularly with those people who live near the airport and experience the negative impacts holder dialogues. In 2010, we used this informa­ tion for developing a materiality matrix. groups of aircraft noise. We are also dedicated to looking after more than 70,000 employees at one of the The idea Finance and capital market biggest workplaces in Germany. As a large com­ The materiality matrix is a tool which serves to Supervisory Board pany, we bear direct social responsibility for some structure the wide diversity of issues described Passengers and visitors of these people and we undoubtedly have indirect and evaluate their importance. A weighting is Airline companies responsibility for the other people working here. ascribed to the issues on the basis of two ques­ Employees and employee representatives tions which are allocated to the two axes of the Residents The interests of our stakeholder groups are very matrix. The issues relevant to the stakeholder Community heterogeneous. There are many diverse issues and groups are grouped on one side. The issues that Business partners the fields of tension where we are aiming to estab­ influence the scope for maneuver and hence the Politicians and government agencies lish the best possible balance are multifaceted. future viability of the company are placed on the This is all about global challenges like climate other side of the matrix. The matrix highlights the 3 Table stakeholder dialogue change and the need for future­proof mobility materiality of the listed issues in relation to these concepts for operational and commercial competi­ questions. tiveness and secure jobs. The noise exposure of our neighbors at the airport and environmental The result is intended to form the basis for a protection are other important issues. strategy, respectively a program which enables the company management to focus on those areas which are particularly important both for We like to focus on securing the the stakeholders and for the development of the company. The program includes aspects of risk future and we seek a dialogue with control and issues concerning exploitation of our business partners, our customers, development opportunities. and politicians. We also aim to 2 Strategy and goals of Fraport AG exchange ideas with our critics. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 7 Challenges and strategy The method The materiality matrix The guidelines for sustainability reporting of Overall, each issue can be described by its posi­ the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) formed the tion within the two dimensions of “Relevance starting point for the materiality analysis. They for Fraport” and “Relevance for stakeholders”, are the acknowledged standard for companies supplemented by an additional statement on the operating on the international stage and they significance trend. The Fraport materiality matrix were developed jointly by a large number of was adopted by the Executive Board in November different interest groups. A task force of internal 2010. and external experts from different areas reviewed the relevance for Fraport of dimensions defined Priority issues with a high position on both dimen­ as relevant for sustainable corporate governance sions of the matrix include noise abatement, safety within the GRI. Following a large number of and security, climate protection, customer satis­ additional steps, a weighting was given to the faction, appeal as an employer, and profitability of stakeholder groups and the possible range of investments. topics from different perspectives. The projected potential for change within an issue over time The importance of these areas is outlined in the was also investigated. following. 4 Global Reporting Initiative Materiality matrix very high Safety and Noise abatement security Climate protection Air quality Conservation of nature and Focus on resources – strategic development Compliance/governance – risk control Appeal as employer Sustainable Retaining and Relevance for construction creating jobs Customer stakeholders satisfaction Diversity and equal opportunity Profitability Regional of investments commitment Occupational health and safety Training and career development Procurement Intermodality Intensity of current discussion low high In the future high increasing high Relevance for Fraport very high 8 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Fields of tension of global air traffic It is quite clear that the air­traffic industry needs to develop new approaches like any other industry in The airline industry continues to be an important order to further reduce its energy consumption. As sector for growth in passenger and airfreight. well as the successes already achieved, the industry Since the financial and economic crisis, growth needs to take other measures, such as carrying out has started to accelerate again and the long­term research into alternatives for kerosene because oil trend appears to be uninterrupted. By the year is finite as a raw material and the combustion of 2029, the Airports Council International (ACI) has oil constitutes a significant contributory factor to predicted in its latest issue of the “Global Traffic the climate impacts generated by air traffic. Forecast 2010–2029” annual growth rates of 4.1 % for passengers and 4.8 % for airfreight. This Alternative fuels and numerous measures for en­ development presents the airline industry and all hancing energy efficiency are part of the spectrum its partners with a fundamental dilemma. Even if of measures enshrined in the four­pillar strategy efficiency enhancement is maintained at all levels, of the air­traffic industry directed toward climate the increase in air traffic will lead to more noise protection. All the players in the sector and at the exposure and increasing greenhouse gas and political level need to join forces and adopt an other emissions. Climate protection and noise integrated approach because attaining efficiency abatement therefore represent two fundamental potentials can only be achieved together. challenges for the air traffic industry. In Germany, the issue of noise and health is cur­ rently being discussed intensively on the political The Four Pillar Strategy – stage and in the media. This debate is not merely Measures for climate protection in air traffic focusing on air traffic, it is also being directed toward other transportation modes. The increasing impact Pillar 1: Technological progress of different sources of noise on the general public Technological innovations are the biggest lever means that the relevance of this issue will continue for efficiency improvements in air traffic. These to rise. The possibility of additional regulations to enhancements cover materials, engines, elec­ reduce noise cannot be excluded in the future. tronics and aerodynamics. Since 1970, technical innovations have reduced the specific kerosene Fraport is addressing this problematic issue and consumption and CO2 emissions by 70 %. was particularly proactive during 2010 with respect to aircraft noise, particularly in the context of the Pillar 2: Improved infrastructure Airport and Region Forum. In summer 2010, the Infrastructure improvements open up signifi­ results of the long­standing constructive debate cant savings potential on the ground and in the about noise abatement were presented in the public air. Optimized use of airspace and needs­based domain (see section “Region and community”, p. 42). expansion of airport infrastructure present the biggest opportunities. Climate protection has been on the political and social agenda for many years now. The need to Pillar 3: Operational measures significantly reduce greenhouse gases has been Deployment of more efficient aircraft sizes, flying widely acknowledged if we are to at least restrict along optimum flight routes and at optimum air climate change. Political bodies at the UN, at the speeds, and improved processes on the ground EU, and in national parliaments and regional can also enhance efficiency and reduce emissions. assemblies have adopted targets for CO2 reduction. The pressure to take action and the importance of Pillar 4: Economic tools climate policy is likely to increase for all the players Economic tools can also be used, such as emission­ involved. The first initiatives directed toward regu­ dependent airport landing fees or global emissions lation are already evident. A number of industrial trading. The key factor is that these tools must be sectors in Europe have been integrated in the so­ structured so as not to impede competition. called Emission Trading System (ETS). Correspond­ ing regulations will apply with binding effect to Source: “German Air Transport Initiative” the air­traffic industry starting January 2012. 5 Information from the German Federal Ministry 6 “German Air Transport Initiative” of Transport (BMVBS) on emissions trading for air traffic Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 9 Challenges and strategy As an airport operator, we support the four­pillar strategy for the air traffic industry. We focus our activities on areas that we are in a position to influ­ ence directly. These primarily relate to technical improvements to buildings and systems, process optimizations and economic tools like landing fees dependent on noise and emissions (see section “Environment”, p. 38). Safety and security is an issue of prime importance for all air traffic and hence for Fraport as well. A distinction is drawn in air traffic between the concepts of “safety” and “security”. “Security” is directed towards ensuring that air traffic and the intermodal infrastructure of the airport provides protection against attacks, particularly against aircraft hijacking, acts of sabotage, and terrorist attacks. The Air Security Act became law in 2005 and regulates measures Expansion of Frankfurt Airport is the biggest such as the checks carried out on passengers privately financed investment in the history of the and their baggage (Article 5). The legislation Republic of Germany. Fraport needs to achieve also defines which staff security measures have this expansion on schedule and to the necessary to be taken by the airport operator and the quality standards while taking the interests and airline companies (Article 8–9). needs of all the stakeholders into account, in order to guarantee the airport’s long­term success (see The concept of “safety” entails guaranteeing safe section “Owners”, p. 18). and compliant air traffic in an interplay between the airlines, the German Air Navigation Services, and the airport operator. Sustainability program Safety and security must have priority. However, As a company with a long­term perspective, the restrictions for passengers, employees and Fraport is committed to key strategic goals and suppliers resulting from the necessary checks defines the measures necessary to reach those need to be limited as much as possible so that the goals. They were grouped together for the airport continues to operate as smoothly as pos­ Frankfurt site and for the parent company Fraport sible. We tackle these and other factors that are AG in 2010 for the first time in the form of a important for our customers – passengers and sustainability program and they were adopted by airlines, lessees and concessionaires – under the the Executive Board in January 2011. Attainment challenge of “customer satisfaction”. It is one of of these targets is reviewed regularly, the targets the central success factors for the future capability are developed, and they will also be gradually of an airport (see section “Customers”, p. 21). defined for the subsidiary companies over the next few years. Staff are a key success factor for any company. The demographic development will be exerting significant effects on the job market and safe­ guarding human resources is taking center stage in corporate strategy. The appeal as an employer is becoming increasingly important in the com­ petition for talent. The provision of good service by qualified personnel is an important factor for customer satisfaction alongside infrastructure tailored to users’ requirements. And the prefer­ ence for Fraport by customers in passenger and airfreight traffic ultimately constitutes the platform for long­term success (see section “Employees”, p. 27). 10 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Sustainability program Duration of the Target Measure Measure Status Climate protection Reduction of CO2 emissions Energy optimization of 2020 _Refurbishment of ventilation control centers in Terminal 1, total for each traffic unit (TU, portfolio buildings potential about 17,500 t CO2, potential being implemented about one passenger or 100 kg 4,500 t CO2 of freight) by 30 %, from _Energy optimization in service and administration buildings, total 3.7 in 2005 to 2.6 kg/TU potential about 6,200 t CO2, potential being implemented about in 2020 1,240 t CO2 Energy­optimized planning 2012 Energy optimized plans carried out in four buildings (Fire Station 4, Pier of new buildings A­Plus, administration center, service building ground services) Avoidance of additional CO2 emissions through the Establishment of CO2 2011 In preparation expansion project controlling Deployment of alternative 2015 Increased deployment of electric vehicles, projected percentage drive technologies _Fork­lift trucks 20 % _Baggage tow­truck (series hybrid) 20 % _Conveyor belts 100 % _Testing electric cars with different types of battery in routine operation Attainment of Level 3 in the Expansion of CO2 reporting 2012 Models available for aircraft emissions and business trips, Airport Carbon Accredi­ based on ACA provisions modeling of CO2 emissions of incoming and outgoing traffic under tation (ACA) Scheme of ACI development Europe Intensification of stake­ ongoing Being prepared holder dialogue Noise Fraport makes a proactive Strategic use of runways 2011 ff. Concept for route configuration developed and noise modeling carried contribution to relieving the and routes (Dedicated out, start of test operation planned from beginning of 2011 burden of aircraft noise. Runway Operations, DROps) Increasing approach glide 2011 ff. Safety and feasibility study carried out angle to 3.2° with the instru­ Installation of an additional instrument landing system was started. ment landing system (ILS) on the new north­west runway Fraport supports the ongoing measures for active noise abatement with its commitment in the Forum Airport and Region. Aircraft noise measurement 2011 ff. Conceptualization of monitoring and initial measurements in the and monitoring program for active noise abatement Safety and security in air traffic Maintenance of the high Training and career ongoing Qualified training by FraSec GmbH in the dedicated training center ­ a safety and security standard development career training provider licensed by the German Technical Inspectorate at Frankfurt Airport TÜV Süd Quality management ongoing Internal quality assurance concept for operation, procedures, and training and career development Employee motivation 2013, first analysis Commissioning of an external analysis on the mental and physical results at the stress at the airport security control check point with the aim of identi­ end of 2011 fying and eliminating stressful times in routine work Engineering/research and 2011 Development of a “Future check” in two committees: development _In a taskforce with the Federal Police and airline companies _In the context of the German Air Transport Initiative Increase in operational ongoing _Hazard identification / minimization is carried out in conformity with safety ICAO Annex 14 _New version of manual Security Management System published _“Safety Committees” established Improvement in integration Process analysis and process ongoing Fraport is cooperating with the German Federal Police and airline of airport security checks in optimization companies to improve processes. Tests currently planned: Motorized the passenger flow infeed conveyor, changed tray system, Kaizen taskforce IT­based personnel deploy­ being Short­term results using individual data (figures for connecting Target parameters for this implemented ment planning and passenger passengers, arrival behavior, waiting times, etc.) are guaranteeing a waiting management (PAARIS) time of up to ten minutes in 90 % of security checks, Throughput and waiting­ ongoing Introduction of Bluetooth waiting time measurements has been carried and passenger satisfaction time measurements out. Systematic evaluations are implemented on a continuous basis. The of at least 80 % in the year same applies to throughput values for each security lane, derivation of 2011 with the friendly ap­ passenger / personnel management measures and process improvements. proach of our personnel. Project “Security with a 2009/10 External training sessions to improve customer satisfaction with all employees smile” in airport security have been carried out. More in­depth training in the context of internal career development, in particular for executive managers. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 11 Challenges and strategy Duration of the Target Measure Measure Status Profitability/Investments We achieve profitable Investments tailored to demand in the expansion of Frankfurt Airport 2016 _Schedule adapted to growth as a basis for the capacity for Terminal 3 future­capability of our _New planning for Pier C company _Expansion of Airport City Mall Frankfurt, Level 0 2014 Under construction _Redesign of arrival level in Terminal 1 _Reconfiguration and expansion of retail areas in Terminal 2 Value creation from real­estate marketing and development at Airport 2016 _Additional land purchase City contracts with approx. 140,000 m² concluded _High­building project development successfully completed Further development of external business ongoing see Annual Report We want to generate value Value­based management for business activities ongoing Annual Report, section added over the long term “Value­based management” which exceeds our cost of Raising of landing fees 2015 Contracts under public capital. law and contracts with airlines and airline associations concluded Program “Fitness@Fraport2011” for optimizing business processes and 2014 Initial measures have been cost reduction implemented. “Future Contract 2018” for improving the cost structure and hence the completed Contracts concluded with competitiveness at Frankfurt Airport employee representation, being implemented Attractiveness as employer Further development of Strategic project with the aim of identifying spheres of activity for future until 2015 Kick­offs for the overall project personnel strategy personnel strategy and working out solutions taking particular account and the subprojects have of demographic change taken place. Initial results from this work are ready. Increase in employee Implementation of the staff survey for the Fraport Barometer 2010 and ongoing Continued satisfaction measured by derivation of potential improvements the Group Barometer from Social benefits in addition to the collective pay scale and participation in ongoing Continued 3.06 to at least 2.9 (grade company success system from 1 (best) to 6 (worst)) Gradual expansion of performance­based salary components 2011­2014 Change project new company head office: “Design Taskforce”, 2012 Continued planning sample floor­space, communication measures Ongoing development of Implementation of 360° feedback for executive managers Starting 2011 management expertise More intense use of the coaching pool and systematic preparation for Starting 2011 based on the results of the assumption of management positions and mentoring in the positions Group Barometer and in 360° feedback Implementation of a group development program IMEPplus 2015 Concept is available. (Integrated Management Development Program) Customer satisfaction By 2015, we want to Service program “Great to have you here!” to increase customer 2015 Program launch May 2010, increase global satisfac­ satisfaction. The focus is on the spheres of action identified in continuous public launch December tion of passengers by 10 passenger surveys: 2010 percentage points to 80 %. _Reduction of waiting times at check­in, at security checks and in 2011 ff. Being implemented We determine the overall baggage claim through improvements in processes and infrastructure, satisfaction in our monthly and additional personnel customer survey with the question: How satisfied _Simplification of connecting processes by improving the infrastructure 2015 Being implemented were you overall with _Facilitating orientation by a site­wide, new signage system throughout 2012 Being implemented Frankfurt Airport? the terminal _Increase in satisfaction with the cleanliness of the sanitary areas by 2012 Sample facility created, redesigning them roll­ out in Terminal A starting 2011 _Increasing the friendliness and service attitude of personnel by service 2011 ff. Diagnosis and conceptua­ training at all levels and programs where top management are lization have been integrated in operating processes within a “shift configuration”. completed, gradual implementation in 2011 _Optimization of service and product quality for retail, gastronomy and ongoing Being implemented services by expanding the range of products and services, training sessions and quality management 12 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Organization and governance Organization In 2010, the salary structure of the executive em­ ployees was also adjusted accordingly. The Annual The organization of Fraport AG is divided into Report of Fraport documents information on this. four Strategic Business Units, twelve Central Units and since 1 January 2011 into three Service Units. Fraport AG has made a commitment to compli­ The Service Unit Central Infrastructure Manage­ ance with the most important internationally ment (ZIM) was created recently. This unit deals recognized codes of conduct to promote respon­ with the planning and management of key (new) sible corporate governance at all Group sites – the infrastructure projects and formulation of a repair principles of the UN Global Compact, the OECD strategy for the existing infrastructure at Frankfurt guidelines and the standards of the International Airport. This organizational enhancement aims to Labour Organization (ILO). Compliance with the create clear responsibility for the systems and real commitments made is reviewed within the frame­ estate at Frankfurt Airport. It is a holistic approach work of quality management. including life­cycle analysis. It is intended to enhance provision for the sustainable aspects of In addition, Fraport has signed the Business Con­ infrastructure and real­estate development. duct Rules of the biggest European purchasing association, the Association Materials Manage­ 7 Organizational structure ment, Purchasing and Logistics (AMMPL). The guideline is based on the principles of the UN The Supervisory Board of Fraport AG adopted Global Compact and includes fundamental anti­ the Corporate Governance Code of Fraport AG corruption rules, anti­trust agreements, rules as early as 2002. The code describes the essential on child labor and forced labor, and compliance principles for the management and monitoring with human rights, environmental protection of the company and includes internationally and and health promotion, and fair working condi­ nationally recognized standards for good and tions. The companies signing up to the agreement responsible corporate management. The Fraport have made a commitment to promoting the Code also includes the essential rights of the Business Conduct Rules with their suppliers. The Integrated Management shareholders who provide the company with the System of Fraport AG complies necessary equity capital and bear the entrepre­ 9 UN Global Compact with the provisions of the ISO neurial risk. The Fraport Code is firmly based on 10 OECD Guidelines 9001 international standard and the German Corporate Governance Code and 11 ILO Labour Standards was certified for the first time in is regularly reviewed and revised to meet the 12 AMMPL Compliance Initiative 2004. The certification network of recommendations and ideas of the government the Fraport Group comprises the committee. The last revision was carried out on The management of sustainable development largest Group company Fraport 27 September 2010. It can be accessed on the at Fraport is an interdisciplinary function. The AG and 17 subsidiary companies. company’s Internet site. Central Unit “Sustainability Management and Individual Group companies have Corporate Compliance” was formed within the also been certified in conformity On behalf of and acting for the Supervisory framework of the program “Fitness@Fraport2011” with ISO 14001 (environment) Board, the Executive Board of Fraport AG submits and started work on 1 January 2010. It is directly and OHSAS 18001 (job safety) by a declaration on corporate governance pursuant accountable to the Executive Director Labor German Technical Inspectorate to Article 289a German Commercial Code (HGB) Relations. TÜV NORD CERT GmbH. and publishes it in the Annual Report. The Annual Report also contains the detailed Corporate The Central Unit identifies the key sustainability 13 TÜV­certified Governance Report of the company and the issues that are important for implementing the management system Report by the Supervisory Board together with business strategy and promotes their develop­ other statements on corporate governance. ment. It is also responsible for environmental management, sustainability reporting and moni­ 8 Corporate Governance toring, and coordination of stakeholder dialogues. The unit is further responsible for Corporate The compensation of the Executive Board of Compliance Management and coordinates the Fraport AG was linked more firmly to longer­ activities of the internal controlling system. term criteria in 2010 and meets the requirements defined by the Act on Appropriateness of Manage­ The Sustainability Board was restructured when ment Board Compensation (VorstAG). the units were established. The Board has a central Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 13 Organization and governance controlling function and is headed by the Chair­ Stakeholder dialogue man of the Executive Board. The Executive Direc­ Risk Management System tor Labor Relations and the senior managers of Fraport AG has implemented a Management and Proactive values all the Business Units and some Central Units are additionally ordinary Board Members. Controlling System to order to identify risks for business activity at an early stage, assess the risks, management monitor them continuously and take consistent Fraport employees receive regular 14 Understanding of Sustainability actions. The system is directed toward limiting training at all Group sites on risks to an acceptable level within the scope of value-based corporate governance the options available. and in particular with reference to Corporate compliance and risk management the acceptance of presents and Internal Controlling System promotional gifts. In 2010, 15 Values Management System The Internal Controlling System comprises all the training sessions with 180 people The Values Management System is intended to activities for documentation of the checks and were held. Over the past four years, prevent corruption by safeguarding the integrity assessing their effectiveness which are directed approximately 1,350 employees at of business conduct in all areas of the Group. toward reducing or avoiding the key risks posing Fraport AG have received training The core of the system is provided by the Code a threat to the processes within the Fraport Group. (nearly 100 % of managers and of Values which enshrines the standards of con­ employees working in areas subject duct for Fraport AG. Values Management was Integrated risk and compliance management to this risk). 200 employees working introduced in 2003 and gradually implemented system in the subsidiary companies attended at all Group locations with majority­owned invest­ Compliance entails conforming to all the laws, such training sessions. ments. Since 2005, it has been a constituent regulations, directives, contracts and other element of the employment contracts with obligations relevant to the Fraport Group. The employees and managers at the Frankfurt site. organizational responsibility for a management The objective of the Values Management System system that is intended to guarantee conduct in was also incorporated in the Shareholder Agree­ conformity with legal requirements lies with the ment with Northern Capital Gateway. The con­ Central Unit for Sustainability Management and sortium will join forces with three other partners Corporate Compliance. It is based on a series to drive forward the development of the Pulkovo of systems which were grouped conceptually Airport in the Russian metropolis of St. Petersburg. within an integrated Fraport Risk and Compliance A compliance Taskforce has already been set up Management System in 2010. The system will be to work on implementation of “Best practice implemented gradually from 2011. compliance in Russia”. This program is primarily about avoiding corruption and offences involving Advanced development is intended to meet the business crime. growing importance of compliance issues and enhance the efficiency of the systems. The man­ In addition to the code, regular training sessions agement system for values and risk and the former and an internal ombudsman, Fraport introduced Compliance Management System, as well as the an electronic whistleblower system in 2009. The Internal Controlling System are being grouped system can be used to report misconduct that is within the new integrative organizational system. detrimental to the company. Employees of Frap­ A joint IT platform will help to reduce interfaces ort, business partners and customers can record and avoid redundancy. irregularities on an Internet­based communication platform that can be accessed via the Fraport The bodies responsible for networking the indi­ home page. This allows confidential information vidual subsystems are the Risk Management on corruption and business crime to be recorded Committee and the Compliance Board. The throughout the world and 24/7. The whistle­ latter formulates uniform provisions, addresses blower decides whether they want to remain concrete compliance issues, and forwards these anonymous or whether they wish to register in to the Executive Board. It also includes a total their own name. The anonymity of the whistle­ overview of key Group risks and reports to the blower is guaranteed by the system. The factual Supervisory Board on that basis. Extensive infor­ content of each report is reviewed intensively and mation on this is provided in the Annual Reports sanctions are introduced as necessary. In the year and Interim Reports of Fraport AG. In 2010, Quality Management at 2010, the whistleblower system was also intro­ Fraport AG received the Topit Quality duced in Turkish at the Antalya Group site. Imple­ 16 Opportunity and Risk Report 2010 Award. mentation in Lima is planned for 2011. 17 Topit Quality Award 15 Values Management System 14 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Passengers Frida and Paula Blumenstock Chairman of the Executive Board of Air security assistant, Umweltund Fraport AG,Board Member of the Airport Nachbarschafthaus air security checks HerrHelmer Lanz and Region Forum Astrid Dr. Stefan Schulte Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 15 Mayor Frankfurt am Main, Member of the Supervisory Board of Fraport AG Our fields of action Dr. h.c. Petra Roth The future capability of our business depends on taking the right decisions today – and that is not simply about direct business requirements. We want to create added value for our customers, employees and neighbors while pursuing entrepreneurially responsible policies. Impacts on the environment and nature should be avoided or at least kept as low as possible. 16 Owners 16 Fraport share and shareholders 17 Value-based management 18 Investments Member of the Expert Council for Environmental Issues, 20 Customers Director of Frankfurt Zoo 21 Passenger satisfaction Professor Dr. Manfred Niekisch 22 Efficient hub airport 24 Safety and security 26 Employees 27 Working conditions and co-determination 28 Training and career development 29 Equal opportunities and diversity 31 Attractive employer 32 Job safety and occupational health 34 Environment 35 Climate protection 38 Traffic 38 Air 39 Biodiversity 40 Resource efficiency 41 Environmental management worldwide 42 Region and community 42 Noise abatement 45 Community responsibility 16 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Owners Fraport share and shareholders harmonization with the Act on Implementation of the Shareholders’ Rights Directive. Fraport AG is a joint­stock company under Ger­ man law. The share is quoted on the Frankfurt The Fraport share in sustainability indexes Stock Exchange and is listed in the MDAX, the Membership of Fraport AG in the Dow Jones Sus­ index for mid­sized German companies. The tainability Index (DJSI) World was again confirmed stakes held by the State of Hesse and Stadtwerke in 2010. This means that Fraport remains the only Frankfurt am Main Holding GmbH, and the airport operator worldwide to be listed in this sus­ consortium agreement between these two tainability index. The DJSI includes the best 10 % stakeholders mean that Fraport AG is controlled for sustainable management from the 2,500 big­ by these two entities. gest companies in the Dow Jones World Index. For the first time, Fraport just missed a listing in the After a restrained initial six months, the price of European index, DJSI Europe, in 2010. The listing the Fraport share developed very positively during in the sustainability index of the Financial Times the second half, and after growth of some 30 % Stock Exchange FTSE4Good was confirmed. the share was positioned significantly above the DAX and just below the MDAX at the end of the 18 Dow Jones Sustainability Index year. The share achieved a total return of 33.2 % 19 FTSE4Good including dividend. In February 2011, the SAM Group (Sustainable Annual General Meeting Asset Management, a global asset manager) and The Annual General Meeting forms the annual auditing company PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers) climax to communication with our shareholders. again included Fraport in the Sustainability Year­ On 2 June 2010, 1,352 shareholders came to ­ book for the consecutive fourth time. Fraport was gether. They represented 86.6 % of the equity awarded the accolade of “SAM Silver Class” in the capital and they had come to discuss perform­ Yearbook (previous year: “SAM Silver Class”). ance over 2009. The Annual General Meeting also passed resolutions on all the functions assigned 20 SAM Group to it by legislation and the German Corporate Governance Code, such as appropriation of profit, The SAM Group focuses on sustainable invest­ approval of the actions of the Supervisory Board ments, and its Corporate Sustainability Assess­ and the Executive Board, appointment of the ment holds an annual assessment of more than auditor, authorization to acquire and appropriate 1,000 listed companies. the company’s own shares, approval of the com­ pensation system for Executive Board Members, Fraport has been participating in the Carbon and amendments to the articles of association for Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2006. This is the Shareholder structure on 31 December 2010 * 1 31.50 % State of Hesse 6 2 20.12 % Stadtwerke Frankfurt am 5 Main Holding GmbH 1 3 24.55 % Unknown 4 4 10.33 % Artio Global Investors Inc. 5 9.92 % Deutsche Lufthansa AG 6 3.58 % Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP * The relative ownership interest of the individual share­ 3 holders was adjusted to the current total number of shares on December 31, 2010 and therefore may 2 differ from the figures given at the time of reporting an excess/shortfall of the threshold. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 17 Owners “As a major shareholder in Fraport, the City of Frankfurt has a special interest in ‘our’ airport: It creates jobs, strengthens infrastructure in the Rhine-Main region and promotes Frankfurt as a business and financial center.” Dr. h.c. Petra Roth, Mayor of Frankfurt am Main, Member of the Supervisory Board of Fraport AG Weigh­ world’s leading climate reporting initiative in the before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) and the cost of ted Fraport­ Value EBIT – Assets x average = added finance industry. It analyzes companies and their capital paid by the company cost of capital strategies for climate change and CO2 reporting. On the basis of “Disclosure Scoring”, where the 22 Fraport value added Cost of capital quality of climate reporting is assessed, 30 compa­ nies were included for the first time in the German Development of value added for 2010 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). In While the previous year was impacted negatively 2010, the index included 22 DAX securities and by the financial crisis and posted a negative value eight securities from the mid­cap and small­cap added of € – 62.0 million, the Fraport Group repor­ segments. Fraport was ranked in 11th place. ted a positive value added for 2010 amounting to € 49.0 million. The roll­out of investments led to an 21 Carbon Disclosure Project increase in Fraport assets from € 3,820.2 million to € 4,019.7 million (+5.2 %) and a rise in the cost of capital before taxes from € 362.9 million to € 381.9 Value-based management million (+5.2 %). A ROFRA of 10.7 % meant that the Fraport Group exceeded the Fraport Weighted Aver­ In the interests of sustainable increase in corporate age Cost of Capital (WACC) by 9.5 % and therefore value, Fraport has planned and controlled Group created value. A detailed explanation of the business development according to the principles of value­ development of the Fraport Group and the Fraport based management since 2001. The key measur­ segments is provided in the Annual Report 2010. ing and controlling parameter is “Fraport value added”. This is the difference between Earnings 23 Business development 2010 Development of value added in 2010 (€ million) 2009 2010 EBIT 300.9 430.9 Fraport­assets 3,820.2 4,019.7 Cost of capital before taxes 362.9 381.9 Value added before taxes – 62.0 49.0 ROFRA 7.9 % 10.7 % 18 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Investments Status as at 31 December 2010 1 2 6 1 0,58 % Miscellaneous intangible assets 5 2 2,24 % Investments in airport operator projects 4 3 75,59 % Property, plant and equipment 4 0,01 % Real estate held as financial investments 5 2,15 % Investment businesses at equity 3 6 19,43 % Other financial investments 409 construction elements had Investments Expansion of Frankfurt Airport to be lifted in place to erect The new north­west runway forms the core of the the taxiing bridges across the The Fraport Group invested a total of € 1,033.9 mil­ expansion program and a volume of € 7 billion motorway. These elements weigh lion in 2010. The investment volume was some is earmarked for this project in the period from up to 92 metric tons and they € 405 million below the level of the previous year 2007 to 2015. The runway is scheduled to start are up to 33 meters in length. (€ 1,438.3 million). The reasons for this decline up operations at the end of October 2011. The They had to be precisely were mainly lower investing activities in financial demand for slots (time windows for take­off or positioned with clearances asset management and capitalization under assets landing) from the airline companies has exceeded measured in centimeters. of the additional shares acquired in the operating the supply available at Frankfurt Airport for many company of the Antalya concession in 2009. years. At peak times, demand is between 10 and 20 % above the slots available. Accordingly, the The focus of investment was again Frankfurt Air­ new capacities created will enable the airport and port to the tune of some € 775 million. Investment its customers to take part in the development of amounting to some € 35 million was attributable global air traffic over the medium to long term. to the subsidiaries of the Fraport Group. The majority of the investments related to the Twin The land for the construction of the north­west Star business in Bulgaria. Nearly € 225 million runway is approximately 220 hectares – equiva­ were invested in long­term financial investments. lent to about 300 football fields. The runway The focus was formed by the acquisition of finan­ complex encompasses a runway 2.8 kilometers in cial investments. The investment rate at 47.1 % length, a tunnel nearly 600 meters long, two taxi­ was 24.4 percentage points below the value ways comprising five individual bridge structures for the previous year (see Annual Report 2010, across roads and rails with a length of up to 220 Fraport AG, p. 63). Planned terminal capacities 2007 2011 from 2016 Terminal capacity before Start­up of Demand­based opening of the first module of FRA North and expansion north­west runway Terminal 3, capacity for 14.5 million additional Passengers measures passengers 78,5 Mio 64 Mio 58 Mio Flexible expansion of 54 Mio Start­up of Hall C and C/D Start­up of Pier A­Plus, terminal capacity through link, capacity for 4 million capacity for 6 million consecutive start­up of additional passengers additional passengers other modules at Terminal 3 2008 2012 from 2018 possible 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 19 Owners In March 2009, work started Juli 2009 on the north-west runway. After two and a half years of construction time, the first aircraft will land here in 2011. Juni 2010 Februar 2011 meters, and 60 kilometers of drainage ditches. node in the new pier will make is easier for passen­ The project involves a large number of engineer­ gers to transfer to connecting flights and enhance ing and ecological challenges. The measures service quality. Apart from the high level of func­ for protecting plants and animals (see section tionality, Pier A­Plus has also been constructed on “Environment”, p. 39) alone involve investments the basis of benchmarks for “sustainable construc­ totaling € 160 million. tion”. The objective is to reduce CO2 emissions by comparison with conventional buildings. Plans Construction work on the new Pier A­Plus also have also been made to equip the building with entails substantial investment. When it opens in Pre­Conditioned Air systems (PCA), which allow 2012, the available passenger capacity in Termi­ auxiliary engines to be switched off in parked nals 1 and 2 will increase from some 58 million aircraft. to around 64 million passengers. After the new runway starts up, the additional capacity will be The new pier will bridge the capacities of Termi­ urgently required for more passengers and addi­ nals 1 and 2 until the third terminal is opened tional building positions for wide­body aircraft. around 2016/2017. In future, the Marketplace A will connect Pier A­Plus with Terminal 1 and the existing Pier A. It will create attractive gastronomy, shopping and service opportunities on a total floor space of more than 10,000 square meters. This develop­ ment will also strengthen the high­margin retail business operated by Fraport. The central transfer “The new runway has laid the key foundation stone for the future success of the Fraport Group.” Martin Bien, Senior Executive Vice President of Traffic and Terminal Management, Airport Expansion and Corporate Safety and Security 20 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 “Traveling with a child is often not that easy. You have to wait around to check in, wait at the Passengers security check, wait Dr. Iris Blumenstock with Paula and Frida at the gate, … A friendly atmosphere where children are also welcome is a really big help.” It’s good to complain We want to know if things aren’t working at Frankfurt Airport. That’s why Fraport has set up a comprehensive feedback and complaints system so our customers can tell us about their experiences. We are totally accessible to our customers. They can contact us by email, phone, letter, in person, or using our feedback terminals. The aim is to ensure that every complaint is answered within the space of one week. And at least 20 % of complaints should be answered by means of a personal phone call. In 2010, 3,872 complaints were received. Nearly one third of them concerned security procedures, and a particular focus of attention was the removal of hazardous goods from travel baggage. The complaints are dealt with by the relevant depart­ ments and provide ideas for improvements. Passenger complaints in 2010 (absolute / % share) Safety procedures 1,114 28.8 % Personnel 573 14.8 % Infrastructure 318 8.2 % Information/Orientation 392 10.1 % Passenger service 320 8.3 % Retail/Parking 294 7.6 % Passenger flow/Waiting times 453 11.7 % Miscellaneous 408 10.5 % Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 21 Customers Customers Passenger satisfaction a new signage system, additional service person­ nel, and individual flight information by indoor In 2010, we welcomed more than 53 million pas­ navigation. Travelers will also receive assistance, sengers at Frankfurt Airport. More than 180,000 for example through shuttles with electric buggies passed through the airport on peak days. Around for long transfer routes. half of the passengers were transferring to con­ necting flights, and this group of passengers is Action program “Shopping and experience”: The increasingly relying on service and quality criteria entertainment and experience value of being at when they make their choice of connecting air­ Frankfurt Airport will be enhanced with attractive “Working here in Airport City is port. The satisfaction of travelers with infrastruc­ new offers. These include new catering experi­ simply fantastic. Apart from our ture, processes and personnel is a prerequisite for ences and expanded parking services as well as a regular customers from the airport, maximum utilization of the existing capacity and bigger range of Internet stations and additional travelers come everyday from all the new capacities that will be generated personnel providing information. over the world and we are able to following expansion of the airport. assist them in finding and choosing Action program “Enjoyable ambience”: Processes what they need.” We are committed to meeting the needs of all are not the only concern when it comes smooth Firouzeh Asvadi, employee at Tegut travelers, whether they are old or young, traveling operations at Frankfurt Airport. The atmosphere is food market, Frankfurt Airport independently or need assistance. If you are absolutely crucial. Interior design and furnishings spending time at the airport, this should be an will be used to make people feel at home. Rest and Stakeholder dialogue enjoyable experience. Potential stress factors waiting areas are being redesigned, halls, market­ therefore need to be reduced. International stud­ places and children’s play areas are having a face­ Customer ies have shown that long waiting times, lack of ori­ entation, unfriendly personnel and delayed flights lift, and the sanitary facilities are being remodeled. satisfaction are the big negative factors. Implementation of the measures is embedded in focus The corporate management has defined customer in quantified specifications. Attainment of these We carry out monthly passenger satisfaction as a strategic goal with the objective goals will be regularly measured and communi­ satisfaction surveys. These are of improving the areas referred to above. By 2015, cated to those involved. Fraport is providing a supplemented every quarter by we want to increase the overall satisfaction of pas­ budget of € 10 million for this service program. comparative values from other sengers by 10 percentage points to 80 percent. airports in the Airport Service We determine the “overall satisfaction” in our 24 Microsite “Great to have you here!” Quality Index (ASQ), an initiative monthly survey of customers by asking the ques­ of the Airports Council International tion: “How satisfied were you overall with Frank­ A series of measures is directed toward reduction (ACI). furt Airport?” We launched the initiative “Great of waiting lines and enhancing travel comfort. to have you here!” in May 2010 to implement this Rail travelers who are flying with one of the 19 Our target: We want to increase goal. The service program has been designed to airlines participating in the program can check in global passenger satisfaction by take account of the entire passenger process, and their baggage already at the AIRail Check­in and 10 percentage points to 80 %. it takes a holistic approach based on a long­term get their boarding card there. This check­in area perspective. The measures are pooled in four the­ in the link between the long­distance station and Once a year, we also receive the matic focuses: the airport offers short waiting times. The statis­ satisfaction report from Skytrax. tics demonstrate that this package is meeting a Frankfurt Airport was given a Action program “Friendly attention”: We want need. While 369 travelers used the AIRail Check­in ranking of 16th globally – this to get involved more with passengers. Training during the test week one year before, as many represents another step forward measures are being targeted at every employee, as 2,636 passengers used the facility during the since we came 21st in 2009 and starting with the top management. Everyone is equivalent week in 2010. 44th in 2008. being trained in their role as a “Service Ambas­ sador”. Service Awards will be granted for excep­ A study was carried out on the arrival times of 25 Skytrax­Ranking tional performance. passengers in order to achieve waiting­time re ­ ductions at the airport, and the time for clearance Action program “Fast and convenient travel”: This was measured. This indicates that nearly 23 % of is all about improving the orientation opportuni­ the passengers arrive at the airport before check­ ties and cutting down waiting and transit times. in actually starts and this is why lines start forming The latter need to be shortened. Measures include just after check­in opens. However, there is no 22 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Efficient hub airport Frankfurt Airport is an indispensable destination for all major airlines because of its central location, the concentration of business and population, and the excellent connections to other forms of transport. It is also a hub with numerous transfer connections across the world. Performance attribute connectivity Connectivity is a key competitive factor for airline companies but also for airports. Connectivity pri­ marily refers to a specific number of connecting flights available within a specified time window. This is the central criterion for the hub function of an airport. It is important for airlines because they fly lucrative large aircraft to hub airports and waiting time just before check­in closes. This flow are then able to service large­capacity interconti­ can be smoothed out if the check­in counters nental routes. are opened earlier and the number of check­in positions is varied. The average waiting time for Frankfurt Airport has a particularly high level passengers is significantly reduced although the of connectivity. Frankfurt has a high passenger same amount of staff time is used. volume and a dense route structure because of its central location and because it is the home Service quality has to be maintained in extreme airport for airline Deutsche Lufthansa, which situations. For example, in early summer 2010, leads one of the world’s strongest airline alli­ many travelers were unable to take their flights ances with Star Alliance. This advantage and short due to the volcanic ash cloud from Iceland, ground times due to fast passenger and logistics or they were forced to interrupt their journey. processes deliver excellent economic utilization Flights redirected to Frankfurt were parked at of the aircraft. The proportion of connecting The eruption of the special positions leaving thousands of passengers passengers at Frankfurt Airport is higher than at Eyjafjallajökull Volcano on stranded at Frankfurt Airport, in some cases for any other European airport. In 2010, the share Iceland closed airspace over a number of days. Fraport staff helped to put up was around 52 %. large parts of Europe between camp beds, handed out blankets, and distributed 16 and 20 April 2010. Frankfurt hot and cold meals. Toiletries, changes of clothes, Our airport infrastructure creates the platform Airport provided an “emergency baby requisites and a pharmacy were also pro­ that permits a minimum transit time of 45 minutes shelter with field kitchen” for vided. International TV programs were screened for passengers and baggage. This is a superb value many transit passengers. on the monitors at the gates, and travelers were compared with other major international airports. able to use an Internet lounge specially set up for Today, Frankfurt Airport is operating at its capac­ the purpose. Entertainers ensured that the chil­ ity limits and due to the continual growth in pas­ dren didn’t get bored. senger volumes is increasingly having to engage And all this is very important if you happen to be affected: The lost­and­found office at Frankfurt Airport was given the ranking “very good” (1.3) by the leading consumer safety group Stiftung Warentest (Test 8/2009) – this was the best score in the entire survey. The report described the lost­ and­found office as “exemplary”. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 23 Customers in bottleneck management in logistic terms. This with the staff involved in the process – particularly Stakeholder dialogue is why recent years have seen us working on airline companies, government agencies and service continuous optimization of the tightly integrated providers, as well as internal offices. The informa­ Well netoperational processes. tion communicated includes important data on infrastructure development and anticipated traf­ worked with Baggage management plays an important role in this connection. A proportion of 59 % means that fic volumes. Data and facts tailored to the needs of the relevant process partner are collected and all partners Frankfurt has to handle the biggest share of transit presented to employees in training sessions. A 15 We are in continuous dialogue baggage in the world. The computerized baggage member team is implementing the program. with our business customers and conveyor system is more than 70 kilometers long partners. Our monthly customer and forms the heart of the baggage transport sys­ 2,230,000 tons of airfreight advisory councils and quarterly tem. The baggage data are transferred from the Frankfurt Airport is Europe’s biggest airfreight taskforces meet with the airlines airlines to Fraport and processed in the system for airport. In 2010, the airport handled 2.23 million on a monthly or quarterly basis in automatic capture, conveyance and sorting of up tons of cargo and this corresponds to growth of an ongoing process of dialogue to 106,000 items of departure baggage per day. +21.5 % by comparison with the previous year. within a structured schedule and The reliability rate of the system was 99.57 % in A total of more than 250 companies and authori­ framework. Additionally, numerous 2010. ties operate at our airport in the area of airfreight. ad-hoc meetings take place to They employ more than 10,000 employees, and discuss specific subject areas. We Operational excellence via CargoCity Frankfurt Airport (CCF), they handle also have a continual exchange of When the new north­west runway starts up for the biggest proportion of German and European ideas with government agencies. the 2011 winter schedule, Frankfurt Airport will exports and imports measured by value. The gradually increase the number of coordinated planned expansion of CargoCity South is set to slots, that is the number of take­offs and landings. expand the cargo handling capacities starting Over the long term, this will gradually expand 2013. capacity by approximately 50 %. The challenges for the overall system at the airport are corre­ spondingly high. Fraport is aiming to provide smooth­running airport operations during the Baggage Reconciliation System (BRS) start­up phase and afterward. Fraport therefore launched the program “Operational Excellence” in A passenger has not boarded his flight. His bag­ June 2010 alongside the current construction and gage has to be unloaded for reasons of security. expansion measures for terminal infrastructure This is very time­consuming. The BRS was such as the A­Plus Pier and Pier C. developed in order to avoid delays in depar­ ture. This system initially only allows baggage We have identified 16 key processes which are to be loaded if the passengers have already relevant to smooth­running workflow. These entered the departure area. Baggage belong­ include apron and taxiway system, aircraft posi­ ing to passengers who arrive late is only loaded tioning and capacity at the gates, terminal opera­ later when the passenger boards the aircraft. tion including passenger flow, baggage convey­ ance and security checks. We pursue a personal dialogue and use information to communicate 24 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Safety and security Management and the wholly owned subsidiary Fraport Security Services (FraSec) GmbH are Safety and security are the key conditions for air responsible for implementing security functions. traffic. This principle applies equally to passenger traffic and airfreight. This is why security manage­ ment has always been a top priority at Fraport. Aviation security However, the terrorist attacks on September 11, The aviation security services pursuant to Article 5 2001 heralded the reality of an incomprehensible of the German Aviation Security Act are commis­ horror scenario and since then the requirements sioned by the Federal Ministry of the Interior and have become increasingly stringent. carried out by Fraport AG together with FraSec and another service provider. These mainly Guaranteeing maximum possible security stand­ relate to checks on individuals and baggage. ards at a major airport is a huge challenge. On Every airline passenger knows the procedures. average, we process around 140,000 passengers They are necessary but unpopular, not least in Frankfurt every day. Together with employ­ because they are frequently associated with ees, people meeting flights and visitors, the total waiting times and inspection of personal items. number of people coming to the airport each day The employees working in this area must take amounts to some 200,000 people at the airport maximum care and combine maximally effective complex, which covers an area of some 19 square procedures in carrying out the checks with under­ kilometers. In addition to the risk of terrorist standing and a friendly approach in relation to attacks, there are other specific risks entailed by passengers. This function is not always easy. air traffic, such as air accidents or the potential outbreak of pandemics, as well as road hazards Fraport has set itself the target of guaranteeing a and risks associated with passenger travel. waiting time of less than ten minutes for 90 % of the security checks, and passenger satisfaction Increasingly advanced technologies and more and with friendliness of the personnel of at least 80 %. more personnel are being deployed at Frankfurt A stress study is planned for the first time in 2011 Airport to guarantee the security of passengers, in order to achieve a better understanding of the baggage and cargo. The security of people work­ problem areas in daily work. The aim is to derive ing at the airport is also a top priority. The strate­ potentials for improvement of the working condi­ gic business unit “Traffic and Terminal Manage­ tions from the study. ment, Airport Expansion, Corporate Safety and Security” is responsible for meeting the require­ Airport safety and security ments of corporate and operational security. The airport operator is committed to guaranteeing The strategic business unit Airport Security safety and security and order on the airport site as Interview with Bärbel Töpfer Head of Aviation Security at Fraport AG and Managing Director of FraSec GmbH Ms Töpfer, why are you planning a stress analysis in aviation security? Work in aviation security is extremely demanding in every respect and this trend is on the increase: shift work, arduous physical activity, loud ambient noise levels, and other factors create a stress level that should not be underestimated, particularly considering the fact that aviation security assist­ ants always have to remain friendly and maintain a high level of concentration. The study is intended to help us avoid health problems which are a con­ sequence of physical and mental stress. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 25 Customers a prerequisite for smooth­running workflows. This primarily relates to the obligation to maintain site security pursuant to Article 8 of the German Avia­ tion Security Act. The airport site, the terminals, its premises and other facilities must meet the specified security standards. In addition, the access and approach checks at the gates and at the personnel and goods checkpoints are the responsibility of the airport operator. Fraport is directly responsible to the Hessian Ministry of Economics, Transport, Urban and Regional Devel­ opment for ensuring site security. Fraport main­ tains its own investigative service and a dedicated security control center to comply with these requirements. The latter is the central alert and alarm center for all issues relevant to security which activate the globally accredited emergency management as Emergency necessary. Other important elements of airport The entire security and emergency management security are fire protection including the Airport system is regularly reviewed in order to guarantee exercise Fire Service, Fire Training Center (FTC), emer­ compliance with the security regulations at the In order to ensure adequate prepara­ gency management and traffic control. Fraport airport. German regulatory authorities carry out a tion for emergencies, a range of also maintains a safety management system in comprehensive security audit at least every three different emergency exercises are conformity with the ICAO standards and recom­ years which checks the security measures of the carried out at Frankfurt Airport in mendations. It records and evaluates all events airports, the airline companies and the responsi­ conformity with statutory regulations relevant to safety in airport operations and iden­ ble local authorities in the region. The EU Aviation and international directives. In the tifies weak points in the operating processes on Security Directive also prescribes random quality year 2010, Fraport took part in the the apron. checks by EU inspectors. This kind of multi­stage biggest disaster prevention exercise EU inspection was carried out at Frankfurt Airport that had ever been carried out in The safety and security services of Fraport AG are in the years 2005 and 2006. Germany with the involvement of supplemented by the Medical Services, which are more than 2,000 participants. A colli­ responsible for medical care at Frankfurt Airport. sion between two aircraft with a total of more than 500 passengers on the 26 Safety and security services new runway was simulated. 27 ICAO emergency exercise 2010 What is special about this analysis? with the requirements of aviation security while also being acknowledged as “best practice” for health It is probably the first of its kind in Germany and provision, otherwise they will not be able to achieve therefore represents genuine pioneering work. their objective. An initial step involves objectively We are also seeking cooperation with universities identifying stress situations and circumstances in and integration of the German Federal Police, the the area of aviation security checks and analyzing Hesse statutory accident insurance scheme and them on the basis of theoretical principles. The se­ other health insurance companies. This broadly cond stage will involve the development of measures based cooperation is intended to ensure that the for reducing stress and implementation of these study is based on scientific principles. It is also measures together with our staff. We believe that designed to ensure its acceptance. this study will have positive effects on the health and motivation of our colleagues. This study is designed What do you hope that this study will yield in to be generally applicable to the activity of an concrete terms? aviation security assistant irrespective of the par­ ticular airport. This is the only way of guaranteeing Future optimization measures for the workplace of that the stress level identified is recognized by the aviation security assistants must be compatible employer and can also be used at other airports. 26 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Aviation Security Assistant, “First, an economic Aviation Security Checks Astrid Helmer crisis, then a cloud of volcanic ash ... times aren’t always easy in the air traffic industry and the competition is tough – but I like the work and I know one thing: my job is safe at Fraport.” Evaluation of the staff survey carried out with the Fraport Barometer 2010 showed that the value for job security perceived by employees went up from 3.16 to 2.77. This value measured on a grade system (score 1 (best) and score 6 (worst)) improved the most and exceeded all the other base question values. The question on “job security” was only better once when the Fraport Barometer premiered in 2000. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 27 Employees Employees Fraport is one of the biggest employers in the Fraport Group: employees Rhine­Main region. The company also has 16 sites (Average annual number of persons according to IFRS on four continents. The Fraport Group employed and shares for 2010 in %) an average of 19,792 employees worldwide in the year 2010. This is 178 less than in 2009. There are 2009 2010 also 336 trainees, primarily at the Frankfurt site. We believe that the number of employees will Fraport Group (total) 19,970 19,792 increase over the coming year owing to the airport Fraport AG Subsidiaries, 11,306 11,122 56.2 % expansion, in order to meet the growing volume affiliated companies 8,664 8,670 43.8 % of passengers and airfreight. In the year 2011 alone, we will be employing some 2,000 new in Frankfurt 17,441 17,479 88.3 % people. When we refer to Fraport AG below, we outside Germany 2,209 2,046 10.3 % mean the parent company where around 56 % of all Fraport employees had their job in 2010. Around 88 % of all “Fraport people” work at the Frankfurt site. scale agreement totaling € 6 million to payscale employees. The plan is to expand performance­ related payscale elements over the next four years. Working conditions and co-determination Employees also have a stake in our success under We are committed to ethical principles and values our ‘Cafeteria System’. Employees can make their when we structure the relationship with our individual choice from a range of attractive non­ employees. Our entrepreneurial action should be cash benefits. Over the nine years since it was in line with internationally acknowledged stand­ inaugurated, Fraport has spent nearly € 50 million ards, guidelines, and principles, in particular the on this bonus system. ILO labour standards, the OECD guidelines for multinational companies, and the principles of Since the stock­market launch in 2001, Fraport the UN Global Compact. We require and promote employees have been able to receive an annual responsible conduct at all Group sites where we benefit as shares in the company or a cash have majority holdings (see section “Organization payment. In the context of this employee share and governance”, p. 12). purchasing scheme, employees are able to take a stake in the company and participate in its long­ The basis for the employment conditions of our term performance. In 2010, 57 % of employees in staff in the parent company Fraport AG is the pay Fraport AG took part in this program. Participation scale for public service jobs. It regulates working was nearly 69 % with the subsidiary companies hours, payment, and company pension provision taking part in the scheme. for large sections of the workforce. Nearly 2.3 % of the employees in the largest Group company have 28 Working conditions and payment non­payroll employment agreements. Stakeholder dialogue Co-determination put into practice 95 % of the employees in the Fraport Group are Our commitment to values and principles is com­ Co-determincovered by collective bargaining agreements. Fraport also provides employees with a series of plemented by a proactive approach to company co­determination. Fraport works closely with ation, conon­payscale benefits, ranging from the Job Ticket for free public transport between home and work, employee representatives in a spirit of mutual trust. Central bodies involved in this work are responsibility through the family service, to company health the Fraport Works Council and the Group Works In 2010, the Works Council held a total management. Since 2003, staff have been able to Council. This represents 18,000 employees in of 37 meetings at Fraport AG and the defer some of their pay and convert this into pension. the German subsidiaries on matters which relate Executive Board regularly participated in to the Group or several group companies. At the these once a month. At Group level, six Fraport also rewards commitment of individual company level, the interests of the workforce are Group Works Council meetings and one employees with performance­related bonuses represented on the Supervisory Board pursuant to symposium were held in 2010. on top of payscale wages and salaries. In 2010, the Co­determination Act by ten members of the Fraport AG made payments in excess of the pay­ Supervisory Board. 28 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 At the end of 2005, the Executive Board, the Training and career development Supervisory Board, and various interest groups adopted a Group directive relating to the ongoing We are among the biggest training companies in the development of the Fraport Group. The directive Rhine­Main region with around 340 trainees. Our addresses the issues of securing business success, in­house vocational training makes a significant strategic controlling, Group integration, Group contribution to recruiting the next generation of identity, principles of governance and cooperation, employees. Our varied range of training schemes and employee orientation and ethical principles. is primarily based on the needs of the company. It takes into account the different school­leaving The “Pact for the Future 2018” between the execu­ qualifications of the applicants and is firmly estab­ tive management and the employee representa­ lished as the first stage in the development of human tive body succeeded in avoiding the outsourcing resources within the Group. The “Pact for the or loss of jobs in the ground services at the end of Future 2018” guarantees annual recruitment of Stakeholder dialogue 2009. The employees throughout the company 110 new apprentices. The ProRegion Foundation contributed to retaining the competitiveness of supplements the training activities of Fraport by Celebrating the ground services by restrictions on benefits in promoting projects that contribute to the training together excess of the pay scale. The individual income of employees was largely unaffected. and employment capability of teenagers and young adults in the region (see section “Region and com­ The staff party entitled munity”, p. 46). Overall, Fraport invests an average “Airborne” takes place every two A company agreement was agreed specifically for of approximately € 28,500 in each apprenticeship years and it was held in 2010 for crisis situations. As demonstrated by the volcanic job. This represents a total of some € 8 million in the fifth time. More than 16,000 eruption in Iceland, air traffic is never immune promoting the next generation every year. employees and their families from this kind of event. This agreement provides attended the celebration held at for all meaningful and necessary measures to be Our vocational portfolio is regularly adjusted each the construction site for the new taken in order to avoid both economic losses for year to operational requirements in order to meet runway. More than 50 business the Group and impairment of corporate develop­ the latest developments in training vocations or units and subsidiary companies ment, and to secure the jobs and incomes of the twin­track degree courses. We are currently evalu­ presented an imaginative and employees in the Group. ating the degree course in air traffic management, entertaining program for all age conducting a model trial on training rescue assist­ groups in marquees and in the ants, and carrying out in­house training of com­ open air. The airport expansion pany fire­fighters for the first time. The strict align­ was the focus of the program ment to operational requirements and the broadly and featured tours around the based spectrum of training – 21 vocations for the site, presentations and models. start of training in 2011 – ensure that we are in a position to offer employment opportunities in numerous areas of activity in the Fraport Group at the end of the training period. The subsidiaries and investment companies are gradually being incorporated in the apprenticeship and employ­ ment program. “Investments in training young people are investments in the future – this guiding theme also determined our actions for the year 2010 and will be the keynote issue for all activities in vocational training during the coming years.” Wolfgang Haas, Head of Vocational Training in Human Resources Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 29 Employees Stakeholder dialogue Training 21 Berufeplaces for the start of vocational training in 2011 (number of training places) bei Fraport Management Conference 5 6 1 40 Mechatronic technician, electronics technician, design mechanic, systems mechanic for sanitary facilities, heating, and air­conditioning 4 2 26 Air­traffic management assistant, personnel In October 2010, the second 1 service adviser, management assistant in office management conference was held. communication The Executive Board and managers 3 23 Courses leading to a bachelor degree from Levels 1 to 4 addressed the key 4 19 Medical technician, rescue assistant, plant challenges and strategic thematic fire­fighter, technician for protection and safety 3 issues of Fraport in four taskforces: 5 4 Information technology officer, IT technician, system integration Customer and service orientation: 6 3 Building cleaner 2 Is the customer king with us? Operational excellence: We are increasing capacity: Are our employees and the processes Numerous indicators provide evidence of the suc­ seminar or career­development course in their lei­ prepared for more traffic? cess of our commitment to primary vocational sure time and financed by Fraport AG. The annual training. The excellent quality of training is docu­ amount for this career training is € 600. The pro­ Demographic change: mented by low drop­out rates, very good exami­ gram is very popular with the workforce. Since the Society is ageing, the world of work nation results, employment and loyalty quotas, launch in 2001, 11,000 employees have taken part is changing: What challenges will and vocational success after employment is com­ in such seminars. we face, how are we making use of menced. We aim to provide ongoing employment our opportunities? for 70 % of apprentices in the second year after 29 Human resource development the end of the apprenticeship training. By 2018, “We are Fraport“: our new concept of “Young Talents” will provide Let’s retain and promote our the platform for enhancing the loyalty of talented Equal opportunities and diversity employees’ motivation and young people from the apprenticeship training identification! scheme. As a company with an international focus, Fraport values the diversity and individuality of its em­ After starting in the world of work or after com­ ployees. Our approach to managing diversity mencing a job at Fraport, we focus on a continuous makes the individuality of our employees an inte­ process of career training. Fraport has a series of gral element of our human resource strategy and programs for development and further training of organizational development. The basis for this specialists and managers. The training institutions is the Group company agreement entitled “The Fraport Academy and Fraport College are the Conduct of Partnership, Diversity and Equality central platforms for building up knowledge and at the Workplace”, which defines the principles experience. Approximately 500 managers received for antidiscrimination, equal opportunities, the qualifications in 20 different programs at the advancement of women into management posi­ Fraport Academy in management and specialist tions and diversity for Fraport. These principles are subjects during 2010. This means that almost a key element for decision­making on personnel 75 % of managers took part in internal qualifica­ appointments, training measures, organizational tion. The focus of career training for operational changes and structuring working time. and administrative employees in the Fraport College is also on management training courses. The implementation of equal opportunities and 600 participants received career training for diversity requires clear management principles. management and communication on 1,440 days. Managers throughout the company must be Charter of Moreover, success is quantified. In 2011, the level committed to creating an open and fair working of management expertise of all managers will climate and have zero tolerance for any infringe­ Diversity again be assessed by 360° feedback – that is ments. They should also use the available sanc­ Fraport has signed the Charter appraisal by supervisors, colleagues and staff. tions ranging from a briefing to notice of termina­ of Diversity, a corporate tion. initiative under the patronage As far as individual qualification beyond the imme­ of the German Chancellor. diate job function is concerned, every employee Women occupied nearly 29 % of management at Fraport AG has the opportunity to use the positions in the Fraport Group in 2010. The figure 30 Charter of Diversity “Q­Card” qualification card to participate in a for the parent company was around 21 %. This is 30 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 “I’ve had a great deal of support at Fraport for my career development. I believe catch-up is required on the issue of ‘Women in management positions’, but things are now moving on that front as well.” Bettina Bruhn, Head of Business Controlling & Services, Airport Security Management a significant increase in the percentage of female ties. In 2010, Fraport received the accolade of the managers compared with earlier years and in Total E­Quality Rating acknowledging its commit­ relation to the proportion of women in the overall ment in this area for the fifth time in succession. workforce. However, we continue to be commit­ ted to increasing this proportion. We especially 31 Total E­Quality see a need for action in two areas. Firstly, entry to management positions is not happening in Getting the work/life balance right in combining all areas of the company. Secondly, only a few career with families is an important issue in creat­ women are found in positions at management ing opportunities for women, and for work satis­ levels above middle management. faction among employees in general. This applies to women and increasingly also to men. Fraport One tool for improving the opportunities of women supports parents with a diverse package of child­ in career development is the Total E­Quality Method care assistance: 15 places are available for Fraport (TEQ). This was developed in an initiative gener­ employees at the daycare nurseries “Children’s ated by businesses, social partners and govern­ Ark” and “Space Ship for Kids”. The flexible emer­ ment agencies. TEQ Teams analyze the work gency childcare support in the in­house “Fluggi situation throughout the company and introduce Land” childcare facility offers childcare facilities measures designed to improve equal opportuni­ for 15 to 30 children aged between one year and twelve on 365 days of the year from 6 a.m. in the morning to 10 p.m. at night. Fraport also offers Fraport Group: Diversity indicators flexible working hours models and home work­ (Number of persons on 31 December and shares for 2010 in %) places beyond the period of parental leave. 2009 2010 Fraport was again rewarded for the high quality of Employees 20,488 21,124 these activities in 2010. A certificate awarded by (at year­end) the Hertie Foundation is based on the goal agree­ ment between work/life balance organization Women 4,705 4,903 23.2% berufundfamilie gGmbH and Fraport AG. Attain­ Men 15,783 16,220 76.8% ment of the defined goals is checked in an audit. Group in Germany Eight specific fields of action are defined for con­ German nationality 14,853 14,961 78.5% crete working conditions, dealing generally with Other nationalities 5,635 4,097 21.5% the issue, and supporting services. Fraport defines up to age 30 3,899 4,622 21.9% the main points for development of family­friendly 31–50 11,280 12,640 59.8 % models for working hours, provision of informa­ over 50 3,500 3,863 18.3 % tion and support by supervisors together with a package of appropriate services. Disabled employees, em­ ployees with equal status 1,297 1,392 7.1 % to disabled employees and 32 berufundfamilie employees with multiple 33 Work­Life Balance credits disability 34 Fraport podcasts 35 Brochure “Equal opportunities benefit everyone” Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 31 Employees Use of home workplaces Fraport Group: Women in management positions (as at 31 December) 100 2009 2010 Shares in % of management positions Women in management posi80 tions, levels 166 223 28.7 % Management level 1 60 (business unit manager/ 0 1 20.0 % service unit manager) Number Management level 2 40 Women (section manager/ 9 14 21.2 % central unit manager) 20 Management level 3 (manager) 64 70 29.8 % Men Management level 4 (manager) 42 70 24.3 % 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Management level 5 (manager) 51 68 37.4 % * The term management level (or Level 1–5) relates exclusively to managers of an organizational unit, that is persons with disciplinary and technical responsibility for the employees they supervise. In this context, an increasing number of employees Attractive employer and their families are facing the huge challenge of having to support and care for relatives who are Fraport believes that appeal as an employer is one unable to manage on their own. Alongside infor­ of the key aspects of securing business success mation events and counseling advice, Fraport is over the long term. We will only be future­proof if setting up a network entitled “Career and Care” we succeed in being attractive as a fair employer that will for example facilitate meetings and an in the competition for highly qualified and moti­ exchange of ideas between employees affected by vated employees. Against this background, we are this kind of situation. progressing our human resource strategy in 2011 36 trendence Institute with the aim of identifying future fields of action Permanent integration of people with health and with particular focus on demographic change. physical impairments in all areas of employment is an objective of company policy. A 10 % ratio of We are identifying potential for development in disabled employees has placed Fraport AG signifi­ a number of ways including internal and external cantly above the minimum statutory rate of 5 % surveys. One of the external surveys is the annual for many years. In 2010, Fraport signed an agree­ Graduate Barometer surveyed by research institute ment on work experience for school children from Trendence and the annual student surveys carried the School for Hearing­Impaired People at Sommer­ out by Universum. These surveys indicate that 37 Universum hoffpark in Frankfurt. The aim is to give young Fraport AG has been among Germany’s top people in particular a perspective for the future. employers for a number of years. “Without the regular and dependable childcare for my twins at the ‘Children’s Ark’ nursery, it would have been virtually impossible for me to fulfill my career obligations in full.” Nicole Ebner, Head of Business Development in the Strategic Business Unit Retail and Properties Management 32 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Motivation Job safety and occupational health through A range of comprehensive measures directed toward preventive health and safety are designed autonomous to avoid the physical, psychological and social forms of stress that employees experience at work responsibility as far as possible. If such stress cannot be avoided Flexible working hours models altogether, the preventive measures are intended are an indispensable tool for to reduce or compensate for it. promoting employee satisfaction at Fraport in the routine world of Fraport implements systematic protective measures work in the company. The ideal for prevention of work­related accidents. It also duty roster for shift workers provides training for more than 1,500 employees Fraport Group fluctuation (core employees) each year. Regular briefings involving analysis of enables employees to structure their own personal duty roster in safety and accidents is another tool in the armory. Reasons for leaving (Number) 2009 2010 six-week blocks from the work They are intended to identify and eliminate the shifts offered by the company. Notice served by the employee 846 627 safety risks that are entailed by the employees’ In future, specialist teams will Notice served by the employer own behavior or presence in the working environ­ 283 365 be able to take responsibility for ment. Despite all the precautions, we recorded Retirements 68 53 an increase in accidents at work in 2010. This is organizing their work and employees who work shifts will be linked to the extreme weather conditions during able to organize their working We assess employee satisfaction in­house once a the weeks of winter, and the significant surge in hours on a more individual basis. year by conducting out the “Fraport Barometer” growth. There has not been an accident at Fraport An Intranet Portal and an IT survey. The survey results highlight the strengths AG with fatal consequences for the past 13 years. solution will be provided so that and weaknesses of the organization and manage­ employees can coordinate their ment. We use any constructive criticism to analyze Fraport works continuously to optimize workflows desired working hours and potential for improvement and initiate appropri­ with the aim of avoiding impairment of health individual needs. ate measures. We are committed to the target of through activities carried out at work. These ergo­ improving the general level of satisfaction sur­ nomic measures include the use of technical aids veyed in the company from 3.06 in 2010 to 2.9 by and tools. It is even better if the aspects of job 2014 (grade system with score 1 (best) and score safety and health protection can be integrated 6 (worst)). right from the start when innovative technical systems are introduced. The TAQP project focused on technology innovation, work organization, qualification and prevention addresses this ob ­ jective. It involves the introduction of two new Three questions to Iris Skulesch Since the beginning of 2008, Iris Skulesch has been responsible for human resources at Fraport subsidiary company GCS (Gesellschaft für Cleaning Service). As the mother of two children, she has a part-time work commitment (30 hours a week). What does sustainability mean in human resources? As far as I’m concerned, it means looking at work in human resources as a holistic activity and oper­ ating with a long­term perspective. This starts with appointing someone to a position. We need to communicate clearly what the job involves and what the prospects of advancement are. If we look at human resource development, it’s about per­ sonnel development programs. That means across all the functions, from operatives to the managers. Not least, it’s about adopting appropriate measures to ensure good health and maintaining long­term motivation of all employees on a daily basis. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 33 Employees Accidents at work Sickness rate and occupational diseases Fraport Group 2009 2010 Fraport-Group 2009 2010 Accidents * 513 669 Sickness rate (in %) 4.21 6.33 per 1,000 employees * 24.11 31.7 due to illness 4.13 6.09 with fatal consequences 0 0 due to accident at work * 0.08 0.24 Days of absence * 7,543 11,826 Occupational diseases (number) 4 1 Fraport AG 2009 2010 Fraport AG 2009 2010 Accidents * 301 361 Sickness rate (in %) 6.23 6.49 per 1,000 employees * 24.78 30.16 due to illness 6.05 6.19 with fatal consequences 0 0 due to accident at work * 0.18 0.30 Days of absence * 4,991 7,960 Occupational diseases (number) 0 1 * notifiable * without accidents involving sport, travels to and from work, and private activities technical systems for transporting baggage at Frankfurt Airport. One of these is a roller system example, more than 400 employees of Fraport AG and a number of subsidiaries gathered informa­ “New that can be extended into the hold area for convey­ ing items of baggage, and eight of these innovative tion at the Health Market under the motto “Your Health in Good Hands”. The initiative focused on departures units are currently being deployed. The other is vacuum lifting technology which enables employ­ heart disease, cancer, and mental health. together” ees to lift items of baggage out of the transport In 2010, the sickness rate in the Group rose to Under this motto, the Hesse units with virtually no exertion at all. Nine new 6.33 %, while in the main Group company it re­ statutory accident insurance lifting aids are currently being deployed and mained at 6.5 %. We cannot be satisfied with this scheme granted Advancement another 42 aids will be installed by the year 2013. level. The new project “Increasing the Attendance Awards to member companies Rate” is intended to counteract this trend with a for the second time in recognition 38 TAQP comprehensive and holistic package of measures of the exemplary measures taken starting 2011. It comprises management, motiva­ for occupational health and Fraport has a long track record of projects and tion, prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, and safety or for health promotion campaigns designed to promote the health and case management, as well as benchmarking and campaigns within the company. well­being of its employees. The year 2010 once establishing appropriate controlling mechanisms. In 2009/2010, Fraport received again saw numerous campaigns being run on particular recognition for many the issue of health and safety for employees. For 39 Occupational health and safety at Fraport years of effective preventive work and innovative prevention initiatives. In 2010, Fraport Security Services GmbH (FraSec) received the Job Safety Prize for the period 2009/2010 for exemplary and sustainable measures in job safety and What are the prerequisites for successful human What have you achieved up to now? health promotion within the resource work? company. Today, we have a clearly defined recruitment First of all respect for individuals and the contri­ process, a career model from foreman to section bution of all employees. The majority of the manager, a training program with “Fit & Smart” employees with us are working in jobs that only for all employees, and we are embarking on new require a low level of qualification. Cleaning ventures together with the project “Health & buildings entails hard physical labor. This is where Innovation Coach”. I have been particularly open and clear communication is necessary. If I’m pleased with the success of our on­the­job day: going to implement all the measures, I naturally Right up to the level of Executive Management, need the support of the Executive Management supervisors worked for a day in cleaning buildings and I have to be a role model, just like any other in order to personally experience the working supervisor. environment of our employees. 34 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Member of the German Advisory “The industrial nations and Council on the Environment, the big companies have Director of Frankfurt Zoological Garden Professor Dr. Manfred Niekisch outstanding opportunities to provide a sustainable structure for the use of resources and the approach to doing business – and this creates the responsibility for being an exemplary role model.” Interview with Professor Dr. Manfred Niekisch Professor Niekisch, you act worldwide as an expert in development cooperation and nature conservation. From your perspective, what are the key aspects for sustainable development? This is very clear. Securing biological diversity and combating climate change are the key issues. How do you see the airport in conjunction with the issues of nature conservation and sustainability? It is important to ensure that nature conservation and environmental protection are given top prior­ ity during the operation and expansion of the airport, not least because this also contributes to the quality of life enjoyed by people in the region. Loss of biological diversity and failing to act on climate issues are no longer responsible approaches. Moreover, they are very detrimental to the economy. A long­term perspective is re ­ quired. As a company operating internationally, Fraport AG has to be a role model here. What are your expectations for climate protection from the air traffic industry? Key expectations are: exploiting potential savings, reducing energy consumption, enhancing energy efficiency, and optimizing transport. In other words, transferring aircargo to other means of transport where possible and if they are more climate­friendly. Adopting mitigation measures where damage is unavoidable, and finally plau­ sible commitment to nature conservation. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 35 Environment Environment Climate protection been commissioned to propose a global CO2 standard for aircraft certification from 2013. The levels of According to estimates by the umbrella organiza­ tion of airport operators, the Airports Council 42 ICAO Airport Carbon International (ACI), up to 5 % of global climate gas emissions from air traffic come from operating Fraport participates in Airport Carbon Accredi­ Accreditation airports. Although this is a very low proportion, tation (ACA), a program of ACI Europe with the Level 1 (“Mapping”) relates to the particularly taking into account the fact that air objective of persuading the maximum number of overview of all emission sources at traffic overall contributes only a few percent to the European airports to adopt CO2­neutral operation. the airport and a detailed CO2 global emission of climate gases, Fraport supports Frankfurt Airport was the first airport to be footprint for activities carried out the industry­wide initiatives in view of the major assessed on the basis of the rules of the ACA and by the airport operator or initiated significance of this issue and the growth perspec­ was included in the program in 2009. By the end by the operator. tives for the sector. of 2010, 29 other airports were accredited. The highest level of 3+ can be reached in four stages. Level 2 (“Reduction“) is about Fraport is participating in a number of initiatives To date, Fraport has been accredited to stage 2, strategic management of these including SESAR (Single European Sky Air Traffic the aim is to achieve stage 3. emissions and monitoring Management Research). This is an initiative by reductions. the European Commission and EUROCONTROL. In 2008, Fraport grouped all activities related to It includes all the players in air traffic and should climate protection in a single project concentrat­ Level 3 (“Optimization”) extends the ensure that European air­traffic management is ing on three fields: energy savings for the existing coverage to activities connected with fit to meet future challenges. The diverse action portfolio of buildings and infrastructure, efficient the airport but not the responsibility plans in this initiative include integrated flight energy use in new buildings, and reduction of of the operator, such as aircraft planning, i.e. everyone involved working on energy consumption by the vehicle fleet. movements or passengers and optimizing the process of aircraft push­back until personnel traveling to and from the reaching the destination terminal. This will also Potential energy savings in the order of some 100 airport. make airports key players in air traffic manage­ million kWh have been identified in the building ment. The advantage for passengers and the envi­ portfolio. This is equivalent to a potential CO2 The highest level (3+,“Neutrality“) ronment: shorter flight times and reduced emis­ reduction of some 30,000 tons. Upgrading the can be achieved by the airport sions. The objectives of SESAR by 2020 include ventilation systems in Terminal 1 alone would operator with verification that the increasing capacity threefold, reducing environ­ result in an estimated reduction of 17,500 tons of climate-gas emissions within the mental pollution per flight by 10 %, increasing CO2. Measures already implemented or ongoing operator’s responsibility have been security tenfold, and halving flight safety costs. measures will contribute to annual savings of reduced as far as possible by some 6,200 tons of CO2. strategic reduction measures and the 40 SESAR remaining residual amount has been The aim in new buildings is to ensure maximally mitigated by carbon offsetting in line As a member of the Air Transport Action Group efficient energy use with incorporation of alterna­ with the Kyoto Protocol. (ATAG) Fraport supports the organization’s goals: tive energy sources for subsequent operation. reduction of CO2 by 1.5 % per year to 2020 and In 2009, Fraport made its own regulations more CO2­neutral growth by 2050. This entails a re­ robust. They now specify values below the current duction of CO2 emissions by 50 % throughout levels of the Energy Saving Directive (EnEV 2009). the entire sector by the year 2050 compared Dynamic building simulation also provides a with 2005. profile of the expected energy consumption that allows optimization potentials to be checked. 41 ATAG Certification in conformity with the standards of 43 Airport Carbon Accreditation the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) In 2010, the International Civil Aviation Organi­ continues to be the objective for individual build­ zation (ICAO) adopted an improvement in fuel ings. One example is the company head office efficiency of 2 % a year for the airlines until 2050 currently under construction, which will be ready with a view to the World Climate Conference in in 2012. The concept of this building was awarded Cancun. The organization also resolved to grow a Preliminary Certificate in Gold by the DGNB. CO2­neutral starting 2020. The Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection (CAEP), the 44 Press Release Sustainable Construction environmental organization of ICAO, has also 36 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Left: Fire Station 4 – certified to passive building standards Right: Pallet forklift truck – upgrade to electric drive Fire Station 4: heating with geothermal energy We are using shallow geothermal energy to heat The aircraft positions should always be included in drives. Around 10 % out of more than 3,000 the new fire station. In combienergy planning for terminals. An Auxiliary Power motorized vehicles operated by Fraport AG at nation with other construction Unit (APU) generally supplies each aircraft parked Frankfurt Airport are already powered by electric­ measures, this will lead to at a position with air­conditioning and electricity. ity. An analysis of technical options, usage and an energy saving of about The CO2­intensive operation of the APUs could CO2 intensity suggests that conversion should be 90 % compared with a conbe cut if the aircraft were supplied with ground accelerated particularly in the case of the specialist ventional building. We are power and air­conditioning on the ground. Most vehicles used for aircraft handling, for example already planning for future aircraft positions are equipped with ground power baggage tractors, conveyorbelt vehicles and high projects by participating in units at Frankfurt Airport, while Preconditioned loaders. Gradual conversion of the vehicle fleet a research project for Air Systems (PCA) still have to be installed. Fraport to electric drives also entails positive effects for deep geothermal energy. is planning to implement the high investments the health of employees working on the apron The necessary seismic investirequired and equip the new A­Plus Pier with these because this will reduce noise emissions and air gations have been scheduled systems. This will enable some 4,000 tons of CO2 pollutants. for the end of 2011. to be saved each year. The first electrically powered high loader was The objective with the vehicle fleet is to enhance procured in 2010. The aim is for 20 % of these fuel efficiency in all areas of application. The fleet vehicles to be powered by electricity by 2015. contributes some 15 % to the CO2 emissions at The same objective applies to hybrid tow trucks Fraport AG and the trend is upward. An intensive used in the baggage service. All conveyor trucks review is currently being done to assess where are to be converted to electric power by 2015. conventional engines can be replaced by electric In recognition of its implementation concept for Total energy consumption at Fraport AG CO2 emission of Fraport AG 1,000 12 400 4.0 Relative energy consumption (kWh/traffic unit) kWh/ kg CO2/ Relative CO2 emission (kg/traffic unit) Absolute energy consumption (GWh) 350 3.5 Absolute CO2 emission (1,000 tons) traffic unit traffic unit 10 750 Fuels 300 Fuels 3.0 Fuels for com­ 8 Fuels for com­ bustion plants 250 bustion plants 2.5 District cooling District cooling 500 6 200 2.0 District heating District heating 150 1.5 4 Electricity 250 100 1.0 Electricity 2 50 0.5 0 0 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 37 Environment gradually introducing electric vehicles, Fraport AG received an award for sustainable mobility concepts the activities of Fraport AG. Of these, 2.2 percent­ age points are caused by direct emissions, mainly Climate from the “eCarTec” electromobility exhibition held in Munich in 2009. from the operation of vehicles and mobile ground support equipment for handling aircraft on the protectors ground. 11.2 percentage points are attributable preferred 45 WamS supplement E­mobility to emissions arising from purchased energy (electricity, district heating and district cooling). Under this slogan, the first power Development of energy consumption and The RECS certificates (Renewable Energy Certifi­ charging station was officially CO2 emissions cates System) which Fraport will be purchasing installed at Car Park P 4 for For several years, the overall energy consumption under a longer­term contract until 2013, are not passengers coming to Frankfurt of Fraport AG has been relatively constant at some taken into account in our CO2 balance sheet. Airport on 9 November 2010. 750 million kWh per year. Additional energy needs This charging station allows users resulting from expansion of existing infrastructure Position 11 in the German CDP Leadership of the car park to charge their has been balanced by improved use of energy Index 2010 electrically powered vehicles with within the portfolio. The total energy consump­ Fraport has taken part in the Carbon Disclosure green electricity free of charge. tion for each traffic unit reflects the utilization of Project (CDP) since 2006. This is a non­profit The electricity is generated from our infrastructure. While consumption virtually organization founded in 2000 dedicated to two hydropower plants powered stagnated in the years 2005­2007, the factor enhancing transparency for greenhouse gases by the River Main. improved with the rise in traffic volume. During emitted by companies that exert a negative the years 2008 and 2009, it increased due to the impact on the climate. In the name of more than declining traffic units. Despite the higher energy 530 institutional investors – together represent­ consumption due to adverse weather conditions ing assets amounting to more than US$64 billion in 2010, the factor remained virtually constant in – the world’s biggest companies are requested 2010 due to the higher volume of traffic. every year to make voluntary disclosures with data and information on their CO2 emissions, on A similar picture emerges when the resulting CO2 reduction targets and strategies, and on risks and emissions generated by the consumption of opportunities presented by climate change for the energy are analyzed. In absolute terms, this has company. In 2010, the quality of climate reporting been in decline since 2005 and after a deteriora­ ranked Fraport AG among the 30 companies that tion in the relative value per traffic unit it has were included in the German Carbon Disclosure moved back onto a trajectory of higher efficiency. Leadership Index (CDLI) and Fraport was as high The absolute CO2 reduction compared with the as 11th place. baseline year for the savings targets in 2005 amounted to some 15 % in 2010. 46 German CDP Leadership Index 2010 Out of the total CO2 emissions for the airport, more than half (53.3 %) originate from operating aircraft (landing and take­off cycle and use of auxiliary power units), while 13.5 % result from CO2-footprint at Frankfurt Airport and Fraport AG CO2­footprint for 2010 at Frankfurt Airport CO2­footprint for 2010 Fraport AG (Scope 1 and 2) 1 60.9 % Electricity consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) 2 2 18.3 % District­heating consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) 4 3 15.4 % Operation of vehicles and equipment (Scope 1)) A 226,144 t 4 3.8 % District­cooling consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) 3 5 0.3 % Operation of standby power supply system (Scope 1) C 1,681,291 t B 1 6 0.2 % Operation of fire brigade exercise facility (Scope 1) 5 6 7 1.1 % Operation of fossil­fired facilities (Scope 1) 7 A 2.3 % Scope 1 (own consumption Fraport AG) B 11.2 % Scope 2 (purchased energy Fraport AG) C 86.5 % Scope 3 (third parties at the airport including air traffic in landing and take­off cycle) 38 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Traffic is now looking into whether a rail connection on the former Ticona site can be used for a different The strategic networking of the airport with other pioneering project for the future. The objective forms of transport – known as intermodality – has would be to transfer land cargo and aircargo traffic a long track record at Fraport extending back to forwarded on truck trailers onto an innovative the 1970s. At the time, the first underground rail “rolling freeway”. station at a German airport was located under the new Terminal 1. Today, this is the airport’s Air regional train station. Opening the AIRail terminal in 1999 linked up the national and international Apart from the specific focus on reducing and long­distance rail network to the airport. In 2010, quantifying CO2 emissions, pollutants have also 35 % of all passengers used the train (ICE, long­ been continuously recorded on the airport site distance and regional trains, and metropolitan at two measuring stations since 2002. Two addi­ railway) to travel to and from the airport. If other tional stations were set up in the area of the con­ means of public transport are included, the pro­ struction site to monitor construction pollutants portion was 39.2 %. The environmental program generated during airport expansion. A station was of Fraport AG currently projects a target value also set up in Kelsterbach. Up to now, the Kelster­ of 38.9 % for the year 2020. Fraport is working bach Station was only used for nitrogen oxides, together with Deutsche Bahn (DB, German Rail) but it will now also be used to measure the con­ and Lufthansa to maintain this value as passenger centration of fine dust. An array of measures is volumes grow. The measures envisaged include used to reduce emissions on the construction integrated travel packages and integration of air sites, for example speed restrictions and sprinkling traffic in the network planning of German Rail. dusty surfaces with water. This meant that the strict limits for health protection have been com­ Fraport employees are motivated to use public plied with even close to this huge construction Top: transport with the Job Ticket provided free of site. Overall, the air quality on the airport complex Long-distance charge. This package was used up by 31 % of has remained unchanged at a static level since railway station at the workforce in 2010. continuous monitoring commenced in 2002. Frankfurt Airport Detailed information on air quality is provided in The objective is not simply to put passengers and the Air Hygiene Annual Report of Fraport AG. Bottom: employees on rails for their travel to and from the Stationary pollutant airport but to move aircargo onto rails as well. In 47 Air Hygiene Annual Report measuring station 2008, Fraport joined forces with the Fraunhofer (air pollutants) Institute to launch a research project for materials Emission-dependent airport charges flow and logistics designed to analyze whether an Although the three­year trial for an NOX­based existing rail connection on the airport complex emission component in the airport charges ended could be used to transfer airfreight traffic to rail at the close of 2010, the initiating airports in when it is transported to and from the airport. Munich and Frankfurt have retained this element According to the results of the study, this would of the landing fee for the future. In 2008 and not be profitable for aircargo alone. Fraport AG 2009, the airports at Köln/Bonn and Hamburg also introduced this airport charge and the air­ ports at Düsseldorf and Berlin­Schönefeld are Use of public transport (in %) likely to follow suit. Fraport will be offering support for this if required. 50 48 Airport charges 40 Total 30 Proportion of passengers 20 ICE­ who use public transport to percentage travel to and from the airport 10 (metropolitan railway/ regional rail network/regional 0 express, bus, ICE/IC) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 39 Environment Biodiversity hectares of dry grassland and sand heath was replanted and some examples of the protected Frankfurt Airport covers an area of some 1,900 plant species “maiden pink” and “dwarf everlast” hectares. According to external analysis, around were preserved. The conversion close to nature 60 % of the area is of minor biological value of several hundred hectares of woodland around because it has been developed or has been sealed the airport and cessation of commercial forestry under road surfaces. One third is classified as management are a further important cornerstone medium­value and the rest is classified as high­ of the mitigation concept. Fraport AG has already quality biotope landscape. These areas have provided € 160 million for these mitigation meas­ become a refuge for many animals and plants ures. which are classified as endangered elsewhere. Fraport AG also goes beyond the high level of the Strenuous efforts are made to minimize negative official regulations and supports a large number impacts on nature and the natural landscape of projects to improve biological diversity in the Stakeholder dialogue when construction work is done at the airport. Rhine­Main region. The resources come from an When construction impacts negatively on some environmental fund with an annual volume of A new areas, as in the case of the north­west runway, mitigation measures are necessary. At the begin­ € 2 million. Some of the projects include flood meadows and orchard meadows, flood plain sugary home ning of June 2000, initial meetings were held at the Hessian Ministry of Environment and the forests and old­wood islands. for ants specialist agencies within the ministry to discuss 49 Biodiversity strategy We worked closely together the airport expansion, the need for mitigation 50 Article Global Compact Yearbook 2010 with the Hesse Ant Protection and to define the framework. The zoning approval Institute when we resettled the adopted on 18 December 2007 specified that Forest clearance and building activities as well as forest ants from the deforested mitigation had to be provided for the loss of ecological mitigation measures have been supple­ areas. The experts defined 282 hectares of forest. This was to involve refor­ mented by intensive and long­term environmental which 20 colonies should be estation of 288 hectares over 13 different areas monitoring round the airport since 2010. Ecologi­ given a new home. The 17 ants’ in the Rhine­Main region. Only plants from the cal experts check compliance with environmental nests selected were relocated to region are being used for the reforestation so as protection regulations and ensure that the miti­ neighboring woodlands using to maintain the integrity of the genetic identity. gation measures are operating properly. The results a special item of equipment. of monitoring are regularly forwarded to the nature Each population was given Apart from the reforestation, Fraport was particu­ protection authority and are accessible to the pub­ a good start in their new home larly concerned to resettle rare animal and plant lic through the environmental and neighborhood with one kilo of sugar, in species. These included resettlement of 17 colonies house in Kelsterbach. order to ensure that the could of forest ants subject to conservation protection, concentrate on building 300 oak roots colonized by stag beetle larvas, 51 Brochure “Ecological measures for airport their nest. almost 800 lizards and more than 10,000 frogs expansion” and toads. Suitable artificial nesting aids were pro­ vided in the surrounding woodlands for bats and a wide range of different bird species. Around 2 “Expansion of the airport represents a substantial intervention in the natural environment and the landscape. We took extraordinary and comprehensive ecological measures to more than compensate for the impairment.” Jürgen Ebert, qualified biologist, Forestry and Biotope section 40 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 roofs) first flows through treatment facilities and Drinking and service water at Fraport AG is then channeled into the River Main, the River 1.0 16 Gundbach, or seepage facilities. Systematic checks Absolute drinking water consumption (Mio m3) Liters/ are carried out on water quality and volume con­ Absolute drinking water consumption traffic unit 14 The measures we have taken 0.8 ducted into the waterways to comply with the 12 ensure that the proportion of prescribed limits and exclude pollution of water service water out of total water 10 bodys. 0.6 consumption has now risen to Drinking 8 (Liters/traffic unit) water 24 %. Absolute consumption of 0.4 Waste 6 drinking water and consumption As far as possible, Fraport separates waste where per traffic unit demonstrates 4 waste is unavoidable. Reusable materials from 0.2 a positive trend with both Service 2 sorting systems are recycled. Part of the waste is parameters falling since 2008. water burned by the City of Frankfurt in the waste incin­ 0,0 0 eration power plant. The steam generated here 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 produces electricity and powers district heating. The low volumes of hazardous waste, for example Resource efficiency from the workshops (used oil, brake fluid, cold cleaners, etc.) or wastewater cleaning plants such Drinking and service water as petrol separators are also collected separately In 2010, the consumption of drinking and service and primarily channeled away for recycling, dis­ water at Fraport AG was 1.2 million cubic meters. posed of professionally in a suitable incineration The volume of wastewater for the entire airport plant, or treated chemically or physically. was around 1.6 million cubic meters. The aim is to further reduce the consumption of drinking Groundwater water, e.g. by installing water­saving tap aera­ Numerous chemical and physical parameters tors and by substitution with service water. This are analyzed in a major groundwater monitor­ is provided from in­house rainwater treatment ing program at more than 280 measuring sta­ plants and groundwater springs, as well as from tions at Frankfurt Airport and another 270 in the purified water from the River Main. It is sourced surrounding district. A groundwater database through a separate supply network for operating allows water­level data and groundwater quality toilet flushes, sprinkler systems, hydrants and for to be analyzed and assessed for Fraport and the watering landscaped areas. In future, some new authorities. Particular attention is paid to harmful buildings and hydrants will also be supplied with pollutants introduced in the past. The increased service water. nitrate values from the use of deicing agents with a high nitrate content used during the 1990s have In 2010, the volume of wasteWastewater been reduced by the water purification plant built water increased to 1.6 million cubic The wastewater from Frankfurt Airport is made specifically for this purpose. However, it will take meters. This increase was caused by up of wastewater and rainwater and is collected years until levels have fallen below permissible higher traffic volumes compared in separate drainage systems. If necessary, the limits. The contaminated groundwater on the with the previous year and the wastewater has already been treated where it is area of the airport formerly used by the military larger volume of precipitation water collected and the water is then conducted to a is being monitored together with government containing deicing agents as a result communal or an in­house purification plant. The agencies. of the adverse weather conditions. rainwater from drained areas (apron, roads and In previous years, there was a downward trend in absolute Wastewater volume Frankfurt Airport Total waste*/Recycling quota for Fraport AG terms and per traffic unit. * excluding soil and building rubble Absolute wastewater consumption (million m3) 1.8 30 30 100 Recycling Absolute waste water consumption 1.5 25 25 quota Absolute totalwaste (1,000 tons) Liters/ 80 The amount of waste and the traffic unit Recycling quota (%) 1.2 20 20 recycling quota has fluctu60 ated within a narrow range for 0.9 15 15 (Liters/traffic unit) many years. In 2010, Fraport AG 40 disposed of 23,540 tons of waste 0.6 10 10 Amount (excluding soil and building rubof waste­ 0.3 water 5 5 20 ble). The proportion of hazardous waste amounted to just 7.6 %. The 0,0 0 0 0 recycling quota remained around 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 84 % at a very high level. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 41 Environment Environmental management worldwide impacts relevant for the environment are listed in the table. They have already received certification Global environmental management is gaining in conformity with ISO 14001 or have been validated importance with the growth of the Fraport Group in conformity with EMAS. and the more international alignment of the company. 52 EMAS In 1999, Fraport AG set up an environmental Lima Airport management system for activities at the main site In May 2010, the environmental management in Frankfurt which complies with the specifica­ system was recertified to ISO 14001. Environmen­ tions of the Eco­Management and Audit Scheme tal monitoring permits measurement and moni­ (EMAS) of the EU and the global ISO 14001 stand­ toring of the environmental parameters that are ard. It supports the improvement in environmen­ central for the operation of the airport, for exam­ Varna Airport tal services at the company. An environmental ple the quality of the groundwater and drinking management system officer advises the Executive water, the air quality, the emissions from vehicles Board and the management on all issues relating causing air pollution, and aircraft noise. Conti­ to environmental management, performs the nuous repair of the water supply network reduces necessary organizational and coordination func­ losses of drinking water caused through damaged tions, and initiates the internal environmental pipework. The consumption of drinking water for company audit and the external review of the each passenger was reduced by 9 % on a year­ environmental management system. Operational earlier comparison. responsibility for environmental requirements is vested in the heads of the divisions. Antalya Airport ICF Airports (Fraport IC Ictas Antalya Airport Validation in conformity with EMAS entails Terminal Investment and Management Inc.) oper­ Fraport AG receiving certification validating ates the terminals and the infrastructure associ­ Lima Airport compliance with statutory regulations, a sys­ ated with the terminal at Antalya Airport. The tematic approach to corporate environmental company established an environmental manage­ Stakeholder dialogue protection, a continuous improvement in environ­ ment system in conformity with ISO 14001 for mental performance and disclosure of informa­ this purpose and had the system certified for the Joint respontion in the public domain about environmental impacts and environmental performance. The first time in 2009. The company then received the award of “Green Airport Company” from the sibility for the data has been provided since 1999 in a regular environmental statement. The next full environ­ Turkish Aviation Authority in 2010. In August 2010, ICF Airports was verified for Airport Carbon airport mental statement will be validated in July 2011 Accreditation (ACA) by ACI Europe for Level 1 and subsequently published. Fraport has made a “Mapping”. ICF Airports defined an environmen­ Fraport is committed to coopcommitment in its sustainability strategy to pro­ tal policy, environmental targets and environmen­ erating with more than 500 mote environmental management at all the Group tal measures. Key targets are climate protection companies based at the airport sites. Fraport AG is a company based in Frankfurt and energy savings. Another target is reduction of and government agencies to and it has majority shareholdings at the airports waste volumes and an increase in the recycling exert a positive influence on the in Lima, Antalya, Varna and Burgas. We are sup­ rate. ICF Airports is committed to achieving Level environmental impacts all the porting the establishment of environmental man­ 2 for Airport Carbon Accreditation over the players, for example through the agement at these sites. The companies exerting medium term. regulations defined in the Airport User Regulations. If there are any Varna and Burgas Airports discrepancies, we join forces with Validated/certified An environmental management system was devel­ the responsible managers to idenAirport Subsidiary companies according to Frankfurt Fraport AG EMAS/ISO 14001 oped and implemented in both Bulgarian airports tify and implement appropriate Airport based on a joint environmental policy. Programs solutions. N*ICE Aircraft Services & EMAS/ISO 14001 have been launched to increase energy and water Support GmbH efficiency, improve the waste separation system, Fraport Cargo Services EMAS/ISO 14001 GmbH and implement planning for a new water and wastewater system at Burgas. Joint targets for the Flughafen Lima Airport Partners S.R.L ISO 14001 Lima period to 2012 relate to aircraft noise monitoring, Antalya Fraport IC Ictas Antalya ISO 14001 environmentally compatible deicing techniques Airport Airport Terminal Investment for runways, and protection of wild animals at the and Management Inc. airports. Varna and Fraport Twin Star Airport Environment Burgas Management AD management DE-125-00032 Airports system 42 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Region and community “Noise is an important issue for our airport neighbors, active noise abatement goes some way toward finding a solution. That’s why I take a personal interest in the Airport and Region Forum.” Dr. Stefan Schulte, Chairman of the Executive Board of Fraport AG, Board of Management of Airport and Region Forum Noise abatement Aircraft noise is a key issue for residents in the communities near Frankfurt Airport – and one that engages the emotions. The negative impact for Airport and Region Forum (ARF) airport neighbors is our motivation to continue our efforts to avoid and reduce aircraft noise. This The expert committee “Active Noise Abatement” is one of the organizational units of is all the more critical since the traffic volume will the Airport and Region Forum. The ARF is linked with the mediation procedure and the increase with expansion of the airport and the Regional Dialogue Forum, and fosters dialogue between the region and the air-traffic new north­west runway. industry. The Forum is divided into the following organizational units • Steering Committee First package of measures “Active Noise • Konvent Airport and Region Abatement” • Expert Group“Active Noise Abatement” Active noise abatement is an effective tool for • Environment & Community Center reducing the negative impacts experienced by neighbors of the airport from aircraft noise. Airport and Region Forum Measures for active noise abatement are directed toward avoiding noise at the source, reducing Chair it, or at least improving noise distribution. The expert committee “Active Noise Abatement” Steering Committee has worked intensively to formulate proposals. Expert Group “Active Konvent Airport Constructive cooperation between representa­ Environment House tives of the air traffic industry, local authorities, Noise Abatement” and Region the Aircraft Noise Committee, government agen­ Source: Structure of the ARF (http://www.forum­flughafen­region.de/forum/ffr/, 31 cies and scientists is absolutely unique in this March 2011) form. An initial pioneering package of measures was submitted in 2010. It combines measures 53 Homepage Airport and Region Forum designed to maintain the safety and capacity of Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 43 Region and community aircraft movements and maximally achieve relief in the region and in particular for those people severely affected by aircraft noise. Negative impacts increasing locally should be mitigated as far as possible. The package comprises seven measures out­ lined in brief below: _Vertical optimization of take-off procedures, capacity and needs to be tested initially in low­ trial operation since January 2011: traffic periods. This procedure also places tech­ The take­off speed is limited and the aircraft nical demands on the aircraft which not gains altitude faster at the same engine thrust. all aircraft comply with yet. This reduces the noise impact for the over­ flown areas. _ Preferred runway use (DROps Dedicated Runway Operations), trial operation since _ Modification of the B-737 Lufthansa fleet, January 2011: completion by the end of 2011: Take­offs at night, at least between 23.00 and Technical modifications to the engines will 05.00 hours in the morning should be pooled reduce noise by between 0.5 dB and 2.4 dB on specific take­off runways or departure during take­off and landing. routes such that minimum impact is caused Stakeholder dialogue for neighboring residents and noise breaks _ Increasing the proportion of operating are created. 0800 2345679 times with flights routed in a westerly Citizens can use this service direction through improved application _Optimization of the Continuous Descent number to ask questions or of the current regulations for the tailwind Approach procedure already introduced, register complaints about component, subject to the outstanding trial operation since end of 2010: aircraft noise and the expanlicenses from the ICAO, from 2011: Pilots should receive better support so as to sion of the airport. Interested The permitted tailwind component should carry out the quieter Continuous Descent members of the public can also be increased from 5 to 7 knots which would Approach rather than a staged approach. use the contact form on the permit more landings from the easterly After the north­west runway starts operations, Fraport homepage and the direction. The distance to the residential a new navigation procedure will be introduced email address ausbauinfo@ areas directly overflown is greater from this that should permit more intensive use of the fraport.de to contact us for free direction of approach. Continuous Descent Approach. 24/7. Any concrete complaints about aircraft noise – there were _ Introduction of a new approach procedure _ Increasing the approach glide angle on the more than 500,000 in 2010 – (Segmented RNAV (GPS) Approach), Trial new north-west runway to 3.2 degrees after are investigated in detail. operation since January 2011: the north-west runway starts operating: A satellite­controlled approach procedure The increase of 0.2 degrees increases the 55 Contact Infoservice allows aircraft to fly around major populated distance to residential areas and reduces the Aircraft Noise areas, such as Mainz, Offenbach and Hanau, noise pollution as a result. in the final approach. This exerts effects on Alongside continuous cooperation in the expert You can access the report by the Expert group “Active Noise Abatement” Fraport has Committee “Active Noise Abatement” with taken on a mentoring role for two measures – information about the concrete structure of Dedicated Runway Operations and increasing the package of measures and their noise­ the approach glide angle to 3.2 degrees. They reducing effects for the region by going to: are integral to our sustainability program. 54 Package of measures “Active Noise Abatement” 44 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Index also measures the ing maneuvers on the ground. Equipping the new effect of noise A­Plus terminal section with Pre­Conditioned Air The effectiveness of the measures is reviewed. Systems has already been implemented. They The Frankfurt Noise Index was developed by the allow the Auxiliary Power Units to be switched off. taskforce “Active Noise Abatement” and a Day Operating without the APUs avoids creation of Index and a Night Index (FTI/FNI) were differenti­ noise pollution, as well as reducing fuel consump­ ated. Already in the preliminary stages, the index tion and CO2 emissions. was used to assess the effects of noise. Three fac­ tors are used to calculate the index: 1. The level Study on the effects of noise of noise that is experienced by people (noise Fraport AG is supporting a noise study initiated by pollution), 2. the effect of noise (impact on those the Environment & Community Center and sup­ people affected) and 3. the structure of the settle­ ported by the Darmstadt Eco Institute. This study ment, that is the number of people making up will record the effects of noise pollution on health the population in areas with specific noise levels. over time. Alongside a comparison with a number of other airports, the noise pollution emitted from Meter 56 Noise index road and rail traffic will be included in the analysis. 12.000 Ultimately, the monitoring is directed toward Noise-based airport fees 10.000 obtaining decision­making tools to evaluate the Fraport already introduced landing and take­off 8.000 measures in trial operations. The aircraft noise fees independently in 1993. In July 2010, the noise situation therefore needs to be compared before components of airport charges were further dif­ 6.000 the measures are implemented with the situation ferentiated. They now distinguish between twelve after they have been introduced. noise categories. This differentiation is particularly 4.000 evident at night because an additional night sur­ 2.000 Investigations of this nature require a broadly charge is payable, depending on whether the based network of aircraft noise measurement aircraft movement takes place in the marginal 0 around the airport and additional analyses of nighttime hours (22.00–22.59 and 05.00–05.59) –2.000 flight progress data. Apart from Fraport AG, the or during the night core time (23.00–04.59). B­747­400 B­747­8 Environment & Community Center and various Additional high charges are intended to form an 395 t max. 442 t max. Take­off Take­off local authorities are making a contribution with economic incentive for the deployment of quieter weight weight their measuring systems. The Environment & aircraft and to transfer aircraft movements from Source: Boeing, from Community Center will regularly summarize nighttime to day. The additional landing and take­ Lufthansa Sustainability and publish the results of the tests in a report. off elements were increased by 70 % in two stages report Balance 2010 from 2009 to 2011 and range from € 55 for a quiet The fleet renewal will improve Noise monitoring at Fraport AG aircraft to nearly €40,000 for a very loud aircraft. the ratio between performance We have been measuring aircraft noise around the and environmental impact: airport for more than 40 years. Fraport currently Passive noise abatement “The noise ‘carpet’ of a maintains 26 measuring stations and three mobile Active noise abatement is supplemented by Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental stations. Even before the new runway starts oper­ measures for passive noise abatement. Most of the taking off will be around 30 % ation, three further measuring stations have been measures in the noise abatement program during less despite a maximum deployed in the residential areas of Hochheim, the application period from March 2002 to April take-off weight some 10 % Rüsselsheim­Königstätten and Frankfurt­Lerches­ 2006 have been completed. 13,380 residential units higher by comparison with the berg. We will be publishing the results of the air­ and institutions requiring special protection were Boeing 747-400. ... Within the craft noise measurements and other information fitted with noise abatement installations, such as relevant areas, a maximum about flight operations, such as route configura­ sound­proofed windows, sliding shutter units, and noise level of 85 dB(A) will be tion or the relevant operating direction of the fans in bedrooms. The volume of investment has attained or exceeded. As a take­off and landing runways on the Internet at: been approximately €50 million to date. comparison: A maximum noise level of 85 dB(A) is generated 57 Infoservice aircraft noise A new sound abatement program will be estab­ in city traffic at a distance of lished for the expanded Frankfurt Airport based on five meters from a truck driving Active noise abatement on the ground the Act for Protection against Aircraft Noise. past.” (Lufthansa Sustainability In order to reduce the aircraft noise in ground report Balance 2010, p. 64)) operations as well, Fraport started work on erect­ ing a system on the western fringe of the apron of the A380 hangar that is designed to reduce noise pollution when engine test runs are done. Addi­ tional measures include support for a pilot project involving aircraft conducting out low­noise taxi­ Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 45 Region and community Community responsibility Environmental protection and sustainability strategy We are a major employer and international com­ Our Environmental Fund sponsors nature and pany with ambitious plans for growth in the environmental projects, ecological research dynamic air­traffic industry, which is important for projects and education projects focusing about the overall economy. As such, we have an impor­ the environment in the region. After a strategic tant role to play in the community. We take the realignment in 2010, sponsorship will in future responsibility entailed by this role seriously and be closely associated with our core business. we meet our commitment by engaging on a wide The main points are climate change, nature and range of fronts beyond economic value added. landscape, air quality and future­proof mobility, and environmental education and research. In Our value added 2010, additional financial resources amounting The net value added, that is our overall corporate to € 2 million were allocated for sponsorship, performance, less advance payments and value including a project involving a photovoltaic plant adjustments, benefits a variety of stakeholders. at the MainÄppelHaus in Frankfurt for environ­ It is a good benchmark for the community benefit mentally compatible energy supply, and support of our business activities. 65 % of our value added for a school competition organized by the national and the biggest share goes to our employees in newspaper FAZ on the subject of “future­proof the form of wages, salaries and social benefits, air traffic”. Since the Environmental Fund was first around 10 % each goes to our lenders and share­ endowed in 1997, it has provided total sponsor­ holders in the form of interest and dividends ship of € 28 million. respectively. We support people and the natural environment with sponsorship and donations, 58 Environmental Fund particularly in the Rhine­Main region. The com­ 59 Article Regionalpark Journal 2011 plete value added statement is provided on page 51 in the section “Our facts and figures”. We are also involved in the sustainability strategy of the state of Hesse. Fraport Chairman of the The importance of Fraport for the region is also Executive Board, Stefan Schulte, is a member of evident not least from our investments. Last year, the Sustainability Conference. The company we placed 54,422 orders – an average of 247 each takes part in the state­sponsored initiative “100 day – with a total value of € 946.4 million. 31,000 companies for climate protection” and supports purchase orders with a total volume of € 605.5 mil­ the project “CO2­neutral state administration”, lion went to companies located in the Rhine­Main a platform for exchanging ideas and experience region. This is equivalent to a share of 64 %. about concrete measures for reducing CO2. Fraport is also engaged in the project “Hesse – Pioneer for sustainable and fair procurement”. 60 Sustainability strategy Hesse Our value added 1 64.8 % 880.4 million € Employees (wages, salaries, social deductions) 7 6 2 13.4 % 182.5 million € Lenders (interest expense) 5 3 1.2 % 16.4 million € Public sector (deductions, taxes) 4 3 4 0.7 % 8.8 million € Expenditure for the common good 1 (donations, sponsoring, etc.) 2 5 8.5 % 115.6 million € Shareholders (dividends) 6 0.6 % 8.6 million € Share of profit for minority shareholders 7 10.8 % 147.3 million € Company (retained earnings) 46 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Clubs in the region have been beneficiaries of non­cash benefits in the form of sportswear for many years. In 2010, we have again been able to provide more than 230 teams with full match and training kit. This is particularly important for teen­ agers whose parents lack the money to buy the sportswear because it enables them to participate in a club sport that has an undoubted integrating effect. Last year, many social and charitable organizations once again suffered under cuts in public budgets. Although the economic crisis has brought a de­ cline in charitable donations, Fraport has been able to maintain its social commitment in the region without any restrictions. The focus of our donations is on further educa­ Fraport – proactive corporate citizen in the region tion and integration of teenagers with behavioral As an operator of the German airport with the problems, institutions which look after people biggest volume of traffic, we have a particular on the poverty line, various self­help groups, and commitment to the Rhine­Main region. We have projects which embrace people dependent on a strong track record of contributing to a wide care or disabled people. For instance we enabled variety of sporting, social, cultural and ecological the purchase and equipment of 86 school bags in activities. These include donations and sponso­ Frankfurt­Sossenheim in order to support equal ring for numerous clubs, cultural initiatives, chari­ opportunities in education. table organizations and educational institutions. A company enhances its image by sponsoring A new initiative in Frankfurt is the “Ark”, a Christian activities. We provide funding in areas where children’s and youth organization which provides Top: lack of funds can result in many important children in need with a meal at school, daycare The Fraport banner projects closing down. after school and assistance on catching up with is a familiar element at school work and homework. A project initiated by many events in the Under the motto “Proactive in the Region”, we “People’s Theater” in Offenbach has done good Rhine-Main Region. helped by sponsoring more than 400 small work in conflict resolution and overcoming acts projects in the neighborhood of the airport in of violence perpetrated in schools. 20 schools Bottom: 2010. Examples of our sponsorship activities have been able to take part in this project free of Sponsorship of equal include the Fraport Football Cup for the youth charge as a result of Fraport’s sponsorship. Many opportunities in education: teams in Hattersheim, the Mainland Games in institutions like round table groups, soup kitchens The school bag project in Rüsselsheim, the Dragon Boat Race organized and mobile social assistance schemes have also Frankfurt-Sossenheim by the club ASV Zellhausen for the Fraport­Cup, received support. and the Soapbox Race in Hanau. The last event is run by the Family Network Hanau and the pro­ 61 Proactive for the region ceeds are invested in supporting and bringing up children and teenagers. Our ProRegion Foundation has been involved in integrating teenagers and young adults in We also support the Open Doors Festival in Neu­ the world of work since 1999. The foundation Isenburg with a big Fraport stage and this event primarily promotes projects which improve the attracts thousands of visitors each year. The Palace training and employment prospects of this target Garden Festival held in the Mönchbruch Hunting group. The foundation’s endowment amounts Palace and the Frankfurt Zoo Festival are more to € 6.11 million. In 2010, subsidies amounting tranquil events and both are supported by Fraport. to € 304,000 were made for 17 projects. 62 ProRegion Foundation Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 47 Region and community “During the week with the teenagers from ‘Zugpferd’, we learnt with and from each other. We experienced that there is more to good work than simply knowledge and performance – cooperation and the readiness of each individual to take responsibility are also important.” Matthias Jörg Brendel, Student in Air Traffic Management The charitable association “Zugpferd e. V.” in Support for further education initiatives Stakeholder dialogue Mühlheim is one of these sponsored projects. Fraport has concluded cooperation agreements The objective is to support disadvantaged teen­ with seven schools in the region for vocational Youth Forum agers in starting on the ladder of the world of work and offers individual coaching accompanied training. We cooperate with the Employment Agency on our “Mobile Youth” program to pro­ 2010 by various options for qualification and employ­ vide vocational training and qualifications for 24 Around 200 young people aged ment. The ultimate aim is for young people to young unemployed teenagers to assist them in between 16 and 21 were invited by learn how they can be integrated in society and entering the world of work. We promote academic the state government and Fraport develop proactively. The focus of our activities is work and research in science by providing grants AG under this slogan to spend a day traditional forestry work, protecting the environ­ and prizes, and funds amounting to € 110,950 together at Frankfurt Airport on 4 ment, and nature conservation. The students of were provided in 2010. We support a unique September 2010. The aim was to the twin­track degree course “Air Traffic Manage­ model for cooperation between universities, busi­ formulate ideas for sustainable living ment” took part in a project week for the first time ness and the public sector through the “House of in Hesse. The focus was on issues of in 2010. They joined forces with the teenagers Logistics and Mobility – HOLM”. A new nucleus sustainable mobility, future-proof from the “Zugpferd e.V.” association to build a for research into applied mobility and logistics for training, and healthy lifestyle. The mobile wooden bridge (see picture below). This the future is being created at Frankfurt Airport and Youth Forum is a contribution to the project provided the students with experience of this is the first university campus at an interna­ UN Decade “Education for Sustainreal social responsibility and the teenagers had an tional airport. able Development” and is part of opportunity to learn from others and glean hints the Youth Initiative for Sustainability and ideas for their own vocational orientation. 64 Mobile Youth Strategy Hesse. 65 Erich­Becker Foundation 63 Zugpferd e. V. 66 House of Logistics and Mobility – HOLM 67 Press Release Youth Forum 48 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Group-wide commitment donated a total of US$ 12,480 for victims of the Many of our employees perform valuable work in earthquake in Haiti. Our subsidiary company then charitable projects. The commitment ranges from contributed double the amount. Our subsidiary disaster assistance through development work to company in Antalya donated more than € 42,000 activities in local citizen’s initiatives and organi­ for social, cultural and community purposes. zations. For example, two baggage transport supervisors took the initiative after the devastating Meeting point of nations and cultures earthquake in Haiti and collected donations for No place in Germany is as international as Frank­ the project “1,000 tents for 1,000 families in Haiti” furt Airport. Passengers and employees from all organized by “Wings of Help” (Luftfahrt ohne over the world come together here every day Grenzen e. V.). This organization joined forces – testimony that peaceful coexistence of nations with several German companies and Fraport AG and cultures is possible and is indeed something to arrange a special flight in order to transport worth working for. We have been supporting this urgently required aid to Haiti. Donations were also convergence of understanding since December collected for the victims of the earthquake in Chile 2001 with the annual “Abrahamic Festival” held at and the flood victims in Pakistan, in each case on the airport every year. This is a joint event combin­ the initiative of individual employees. ing the three world religions. As a response to the events of 11 September 2001, the event stands for The commitment of Helmut Hofmann is particu­ tolerance and mutual respect. This festival sends larly worthy of comment. For the past 18 years, out a signal for our slogan beyond the boundaries he has been organizing aid initiatives for people of the airport – Connecting Sustainably. Celebrating together: in Hungary and Romania. “Small packages, great The 10th Abrahamic Festival joy” is the name of one of these initiatives. In at Frankfurt Airport – 2010, he collected more than 4,000 Christmas Initiator Ulrike Johanns presents with toys, sweets and everyday items, and Helmut Hofmann together with a Fraport executive manager personally took the Christmas cheer to children’s homes and particularly poor families. Our Group sites abroad also make social com­ mitments. Our Bulgarian subsidiary Twin Star supported several charitable organizations for mentally retarded children and teenagers as well as the World Children’s Day on 1 June 2010 with events at Varna and Burgas Airports. Employees at the Peruvian operating company of Lima Airport Interview with Ulrike Johanns, Chaplain at Frankfurt Airport, Initiator of the Abrahamic Festival How did you get the idea for the Abrahamic Festival? familiar. And it is a place that is not dominated by just one tradition. Here you have mosque, After 11 September 2001, religion suddenly became synagogue and chapel side by side, an appro­ a subject for conflict. Anxiety and in some cases priate framework for an event like this. aggression were palpable, whether among the trave­ lers or the personnel. In a situation like this, it seemed What have you achieved – and what is the way to me important that we send out a signal and take forward? a step toward each other in order to make contact with strangers in other cultures. The religious all By celebrating, we have undergone something have a message of peace: Peace, Salam, Shalom, different, moving and partly also unfamiliar. We this is the message from the Abrahamic Festival. have also experienced hospitality, and peaceful coexistence and togetherness. We would like to How does a festival like this fit the airport? continue the celebration and demonstrate to as many people as possible: We can only be safe if we The airport is a meeting point for people from all live in peace with each other. over the world, it is strange for all of us and yet Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 49 Our facts and figures Accounting for sustainable development The environmental data are collected for the group of consolidated companies of Fraport AG Reporting parameters comprising the fully consolidated subsidiary This report is intended to give our stakeholders companies exerting significant environmental and any interested members of the public infor­ effects on the Frankfurt site and the significant mation about our activities, progress and targets Group airports (2008: Hahn, Varna, Burgas, Lima, in the area of sustainable development in the Antalya; 2009 and 2010: Varna, Burgas, Lima, Fraport Group. The report is published once a Antalya). The environmental data have been sys­ year (last report published on 28 May 2010) tematically surveyed in conformity with EMAS­VO and covers the reporting period from 1 January and DIN EN ISO 14001 at the Frankfurt Airport to 31 December of the year under review. site. They are subject to external verification by an accredited environmental inspector. The content of the report is determined using a materiality analysis in accordance with the The presentation of the reporting data is carried principles of materiality, inclusion of stakeholders out using the standard methods, calculations and and sustainability context (see section “Challenges estimates we believe to be appropriate and as and strategy”, p. 6). used in standard business practice. However, it is not possible to exclude the possibility of individual This report is based on the guidelines of the GRI indicators being associated with some degree Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Version G3. of uncertainty. A comprehensive overview of all indicators is provided in the GRI Content Index in the online Cautionary note regarding forward-looking report www.sustainability­report.fraport.com. statements If this report contains statements of future fore­ Data collection casts or expectations, they are based on a series The financial figures correspond with the data pro­ of assumptions about future events and are sub­ vided in the Annual Report 2010. Fraport AG pre­ ject to unknown risks and uncertainties, and pared its consolidated financial statements for the other factors, many of which are outside the accounting period that ended 31 December 2010 sphere of influence of Fraport and which may in accordance with the standards published by the entail the actual results differing significantly International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). from the statements made here. Data on personnel figures are recorded and evaluated using standardized personnel software solutions. Pursuant to the materiality principle, we reconciled the circle of consolidated Group companies in financial reporting to determine the personnel indicators in the reporting period 2010. Accordingly, we include the parent company, Fraport AG, in full and all associated companies on a proportionate basis; minority holdings are not included in calculation of Group personnel data. In the previous year, the group of consolidated companies related to all the significant companies, which taken together account for some 99 % of the total number of Group employees. The group of consolidated companies was not reconciled retrospectively with the personnel indicators of 2008 and 2009. 50 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Financials Aspect: Economic performance Because of the first-time compulsory application of IFRIC 12, Accounting of service concession arrangements, the results of operations and net assets 2009 were adjusted (see Annual Report 2010, Notes to the financial statements, p. 107 – 108). EC1 Directly generated and distributed economic value Revenue and earnings Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Income statement Revenue € million 2,101.6 2,010.3 2,194.6 Change in work-in-progress € million 0.4 0.9 0.4 Other internal work capitalized € million 33.8 39.1 36.9 Other operating income € million 66.1 45.3 52.1 Total revenue € million 2,201.9 2,095.6 2,284.0 Cost of materials € million − 471.1 − 471.6 − 491.1 Personnel expenses € million − 925.6 − 866.9 − 880.4 Other operating expenses € million − 204.5 − 187.4 − 201.9 Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) € million 600.7 569.7 710.6 Depreciation and amortization € million − 241.5 − 268.8 − 279.7 Operating result (EBIT) € million 359.2 300.9 430.9 Financial result € million − 61.8 − 106.4 − 152.2 Result from ordinary operations (EBT) € million 297.4 194.5 278.7 Taxes on income € million − 100.5 − 42.5 − 7.2 Group result € million 196.9 152.0 271.5 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests € million 7.2 5.6 8.6 Profit attributable to shareholders’ of Fraport AG € million 189.7 146.4 262.9 Segments share Revenue Aviation Share in Group revenue in % 33.9 34.1 31.6 Retail & Real Estate Share in Group revenue in % 17.6 18.0 18.4 Ground Handling Share in Group revenue in % 30.6 30.8 30.0 External Activities & Services Share in Group revenue in % 17.9 17.1 20.0 Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) Aviation Share in Group EBITDA in % 26.9 20.6 18.5 Retail & Real Estate Share in Group EBITDA in % 47.7 49.6 41.5 Ground Handling Share in Group EBITDA in % 8.7 2.5 6.2 External Activities & Services Share in Group EBITDA in % 16.7 27.3 33.8 Operating result (EBIT) Aviation Share in Group EBIT in % 25.8 13.7 13.1 Retail & Real Estate Share in Group EBIT in % 63.5 74.8 52.9 Ground Handling Share in Group EBIT in % 5.2 − 13.3 2.5 External Activities & Services Share in Group EBIT in % 5.5 24.8 31.5 Cash flow and investments Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Operating cash flow € million 492.5 426.5 567.5 Capital expenditure € million 759.7 1,438.3 1,033.9 Free cash flow € million − 370.7 − 711.4 − 291.1 Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 51 Statement of financial position Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Shareholders’ equity € million 2,568.2 2,557.8 2,739.3 Liabilities € million 4,010.2 6,307.4 6,431.2 Fraport assets € million 3,419.1 3,820.2 4,019.7 Profitabilty Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Return on revenue EBT in % of revenue 14.2 9.7 12.7 EBITDA margin EBITDA in % of revenue 28.6 28.3 32.4 EBIT margin EBIT in % of revenue 17.1 15.0 19.6 Return on Fraport assets (ROFRA) EBIT in % of Fraport assets 10.5 7.9 10.7 Value added statement Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Generation of value added Corporate performance € million 2,201.9 2,095.6 2,284.0 Advance payments € million − 601.9 − 609.8 − 644.7 Cost of materials € million − 471.1 − 471.6 − 491.1 Other expenses € million − 130.8 − 138.2 − 153.6 Gross value added € million 1,600.0 1,485.8 1,639.3 Depreciation and amortization € million − 241.5 − 268.8 − 279.7 Net value added € million 1,358.5 1,217.0 1,359.6 Distribution of value added according to stakeholder group Employees (wages, salaries, social security deductions) € million 925.6 866.9 880.4 Lenders (interest expense) € million 120.2 140.3 182.5 State (deductions, taxes) € million 107.8 49.1 16.4 Expenses for the community (donations, sponsoring, etc.) € million 1 8.0 8.7 8.8 Shareholders (dividend) € million 105.6 106.2 115.6 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests € million 7.2 5.6 8.6 Company (retained earnings) € million 84.1 40.2 147.3 1 Adjusted value in 2009. EC3 Scope of the company’s social benefits Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Social security and welfare expenses € million 138.0 127.0 133.0 Pension expenses € million 33.3 40.0 39.9 EC4 Significant government grants and subsidies Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Subsidies received € million 0 0 0 52 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Environment The group of consolidated companies under “Group” comprises Fraport AG, the fully consolidated subsidiary companies at the Frankfurt site with relevant environmental effects, and the significant Group airports (2008: Hahn, Varna, Burgas, Lima, Antalya; 2009 and 2010: Varna, Burgas, Lima, Antalya). Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Operating materials and supplies 1 Airfield surfaces deicing agents m3 2 1,101 3,400 3,485 Aircraft deicing agents m3 active ingredient 2 951 1,229 4,511 Fraport AG Operating materials and supplies Airfield surfaces deicing agents m3 1,085 3,271 3,307 1 Fraport as an airport operator is a service provider, the product is the “traffic unit”, defined as a passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo. Other materials used can be found under “Direct energy consumption” and “Water”. 2 The quantities are specified for the relevant winter. The winter is generally attributed to the following calendar year, for example 2009/2010 to the year 2010. Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Purchased direct energy sources TJ 599.47 528.24 601.20 of which renewable energy source % << 1 << 1 << 1 of which non-renewable energy sources % 100 100 100 Purchased direct energy sources TJ per million traffic units 1 5.8 5.6 5.3 Natural gas TJ 30.0 14.5 13.9 Liquid gas (LPG) TJ 0.9 1.0 1.1 Liquid gas (LNG) TJ 4.3 18.8 25.1 Biogas TJ 0.2 0.2 0.2 Heating oil TJ 114.1 78.4 98.2 Heating oil million liters 3.161 2.172 2.720 Diesel TJ 2 424.8 393.6 439.6 Diesel million liters 2 11.932 11.055 12.349 Gasoline TJ 2 25.3 22.0 23.2 Gasoline million liters 2 0.781 0.678 0.717 1 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo or airmail. 2 Fuel consumption of mobile work machines and automobiles on the apron and roadways. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 53 EN3 Direct energy consumption (continued) Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG Purchased direct energy sources TJ 457.64 452.86 510.16 of which renewable energy sources % << 1 << 1 << 1 of which non-renewable energy sources % 100 100 100 Purchased direct energy sources TJ per million traffic units 1 6.2 6.5 6.8 Natural gas TJ 8.6 8.2 8.4 Liquid gas (LPG) TJ 0.02 0.01 0.02 Biogas TJ 0.20 0.20 0.20 Heating oil TJ 62.2 62.7 85.8 Heating oil million liters 1.722 1.737 2.377 Diesel TJ 2 369.4 363.0 395.5 Diesel million liters 2 10.375 10.196 11.109 Gasoline TJ 2 17.4 18.7 20.2 Gasoline million liters 2 0.536 0.578 0.625 1 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of airfreight or airmail. 2 Fuel consumption of mobile work machines and automobiles on the apron and roadways. EN4 Indirect energy consumption Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Purchased energy TJ 1 2,608.4 2,649.9 2,848.5 Purchased energy TJ per million traffic units 1, 2 25.4 28.0 25.0 Electricity TJ 1 1,408.8 1,472.9 1,497.0 Electricity million kWh 1 391.3 409.1 415.8 District heating TJ 1 745.9 740.1 901.3 District heating million kWh 1 207.2 205.6 250.4 District cooling TJ 1 453.7 437.0 450.3 District cooling million kWh 1 126.1 121.5 125.1 Fraport AG Purchased energy TJ 1 2,248.4 2,305.1 2,483.1 Purchased energy TJ per million traffic units 1, 2 30.2 33.2 32.9 Electricity TJ 1 1,137.1 1,179.9 1,189.2 Electricity million kWh 1 315.9 327.8 330.3 of which renewable energy carriers % 24 25 19 of which non-renewable energy carriers % 3 76 75 81 District heating TJ 1 711.8 719.9 875.3 District heating million kWh 1 197.7 200.0 243.1 District cooling TJ 1 399.5 405.3 418.6 District cooling million kWh 1 111.1 112.7 116.3 1 All data including technical losses. 2 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo or airmail. 3 RECS certificates (“Renewable Energy Certificates System”) from hydropower were purchased for the appropriate quantity of CO2 emissions. 54 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 EN5 Energy savings as a result of environmentally conscious use and efficiency enhancement Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG million kWh 1, 2 0 0.567 0.518 1 Based on the year 2008, accumulated effects from the year 2008, to the extent effective in subsequent years. 2 ECalculation of energy which could be saved for reasons of improved procedures, replacement and upgrading of systems and equipment, and modified employee behavior. Covered in report on page 35 “Climate protection”. Aspect: Water EN8 Total water consumption Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Total water consumption million m3 2.017 1.824 2.083 Total water consumption Liters per traffic unit 1 19.6 19.3 18.3 Drinking water million m3 2 1.581 1.343 1.476 Service water million m3 3 0.436 0.480 0.607 Fraport AG Total water consumption million m3 1.445 1.000 1.184 Total water consumption Liters per traffic unit 1 15.4 14.4 15.7 Drinking water million m 3 2 0.988 0.833 0.905 Service water million m3 3 0.157 0.167 0.279 1 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of airfreight or airmail. 2 From community water supply. 3 The service water is treated from surface water, rainwater and ground water. Differentiation into surface water and rainwater has been possible at Frankfurt Airport. Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group CO2 emissions 1,000 t CO2 1, 2 276.6 277.6 270.9 direct CO2 emissions 1,000 t CO2 1 44.4 39.4 43.3 indirect CO2 emissions 1,000 t CO2 2 232.2 238.2 227.6 Climate intensity of traffic performance kg CO2 per traffic unit 1, 2, 3 2.69 2.94 2.38 direct CO2 emissions kg CO2 per traffic unit 1 0.43 0.42 0.38 indirect CO2 emissions kg CO2 per traffic unit 2 2.26 2.52 2.00 compensated CO2 emissions (certificates) 1,000 t CO2 4 133.2 133.2 137.8 1 Direct emissions in conformity with Scope 1 GHG Protocol Standard: fuels, fuels for combustion plants, here heating oil, natural gas, propane gas. 2 Indirect emissions in conformity with Scope 2 GHG Protocol Standard: sourcing of electricity (Group), district heating, district cooling (Fraport at the Frankfurt site). 3 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo or airmail. 4 RECS certificates (www.recs.org). Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 55 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions (continued) Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG CO2 emissions 1,000 t CO2 1, 2 212.5 234.2 226.1 direct CO2 emissions 1,000 t CO2 1 34.4 33.9 38.5 indirect CO2 emissions 1,000 t CO2 2 178.1 200.3 187.7 Climate intensity of traffic performance kg CO2 per traffic unit 1, 2, 3 2.86 3.37 3.00 direct CO2 emissions kg CO2 per traffic unit 1 0.46 0.49 0.51 indirect CO2 emissions kg CO2 per traffic unit 2 2.40 2.88 2.49 compensated CO2 emissions (certificates) 1,000 t CO2 4 133.2 133.2 137.8 1 Direct emissions in conformity with Scope 1 GHG Protocol Standard: fuels, fuels for combustion plants, here heating oil, natural gas, propane gas. 2 Indirect emissions in conformity with Scope 2 GHG Protocol Standard: sourcing of electricity (Group), district heating, district cooling (Fraport at the Frankfurt site). 3 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo or airmail. 4 RECS certificates (www.recs.org). EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG (Scope 3 in conformity with GHG) Air traffic 1,000 t CO2 1 902.3 863,5 895.8 Employee traffic at Fraport AG and third parties at the airport 1,000 t CO2 2 116.2 125.5 122.3 Passenger traffic (passengers originating here) 1,000 t CO2 3 262.5 241.8 272.7 Business trips of employees of Fraport AG 1,000 t CO2 4 1.00 0.90 0.97 Energy consumption of third parties (infrastructure and vehicles) 1,000 t CO2 5 158.5 170.5 158.1 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions t CO2 equivalent 6 <2 <2 <2 1 Air traffic up to 914 m (LTO cycle) of all aircraft landing and taking off at Frankfurt Airport. 2 Travel by employees to and from the workplace. 3 Travel to and from the airport by passengers, travel in private vehicles and public transport. 4 Includes cars, rail and air travel. 5 Electricity, heat, cooling, fuels. 6 After investigations were carried out in 2005, the emissions of other greenhouse gases at the airport were negligible. EN20 NO2, SO2 and other air pollutants Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG NO2 µg/m³ 1, 2 49 45 44 SO2 µg/m³ 1, 2 5 5 4 Fine dust, PM 10 µg/m³ 1, 2 21 22 26 Benzene µg/m³ 1, 2, 3 0.9 1.0 0.8 at Lima Airport NO2 µg/m³ 4 – 6.8 10.5 SO2 µg/m³ 4 – 8.6 4.2 Fine dust, PM 10 µg/m³ 4 52.5 44.6 49.7 1 Annual average of the measured values at the SOMMI1 Station. These values present the aggregated result of all emissions from different source groups, i.e. apart from pollutants contributed by the airport they also include emissions from third parties (road traffic, trade and industry, domestic fuel, fires, large-scale background pollution). The proportion of the airport depends on the location, and model calculations indicate that the proportion here is between approx. 10 % and 30 % depending on the component. 2 Values from the year 2010 are preliminary. 3 Value from the year 2009 on account of small size of database only for orientation. 4 Annual average values at Lima Airport. These values represent a total for different emitters and apart from emissions generated by the airport also include emissions from third parties (road traffic, trade and industry, domestic fuel). 56 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 EN21 Wastewater discharged Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Wastewater million m3 2.208 2.025 2.322 Wastewater Liters per traffic unit 1 21.5 21.4 20.4 Fraport AG Wastewater million m3 2, 3 1.548 1.351 1.590 Wastewater Liters per traffic unit 1, 3 20.8 19.4 21.1 1 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo or airmail. 2 Wastewater is treated in the fully biological water treatment plant at Fraport AG (12 %) and fully biological community water treatment plants in Frankfurt-Niederrad (75 %) and Frankfurt-Sindlingen (13 %). 3 Wastewater from Fraport AG and from 580 other companies at Frankfurt Airport. EN22 Waste by type and disposal method Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Amount of waste 1,000 t 1, 2 32.62 33.91 36.09 Amount of waste kg per traffic unit 2, 3 0.32 0.36 0.32 hazardous waste 1,000 t 2 2.19 1.37 1.78 non-hazardous waste 1,000 t 2 30.42 32.54 34.31 Recycling in % of amount of waste 66.9 62.5 63.9 Fraport AG Amount of waste 1,000 t 2 24.11 22.27 23.54 Amount of waste kg per traffic unit 2, 3 0.23 0.24 0.21 hazardous waste 1,000 t 2 1.97 1.24 1.78 non-hazardous waste 1,000 t 2 22.15 21.02 21.76 Total recycling 1,000 t 2, 4 20.02 19.04 19.83 Total recycling rate in % of amount of waste 2 83.0 85.5 84.3 1 64 % of waste is recycled, detailed disposal methods cannot currently be shown for all Group airports. 2 Including waste from third parties, without soil and building rubble. 3 A traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger with baggage or 100 kg of aircargo or airmail. 4 According to the Closed Substance Cycle Waste Management Act, Appendix II B R 01, R 03, R 04, R 05, R 07, R 09, R 12, R 13 and voluntary returns (for batteries, solvents, cold cleaning agents, coolants). EN23 Significant spills Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG 1 Total number and volume of significant spills Number of spills Number 566 483 482 Volume of spills m3 11.00 11.60 10.33 Frequency of spills Number per 1,000 aircraft movements 1.17 1.04 1.04 Effects 2 none none none 1 Spills primarily by third parties. 2 No environmental hazard because releases are generally on surfaced areas with comprehensive safety installations implemented downstream. Spills on unsurfaced areas are very rare exceptions, and are cleared up immediately. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 57 Aspect: Transport EN29 Effects of transport and traffic Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Employee traffic Travel to and from work by public transport Share in % 1 37.4 33.0 33.0 Travel to and from work by carpooling Share in % 1 15.1 16.6 17.3 Passenger traffic Travel of originating passengers to and from the airport by public transport Share in % 1 39.8 53.7 56.3 Fraport AG Employee traffic 2 Travel to and from work by public transport Share in % 1 42.9 31.2 31.0 Travel to and from work by carpooling Share in % 1 11.0 14.3 15.5 Passenger traffic Frankfurt Airport 2 Travel of originating passengers to and from the airport by public transport Share in % 1 36.4 37.4 39.2 1 The values are based on a survey. 2 The significant environmental effects are shown in EN17. 58 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Personnel All details relate to year-end figures as at 31 December. On an average over the year (according to IFRS), the Fraport Group employed 19,792 employees (permanent employees and temporary staff) in the year 2010. Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Employees Number of persons 1, 2 – 20,488 21,124 Permanent employees Number of persons 2, 3 – 18,552 18,905 Apprentices Number of persons 2 – 321 336 Temporary staff Number of persons 2, 4 – 820 1,052 Employees on leave Number of persons 2 – 795 832 Aviation acc. to IFRS (annual average for permanent staff and temporary staff) 6 6,674 6,337 6,074 Ground Handling acc. to IFRS (annual average for permanent staff and temporary staff) 6 8,443 8,254 8,564 Retail & Real Estate acc. to IFRS (annual average for permanent staff and temporary staff) 6 594 603 606 External Activities & Services acc. to IFRS (annual average for permanent staff and temporary staff) 6 7,368 4,776 4,548 Regional distribution Europe in % of staff 95.0 95.7 94.9 Germany in % of staff 90.4 91.2 90.2 Rest of Europe in % of staff 4.6 4.5 4.7 Asia in % of staff 2.8 1.9 2.2 America in % of staff 2.2 2.4 2.8 Part-time employment in % of staff 2, 5 – 14.0 11.1 Fixed-term employment contracts in % of staff 2 – 12.4 17.5 Fraport AG Employees Number of persons 1 12,363 12,083 11,967 Permanent employees Number of persons 3 10,722 10,519 10,446 Apprentices Number of persons 329 316 331 Temporary staff Number of persons 4 750 681 618 Employees on leave Number of persons 562 567 572 Aviation Number of persons 3,378 3,313 3,285 Ground Handling Number of persons 6,604 6,389 6,259 Retail & Real Estate Number of persons 644 652 650 External Activities & Services Number of persons 1,737 1,729 1,772 Part-time employment in % of staff 5 13.3 16.2 15.5 Fixed-term contracts in % of staff 2 – 9.9 9.2 1 Employees = permanent staff + temporary staff (see 4) + apprentices + employees on leave. 2 Data only collected from 2009. 3 The permanent staff does not include any temporary staff (see 4), employees on leave and apprentices. 4 Temporary staff = school students, university students, interns, diploma students, part-time employees and trainees. 5 Including phased-in retirement. 6 Adjustment of reporting data for 2009 to reorganization. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 59 LA2 Employee turnover Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Total employee turnover Number of permanent employees leaving the company 1 – 1,945 1,877 in % of permanent staff 1, 2 – 10.5 9.9 Reasons for leaving the company 1 Employee notice Number among permanent staff – 846 627 Employer notice Number among permanent staff – 283 365 Retirement Number among permanent staff – 68 53 Other reasons Number among permanent staff 3 – 748 832 Employees leaving the company by gender 1 Men Number among permanent staff – 1,373 1,442 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 70.6 76.8 Women Number among permanent staff – 572 435 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 29.4 23.2 Employees leaving the company by age 1 Age group to 30 years Number among permanent staff – 1,023 900 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 52.6 47.9 Age group 31 – 50 years Number among permanent staff – 724 792 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 37.2 42.2 Age group above 50 years Number among permanent staff – 198 185 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 10.2 9.9 Fraport AG Total employee turnover Number of permanent employees leaving the company 263 209 196 in % of permanent staff 2 2.5 2.0 1.9 Reasons for leaving the company Employee notice Number among permanent staff 91 49 33 Employer notice Number among permanent staff 11 8 15 Retirement Number among permanent staff 41 32 27 Other reasons Number among permanent staff 1, 3 – 120 121 Employees leaving the company by gender 1 Men Number among permanent staff – 168 165 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 80.4 84.2 Women Number among permanent staff – 41 31 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 19.6 15.8 Employees leaving the company by age 1 Age group to 30 years Number among permanent staff – 41 57 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 19.6 29.1 Age group 31 – 50 years Number among permanent staff – 99 76 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 47.4 38.8 Age group over 50 years Number among permanent staff – 69 63 in % of permanent staff who have left the company – 33.0 32.1 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 Modified calculation formula compared with report in 2009. 3 Other reasons: Termination of agreement, end of fixed-term employment contract, deaths of active employees. 60 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Aspect: Labor / Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees with collective wage agreements Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Employees with collective wage agreement in % of staff 1, 2 – 95 95 Fraport AG Employees with collective wage agreement in % of staff 100 100 100 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 Value adjusted for 2009. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of employees in job safety committees Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Employees represented in job safety committees in % of staff 1 – 100 100 Fraport AG Employees represented in job safety committees in % of staff 100 100 100 1 Data only collected from 2009. LA7 Occupational diseases and absences Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group 1 Accidents Number 2 – 1,362 1,602 1,000-person rate Number of reportable accidents per 1,000 employees 2, 3, 4 – 24.11 31.7 with fatal consequences Number – 0 0 reportable Number 3 – 513 669 Days of absence Number of reportable days of absence 3, 5 – 7,543 11,826 Illness rate Absence in % 6 – 4.21 6.33 illness-related Absence in % 6 – 4.13 6.09 caused by work-related accident (not including sports, travel to and from work, and private accidents) Absence in % 6 – 0.08 0.24 Occupational diseases Number of accredited cases – 4 1 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 Minor injuries (level of first-aid measures) are not included. 3 Reportable = A work-related accident is deemed to be reportable if more than three days of absence are involved. 4 With respect to the average number of employees. The average number of employees is obtained by adding together the monthly staff figures and dividing by the number of months. 5 Days of absence = planned working days. 6 With respect to scheduled working days. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 61 LA7 Occupational diseases and absences (continued) Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Fraport AG Accidents Number 2 846 723 863 1,000-person rate Number of reportable accidents per 1,000 employees 2, 3, 4 26.67 24.78 30.16 with fatal consequences Number 0 0 0 reportable Number 3 330 301 361 Days of absence Number of reportable days of absence 3, 5 5,634 4,991 7,960 Illness rate Absence in % 6 5.49 6.23 6.49 illness-related Absence in % 6 5.28 6.05 6.19 caused by work-related accident (not including sports, travel to and from work, and private accidents) Absence in % 6 0.21 0.18 0.30 Occupational diseases Number of accredited cases 0 0 1 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 Minor injuries (level of first-aid measures) are not included. 3 Reportable = A work-related accident is deemed to be reportable if more than three days of absence are involved. 4 With respect to the average number of employees. The average number of employees is obtained by adding together the monthly staff figures and dividing by the number of months. 5 Days of absence = planned working days. 6 With respect to scheduled working days. Aspect: Training and education LA10 Training and education time per employee Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group 1 Apprentices Number of persons – 321 336 Interns/students/diploma students/ trainees/school students on work experience Number of persons – 710 723 Further training Days per permanent employee 2, 3 – 4.09 4.36 Fraport AG Apprentices Number of persons 329 316 331 Men in % of apprentices 70.2 72.5 73.4 Women in % of apprentices 29.8 27.5 26.6 Interns/students/diploma students/ trainees/school students on work experience Number of persons 738 679 616 Further training Days per permanent employee 2, 3 2.90 2.90 2.70 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 Not including apprentices. 3 7 h = 1 day. LA12 Percentage of employees with regular performance assessment Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Employees with regular performance assessment Number of permanent staff 1 – – 11,701 in % of permanent staff 1 – – 61.9 Fraport AG Employees with regular performance assessment Number of permanent staff 10,722 10,519 10,446 in % of permanent staff 100 100 100 1 Data only collected from 2010. 62 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities LA13 Composition of employees Diversity Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group 1 Average age years – 40.5 40.2 Age group up to 30 years Number of persons – 3,899 4,622 in % of staff – 20.9 21.9 Age group 31–50 years Number of persons – 11,280 12,640 in % of staff – 60.4 59.8 Age group above 50 years Number of persons – 3,500 3,863 in % of staff – 18.7 18.3 Fraport AG Average age years 42.3 42.8 42.7 Age group up to 30 years Number of persons 1,965 1,819 1,774 in % of staff 15.9 15.1 14.8 Age group 31–50 years Number of persons 7,827 7,588 7,386 in % of staff 63.3 62.8 61.7 Age group above 50 years Number of persons 2,571 2,676 2,807 in % of staff 20.8 22.1 23.5 Group 1, 2 Foreign employees Number – 3,826 4,097 in % of staff – 20.5 21.5 Fraport AG Foreign employees Number 2,043 1,983 1,914 in % of staff 16.5 16.4 16.0 Group 1 Disabled employees Number 3 – 1,297 1,392 in % of eligible jobs 4 – 6.6 7.1 Fraport AG Disabled employees Number 3 1,063 1,127 1,192 in % of eligible jobs 4 9.3 10.0 10.7 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 In Germany. 3 Disabled employees, employees with equal status to disabled employees, and employees with multiple credits disability. 4 Eligible jobs = Employees – School students – University students – Apprentices. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 63 Diversity (continued) Unit Comment 2008 2009 2010 Group Gender Women in % of staff 1 – 23.0 23.2 Men in % of staff 1 – 77.0 76.8 Women in management positions in % of managers 1, 2 – 25.8 28.7 Women in management positions Level 1 in % of managers Level 1 2, 3 – – 20.0 Women in management positions Level 2 in % of managers Level 2 2, 3 – – 21.2 Women in management positions Level 3 in % of managers Level 3 2, 3 – – 29.8 Women in management positions Level 4 in % of managers Level 4 2, 3 – – 24.3 Women in management positions Level 5 in % of managers Level 5 2, 3 – – 37.4 Fraport AG Gender Women in % of staff 18.8 18.7 18.8 Men in % of staff 81.2 81.3 81.2 Women in management positions in % of managers 2 17.8 17.6 20.5 Women in management positions Level 1 in % of managers Level 1 1, 2 – 0.0 20.0 Women in management positions Level 2 in % of managers Level 2 1, 2 – 16.1 13.3 Women in management positions Level 3 in % of managers Level 3 1, 2 – 18.1 24.2 Women in management positions Level 4 in % of managers Level 4 1, 2 – 18.7 19.4 Women in management positions Level 5 in % of managers Level 5 1, 2 – 14.8 14.3 Persons in management bodies Number of persons in management bodies (total) 3, 4, 5 – – 24 of which women in % of persons in management bodies 3, 4 – – 12.5 Age group up to 30 years in % of persons in management bodies 3, 4 – – 0.0 Age group 31–50 years in % of persons in management bodies 3, 4 – – 25.0 Age group above 50 years in % of persons in management bodies 3, 4 – – 75.0 1 Data only collected from 2009. 2 Management position = Management level 1 – 5. The term management level (or Level 1 – 5) relates exclusively to managers of an organizational unit, i.e. persons whose employees are subject to their disciplinary and technical supervision (Management level 1: Business/Service Unit Manager, 2. Management Level: Section Manager/Central Unit Management, Level 3 – 5: Manager). 3 Data only collected from 2010. 4 Management bodies = The bodies or management boards that are responsible for the strategic alignment of the organization, the efficient supervision of the executive management, and the liability of the management to the organization and its stakeholders. 5 Provision of information on the persons in the management bodies according to gender is not yet possible because the data are not available in the subsidiary companies. 64 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 GRI Content Index and Progress Report on the UN Global Compact Fraport comprehensively meets the current guideKey lines (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with this report for 2010. The GRI has checked black = GRI core indicator this and confirmed the highest application level gray = GRI additional indicator (“Application Level A”) (see p. 69). Appendix = Reference to the Appendix available online The GRI Index provided below shows the scope (AR) = Reference to the Annual Report for 2010 of fulfillment and where the GRI indicators are fulGC = Global Compact Principle filled in the sustainability report. We also refer to the extensive Appendix and Annual Report 2010 √ = Indicator completely covered available online. (√) = Indicator partly covered – = No information available 68 Appendix n.a. = not applicable for Fraport 69 Annual Report 2010 The Appendix includes supplementary statements and information on the sustainability report. This report also applies as a progress report for Fraport within the scope of the UN Global Compact. The following table includes a column “GC” with details indicating where information referring to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact can be found. Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 65 GRI Indicators GC Reference Status Profile 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Vision and strategy/Foreword by the Chairman 2 – 3, 7 – 11, (54ff), Appendix “Profile” √ 1.2 Description of effects, risks and opportunities 2 – 3, 7 – 11, 37, 38, 42, (38ff), (71ff), Appendix “Profile” √ 2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization Profile, Appendix “Profile” √ 2.2 Brands, products and services Profile, Appendix “Profile” √ 2.3 Organizational structure 12, Appendix “Profile” √ 2.4 Head office of the organization Profile, Appendix “Profile” √ 2.5 Countries with business activities Profile, Appendix “Profile” √ 2.6 Ownership structure 16, (66ff), Appendix “Profile” √ 2.7 Markets Profile, 50 – 51, (94ff), (169ff), Appendix “Profile” √ 2.8 Size of the organization Profile, 50, 58, Appendix “Profile” √ 2.9 Changes in the size, structure and ownership constellation (54ff), (96ff), Appendix “Profile” √ 2.10 Awards received Appendix “Profile” √ 3 Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.2 Publication of the last report 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.3 Reporting cycle 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.4 Contact for issues relating to the report/content Contact, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.5 Definition of report content and stakeholders 6 – 7, 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.6 Reporting thresholds 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.7 Restrictions on scope of reporting 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced activities 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.9 Data collection 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.10 New presentation of information from old reports Appendix “Profile” √ 3.11 Changes compared to previous years 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.12 GRI Content Index 64 – 69, Appendix “Profile” √ 3.13 External audit of the report 49, Appendix “Profile” √ 4 Governance, obligations and commitment 4.1 Management structure of the organization 12 – 13, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.2 Declaration that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is not the Appendix “Profile” √ Chairman of the Executive Management 4.3 Independent members of the highest management body 12, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee recommendations to the 12, Appendix “Profile” √ highest management body 4.5 Link between remuneration of the executive body and performance of 12, Appendix “Profile” √ the organization 4.6 Mechanisms of the highest management body for avoidance of 12, Appendix “Profile” √ conflicts of interest 4.7 Qualification of the members of the highest management body in 12, (38ff), Appendix “Profile” √ relation to sustainability issues 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles 1 – 10 12 – 13, 29, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.9 Procedure at the level of the highest management body for monitoring 1 – 10 12 – 13, Appendix “Profile” √ sustainability performance 4.10 Procedure for assessing the sustainability performance of the highest 1 – 10 12, (38ff), Appendix “Profile” √ management body 4.11 Precautionary principle 7 13, 24 – 25, 32 – 33, Appendix “Profile” √ 66 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 GRI Indicators GC Reference Status 4.12 External agreements and principles 1 – 10 12 – 13, 29, 35, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.13 Memberships 16 – 17, 35, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.14 Stakeholder groups 6, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.15 Selection of stakeholders 6, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.16 Inclusion of stakeholders 6, 42, Appendix “Profile” √ 4.17 Issues and concerns of stakeholders 6 – 11, Appendix “Profile” √ Economic performance indicators 1, 4, 16 – 17, (54ff), (71ff), 45 – 47, Appendix “Financials” √ Management approach 6–9 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 45, 50 – 51, Appendix “Financials” √ EC2 Financial consequences of climate change 7–9 Appendix “Financials” √ EC3 Scope of the company’s social benefits 27, 51, Appendix “Financials” √ EC4 Significant government grants and subsidies 16, 51, Appendix “Financials” √ EC5 Relation between standard entry salaries and local minimum wage 1, 6 Appendix “Financials” √ EC6 Site-specific selection of local suppliers 6 12, Appendix “Financials” √ EC7 Site-specific selection of local personnel 6 Appendix “Financials” √ EC8 Investments in the infrastructure and services primarily provided for 45 – 48, Appendix “Financials” √ public benefit EC9 Indirect economic effects Appendix “Financials” √ Ecological performance indicators Management approach 7–9 7 – 11, 35 – 41, 42 – 44, Appendix “Environment” √ EN1 Materials used 7–9 52, Appendix “Environment” √ EN2 Recycled materials 7–9 Appendix “Environment” √ EN3 Direct energy consumption 8–9 52 – 53, Appendix “Environment” √ EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8–9 53, Appendix “Environment” √ EN5 Energy saved 8–9 35 – 37, 54, Appendix “Environment” √ EN6 Initiatives for structuring products with higher energy efficiency 7–9 35 – 37, Appendix “Environment” √ EN7 Initiatives for reducing indirect energy consumption 7–9 38, Appendix “Environment” √ EN8 Total water consumption 8 40, 54, Appendix “Environment” √ EN9 Effects of water consumption 8 Appendix “Environment” n.a. EN10 Recycled and reused water 8–9 Appendix “Environment” √ EN11 Land used in or on the edge of protected areas 8 39, Appendix “Environment” √ EN12 Impacts on biodiversity 8 Appendix “Environment” √ EN13 Protected or reinstated natural habitats 8 39, Appendix “Environment” √ EN14 Strategies for protecting biodiversity 8 39, Appendix “Environment” √ EN15 Endangered species 8 Appendix “Environment” √ EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 35 – 37, 54 – 55, Appendix “Environment” √ EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions 8 38, 55, Appendix “Environment” √ EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7–9 10, 35 – 38, Appendix “Environment” √ EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 8 Appendix “Environment” √ Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 67 GRI Indicators GC Reference Status EN20 NO2, SO2 and other air emissions 8 38, 55, Appendix “Environment” √ EN21 Wastewater discharges 8 40, 56, Appendix “Environment” √ EN22 Waste by disposal method 8 40, 56, Appendix “Environment” (√) EN23 Significant spills 8 56, Appendix “Environment” √ EN24 Hazardous wastes according to the Basel Convention 8 Appendix “Environment” √ EN25 Impacts of wastewater discharges on biodiversity Appendix “Environment” √ EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 7–9 10 – 11, 35 – 39, 41 – 44, Appendix “Environment” √ EN27 Packaging material 8–9 Appendix “Environment” n.a. EN28 Sanctions for environmental non-compliance 8 Appendix “Environment” √ EN29 Environmental impacts of transport and traffic 8 38, 57, Appendix “Environment” √ EN30 Total expenditure and investments for environmental protection 7–9 Appendix “Environment” – Social performance indicators Working practices and decent working conditions Management approach 1–6 26 – 33, Appendix “Personnel” LA1 Total workforce 58, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA2 Employee turnover 6 32, 59, Appendix “Personnel” (√) LA3 Benefits for full-time employees 6 27, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA4 Employees with collective wage agreements 1, 3 27, 60, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA5 Minimum notice periods for significant operating changes 3 27 – 28, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA6 Employees represented in job safety committees 1 60, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA7 Occupational diseases and absences 1 32 – 33, 60 – 61, Appendix “Personnel” (√) LA8 Further training on serious diseases 1 33, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA9 Work and safety agreements with unions 1, 3 Appendix “Personnel” √ LA10 Training and further-training time per employee 1 28 – 29, 61, Appendix “Personnel” (√) LA11 Programs for life-long learning, knowledge management 1 29, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA12 Percentage of employees with regular performance assessment 27, 61, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA13 Composition of employees 1, 6 29 – 31, 62 – 63, Appendix “Personnel” √ LA14 Relationship of basic salary between men and women 1, 6 29 – 31, Appendix “Personnel” √ Human rights Management approach 1–6 2 – 3, 12, 27 – 29, Appendix “Human rights” HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses 1–6 12, Appendix “Human rights” √ HR2 Supplier screening on aspects of human rights 1–6 12, 45, Appendix “Human rights” (√) HR3 Training sessions on aspects of human rights 1–6 Appendix “Human rights” (√) HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1, 2, 6 29 – 30, Appendix “Human rights” √ HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1–3 2 – 3, 12, 27, Appendix “Human rights” √ HR6 Principles and measures for prevention of child labor 1, 2, 5 2 – 3, 12, 27, Appendix “Human rights” √ HR7 Principles and measures for prevention of forced labor 1, 2, 4 2 – 3, 12, 27, Appendix “Human rights” √ HR8 Training of security personnel 1, 2 Appendix “Human rights” √ HR9 Violation of rights of indigenous people 1, 2 Appendix “Human rights” n.a. 68 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 GRI Indicators GC Reference Status Society Management approach 10 3, 12 – 13, 42 – 47, Appendix “Society” SO1 Effects on the community 42 – 45, Appendix “Society” √ SO2 Percentage/number of departments analyzed for corruption risks 10 Appendix “Society” √ SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption 10 13, Appendix “Society” √ SO4 Corruption incidents and actions taken 10 13, Appendix “Society” √ SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying 1 – 10 6, Appendix “Society” √ SO6 Contributions to political parties or politicians 10 Appendix “Society” √ SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Appendix “Society” √ SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Appendix “Society” √ Product responsibility Management approach 7–9 6 – 11, 21 – 25, Appendix “Product responsibility” PR1 Health and safety impacts along the product life-cycle 7–9 7 – 10, 24 – 25, 42 – 44, Appendix “Product responsibil√ ity” PR2 Breaches of health and safety standards 7 Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR3 Statutory information required for products 12 – 13, 24 – 25, Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR4 Breaches of standards for labeling products Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR5 Customer satisfaction 21 – 25, Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR6 Standards relating to advertising Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR7 Breaches of advertising regulations Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR8 Infringement of protection of customer data Appendix “Product responsibility” √ PR9 Sanctions relating to product and services regulations Appendix “Product responsibility” √ Our company Our fields of action Our facts and figures 69 70 GRI Content Index 70 Connecting Sustainably Report 2010 Glossary ACI The Airports Council International was established in Environment & Community Center Organizational unit of the 1991 and is the international association representing the “Airport and Region Forum” dedicated to providing transworld’s airport operators. It is based in Geneva. More than parent and neutral information. The organization’s key aim 1,600 airports are members of the ACI – including 400 is to continuously improve cooperation between the airport, airports in ACI Europe. its users and its neighbors. It also has the functions of bringing together the results of different monitoring systems and AIRail Check-in Frankfurt Airport offers passengers who providing neutral expert analysis. arrive at the long-distance railway station the opportunity to check in at the AIRail Terminal. Travelers can check in ETS Emission Trading Scheme. An instrument of the Eurotheir baggage for their onward flight. When they return, pean Union (EU) that is intended to contribute to reducing their baggage will also be waiting there for them to pick up. the emission of greenhouse gases in the EU efficiently, costeffectively and economically. Airport charges A fee charged by the airport operator and paid by the airline companies regulated by government FAZ Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (national financial and agencies for the use of the facilities and services which are business newspaper) made available exclusively by the airport operator. „Fitness@Fraport“ Project for increasing efficiency and APU Auxiliary Power Unit is the power supply on board an project speed at Fraport AG aircraft. FTSE4Good One of the most important sustainability indexBiodiversity The variety of living creatures, organisms and es, launched by the Financial Times and the London Stock plants on earth. Science distinguishes between four aspects Exchange in 2001. Companies are listed in this index if they of diversity: genetic diversity, species diversity, diversity of demonstrate above-average performance in the fields of habitats and diversity of biological interactions. human rights, social standards and environmental protection and continually improve their performance. BMVBS German Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Urban Development Geothermy Use of geothermal power (natural heat of the earth) Compliance The conformity with laws, directives and regulations. Corporate compliance is interpreted to mean the German Advisory Council on the Environment A scientific attempt to minimize liability risks for a company and its advisory committee of the Federal Government commismanagement bodies by taking appropriate organizational sioned to present and assess the environmental situation measures. and environmental policy in the Federal Republic of Germany and its development trends. The council is Corporate Governance A responsible approach to managing also empowered to highlight detrimental environmental and controlling a company directed toward long-term and political developments and indicate options for their sustainable creation of value added avoidance or elimination. DAX German share index which reflects the performance German Corporate Governance Code The aim of the German of the 30 biggest corporations with the biggest turnover. Corporate Governance Code is to make the rules applicable in Germany for company management and monitoring DIN EN ISO 14001 See ISO 14001 transparent for investors, in order to strengthen confidence and trust in corporate governance. Diversity Variety among the employees of a company in relation to gender, origin, nationality, age, religious affiliaGerman Sustainable Building Council Deutsche Gesellschaft tion and physical impairment. für Nachhaltiges Bauen (DGNB). The mission of this council is to develop and promote initiatives and solutions for DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index. This important index sustainable construction, use and planning of buildings. for sustainability only lists companies which act as an exemplary role model for their sustainable corporate governance GRI Global Reporting Initiative, guidelines developed for in accordance with the criteria of economy, ecology and preparing sustainability reports commitment in the social and cultural sphere. Hub/Hub-and-spoke system A ‘hub’ airport is an airport that EBIT Earnings before Interest and Taxes coordinates long-haul services with a system of ‘spokes’ involving feeder flights. It acts as a transport hub. EBITDA Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ICAO The International Aviation Organization is a special organization of the United Nations based in Montreal, EMAS The Eco Management and Audit Scheme is a system Canada. The aim of the ICAO is to guarantee safe and susdeveloped by the European Union for voluntary environtainable development of civil aviation. mental management and environmental performance. This is an instrument for companies and organizations who want ILS Instrument Landing System is a beam landing system to continuously reduce their environmental impacts. that permits automatic (blind) landing approaches. EMAS-VO EMAS Directive IMEPplus Integrated management development program operated by the Fraport Group Emissions All (solid, gaseous, liquid or odorous) substances, waves or particle radiation emitted from industrial plants, Intermodality The integration of different modes of vehicles, products, materials, or other sources (for example transport, e.g. air and rail transport aircraft) which exert a polluting effect on the immediate environment. ISO 9001 defines specifications for a quality management system which can be used for internal applications by EnEV The German Energy Saving Directive is part of German organizations or for certification or contractual purposes. building legislation and defines standards for property ISO 9001 is intended to promote the effectiveness of the developers relating to energy-saving heat insulation and quality management system in fulfilling customers’ requireenergy-saving system technology in buildings. The last ments. amendment came into force on 1 October 2009. ISO 14001 International environmental management Stakeholder Groups or individuals who are affected by the standard which formulates globally agreed requirements activities of a company and can exert influence on attainfor environmental management. The central focus is a ment of their aims. Accordingly, the stakeholders of a comcontinuous improvement process directed towards implepany are the employees, shareholders and lenders, custommenting the environmental targets of companies and ers, suppliers, neighbors, non-government organizations, other institutions. government agencies and politicians. MDAX MDAX is the index of the German Stock Exchange for Shareholder Agreement Here: memorandum of association mid-sized German companies (Mid Caps) from traditional regulating the rights and obligations of shareholders sectors and is a selective index positioned directly below the DAX. Sustainability The concept of sustainability has been applied as a model for the sustainable development of humanity for OHSAS 18001 Internationally recognized specification for some years now. This kind of development meets the needs job safety management systems. This is compatible with ISO of the people living on the planet at the moment without 9001 and ISO 14001 and is intended to support the comendangering the capability of future generations to satisfy pany in efficiently fulfilling its commitments to occupational their needs. health and safety in the workplace. Sustainability Board Central steering committee for coordiPhotovoltaics Direct conversion of radiation energy, primanation of sustainability issues in the Fraport Group rily solar energy, into electrical energy. Photovoltaic cells are used to generate electricity and are found mainly on roofs, Sustainability Working Group A committee comprising the at parking meters, in pocket calculators, on noise abatement responsible managers of different specialist areas. It supwalls or in open spaces. ports implementation of the programs and projects in the Sustainability Board. PCA Pre-Conditioned Air System is an air-conditioning system for aircraft in the parked position achieved by supply of Traffic unit Internationally applied measurement parameter air-conditioning air. for making statistical comparisons. A traffic unit corresponds to a passenger with baggage or 100 kg of airfreight or airmail. Pollution Effects of noise (sound or noise emissions), air pollutants (airborne emissions), vibrations (vibration emissions), and heat (heat emissions) on the environment. RECS Renewable Energy Certificate System introduced in 2002 with the objective of facilitating trade in green electricity throughout Europe and promoting regenerative energies. The certificate issued by RECS guarantees that identifiable amounts of electrical energy are supplied from specific regenerative sources. Publishing information Publisher Specialist consultation The Fraport Sustainability Report 2010 was manufactured Fraport AG and design from 100 % recycled paper paying particular attention to enFrankfurt Airport Services phorbis Communications AG vironmental conservation and climate protection. It has been Worldwide Basel awarded Blue Angel environmental certification (RAL-UZ 14), 60547 Frankfurt one of the world’s strictest environmental labels. Germany English Translation Tristam Carrington-Windo, The RecyLux matt paper used was manufactured from 100 % Telephone: 01805 3724636 Oxford recycled paper without the addition of any optical brightenor: 01805 FRAINFO* ers and without bleach containing the element chlorine. From abroad: +49 69 690-0 Photography The paper is FSC certified and has also been awarded the Internet: www.fraport.com Julian Salinas, Basel Blue Angel label. Martin Joppen, Contact Frankfurt Fraport has neutralized the CO2 emissions generated in Sustainability Management Andreas Meinhardt, connection with the printing and production of this report. and Corporate Compliance Fraport AG The corresponding quantity of emission rights (EU AllowSenior Vice President Stefan Rebscher, Fraport AG ance) were eliminated on 15 April 2011 with the transaction Print kompensiert Id-Nr. 1110237 www.bvdm-online.de Jörg Kämer IFM-PG, Fraport AG ID 1110237. Tel.: +49 69 690-60131 Erhard Hehl, Tiefenbronn Fax: +49 69 690-60288 Bernd Vogel, Cologne Email: j.kaemer@fraport.de Rossen Donev, Varna Airport Lima Senior Executive Manager Private photos Sustainability Reporting and Monitoring Print Nicole Scheer Burger Druck Tel.: +49 69 690-20429 Waldkirch Fax: +49 69 495-20429 Email: n.scheer@fraport.de * 14 cents a minute from a German landline; maximum of 42 cents from a mobile phone.
