BA LBC AOL CO LO LO M M THE G THE G PA PA CT CT United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) LO BA L COM Communication on Progress (COP) Year 1 THE G PA CT March 2011 COP Road Map UNGC GHD 2010 2009 Principles Annual Sustainability Review Report Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect protection Our people (p7) Human Rights, of internationally proclaimed human rights Society (p14) 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human Our people (p7) Human Rights, rights abuses Society (p14) Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Our people (p7) association and the effective recognition of the collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and Labour Practices compulsory labour (p18) 5 The effective abolition of child labour Human Rights, Society (p14) 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Our people (p7) A Diverse GHD employment and occupation Culture (p22) Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary Responsible Demonstrating approach to environmental challenges management(p1 Sustainability (p28) 2-13) 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Sustainable Greenhouse Gas environmental responsibility future(p13) initiatives (p26) 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Environment Biodiversity environmentally friendly technologies (p20) Considerations (p24) Anti-Corruption 10 Business should work against corruption in all Chairman’s Culture and forms, including extortion and bribery. Message(p2) Values (p10) Partnerships in Development MSABI Community Water & Sanitation in Community Tanzania engagement (p5) 2010 Annual Review GHD 2010 Annual Review “GHD’s people have a good understanding of our needs and the flexibility to tailor designs to meet them. We have worked closely with them on a number of similar projects, so we were confident of their technical capabilities.” Eduardo Vicuña, Partner, SCL Energía Activa Our reach Canada India UK China USA Vietnam Philippines Malaysia Papua New Guinea Qatar Indonesia UAE Chile Australia New Zealand Front cover photo: Aerial view of Gladstone Harbour This publication is printed at an in Queensland, an area where GHD is undertaking major ISO14001:2004 certified plant with Forest Stewardship Council environmental and infrastructure projects associated with XXXX Chain of Custody certification. energy, industrial and resources development “Working in an alliance rather than alone has been a real benefit. We’ve found GHD and the other [Horizon Alliance] partners to be flexible and responsive, with the breadth of resources to adapt quickly to changes in the scope and staging of works.” John King, General Manager, Queensland Rail, Capital Delivery Program network GHD at-a-glance GHD is one of the world’s leading engineering, architecture and environmental consulting companies. Established in 1928, GHD employs some 6000 people across five continents and serves clients in the global markets of water, energy and resources, environment, property and buildings, and transportation. 1 5 70+ team markets services 80+ 100+ years offices 6000 AUD 998 million people GHD 2010 Annual Review Des Whybird Chairman’s message In a challenging year, GHD has delivered a creditable • Integration of our business in North America with the performance and gained industry recognition for our support four US firms joining GHD in the previous year to a wide range of client projects. This reflects the strength • Strategic mergers and acquisitions including SMGC of our business model, unified operations as well as the in the mining sector in Australia, and China Water enduring commitment of our people. International Engineering Consulting Company (CWIECC) The true measure of our success is the value we add to in China our clients’ businesses, and we acknowledge our clients • Setting a clear vision for good governance and who have agreed to showcase their projects in this Annual compliance across our business operations, including Review. Our collaborative approach to working globally and the enhancement of our Integrity Management System delivering services locally is helping us to meet the needs of our clients, irrespective of geographical boundaries. Especially pleasing is our performance in safety, quality and technical capability which continue to improve. This While our client revenue was slightly lower than the previous illustrates our leadership and the core values that define us – year, we performed solidly and with agility. Importantly, GHD Teamwork, Respect and Integrity. has a strong balance sheet, which positions us strongly to capture future opportunities. Looking to the future, GHD has the skills, financial strength and passion to meet new challenges and support our During the year we maintained a prudent approach to client projects. strategic development and are proud of the following achievements: • Implementation of our Strategy Accomplish More Together, focusing on our clients and our global network • Strengthening of ‘GHD in the Community’ to meet our stakeholder expectations and corporate social Des Whybird responsibilities Chairman 2 Ian Shepherd CEO’s review This financial year took place under challenging • The collaborative approach of our people to developing circumstances. Against a backdrop of economic uncertainty, Australian resources projects and facilitating Chinese GHD’s financial results are admirable and demonstrate the investment significant efforts undertaken by our people. • The inspiring way our people have embraced our Despite these conditions, we achieved a gross revenue strategic focus to partner more closely with clients to of AUD998 million, which is just ten percent down on our better understand their needs and expectations previous record. This reflects the strong support for Whilst we continue to manage ourselves with discipline, we our clients and the commitment of our people across enter the next financial year in good operational and financial the business. shape, with robust strategies. There is every reason to be Some of the highlights of 2009/10 include: confident about the future and, most importantly, in our ongoing ability to provide technical leadership and deliver • Continuous strong performance of our truly integrated services. Australian operations Finally, I am proud of the resilience shown by our people and • An expansion of our Energy & Resources sector to meet the support of our clients over some difficult and demanding rising demand with a number of key senior professionals times. We look forward to working with our clients in 2011. being appointed • The maturing of our strategy in the transportation sector resulting in securing many new projects and being shortlisted on some large opportunities Ian Shepherd • Prioritising of the health and safety of our workforce Chief Executive Officer enabling us to achieve periods of 2.8 million and 3.5 million hours free Lost Time Injury (LTI), and being recognised as the 2009 Best Workplace Health and Safety Management System – Private Sector by Safe Work Australia GHD 2010 Annual Review | 3 GHD 2010 Annual Review Governance We believe good governance is integral to supporting Directors performance and defining behaviours in alignment with our GHD is a wholly staff owned company led by a dedicated values. Our approach is simple: to do the right thing using Board of Directors, comprised of: the right procedures for our clients, people, communities and the environment. Our governance is focused on good • Des Whybird, Chairman BE (Hons), FIEAust, FAICD performance, not only in the boardroom, but across our • Ian Shepherd, Assoc (Civil Eng) Grad Dip Bus, FIEAust, business. CPEng, MAICD Board • Peter Wood, Deputy Chairman B Sc (Hons), Grad Dip Eng Geol, MIEAust, MAICD, MAusIMM The GHD Board of Directors provides governance and strategic direction through its charter, protocols and • Russell Board, BE (Civil) FAICD, FIEAust, CPEng constitution. It is supported by board committees covering • Pat O’Dwyer, BE (Metallurgical), FIEAust, CPEng, Strategy, Finance, Nominations, Audit and Risk with FAusIMM (CP), MMICA, FAICD, RPEQ external advisers. • Nick Apostolidis, BE (Hons), MEng Sc, FIEAust, GAICD The Board’s focus remains on strategic issues, governance and policy development, with strategy implementation and • John Baird, BE (Hons), FIEAust, CPEng, GAICD management responsibilities led by the CEO, supported by • Don Graf, BS (Zoology), MS (Engineering), CEEP General Managers, Global Market Leaders and management teams across our operations. • May Ngui, BAppSc(ElecEng), MIEAust, GAICD External Committee Members include: • Rob Knott, BE (Electrical), FIEAust, MAICD • Stephen Skulley, MBA, M Petroleum Engineering, BE (Mech) • Rob Kella, B Ac (Hons), CPA (USA), CA • Kerry Smith, B Ec (Syd), CA • Jenny Wily, LLB (Hons), BCL (Hons), FCLA • Glen Hiemstra, BA Sc (Political Sciences), MS (Communication) The Board is also supported by our Company Secretary, Lisa Elbourne, BBus, CPA, ACIS, GAICD. 4 Community engagement From making financial contributions to volunteering our GHD in the Community also responds to catastrophic events people’s time and providing pro-bono services, we are around the world including the September 2009 floods in engaged in a broad range of initiatives that benefit the 100+ Manila and the recent earthquake in Chile. The program communities in which we live and work. provided funds to help our people rebuild their homes or replace damaged property. Our people also joined forces GHD in the Community supports many disadvantaged to assist their colleagues by hosting fundraising activities communities, providing immediate support to those affected around the world. by catastrophic events and assisting a range of not-for-profit organisations to further their cause. Supporting vital causes Delivering strong connections GHD is passionate about supporting staff involvement and contributing to fundraising activities for not-for-profits. In 2010, For the past two years, GHD in the Community has been GHD in the Community provided support to more than 45 sponsoring the MSABI project in Tanzania a water, sanitation organisations and causes around the world, including schools, and hygiene initiative intended to empower and educate disadvantaged communities, environmental foundations, local Tanzanians and facilitate the provision of water related healthcare groups including hospitals, the Cancer Council resources. The project is the brainchild of Dale Young, a and the Leukemia Foundation, as well as humanitarian GHD Water and Wastewater Engineer who has recently been organisations such as The Red Cross, Habitat for Humanity named the 2010 Young Engineer of the Year for Queensland and Engineers without Borders, and a multitude of other by Engineers Australia. charitable initiatives. Whilst on leave to support his partner who was working in In 2009, GHD became a corporate partner of RedR Australia, East Africa, Dale saw an opportunity to improve the health a not-for-profit organisation that provides emergency and economic status of communities with water sanitation assistance to communities devastated by conflict or major solutions. To date, the locally employed MSABI team, in natural disasters. As part of our involvement, our people are collaboration with the community has installed 61 new safe being trained in the Essentials of Humanitarian Practice to water points (rope pumps) including 43 new boreholes, 8 help save lives in disaster areas by providing vital services open well conversions and 8 replacements of broken pumps. such as safe water, sanitation, power, roads and bridges, MSABI has also introduced sanitary latrines, water filtration supplies of food and shelter materials, communications units, and with the support of the GHD Young Professionals systems and protection services. group, provided text books to a local school. Left: MSABI project in Tanzania Right: GHD’s New Zealand Young Professionals Yin Fung Lee, Vikram Das and Daniella Piszey working on-site for a Habitat for Humanity project at Wymondley Street, Otahuhu GHD 2010 Annual Review | 5 GHD 2010 Annual Review Nick Apostolidis General Manager Client Development Our clients GHD’s business model is built on partnerships. Put simply, Our clients continue to expect high levels of service quality, we partner with clients to provide professional services that often with either reduced budgets or a greater focus on cost help plan, deliver and realise successful projects. control. We have enjoyed the challenge this environment has presented in the past year and have worked hard to furnish During the year GHD had the opportunity to partner with up operational value. In fact, the need to ‘work smarter’ created to 5000 clients on over 10,000 projects across the globe. many opportunities for innovative approaches to solving The ‘One GHD Network’ continues to create value with the our clients’ challenges, two of which are showcased in our diverse projects our people are working on, and the many Innovations section on Page 13. great relationships we have established with our clients. We thank you, our clients, for your continued confidence This year, many of our clients participated in detailed Client and support, and especially your open and honest Care Visits and provided feedback at the conclusion of communication with us. We value the gift of your feedback projects through our eSurvey program. These open and and continue our commitment to partnering frank discussions allowed us to examine the way in which we with you to improve our services and deliver mutually deliver our technical services and refine our approach. It also beneficial outcomes. helped us to understand if our services satisfied our clients’ technical and delivery expectations. The outcome of these client-facing discussions is that we continue to evolve our focus and simplify our operating structure and processes to provide greater integration, responsiveness and coordination of services. We have also introduced Client Relationship Managers to create a single point of contact for many of our clients operating across multiple geographies. These people make sure our clients receive the best we have to offer from our global network. v ice Ad pa ed g Trust ron St nerships Client centred culture rt Gre at rel a tionships 6 David Beech Jones General Manager People Our people The distinguishing features of GHD are our talented people • Career and Leadership Development A number and culture of teamwork. Our global network consists of some of new senior appointments were made as a result 6000 people across five continents. They share a commitment of internal promotions. This demonstrates GHD’s for serving our clients and are dedicated to building commitment to the professional development of its collaborative relationships. people and succession planning foresight. In 2010 we achieved a respectable staff retention rate of 86 Aligned with this, the GHD Business School has percent, reflecting a workplace that equips and encourages also introduced a comprehensive suite of leadership people to reach their potential. development programs tailored to our business and based on our Leadership Model. Current and future Through the annual people survey, we have found that leaders at all career stages have attended leadership the hallmarks of working at GHD are: working together focused programs in the past year, and GHD has as cohesive teams; treating each other with respect; continued to invest in executive development for appreciating cultural differences; having flexibility for senior leaders. work/life integration and living our values of Teamwork, Respect and Integrity. • Graduate recruitment 145 graduates joined GHD, of which 35 percent are female covering a wide range Recognising that our people are integral to the success of professions. of our business, we continue to invest in our future. Core initiatives for 2010 include: • Diversity GHD’s strong record as an equal opportunity employer was recognised again this year with a • The GHD Business School Our branded approach commendation from the Australian Equal Opportunity for to training, learning and development across all our Women in the Workplace Agency. operations marked its 5th anniversary in early 2010. Offering a core curriculum of over 140 programs, the GHD Business School delivered over 2600 face-to-face programs in 2010. It also expanded its programs to develop the technical, job delivery and client relationship capabilities of our people and introduced a range of elearning programs in five languages. GHD 2010 Annual Review | 7 GHD 2010 Annual Review Technical leadership Everyday, our clients are making decisions and taking • Scientist Ian Campbell authored and published a book actions to deliver a positive impact on global communities. “The Mekong: Biophysical Environment of an International They rely on GHD to provide technically advanced, creative River Basin” and innovative solutions. Of course, this is made possible • Oil and Gas Engineer Barbara Jinks was elected by our people – a global network of talented professionals President of the Queensland Petroleum Exploration from diverse disciplines and with complimentary skills Association (QUPEX) who partner with our clients to learn from them, share their knowledge and offer ideas. • Landscape Architect Scott Graham was elected President of the Australian Institute of Landscape GHD’s engineers, architects, planners, scientists, project Architects (AILA) in Victoria managers and economists bring a wealth of experience and unique skills, as well as a deep understanding of current • Principal Architect Sheila Hughes was elected ACT and emerging technical issues to realise our clients’ vision. Chapter President of the Australian Institute of Architects But it is their collaborative approach and connected thinking (AIA) in the ACT across multiple disciplines and geographic boundaries that • Planner Hamish Sinclair was elected President of the enables them to satisfy our clients’ needs. ACT Division of The Planning Institute of Australia (PIA) Highlights • Marketing & Business Development Manager Sonia Adams was elected President of the Asia-Pacific In 2010 our people’s technical excellence in design, Professional Services Marketing Association (APSMA) engineering and service delivery was recognised as follows: • As part of the BP Accredited Contractor Program, • Transport professional Bernard Shepherd was GHD was awarded a certificate of high achievement in appointed to the French-Australian Chamber of recognition of attaining high standards in Health Safety, Commerce and Industry’s Victorian Board Security and Environmental Management Systems • Concrete specialist, James Aldred was appointed as a (HSSE) on the Terminals Environmental Monitoring and Fellow of the American Concrete Institute in recognition Assessment project of his long-term contribution to the industry (See photo • The Institute of Asset Management (IAM) in the UK on Page 11) selected GHD as an Endorsed Assessor in recognition of • As leader of the International Water Association (IWA) our leadership in asset management Apparent Loss Initiative committee, Edgar Johnson • Dams Professional Steven Fox was elected Junior Vice continues to shape the debate on water management Chairman on the Australian National Committee on Large • Design Modellers, Glenn Robson and Ryan Riboldi Dams (ANCOLD) became Certified SolidWorks Professionals (CSWP) • Wagga Ecologist Leigh Maloney has been awarded • Architect Nader El Haridy was awarded Autodesk Certified accreditation as a BioBanking Assessor under Part 7A Professional – Revit Architecture 2010 certification of the NSW Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 (TSC Act) • Marine Scientist, Jeremy Sofonia received accreditation as a Certified Environmental Practitioner (CEnvP) from the • Nick Apostolidis has been appointed to the Australian Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand (EIANZ) Green Infrastructure Council (AGIC) Board of Directors 8 • In Connecticut, Gary Dufel has been appointed to •  usiness Services Coordinator Tammy Smith won the B the Infrastructure Adaptation Sub-committee of the silver medal in the ‘Business Services’ category of the Governor’s Steering Committee on Climate Change 2010 WorldSkills Competition • A rchitect Arindam Bose received a ‘Brick-stainable’ Awards international design award from Potomac Valley Brick • 2009/2010 Engineers Australia Young Professional •  acqui Hallchurch won second place in the Australian J Engineer of the Year Awards: Contaminated Land Consultants Association (ACLCA) Dale Young QLD Young Achievers Award 2009 Elisha Harris NT •  ngineering Geologist Christine Hug won the eighth E Michael Scott SA Dr Baden Clegg Award by Engineers Australia and the Australian Geomechanics Society (AGS) Young •  ngineers Australia Professional Engineer of the Year E Geotechnical Professionals (YGP) Awards: • J  o Metcalfe won the Hudson Private and Corporate Lindsay Monteith NT Sector Award at the 2009 Telstra ACT Business Women’s Bob Wark WA Awards •  ustralian Water Association (AwA) Young Water A • L  iz Haeusler accepted the role of President of the Young Professional of the Year Awards: Professionals Branch of the Australian Water Association (AWA) in Victoria Alix Campbell NSW •  ndrew Kohlrusch has been re-appointed as President A Cathy Sherry NT of the Australia Contaminated Land Consultants • B  rian Forbes, Major Dams Manager, was named as one Association (ACLCA) NSW of the top 100 Influential Engineers for 2010 by Engineers •  r Kostas Athanasiadis was recognised as a leader in D Australia. Brian was also named one of the 60 most innovation (See Page 11) influential people in the dams industry by International Water Power and Dam Construction magazine Photo: American Concrete Institute (ACI) President Florian Barth pictured left presents Dr James Aldred with his ACI Fellow certificate at the ACI Spring Convention Chicago GHD 2010 Annual Review | 9 GHD 2010 Annual Review “Over the past year, the GHD Innovations Team has provided advice in relation to the development and delivery of enhancements to our Innovation Program. This advice has helped us to better understand options, avoid pitfalls and to customise GHD’s learnings in establishing its own Innovation Program to the needs of Melbourne Water.” Howard Rose, Corporate Planning & Sustainability Manager, Strategic Planning, Melbourne Water Innovations (innovations)n Solving our clients’ challenges is at the heart of our business Services to assist client organisations in building their we formulate methodologies, develop unique technologies innovative and collaborative capabilities through the adoption and create bespoke designs with one goal in mind: to of appropriate processes, systems and tools. improve our clients’ operations and enhance their business Our Innovation Program has received the prestigious 2009 practices. Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific Innovation Excellence Award, Leveraging our comprehensive understanding of the and the 2009 Engineering Excellence Award for Workplace innovation process and our track record of converting ideas Innovation by Engineers Australia (Victoria Division) for into reality, we established the GHD Innovation Program as the program’s landmark contribution to the personal a globally integrated initiative designed to identify even more development of our people. great ideas by working in an open and collaborative manner with our clients, people and partners. Dual pipeline approach The program provides a holistic framework for the GHD believes that as an industry, we can extract even more creation, collaboration, identification, development and great ideas during the delivery of infrastructure projects. To implementation of ideas in a team setting. It is underpinned assist, we have developed an innovation framework, called by our Innovation Zone, an online platform that enables our the ‘dual pipeline’ as illustrated below. Valuable ideas that people to submit, collaborate and vote on ideas with the relate to the specific project are implemented by the project opportunity to have them acted on. To date, our people have team, whilst ideas that have industry-wide or multi project submitted over 1500 ideas. application are streamed off to a dedicated innovation team with the appropriate skills, time and focus to further refine Our unique and structured approach to innovation has and develop. GHD successfully implemented this dual Innovation in Infrastructure been applied to a number of alliance projects through our facilitated workshops in the water, energy and local pipeline approach on a major water treatment project government sectors. We provide GHD’s DualAdvisory Innovation Idea Pipeline in Victoria. Value Project Team Engineering (Project Specific) Innovation Innovation Team (Industry Wide) GHD’s dual pipeline innovation framework © 2010 GHD Pty Ltd 10 Case studies Safe Conveyor Frame Stormwater and filter media treatment Heavy high-speed belts with heavy linear loads can cause process serious injury or be fatal, particularly in the context of Regulatory Bodies are setting increasingly ambitious staff performing maintenance activities. Specifically, a performance targets for stormwater runoff due the draw in safety hazard exists on operational conveyor detrimental impact on local ecology of stormwater belts at the nip point between the conveyor belt and the contaminants such as dissolved nutrients and heavy rollers. metals. In response, Dr Kostas Athanasiadis, GHD’s Despite these risks, implementation of conveyor guards Service Group Manager for the Industrial Water and along their entire length has been seen to date as Waste group in South Queensland saw an opportunity impractical and cost prohibitive. Recognising a need to to innovate and develop a compact, cost effective mitigate the current safety risk to individuals working stormwater treatment solution, capable of meeting close to conveyor belts, typically in iron ore and coal stringent performance targets. mines, GHD Principal Mechanical Engineer, David Sheehy With the support of our Innovation Program, he has designed the safe conveyor frame. designed a low footprint treatment system to filter small David leveraged the support of the GHD Innovation concentrations of soluble nutrients and dissolved heavy Program to develop his concept into a working prototype. metals at the point of source in residential, commercial and industrial locations. The Safe Conveyor Frame provides a cost efficient method of minimising the risk of serious accidents Working in line with conventional pre-treatment systems occurring during routine maintenance of operational to remove total suspended solids (TSS), this concept is conveyor systems. It protects the draw in zone by the designed to economically filter contaminants including mounting frame itself with no extra steelwork, guards or oil, grease, soluble nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) attachments required. Additionally, it eliminates the need and dissolved heavy metals such as zinc, copper, nickel, for extensive guards, fences or risk acceptance, and mercury, arsenic and platinum. ensures protection of the conveyor belt in the event of a Anticipated markets for the concept include North collapsed roll. America, the United Kingdom, Australia and New The Safe Conveyor Frame has great application in Zealand with potential applications including roads and the mining and resources sector, as it creates a safer highways, residential and industrial estates, commercial workplace and increases productivity. developments such as car parks, shopping centres and vehicle maintenance wash down areas, as well as pretreatment for stormwater harvesting processes. GHD has a patent application in process for this concept, and Kostas was recently recognised for his achievement with a Leaders’ of Innovation 2010 Award from Brisbane City Council. Left: A model of the safe conveyor frame Right: GHD’s Kostas Athanasiadis pictured right accepting his innovation award from Brisbane Lord Mayor Campbell Newman GHD 2010 Annual Review | 11 GHD 2010 Annual Review Responsible management GHD’s approach to health and safety, sustainability and • Energy & Carbon Management Our operations quality is to embed these practices in the way we deliver continued to embrace positive action on our greenhouse projects to our clients. footprint through office energy and travel plans. Where our tenancies are requiring renewal, GHD policies specify Outlined below is GHD’s commitment to these practices and that building energy efficiency be considered as part some examples of how they have been applied in our clients’ of the office selection process. This year, three of our projects. Australian offices relocated to premises with GreenStar ratings between 4 and 5 star. Our Sydney operation also Health and Safety undertook the design and project management of its GHD continues to see significant improvements in health new office fit out using our in-house design and project and safety performance, as we transition from a focus on management teams (See Page 13). In addition, we have compliance to a culture of safety management. This year, our reduced our greenhouse gas emissions per employee by approach was validated by Safe Work Australia with GHD over 20%, since 2007. winning the Best Workplace Health and Safety Management System – Private Sector Award (See Page 13). • Sustainability Reporting During the year GHD prepared a sustainability report for internal stakeholders Highlights during the year include: using the framework of the international Global Reporting • Integration of health and safety into the GHD Job Initiative (GRI). GHD aspires to report its sustainability Management process performance externally against the GRI for the 2009/10 fiscal period. • Introduction of the GHD Safety Index using leading indicators to drive organisational culture change and Quality management of health and safety Our focus remains to uphold the quality of the services we • Improved understanding of ‘safety through design’ to deliver. Since 1993, GHD has operated under a Practice benefit clients Quality Management System (QMS) certified by Lloyds • Periods of 2.8 million and 3.5 million hours LTI free Register Quality Assurance to international standard ISO 9001: 2008. Sustainability During the year, we expanded our certified offices, the most • EMS Our certification to ISO 14001 helps us to significant additions being Seattle WA and Charlotte NC. demonstrate the continual improvement of our The past year has seen us roll out a new audit database Environment Management System in managing the and extend the interval between surveillance audits from six environmental risk, impacts and opportunities of our months to nine months. operations. 12 Case studies Move for a Sustainable Future Sustainable ferry terminals To enhance sustainability, GHD undertook all design, Improving the efficiency of public transport in Brisbane documentation and project management for the new is being realised with the upgrade of the city’s ferry office fit out of Sydney’s 133 Castlereagh Street. Titled terminals. With patronage for CityCat ferry services ‘Move for a Sustainable Future’, the project focused on having increased by 88 percent in the last six years, environmental design and providing a work environment the upgrades will provide better access to commuters to encourage connected and innovative thinking amongst and boost service speed by enabling dual access to our people. the pontoons. A significant focus of this relocation was placed on One of Brisbane City Council’s prime objectives is to improving the sustainability performance of our achieve sustainable outcomes in all of its activities. GHD operations by choosing premises with a high worked closely with the Council to design three CityCat environmental performance rating and incorporating ferry terminals that make the best use of innovative and leading green building techniques to minimise energy and sustainable design technologies and materials, and water consumption, and ensuring sustainable materials provide sustainable and energy efficiency outcomes. were used wherever possible. Key features of the terminals include recycled materials, Our EMS also highlighted the need for a sustainable rainwater tanks, lower energy LED lighting and inclusion exit strategy from our existing premises, with a focus of grid interactive solar arrays capable of collecting up on minimising the amount of waste going to landfill. As to 10 percent of the facilities’ energy requirements. In a result, all functional furniture was either reused in our addition, the affected vegetation was re-used as mulch in new premises or donated to organisations that could put the vicinity of each site and off set allowances were made the furniture to good use. A large proportion of re-usable for mangrove disturbances. office materials (lever-arch folders, ring binders, etc) that The design of these facilities recently won the Brisbane could not be taken to our new premises were delivered to Lord Mayor’s Award for Outstanding Achievement in the a local university for reuse by students. Our procedures category of Environment Achievement. also directed any waste paper created during the Bond St clean up to the appropriate recycling facilities. Top prize for safety During the year, GHD received the Best Workplace Health and Safety Management System – Private Sector Award by Safe Work Australia. The award recognises our commitment to continuous improvement in workplace health and safety through the implementation of the firm’s global occupational health and safety management system. Our South Australian operation was instrumental in winning the state award, and qualifying the company for national recognition. Left: Sustainable interiors at GHD’s new Sydney office Middle: Ian Shepherd and David Beech Jones pictured with our Safe Work Australia Award Right: Artist’s impression of the new Hawthorne ferry terminal GHD 2010 Annual Review | 13 GHD 2010 Annual Review Phillip Bradley Financial highlights Report Consolidated Balance Sheet Despite the challenges faced from softening global markets As at 30 June 2010 and a more competitive operating environment, GHD AUD millions achieved a solid improvement in its financial position during the year, with our net worth increasing by 4 percent to AUD157.6 million. 2010 2009 2008 This strengthened financial position was achieved despite Current Assets 260.2 272.2 255.4 revenues having declined 9.3 percent to AUD998 million. Non Current Assets 145.4 154.5 100.8 Having said that, this is the second highest revenue level Total Assets 405.6 426.7 356.2 recorded in the history of the company. The company appreciates the relationships with its bankers, Current Liabilities 171.7 155.4 149.8 Westpac and HSBC, noting that the company has strong Non Current Liabilities 76.3 119.7 95.6 reserves and is thus well placed to expand again as Total Liabilities 248.0 275.1 245.4 economic conditions inevitably improve. Overall, GHD’s sound financial result provides a solid Net Assets 157.6 151.6 110.8 foundation for our continued growth, and most importantly Equity 157.6 151.6 110.8 the ability to continue delivering outstanding results to our clients in the future. Source: Consolidated Financial Statements as at 30 June 2010 for GHD Group Pty Ltd. Phillip Bradley General Manager Finance 14 Auditor’s Statement 2010 Revenue by Global Sector We have audited the accompanying summarised financial information of GHD Group Pty Limited (the “Company”), comprising the summary Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2010 and the summary Statement of Revenue for Property & the year ended 30 June 2010, which were derived from the Buildings financial report of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2010. We expressed an unmodified auditor’s opinion on that Water financial report in our auditor’s report dated 26 August 2010. Environment The responsibility of Directors for the summarised financial information The Directors of the Company are responsible for the Energy & preparation and fair presentation of the summarised Resources Transportation financial information in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations). Auditor’s Responsibility Water 25% Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Energy & Resources 14% Environment 9% summarised financial information based on our procedures Transportation 25% Property & Buildings 27% which were conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. The Auditing Standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit Statement of Revenue engagements. AUD millions 1100 Auditor’s Opinion 1100 998 In our opinion, the information disclosed in the summarised 1000 935 financial information is consistent, in all material respects, 900 with the financial report from which it was derived. For 800 a better understanding of the scope of our audit, the 670 summarised financial information should be read in 700 conjunction with our report on the financial report. 600 521 500 DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU 400 300 200 J A Leotta Partner 100 Chartered Accountants Sydney, 31 August 2010 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GHD 2010 Annual Review | 15 GHD 2010 Annual Review Chris Hertle Global Leader Water Water Today more than 1500 GHD water professionals provide Highlights during the year include: secure clean, reliable and sustainable water supply • Winning the 2010 Asian Development Bank Outstanding and sanitation to communities around the world. They Achievement Award for our work on the China National understand the challenges of our times and continue to Flood Management Strategy Study partner with clients to deliver a diverse range of services covering every element of the water cycle for urban, rural • Receiving an Institute of Public Works Engineering and industrial water applications. Australia NSW award for Recovering, Recycling and Reusing for our client, the Coffs Harbour Water Securing water supply in a climate challenged world is by Reclamation Plant far the biggest challenge our clients face. As a result, major investments in water infrastructure have been made over • Undertaking a study for the City of Barrie in Ontario to the past year, particularly in desalination. Australia is leading optimise the aquatic health of Lake Simcoe the way with all capital cities now completing or running • Fast-tracking Victoria’s water security with our desalination plants to service severe water shortages. GHD involvement in three signature projects – Victorian transferred its knowledge, innovation and learnings to clients Desalination Project, Sugarloaf Pipeline Alliance and the undertaking these projects. Tarago Water Treatment Plant The trend towards desalination is continuing around the • Being recognised by our peers for our work in the USA world, with China and the USA looking at significant on the Downtown Scottsdale Booster Station Project expenditure to address critical water shortages. GHD’s in Arizona through numerous awards including an extensive network of offices in eight American states and our Engineering Excellence Grand Award from the American recent acquisition of China Water International Engineering Council of Engineering Companies in Arizona Consultants (CWIEC) including more than 45 people with significant skills in hydrology, yield and water resource Looking to the future, we are focused on partnering with our planning will enable us to provide added value to clients in clients and integrating our capabilities even more tightly to these markets. achieve a single global network of professionals capable of delivering solutions in any part of the world. Demand for our services in integrated water management, water use efficiency, water loss management, irrigation and groundwater management continued to grow strongly. GHD also assisted many water utilities to optimise water related infrastructure, meet compliance and adapt to environmental changes in ways that balance the needs of our communities. We continually expand the boundaries by engaging in research to enhance existing systems and strategies, evaluate new procedures and transfer technology from other industries into what we do. This approach has seen us become a key player for water management and supply for the booming resources sector and for the coal seam gas undustry. 16 Case studies Improving water quality in Lake Securing Canberra’s water supply Onondaga GHD’s work with the ACT Electricity and Water Corp Onondaga County’s Department of Water Environment (ACTEW) on the Cotter Dam is helping to secure the Protection has upgraded the Syracuse Metropolitan territory’s water supply and raising the bar for sustainable Wastewater Treatment Plant to meet stringent new construction. The AUD363 million project involves water quality standards for Onondaga Lake by 2012. building a new 80 metre high wall to increase the main dam’s capacity from 4 gigalitres to 78 gigalitres, and GHD was selected to lead a team of three engineering building two saddle dams with walls 15-20 m high. companies in designing a world class plant based on its track record in the USA. “GHD is recognised as a leader Working in an alliance with ACTEW and construction in wastewater technology in the USA and this project has companies Abigroup and John Holland, GHD has been demonstrated why. The company’s work has enabled us responsible for engineering design, stakeholder liaison, to dramatically improve the lake’s water quality,” said the environmental approvals and safety and quality control Department’s Commissioner Patricia Pastella. during construction. GHD’s analysis identified the best location for the dam wall, and a cost-effective construction GHD led a pilot project to establish design criteria for method using roller compacted concrete (RCC). a plant which treats 318 megalitres of wastewater a day using biological aerated filters (BAF) and high rate ACTEW Project Manager Ray Hezkial said the alliance flocculated settling (HRFS) technology to naturally partners have benefited from having GHD engineers on disinfect wastewater and remove ammonia and site to help resolve design and scheduling issues quickly. phosphorus to low levels. A cogeneration system was “For example, we relocated the intake tower of the dam incorporated to produce electricity and recover heat from from the left to the right hand abutment (a major change) gas produced during the separation of biosolids, which to accommodate the construction schedule. This was are removed and reused as a fertiliser in agriculture. facilitated by GHD so we didn’t lose time, and in fact we might have made up time. Those sort of things “We are familiar with US regulatory requirements and are invaluable.” after the success of the pilot we worked closely with our partners to bring the plant online ahead of schedule and The RCC method, for which GHD is renowned through below budget, ” said GHD Project Director Jerry Hook. the efforts of Brian Forbes, allowed one million tonnes of rock taken from the valley to be crushed and reused as The plant has cut concentrations of ammonia to less than aggregate for the dam foundations. This has cut truck 2.0 mg/L, and phosphorus levels to less than 0.10 mg/L traffic to and from site, reducing the project’s carbon below the mandatory target of 0.12 mg/L. “To reduce footprint and impact on residents. phosphorus concentrations from 0.8 mg/L to less than 0.12 mg/L is a great achievement for us,” Ms Pastella For ACTEW, the project has confirmed the benefits said. “We are about two years ahead of the court-ordered of working in an alliance structure. “From a teamwork schedule, allowing us to improve the lake’s water quality perspective it has been valuable having access to much faster than we had hoped.” everyone and having everyone working towards a common goal,” Mr Hezkial said. “Alliances promote trust. Everyone The plant is also projected to save USD90,000 a year in shares in the gains, and everyone shares in the losses.” energy costs – 40% of the department’s annual budget – and USD45,000 from process and system modifications. Left: Syracuse wastewater treatment plant Right: Cotter dam under construction GHD 2010 Annual Review | 17 GHD 2010 Annual Review Pat O’Dwyer Global Leader Energy & Resources Energy & Resources Around the world, the energy & resources sectors enhance To better position GHD for the future, we have undertaken a economic development and social progress. Issues such number of initiatives in 2010, including: as increasing demand for resources and energy, production • Increased our capability in Western Australia by efficiencies, energy efficiency and sustainable development strengthening and expanding our teams continue to shape the future. • Established a pro-active framework for servicing Chinese This year, GHD’s Energy & Resources business has improved clients and facilitating investment in the Australian its capability. Our clients have recognised this and engaged resources sector us on significant projects, particularly in Australia and South America. These opportunities are largely driven by demand • Strengthened our mining skills through the acquisition of for resources from China and India and the global demand SMGC enabling GHD to undertake resources studies for energy, in particular LNG, as countries look for more • Reinforced our position in the renewable energy sector by greenhouse friendly power supplies. undertaking projects for solar and wind power generation Recent projects include our work with Shenhua Watermark’s • Developed strategic alliances with complementary coal project in New South Wales, the China Metallurgica companies in Australia and China to tackle major projects Group’s Cape Lambert Magnetite Mine in Western Australia, and broaden our capability and groundbreaking coal seam gas projects in the Surat and Bowen Basin, which includes a gas pipeline from the • Focused on energy transmission, distribution and gas fields to Gladstone to access a liquefaction and export efficiency facility on Curtis Island. Our water team is also involved in • Enhanced our positions in non-process infrastructure and designing a desalination plant to process the water removed sustainable capital projects from coal seams produced during the gas extraction. From a renewable energy perspective, we have completed a project with ACCIONA Energy for the planning application of a 46 turbine, 70.5 MW wind farm in South Australia. 18 Case studies Gas-fired energy for Peru Facilitating China investment GHD’s offices in Chile and Australia have worked together With China’s strong economic growth and steady to help a South American energy company meet a tight demand for iron ore, coal and gas, there are many deadline on a gas power project in Peru. Based in the prospects for Australian and Chinese businesses to Chilean capital of Santiago, SCL Energía Activa develops create commercial partnerships. energy assets in Chile, Peru, Colombia and Central America. GHD has been working closely with a number of Chinese The company is developing a power plant in the Chilca organisations to facilitate resources projects in Australia, district of Peru, 60 kilometres south of the capital Lima, fired including the Shenhua Group, China Metallurgical Group by natural gas piped from the huge Camisea deposit. Corporation (MCC) and energy operators involved with SCL Energía Activa appointed GHD to design the gasthe Port of Gladstone expansion. fired power plant based on the strong relationships the With offices in both Australia and China, our people companies had developed in the past. “GHD’s people collaborate across borders to assist clients with their have a good understanding of our needs and the projects. They possess a good understanding of the flexibility to tailor designs to meet them,” SCL Energía business environments in both countries to deliver Activa partner Eduardo Vicuña said. “We have worked services that address core requirements. closely with them on a number of similar projects, so we were confident of their technical capabilities. And Gavin Becker, Mining & Metals Business Leader believes importantly, they had no conflict of interest.” that GHD’s operational model of working globally and delivering services locally is particularly advantageous Working to a very tight deadline, GHD Project Director to Chinese corporations, as it enables us to provide the Eduardo Valenzuela led a collaborative team from right resources at the right time and in any geography. GHD’s Santiago and Brisbane offices to prepare a feasibility study for the project and consult environmental He says, “We can offer clients access to our innovation, specialists to reduce its impact. Our team prepared experience and capabilities, in both China and elsewhere. technical engineering studies for two 200 megawatt open We have a strong track record in a number of key mining cycle gas turbines, a power transformer and the overall and resources projects around the world and have the plant structure. ability to provide multi-disciplinary teams to address our clients’ mining, resources, water, port infrastructure, “Being able to draw on the experience of the energy team power and environmental requirements. in Brisbane was a real advantage for us,” Mr Valenzuela said. “We were able to develop a flexible design that “In short, GHD has the global network in place to will at a later date allow us to phase in a more efficient facilitate business partnerships, co-operation and 100 MW combined cycle turbine.This will capture waste investment in resources projects between our two heat from the plant to make steam to generate additional countries. We have four offices in China and numerous electricity, and make it much more efficient.” Chinese technical specialists located in our global operations to assist with the cultural and language After evaluating tenders, GHD led negotiations with ‘bridge’ needed to streamline project execution.” the construction companies short-listed to build the plant.“We anticipated detailed negotiations with the short listed contractors,” Mr Vicuña said. “GHD’s experience in dealing with world class players was put to the test, and left a good impression.” GHD 2010 Annual Review | 19 GHD 2010 Annual Review Stephen Trainor Global Leader Environment Environment Environmental management has become an increasingly In response, GHD’s environmental team has expanded topical issue for governments and communities globally. significantly during the year and worked on a number of The concept of what is economically, socially and projects that involve marrying new environmental legislation ecologically practical in developments is being challenged with sustainability principles. In Abu Dhabi for example, we and continues to drive demand for GHD’s environment have been helping to develop the regulatory environment, services around the globe. which is progressing sustainable developments such as Masdar City – a planned development which will rely entirely During the year, there was continued demand for on renewable energy sources, with sustainable, zero-carbon, environmental impact assessment and planning services zero-waste ecology. In Qatar, we continue to assist with the for major infrastructure projects in sectors including mining construction of the new Doha International Airport, providing and resources, transportation and water. Assessing and a broad range of environmental services including monitoring remediating contaminated lands is also a major activity for of marine life, groundwater and noise during construction. our clients, and we are increasingly recognised as leaders in this specialised field. For example, we recently completed Part of GHD’s success has been our ability to broaden the work for the Port of Melbourne Corporation on a channel reach of services across all market sectors globally. For deepening project for Port Philip Bay where we conducted example, we have seen significant growth in the energy and 11 independent audits in the areas of dredging contaminated resources sector, in Australia and Chile. The rising interest and non-contaminated materials, environmental monitoring, in coal seam gas in central Queensland is also providing dredged material ground bund construction, capping and significant opportunities for GHD to leverage its deep more. understanding of the regulatory and legislative process. Plus, with GHD’s expanding penetration in the USA water sector, This project demonstrates the benefits of GHD’s there is an expectation that our environmental services will multidisciplinary approach with additional skills in the areas expand further to serve our clients in the coming years. of marine ecology and environment quality management systems being applied. The evolution of environmental legislation and the impacts from climate change are two key issues facing our clients. This is particularly true in the Middle East, where our clients have to adapt to emerging legislative standards and policies. 20 Case studies Protecting coral and seagrass in the to providing our construction equipment for supporting the relocation works.” Arabian Gulf Concerted efforts between the New Doha International Corals were relocated by qualified SCUBA divers over Airport (NDIA) steering committee, project managers, four days in November 2009 in purpose built baskets, contractors and GHD in Qatar have led to the significant which were tied to the vessels and transported to a protection of marine ecology around the NDIA. nearby site. Seagrass relocation, undertaken in February 2010, involved a different methodology whereby GHD was approached by El Seif Engineering 50 cm x 50 cm of seagrass area was removed manually Contracting Company (El Seif) in June 2009 to assess with shoots and sediment attached and replanted at the the marine environment in the footprint and buffer area predefined relocation site. of two proposed sea rescue boat slipways at the NDIA. The team identified two distinct habitats composed of “The relocation sites were chosen based on their similarity isolated coral communities and seagrass habitat. to the existing environment at the slipways,” explains GHD Project Manager Joanna Elkhoury. “It was quite an According to the environmental approval permit issued operation, but we devised a methodology that enabled by the Ministry of Environment (MoE) for the construction the work to be done systematically. We spent a lot of of these slipways, El Seif was granted the construction time in the water assessing the environmental conditions permit on condition that they relocate all affected coral prior to the actual relocation taking place. We received and seagrass communities within the footprint, and assistance from professionals in our offices in Manila, monitor these to ensure their survival. Perth and Hobart. “We chose to partner with GHD due to the team’s solid “The seagrass relocation works attracted members of the understanding of the local environmental legislation MoE as no attempt has been previously made to relocate and requirements,” said, John Liakakis, El Seif Project seagrass in Qatar,” Ms Elkhoury added. Manager. “In addition, the company has a good knowledge of the marine environment around the NDIA.” The MoE requested that both coral and seagrass be GHD has been responsible for the quarterly monitoring of monitored for three years to ensure survival in the harsh marine ecology including water and sediment quality at environment of the Arabian Gulf, where salinity and 23 sites facing the NDIA since 2008. temperature play a major role in the survival of the corals and seagrass. The permit also stipulated that, monitoring Our team built a good relationship with El Seif and worked will take place on a monthly basis for the first year, and closely to devise a relocation methodology that would not quarterly for the subsequent two years. pose any safety risks to the team whilst in the field. “This is our fourth month monitoring the coral and “We spent considerable time with the GHD team seagrass condition, and so far all corals and about 70 discussing challenges posed by the project prior to per cent of the seagrass have survived the stress of implementation of the relocation works,” explains Mr relocation. This is a great result,” Ms Elkhoury said. Liakakis. “The level of collaboration was extremely high and facilitated a successful outcome whereby we (El Seif) constructed a safe access zone to the water in addition Left: Boat ramp under construction Right: Some of the coral that was relocated GHD 2010 Annual Review | 21 GHD 2010 Annual Review Barry Potter Global Leader Property & Buildings Property & Buildings GHD’s Property & Buildings business is fortunate to provide infrastructure of cities and increases global demands on services to sectors that continue to show strong growth; the environment through growing resource needs. GHD has healthcare, defence, transportation and government embraced these challenges through an integrated design infrastructure. approach, adopting Building Information Modelling (BIM) as a tool to fully assimilate the planning, design, construction and A tightening of economic conditions in the past 12 months life cycle management of facilities. continues to affect the sector as funding for investment remains tight. While government funded economic In the past twelve months, our people have worked on more stimulation in Australia was needed to maintain activity than 100 school facilities completed under the Australia over the past 18 months, this has now run its course. Government’s ‘Building an Education Revolution’ program, Meanwhile, In China and much of Asia, activity has slowed a engaged our global network on the Hong Kong Academy, little in response to measures aimed at controlling property completed the award winning design for the refurbishment of speculation in these growing economies. the West Australia Water Corporation’s offices, and provided design and logistics consulting for the Australia Defence Two trends driving change within our built environment Force Joint Logistics Soldier Support Warehouse. are sustainability and urbanisation. The global movement towards efficient use of the world’s resources with minimal Our clients continue to enjoy the benefit of our global impact on the environment is shaping the way our cities network: the right resources are brought to projects, are planned, and the way we approach design. This trend delivering a confidence in the reliability and responsiveness drives a pioneering approach to planning and design, the of our solutions. use of fresh materials in our buildings, and new construction methodologies. Overlaying this impetus towards sustainability are the challenges associated with mass urbanisation in developing Asia. Today China has more than 50 percent of its 1.4 billion population living in cities. This puts great pressure on the Photos on Page 23 Left: GHD’s Andrew Nagarajah, Sam Adams, Georgia Fugler, Tai Hollingsbee, Colin Berriman, Chris King and George Coutts pictured with the ARKit Right: Artist’s impression of the Shimao Dalian Carnival development 22 Case studies Zero carbon living Old China meets new in expansive resort Twelve months of engineering analysis by GHD and GHD is collaborating with Shimao Property to create a Melbourne firm ARKit has produced a transportable resort inspired by China’s rich heritage and reflecting a housing unit that is stylish, adaptable and at the forefront new focus on sustainable development. Set in the Dalian of sustainable design. region, Shimao Dalian Carnival is a development where forests and mountains meet water, reflecting the area’s The partnership began almost by chance in mid-2009 natural beauty and the cultural heritage of the Chinese when GHD Design Engineer Tai Hollingsbee visited the jade dragon. Melbourne State of Design Festival, where he saw ARKit’s 10 square metre prototype unit and met its Architect and Shimao Property, one of China’s largest developers Principal Craig Chatman. Both saw an opportunity to selected GHD based on the company’s international improve the prefabricated wall panels at the heart of the reach and experience in the Middle East. Shimao’s unit, which have the unique advantage of being adaptable ambitious plan requires the enlargement of an artificial to any climate or location. island to about 1155 hectares and building on reclaimed land. The island is in the shape of the symbolic Chinese ARKit’s aim is to maximise interior comfort and minimise dragon, which is associated with strength, success and carbon pollution and energy costs. With GHD’s input, good fortune. it developed the EcoStudio, which in its ultimate form offers ‘zero carbon’ living. GHD investigated the studio’s “GHD’s experience in properties and buildings, particularly thermal, electrical, mechanical and hydraulic performance in the Middle East made it a perfect fit for this project,” and developed a model integrating all of its findings. It offered a Shimao Property spokesperson. “The Palm then redesigned the wall panels to reduce heat loss in Jumeirah and Palm Jebel island resorts are prestigious winter and thermal gain in summer, suggesting changes projects built on technically challenging sites, and we that improved energy performance by up to 30 per cent. aim to create accommodation of the same quality here. Knowledge of Chinese culture is obviously important to “GHD’s holistic approach to engineering design opened this project, and GHD’s team in China has been able to my eyes,” Mr Chatman said. “We looked at the individual advise us in that area and help us resolve issues.” components of the walls, floor and ceiling, the type of glass used, analysed cross-flow ventilation and An additional challenge for the design team was to natural ventilation strategies, shading devices, energy produce a resort for all seasons, where comfort would consumption, thermal comfort levels of the occupants not be sacrificed even during Dalian’s cold winter. GHD and a life cycle assessment. We can now say we’ve worked on all facets of the design from the concept based our product on quantified engineering research master plan through to detailed architectural and rather than relying on common building practice.” landscape design plans. The company also helped secure planning approvals. While there is a heritage The finished EcoStudio unit that went on display at the aspect to the design, environmental sustainability is 2010 State of Design Festival realised ARKit’s ambition, an imperative for Shimao. GHD incorporated solar and incorporating the services in a compact hub without wind power as well as an integrated water management detracting from the modern, high-quality interior. system to reduce the resort’s carbon footprint. “I see our partnership with GHD as a long term arrangement,” Mr Chatman said. GHD 2010 Annual Review | 23 GHD 2010 Annual Review Ian Dawson Global Leader Transportation Transportation GHD’s Transportation business continues to grow as our closely aligned to land use planning, Transport Orientated communities recognise that it is essential to efficient trade, Developments (TODs) and greater use of public transport global prosperity and quality of life. to improve amenities, decrease congestion and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the past year, we have worked The need for reliability and efficiency is driving demand closely with many clients to create sustainable growth for GHD’s transportation services, which grew by 20 percent strategies, which typically include an integrated urban in 2010. transport model. Our rail team has also been involved in During the year, we put considerable effort into seamlessly light rail network extensions in a number of cities, to reduce integrating our transportation business across, rail, roads, reliance on cars and buses. ports, aviation, integrated urban transport and economics Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) are being increasingly and logistics, to reflect the way in which our clients are relied upon to improve the efficiency of existing transport looking to satisfy their requirements. We have tightened our infrastructure. As an example, GHD has been working with interaction and are focused on greater collaboration with clients using route optimisation techniques to improve clients to streamline delivery and quality. coordination of traffic signals reducing congestion, energy Our transport leaders have contributed strongly to the consumption and CO 2 emissions. development of new business and there is an emerging Our involvement with alliances continues to deliver benefits focus on the private sector. We won major work during the not just for GHD but also for our partners, clients and the year, including port projects in Chile, Western Australia and communities in which we operate. We are involved in the Queensland, rail and light rail projects in Queensland, NSW Horizon Alliance, which is providing world-class integrated and Victoria, as well as maintenance and asset management rail and road infrastructure to the booming South East road projects in the United Kingdom, New Zealand and the Queensland community and we are improving rail links for Middle East, and aviation projects in NSW. Australia’s mineral exports through the Hunter 8 Alliance and There is renewed focus on the efficient movement of freight Coal Connect Alliance. We are also establishing international around the globe with the implementation of freight priority partnerships to assist with the delivery of major transport projects. This year, GHD assisted the Australian Government modelling, automated container port, metro rail and fast in developing a National Ports Strategy, and the Australian rail projects. National Transport Commission with advice on road pricing Looking to the future, there are plenty of opportunities policy to help reduce the cost of moving freight. We have for growth through major investments in transportation also been involved in the development of significant freight infrastructure, particularly in Australia and New Zealand. intermodal terminals at a regional level and bulk mineral By adopting a collaborative approach to project delivery export port terminals internationally. aligned with client requirements and integrated across our The growth in global cities and a trend towards urbanisation global network of transport professionals, we are strongly is creating heightened interest in integrated urban transport, positioned to help deliver successful projects for our clients. where the planning of transport corridors and links is Photos on Page 25 Left: Merseyrail fleet Right: Horizon Alliance’s Richlands Railway Station taking shape 24 Case studies Improvements to network reliability Brisbane on sustainable path Merseyrail, a 75 route-mile urban rail network that is GHD and its Horizon Alliance partners are transforming vital to the transport infrastructure of Liverpool and Brisbane by delivering South East Queensland’s first surrounding areas is now delivering a more reliable major integrated road and rail project, which will provide service to customers. faster, safer public transport to the capital’s southern suburbs. Hosting more than 30 million journeys per year, Merseyrail has one of the highest patronages in the UK. Facing Work on the AUD600 million first stage of the AUD1.6 reliability issues, decreasing fare revenues and high billion Darra to Springfield transport corridor began in maintenance costs for its 59 refurbished electrical multiple 2008 and is on track to be completed in 2011. It involves units which were rapidly approaching the end of their constructing a 3.6 kilometre passenger rail line from serviceable life, Merseyrail turned to GHD for answers. Darra to Richlands, where a new station is being built. The Centenary Highway will also be widened from two to The company was engaged to undertake a maturity four lanes over 4.5 km from Richlands north of the Logan assessment of its Asset Management capability using our Motorway interchange. proprietary Total Enterprise Asset Management Quality Framework (TEAMQF) assessment model. This resulted GHD’s Project Director Martin Peelgrane has led a in a prioritised set of improvement projects for achieving team working with Horizon partners the Department fleet reliability, delivery efficiency and PAS-55:2008 of Transport and Queensland Rail, Kellogg Brown & certification requirements. Following this, GHD has been Root, and John Holland. They have collaborated on involved as delivery partner for the company’s Asset geotechnical and hydrology studies, engineering of road Management Improvement Program (AMIP). and rail structures, architectural and landscaping work and design of communication and power systems. GHD’s “We recognised that the key to success for this project team has also helped secure environment and planning is knowledge transfer,” says GHD’s Project Manager approvals and managed community consultation. Ark Wingrove. “To enhance employee engagement we developed an industry first, WikiFleet, to guide Merseyrail Mr Peelgrane says, “This is the first time major road in the access and use of new systems and asset and rail projects have been constructed alongside one management knowledge.” another in Queensland, so it’s a watershed project with an important cultural aim. The idea is to offer a genuine Through the delivery of AMIP, Merseyrail has dramatically alternative to the car by promoting public transport.” improved network services. It is now frequently ranked as the top performing train operator in its class, with an To engage community interest in the project, GHD and 84% improvement in performance against industry public its alliance partners worked with a professional artist to performance measures. Plus, it has won several service awards. develop a mural for the rail precinct. “This is the first stage of getting public transport to Kevin Thomas, Engineering Director of Merseyrail said, Springfield in the form of a quality rail network and it “AMIP is a critical program for Merseyrail. Without it, we will gives us the opportunity to influence people’s travel struggle to reliably introduce the service capacity changes behaviour,” Mr King said. “We are delighted at how the needed on our network. This program will support us to project is coming together. So far, it has been delivered develop Merseyrail into a world-class service provider. very smoothly, ahead of time and budget, and stakeholder GHD has provided Merseyrail with the necessary direction, management has been top class.” leadership and delivery support to make this happen.” GHD 2010 Annual Review | 25 GHD 2010 Annual Review Our achievements During 2010, GHD’s enduring focus on technical excellence, Austroads client success and commitment to continuous improvement • 2009 Award for Large Bridges and Gold Award Eleanor was again recognised with numerous awards and Schonell Bridge commendations – the most GHD has ever won in one year. We are delighted that our projects have won critical acclaim Asia Pacific Spatial Sciences Awards among industry and our peers, and congratulate our people • Infrastructure and Construction Category Plus the JK on their achievements. Barrie Award fro Overall Excellence New Perth Bunbury Highway Development Project Rankings • Environment and Sustainability Award South East • G  lobally, GHD has been ranked 52nd in the 2010 Top Queensland Koala Habitat Assessment and Mapping 150 Global Design Firms Survey by Engineering News • Land Titling and Development category Blue Bridge Rail Record. We were also ranked 58th in the 2010 Top 200 Overpass – 3D Laser Scanning International Design Firms, and 127th in the Top 200 Environmental Firms, up from 140th in 2009 Association of Consulting Engineers Australia • In Australia, GHD was ranked 38th in the 2010 Business (ACEA) – Awards for Excellence Review Weekly Top 500 Private Companies listing. Plus • 2009 Gold Award of Merit International/ Export Projects we were one of the five finalists in the magazine’s 2010 category Three Delta Towns Water Supply & Sanitation Private Business Awards for companies with revenues Project over AUD100 million • 2009 Silver Award of Highly Commended Water category Kingscliff Wastewater Treatment Plant & Awards Sustainable Living Centre Australia • 2009 Silver Award of Highly Commended Community and Urban Development category Redeveloping Community Alliance Contracting Excellence (ACE) Awards Site; ACT Former Schools Community Consultation • 2  010 Award for Excellence in Major Capital Projects Sugarloaf Pipeline Alliance • 2009 Silver Award of Highly Commended Environment category SouthWest 1 Enterprise Park & Berrinba ASI Steel Award Wetlands • Springfield Link Bridge, Horizon Alliance • 2009 Certificate of Recognition Energy & Resources Australian Institute of Landscape Architecture category Colongra Gas Pipeline awards (ACT) • 2009 Certificate of Recognition International/ Export • 2010 Design Award Casuarina Sands Recreational Projects category Indonesia Australia Specialised Upgrade Training Project Phase 111 • 2010 Planning Award Cotter Precinct Recreational • 2009 Certificate of Recognition Water category Project Options Report Analysis of Servicing Options for Kalkhalo Integrated Australian Public Works: Water Management Projects • 2009 National Public Works Medal for the Australian • 2009 Certificate of Recognition Environment category Public Works Project Southwest 1 Enterprise Park and Evaluating the Effect of Climate Change on River Redgum Berrinba Wetlands Project Communities 26 Australian Defence Force • 2009 Excellence Award for Environment and • 2010 Coin of Excellence in service for our work as Project Sustainability (NT) Ben Hammond Complex Managers and Contract Administrators for the Enhanced Redevelopment Stage 2 NT Land Force (ELF) Project; Stage 1 Blamey Barracks • 2009 Engineering Excellence Award (QLD) Sustainability Kapooka Military Area in Wagga Wagga, NSW category Water Matters Alliance (Cleveland Bay Cement Concrete & Aggregates Australia Wastewater Treatment Plant) • 2009 Commendation in the Domain Award Sturt Park • 2009 High Commendation Award (QLD) Project Shared Use Path (Broken Hill City Council) Management category – Water Matters Alliance (Cleveland Bay Wastewater Treatment Plant) Concrete Institute of Australia • 2009 Award for Excellence in Concrete Technology Frost and Sullivan: Category Burj Dubai • 2009 Asia-Pacific Innovation Excellence Award GHD Innovations Program • 2009 High Commendation in Engineering Projects Award for Excellence in Concrete New Perth to Bunbury Gold Coast Council Highway • 2009 Gold Coast Urban Design Award Special Mention Construction Skills Queensland (CSQ) 2009 (Helen Josephson Award) Pump Station SP68 Gold Training Excellence Awards Coast • Employer Commitment to Training – over AUD5M Award Ingenium The Horizon Alliance (of which GHD is a part) • 2009 Best Technical Presentation Clear Harbour Engineers Australia Alliance • 2009 Engineering Excellence Award (National) Sir William Institute of Public Works Engineering Australia Hudson Award for engineering excellence Three Delta (IPWEA) NSW Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project • 2010 Award for Recovering, Recycling and Reusing • 2009 Engineering Excellence Award (Victoria) Three Coffs Harbour Water Reclamation Plant Delta Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project National Landfill and Transfer Stations • 2009 Engineering Excellence Award (Victoria) Workplace • 2009 Excellence Awards Best Small Transfer Station in Innovation Category GHD Innovations Program Australia Wodonga Waste Transfer Station • 2009 Engineering Excellence Award (NSW) High Project Management Institute Commendation Environment and Heritage category • 2009 High Commendation Project Management Ecolibrium™ Mixed Waste Treatment Facility Achievement Award (QLD) Construction <100m category • 2009 Excellence Award (Newcastle) Kingscliff water Air Pollution Control System for the QLD Fire and treatment plant Rescue Service • 2009 Excellence Award (ACT) Cotter Dam (Geotechnics) • 2009 Project Management Achievement Award (National) Defence HQ Joint Operational Command Project • 2009 Excellence Award (WA) Infrastructure and Building Award as well as Management of Engineering Award Southern Gateway Alliance GHD 2010 Annual Review | 27 GHD 2010 Annual Review Public Relations Institute Middle East • 2009 Commendation Australia Golden Target Award Department of Transport Googong Dam Spillway Remediation • Gulf Traffic Award in Innovation, Transport Infrastructure SafeWork Australia Category – Highway Project – Performance Based • 2009 Best Workplace Health and Safety Management Maintenance Contract (PBMC) System – Private Sector New Zealand • 2009 Award for Best Workplace Heath and Safety New Zealand Planning Institute Management System in South Australia • 2009 New Zealand Planning Institute Best Practice Spatial Sciences Institute Awards, Clear Harbour Alliance The Motions South • 2009 QLD Spatial Excellence Award Resources and Sewer Separation Project, Auckland Environment Award South East QLD Koala Habitat Roading New Zealand Assessment and Mapping • Goughs Excellence Award for a Minor Road Project • 2009 QLD Spatial Excellence Award Land Titling and State Highway 60 Eureka Bend Reinstatement Development Award and Overall Excellence Award Blue Bridge Rail Overpass (3D Laser Scanning) USA Stormwater Victoria American Council of Engineering Companies • 2009 Masterplanning and Design Excellence Award of Arizona Kalkhalo Stormwater Harvest and Reuse Project • 2009 Engineering Excellence Grand Award Downtown Victorian Coastal Council Award Scottsdale Booster Station project, Scottsdale, Arizona • 2  010 Victorian Coastal Award for Excellence in the Arizona Masonry Guild Natural Environment category The Williamstown High • 2009 Honor Award Downtown Scottsdale Booster School Wetland Project Station project, Scottsdale, Arizona WA Australia Worksafe American Public Works Association (APWA) • 2  009 Platinum Certificate of Achievement for Arizona Chapter Occupational Health and Safety Southern • 2010 Public Works Project of the Year in the Environment Gateway Alliance (Less than $5 million) category) Downtown Scottsdale Booster Station project, Scottsdale, Arizona China McGraw Hill Asian Development Bank • Best of 2009 Award Southwest Contractor Downtown • 2010 Outstanding Achievement Award National Flood Scottsdale Booster Station project, Scottsdale, Arizona Management Strategy Study for China 28 Services • Air and Noise • Hydrogeology • Reliability Engineering • Airports • Industrial Water & Waste • Renewable Energy Management • Architecture • Risk Management • Instrumentation & Control • Asset/Facilities Management • Road Systems • Integrated Water Management • Bridges • Security • Intelligent Transport Systems • Climate Change • Spatial Sciences • Interior Design • Communication Systems • Stakeholder Consultation • Irrigation • Construction Management • Structural • Land Development • Contamination Assessment & • Tailings Remediation • Landscape Architecture • Tall Buildings • Dams • Marine • Training • Drafting • Materials Handling • Transport Planning & Traffic • Electrical Engineering-Building • Materials Technology Engineering • Electrical Engineering-Industrial • Minerals Processing • Tunnels • Env. IA & Approvals • Mining Engineering • Waste Management • Environmental Management • Natural Resources • Wastewater Collection Systems Systems & Audits • Pavement Engineering • Wastewater Treatment & Recycling • Food Processing • Planning • Water Efficiency • Forestry Management • Plant Engineering • Water Quality & Treatment • Geology • Power Delivery • Water Sciences • Geotechnical • Power Generation • Water Transmission & Distribution • HVAC • Project Controls • Waterways & Coastal • Hydraulics-Buildings • Project Management • Water & Wastewater Strategy & • Hydrocarbons Processing Planning • Quality Management Systems • Hydrocarbons Transportation • Urban Transport Policy & • Railways Economics To find out more about our services, visit www.ghd.com/services GHD 2010 Annual Review www.ghd.com 2009 Sustainability Report Contents 1 Executive message........................................................................................................................... 3 2 Scope of the report........................................................................................................................... 4 3 About GHD.......................................................................................................................................... 5 4 Governance and Accountability..................................................................................................... 9 5 Stakeholder engagement.............................................................................................................. 11 6 GHD’s Sustainability initiative...................................................................................................... 12 7 Performance..................................................................................................................................... 14 8 GRI Compliance............................................................................................................................... 32 2 1. Executive Message Des Whybird Ian Shepherd Delivering quality services in balance with the evolving needs of the environment and community is fundamental to our longterm performance. This Sustainability Report details GHD’s performance in the fiscal 2008/2009 year. It examines the social, environmental and economic pillars of our business. It also highlights our sustainability strategy and articulates our ongoing commitment. As a professional services company operating in the global markets of water, energy and resources, environment, property and buildings and transportation, GHD recognises the importance of sustainability to our clients’ businesses. To this end we continue to collaborate with our clients, offering solutions to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse emissions; increase water efficiency; protect biodiversity and become more responsive to community concerns. In terms of our environmental impact, we have made steps towards reducing our own footprint. We continue to engage with the communities in which we operate, to develop mutually beneficial outcomes and to manage sensitively the environmental impacts of our clients’ projects. Finally, our economic performance has been strong in a challenging year. In our journey to towards sustainability, we remain steadfast in our commitment to integrating economic, environmental and social considerations into every level of our business strategy. Our goal is to enhance our business success though our contribution to sustainable development. We hope you find this report useful and look forward to your feedback. Des Whybird Ian Shepherd Chairman CEO 2009 Sustainability Report | 3 2. Scope of the Report GHD’s first Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the C-level guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It covers the economic, social and environmental aspects of our business based on the fiscal year ending June 2009. We intend to continue reporting on our sustainability performance as part of the company’s broader annual reporting process. Context While the report is not externally verified, GHD has endeavoured to provide information in alignment with the GRI guidelines and the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008). Data in this report covers all GHD operations, unless stated otherwise. It addresses the GRI indicators either by performance and/or narrative that are considered to be material (and for which the data is available). Where a GHD office was not operational for the entire year, data was only included for the relevant period. Operations carried out by any companies acquired within the 2009 fiscal year are included following the date of purchase. Data Collection Data has been harvested from a variety of sources: • Global data management system (which includes our Environmental Management System) • 2009 financial information (audited by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu) • Greenhouse gas calculations conducted in accordance with the principles of the DCC NGA Factors, Greenhouse Gas Protocol, ISO 14064/14040 All monetary amounts are reported in Australian Dollars (AUD). All other measurements are provided using the International System of Units (SI) unless otherwise stated. Most numbers are rounded to provide an appropriate approximation as all that is required to determine / compare performance or the level of known accuracy. Where uncertainty is present, GHD has acknowledged these circumstances. Materiality Process Materiality (as defined by the GRI) was assessed from a managerial and stakeholder perspective in order to select the issues to be included in this report. The GRI materiality test involves an assessment of the significance of an organisation’s impact, and the importance of performance to stakeholders (i.e. influence). This test is applied to a range of social, environmental and economic indicators. Our analysis demonstrates that the most material indicators for GHD are economic, environmental, labour practices and society indicators. However, in line with the GRI Level C guidelines, GHD has broadened the report scope to include at least one aspect from each indicator category. 4 3. About GHD Who we are GHD is one of the world’s leading engineering, architecture and environmental consulting companies. Established in 1928, GHD employs more than 6000 people across five continents and serves clients in the global markets of water, energy and resources, environment, property and buildings, and transportation. Wholly-owned by its people, GHD is focused on client success. Our global network of engineers, architects, planners, scientists, project managers and economists collaborate to deliver sustainable outcomes for our clients and the community. Our core values of Teamwork, Respect and Integrity help create enduring relationships that deliver exceptional results. A member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, GHD is recognised for its commitment to sustainable development, safety and innovation. We care for the wellbeing of our people, communities and the environments in which we operate. GHD operates under a Practice Quality Management System, ISO 9001:2008 and an Environmental Management System, ISO 14001:2004 which are certified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance. The GHD Health and Safety Management System is currently in the process of certification to the international standard OHSAS 18001. Where we are Operating under a ‘one GHD’ collaborative business model, the company is located in 15 countries using a network of 100+ offices. 2009 Sustainability Report | 5 Our goal Our strategy Our To be a leader in the To Accomplish sustainability global market sectors More Together – by initiative of water, energy and collaborating across the To enhance business resources, environment, one GHD network and success through property and buildings, harnessing our clientour contribution to and transportation. centric culture. sustainable development. What we do Throughout our extensive global network, we serve government agencies, private clients and community groups in the following global market sectors. Our services include specific sustainability related offerings. Water Demand management / water efficiency, integrated water cycle management, wastewater recycling, sanitation, alternative sources and irrigation projects Energy and Energy efficiency / demand management, co-generation, fuel switching, renewable energy, smart grid Resources Environment Lifecycle assessment, EMS, project sustainability management, carbon management and climate change, pollution and waste management, environmental impact management, terrestrial and marine ecology Properties and Sustainable urban development and renewal, eco-industrial development, renewable energy strategies, green building design and retrofitting of commercial and industrial Buildings building projects Transportation Integrated transport planning, energy / greenhouse efficient transport options, assessment and design (rail, marine, aviation and road) 6 What we deliver We provide more than 70 services to investigate, plan, develop, design, build, maintain and improve all types of infrastructure and our environment. We also provide the full range of environmental and sustainability services to support the mission-critical nature of the defence sector and help improve the lives of developing communities around the world. Further information on how we incorporate sustainability in our services is set out in Section 6. Awards & Achievements • Ranked 42nd in the 2009 Top 150 Global Design Firms survey by Engineering News Record, and 53rd in the 2009 Top 200 International Design Firms • Ranked 19th in the 2009 Business Review Weekly Top 500 Private Companies listing • Achieved 3.5m hours Lost Time Injury (LTI) free • Received in excess of 47 awards for engineering, planning, and design excellence in our projects in Australia, New Zealand, the Middle East and the USA • Awarded high commendation by the Australian Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency GHD in 2009 • Expansion of our USA business to more than 300 people through strategic mergers with Rosewater Engineering, Stearns & Wheler, Arizona Engineering Company and CSA Engineering • Acquisition of Meyrick and Associates, Australian specialists in transport economics and infrastructure • Acquisition of the architectural business Jiang Wei in China • The establishment of representative offices in India and Papua New Guinea • New offices opened on the NSW Central Coast and Bairnsdale in Victoria 2009 Sustainability Report | 7 GHD-at-a-glance Our financial performance over the past year is fully detailed in our 2009 Annual Review which is available on our website. 2009 Revenue by Global Sector Statement of Revenue AUD millions Water Property & Buildings Energy & Resources Transportation Environment Water 22% Energy & Resources 17% Environment 10% Transportation 19% Property & Buildings 32% 8 4. Governance and Accountability For GHD, good governance means being responsible, transparent and acting ethically and with integrity. Solid foundations have been laid that guide the Board of Directors (Board) and facilitate our day-to-day operations. How we operate GHD Board of Directors Board Committees CEO Company Secretary Practice Management Group Operating Centres Ownership GHD is a limited liability company wholly owned by its employees. It applies sound governance principles with: • GHD’s company Constitution, Board Charter and Board Protocols • Board of Directors elected by and reporting to shareholders • Board Committees • Annual General Meeting of shareholders GHD Board The GHD Board of Directors provides governance and strategic direction through its charter, protocol and GHD’s constitution. Further information on the company’s corporate governance is set out in our 2009 Annual Review which is available on our website. 2009 Sustainability Report | 9 Practice Management Group GHD’s management structure is underpinned by the Practice Management Group (PMG). As the company’s executive management team, the PMG is empowered by the GHD board to plan, manage and lead our business. Comprised of the Chief Executive Officer and General Managers, the PMG is responsible for: • Implementing strategy • Business performance management • Systems, processes and policies • People, culture and values • Succession, leadership development • Business plans and budget Culture GHD has a culture that encourages integrity, contribution and the realisation of potential. The company has implemented an Integrity Management System that keeps track of the Code of Conduct, values, missions and principles related to its performance. Code of Conduct GHD’s Code of Conduct establishes our behaviour expectations and conduct requirements. GHD endeavours to comply with the laws of all the countries in which we operate. Values GHD embraces the values that have sustained the company since inception. Our values guide how each of us think, act and feel. They define the professional and personal standards that can be expected of GHD. They direct our business strategy and are the pillars of our corporate culture. Teamwork Respect Integrity We are connected We care We keep our word We collaborate within We value all individuals We embrace honesty our global community and nurture both and trustworthiness by helping and internal and external through professional supporting each other relationships through and ethical behaviour to achieve personal, listening and with our clients, client and company understanding communities and goals ourselves. 10 5. Stakeholder Engagement GHD’s stakeholders are the groups that are either affected by, or affect our operations. By engaging and collaborating with these groups, we aim to achieve positive outcomes from our activities. Our stakeholders and activities in 2009 Stakeholder Group Engagement Activities Employees • People Survey GHD recognises that our people are the cornerstone • The GHD Business School of our success and fosters a culture that encourages • Performance Reviews continuous improvement through collaboration • Graduate and Young Professional Development Clients • Client Care Program, including client visits and satisfaction survey Based on our client-centric approach, GHD provides the technical experience, understanding and strategic • Client Functions thinking needed to add value to solve our clients’ • Providing client bulletins on topical subjects (eg challenges and produce effective outcomes climate change) Community • GHD in the Community program – Sponsorship of community groups, pro-bono services and funding of GHD cares for the wellbeing of the communities in which projects in disadvantaged countries we operate, and those that are affected (directly or indirectly) by our operations • Participation in local community based organisations by GHD people 2009 Sustainability Report | 11 6. GHD’s Sustainability Initiative “Improving human wellbeing without compromising the environment over the long term.” GHD’s definition of sustainability Sustainability is one of four inter-related strategic initiatives of the company, together with Innovation, Health and Safety and the GHD Business School. Our Sustainability and Environment Policy provides the overarching direction for this initiative. Sustainability at GHD The sustainability initiative has five themes, each of which has its own objective, which collectively contribute to our goal of ‘Enhancing business success through our contribution to sustainable development’. Governance • Our sustainability initiative is governed through our Sustainability Advisory Group (SAG), which is chaired by a member of the company’s Practice Management Group • GHD’s largest and most mature operations are Australia and New Zealand and each have their own Sustainability and Environment Committees, responsible for local implementation of the initiatives • GHD’s Environmental Management System (EMS) helps us to embed our Sustainability Initiative into our operations by providing a framework of guidelines and procedures. It also incorporates our environmental management program, which tracks our consumption of energy, water, waste and materials Affiliations & GHD seeks to advance sustainability through membership of: Partnerships • The World Business Council for Sustainable Development • The Global Foundation • The Australian Green Infrastructure Council • The Green Building Councils of Australia, New Zealand, the USA and the UAE People • Training programs are developed and implemented with the GHD Business School. • GHD’s discipline based Service Lines use the company’s online Technical Forums to disseminate sustainability information and resources 12 Services • GHD aims to integrate sustainability with our complete range of services in all markets. The Project Impact Assessment (PIA) is a company-wide procedure, which seeks to identify the potential social and environmental impacts of our projects and devise improvement strategies. This process is in development and will be complemented by Sustainability Protocols. To date we have completed and issued a GHD Green Building Protocol • Our specialist sustainability and climate change teams provide corporate advisory, climate change, project sustainability and stakeholder consultation services to clients Communications • We aim to continually communicate with our people and our clients about sustainability and climate change topics, our policies, our initiatives and resources • We use World Environment Day to promote local activity as a focus for our sustainability program generally, and Earth Hour for issues associated with climate change • We contribute to local and national debates about sustainability and climate change issues, policies and government programs as a means of communicating our knowledge and commitment to sustainability • In 2009 we launched our Sustainable Living Portal an online resource for our people to access locally available information about housing design, energy management, transport, water efficiency, waste and community sustainability programs 2009 Sustainability Report | 13 7. Performance The following indicators are addressed according to the Global Reporting Index Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and are intended to provide a basis for year-on-year comparison of performance. Social: Human Rights (HR) GRI HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. REPORTED: IDENTIFICATION & MANAGEMENT OF CHILD SAFETY / WELLBEING ENCOUNTERED IN GHD’S INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE (IDA) PROJECTS Goal To develop a GHD Group Child Protection Policy (CPP) to manage the safety and wellbeing of 2008-2009 children affected by our International Development Assistance (IDA) work. Performance In the later portion of 2008-2009, GHD drafted a CPP for use in offices which conduct IDA work. 2008-2009 Social: Society (SO) GRI SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. REPORTED: GHD’S POLICY FOR POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS Goal To update and maintain GHD’s policy regarding Political Party Donations (PPD). 2008-2009 Performance We reviewed our PPD Policy during 2009 to ensure that it remains current and relevant. The policy is 2008-2009 applicable to all GHD staff (including contract and casual employees). GHD’s PPD Policy is to remain impartial with respect to political parties, and therefore this policy does not permit donations or payments to any political parties except through Political Action Committees. This policy does not preclude, however, attendance at political lunches, dinners and other activities in the general course of conducting government business provided the cost is an appropriate commercial rate. 14 GRI S01 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. REPORTED: GHD’S APPROACH TO MANAGING THE IMPACT OF OUR OPERATIONS/ PROJECTS ON COMMUNITIES Goal To establish the Project Impact Assessment process to identify and manage project impacts 2008-2009 (including on communities). Performance As the major sustainability impacts arising from GHD are within our business related services, a core 2008-2009 commitment of our Sustainability Initiative is that we assist our clients to manage the sustainability impacts of their business and projects. Our primary mechanism to achieve this is the Project Impact Assessment process, which highlights and prioritises community impacts. GHD’s community specialists assist our clients and technical teams to manage consultation and engagement tasks for relevant projects. S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. REPORTED: MONETARY COST AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS/REGULATIONS Performance GHD has not received any significant monetary fines or sanctions for non-compliance with laws or 2008-2009 regulations related to matters covered by this GRI indicator. 2 The term ‘child’ applies to all persons under the age of 15 years or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling (whichever is higher), except in countries where a minimum age of 14 year might apply. Exceptional countries are specified in the ILP Convention 138 and 182, which describe a young worker as above the applicable minimum working age and younger than 18 years of age. 3 In accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, ‘child’ means every human being below the age of 18 years unless under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier. 2009 Sustainability Report | 15 Social : Product Responsibility (PR) GRI PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. REPORT: GHD HEALTH AND SAFETY SYSTEM REVIEW PROCESSES Goal To implement a health and safety internal review procedure to specify the life cycle stages that require 2008-2009 reviews by certain staff members. Performance In February 2009, GHD implemented a Health and Safety Internal Review Procedure which is to be 2008-2009 conducted at both a GHD local operating centre (OC) level and a project level. The procedure sets out the roles of GHD staff to: -R  eview and monitor project inductions, monitor job safety systems and review jobs at key job completion life cycle stages R eview job safety plans each month and undertake job safety inspections GHD internally audits the implementation of the newly implemented procedure. We have also put in place a procedure to conduct annual reviews of the GHD Health and Safety System to gauge compliance against the requirements of the International Standard OHSAS 18001 and assess the continued relevance of GHD’s Health and Safety Management System and supporting strategies (e.g. GHD Health and Safety Legal Registers, Hazard Guides and Checklists). Global OCs undertake annual compliance audits and also an OC self assessment. Corporately we undertake a compliance audit of each OC on an annual basis. Current performance results are not available, as this procedure has only been recently implemented. However GHD have a number of goals in place which will be monitored. 16 GRI PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. REPORTED: GHD CLIENT CARE PROGRAM PROCESS AND RESULTS Goal GHD has a Client Care Program (CCP) in place to encourage ongoing focus on relationships and 2008-2009 service by having formal mechanisms in place to ‘check on the health’ of our relationships. As part of the CCP, a list of GHD clients is compiled approximately every two months the clients associated with these projects are given the choice of providing GHD feedback in the form of either an online, telephone or written survey. GHD’s goal is initially • To achieve the maximum response rate to the survey • To achieve the highest average feedback score (to indicate the client was very satisfied with GHD). GHD also appoints Client Relationship Managers (CRM) who are responsible for closely managing GHD’s overall engagement and involvement with the client including an understanding of their needs/ requirements and their satisfaction with GHD’s performance. 2009 Sustainability Report | 17 Performance In 2008-2009, 1392 surveys were distributed (83 percent of these were within Australian operations). 2008-2009 In total, 22 percent of these surveys were responded to. The surveys formally gauge the extent of a client’s satisfaction with GHD’s services and project delivery based on the categories shown below. Clients rank their level of satisfaction on a 1-5 scale (1 being very dissatisfied to 5 being very satisfied). On average GHD’s client service feedback ranged from satisfied to very satisfied (or between scores of 4 & 5). In 2008-2009, and 2007-2008 the overall attitude of GHD staff to the projects/services has been scored most highly by clients, whilst respect to timeliness of deliverables was rated the lowest. Category Level of client satisfaction with GHD’s service & Average Average No. project delivery 2007-8 2008-9 1 Effectiveness of solutions 4.31 4.06 2 Standard of documentation & advice 4.15 4.14 3 Ongoing communications 4.19 4.15 4 Overall competency 4.24 4.23 5 Services meeting expectations 4.01 3.99 6 Attitudes 4.47 4.40 7 Timeliness of deliverables 3.89 3.93 8 Systems & processes in managing delivery 3.94 4.01 9 Management & coordination of teams 4.09 4.11 Total Averages 4.15 4.10 The results of the surveys and client care visits are presented bi-monthly for GHD management groups. Scores of 3 trigger minor action and scores of less than 3 trigger major actions. In addition, 66 percent of clients surveys stated they would provide a reference for a GHD project (30 percent of those surveyed did not answer this question). 18 Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work (LA) GRI LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region REPORTED: BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE AND REGION ACROSS GHD Performance As at June 2009, GHD’s total number of employees across the globe is 6,612. Of these, 5,774 are 2008-2009 permanent full and part time employees, and 838 are casual, contractor and work experience people. Those people that are employed by GHD as casual, contractor or work experience type represent 13 percent of total people employed. Break down of the total 6,612 people across the globe. Mid dle Eas Aust/NZ (including t 9% business services), Am eri ca & 71% Eu rop e 8% % 12 ia As 2009 Sustainability Report | 19 GRI LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region. REPORTED: GHD HEALTH AND SAFETY PRACTICES AND PERFORMANCE Goal As set out in GHD’s Health and Safety Policy, the company’s goals are to: 2008-2009 Minimise injury and ill health Meet or exceed our moral, legal and other health and safety obligations, including those additional obligations placed upon us by our clients Implement continual improvement strategies in our drive towards risk minimisation and lasting health and safety benefits to our stakeholders. Performance GHD records lost days as an injury or illness sustained at work that results in lost time injuries (LTI) 2008-2009 from work for at least one complete core scheduled working day (or 7.5 hours). The company also records Medical Treatment Injuries which are defined as injuries sustained at work requiring formal off-site medical treatment. GHD has compiled the injury/illness frequency rates (per one million hours worked) with results shown below. GHD passed a significant milestone of achieving 3.5 million hours without a reportable LTI . Performance Indicators Frequency rate Medical Treatment Injury Frequency Rate 2.28 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.59 Total Frequency Rate 2.87 GHD captures the occurrence of ‘minor’ or first aid incidents and undertakes investigations but does not currently include First Aid Injuries in frequency rate calculations. We do not capture the history of occupational disease, and lost days because the frequency of this type of incident is low. GHD has no means of calculating the number of independent contractors for which GHD is liable for onsite. No workplace incident has resulted in a fatality of a fullor part-time GHD staff member. 20 GRI LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. REPORTED: PERFORMANCE REVIEW PROCESS Goal Each full and part time employee should complete a formal performance review annually. 2008-2009 Performance GHD’s People Team automatically creates a Performance Review Document (PRD) for 100 percent of 2008-2009 fulland part-time staff each year. 5189 PRD documents were created for full/part time staff this year, of which 92 percent (or 4774) of the PRD’s were completed. 2009 Sustainability Report | 21 GRI LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. REPORTED: A DIVERSE GHD CULTURE – EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL Goal Compliance with GHD’s Equal Employment Opportunity policy 2008-2009 Performance Approximately 30 percent of all GHD’s staff are females. There was an increase in the number of women in 2008-2009 professional positions in 2009. The breakdown of gender by employment type is shown below. These figures reflect the numbers of staff within the employment category as at 30 June 2009 (not FTE). GHD was highly commended by the Australian Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency for its approach to and achievements in equal opportunity employment. ‘Women in GHD’ was established as a networking forum to encourage, support and promote opportunities for women in GHD. In September 2009, GHD shareholders elected the first female to the GHD board of directors. GHD’s Staff Recruitment Policy Guidelines states that: age, sex or other personal features are not to be included as selection criteria (such criteria is unlawful under anti-discrimination laws and has no bearing on a candidate’s ability to perform the job). 22 Environmental (EN) GRI EN1 Material used by weight and volume. REPORTED: MATERIALS PURCHASED BY GHD FOR INTERNAL USE & USED IN PROJECTS Performance As part of our Environment Management Systems (EMS), GHD has a guidance document (EOP01) to 2008-2009 assist materials purchase. We do not have a specific sustainable procurement policy. GHD’s Project Impact Assessment (PIA) process includes consideration of sustainable materials within our projects where possible. GRI EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. REPORTED: OPPORTUNITIES FOR GHD TO PURCHASE MATERIALS THAT CONTAIN RECYCLED CONTENT Performance Purchase of recycled content materials is largely restricted to printing paper and is presently highly 2008-2009 variable across our operating businesses. GRI EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source REPORTED: GHD’S FUEL PURCHASE AND NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION Performance Fuel usage is a small portion of energy used by GHD (approximately 58 TJ registered for fuel use 2008-2009 within hire cars, personal vehicles and fuel cards) this data is derived from the Greenhouse Gas Inventory. Less than 1 percent of this fuel consumption is from a renewable energy source / ethanol enriched fuel (E10 Unleaded). Only two of GHD’s offices (Mt Gambier and York) register use of natural gas as a source of energy (consuming just 0.09 TJ of energy). GRI EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. REPORTED: ELECTRICITY CONSUMED BY GHD OPERATIONS Performance Our GHG Inventory 2008-2009 recorded 42,754 GJ of purchased office electricity for 6059 FTE, an 2008-2009 average of 7.1 GJ/FTE. 2009 Sustainability Report | 23 GRI EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. REPORTED: ENERGY EFFICIENCY / RENEWABLE ENERGY SERVICES PROVIDED BY GHD Performance GHD’s services include the identification of energy efficiency opportunities (EEO) for our clients in the 2008-2009 water, energy, resource, industrial and building sectors, including to clients in Australia liable under the EEO and energy reporting legislation (NGERS). GHD also provides design and related services in renewable energy with projects in wind, solar, hydropower and biomass. GHD’s Project Impact Assessment process promotes the consideration of energy efficiency and renewable energy within our projects where possible. GRI EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved REPORTED: GHD’S ELECTRICITY – CONSUMPTION REDUCTION, EFFICIENCY & RENEWABLE SOURCES Goal • Include in GHD’s Property Management Manual that, wherever available, building energy 2008-2009 efficiency ratings should be considered in selecting leased office premises – for example in Australian offices, buildings should have a minimum Green Star Rating of 4 (in accordance with the Green Building Council of Australia) • Develop Office Energy Guidelines as a basis for operating centres to prepare Office Energy Plans • Prepare / implement Office Energy Plans in major operating locations Performance In 2008-2009, the Green Star building ratings were considered prior to the relocation of three GHD 2008-2009 offices (which included Newcastle, Geelong and Canberra offices), which resulted in selecting premises with Green Star Ratings between 4 and 5. As part of GHD’s internal Sustainability Initiative, the Office Energy Guidelines were prepared (May 2009) to assist offices prepare Office Energy Plans. Electricity consumption increased marginally in total but decreased on a per Full Time Equivalent (FTE) staff basis. 2007/08 2008/09 Increase / Decrease Electricity (MWh) 11,156 11,876 6.5% per FTE (kWh/FTE) 2,041 1,960 4.0% 24 GRI EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source. GRI EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. GRI EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. REPORTED: WATER CONSUMPTION INCLUDING CONSERVATION, REUSE AND RECYCLED INITIATIVES PLUS ASSOCIATED SEWAGE DISCHARGE QUALITY/LOCATION FOR GHD’S OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS Performance As GHD buildings are generally leased, GHD does not have direct control of fittings and fixtures 2008-2009 which influence water efficiency, nor receive data associated directly with our tenancies. Accordingly our water / wastewater data is not sufficiently accurate to report at this time. However, in 2009 three of GHD’s Australian offices moved to premises with Green Star ratings in line with our intentions to progressively move to more energy and water efficient offices. One of the major global markets in which GHD provides services is the water/sewage market, by providing sustainable services through efficient and alternative practices. GRI EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. REPORTED: BIODIVERSITY CONSIDERATIONS WITHIN GHD PROJECTS & FOR GHD OPERATIONS Goal GHD’s Sustainability and Environmental Policy states that GHD aims to comply “with all legal and 2008-2009 other environmental requirements, including the protection of biodiversity”. Performance GHD has the following capabilities which consider biodiversity value within GHD projects: 2008-2009 • Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and approvals teams which consider a range of impacts arising from clients’ projects including biodiversity factors • The use of our PIA process (discussed above) which promotes biodiversity protection issues to be incorporated in our clients’ projects As part of GHD’s Environmental Management System (EMS), processes are in place to identify the environmental impacts of our work. Controls to mitigate these impacts are established and audited to ensure GHD meets its environmental obligations and minimises any negative environmental impacts. 2009 Sustainability Report | 25 GRI EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by weight GRI EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight REPORTED: GHD’S GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INVENTORY 2008/09 Goal • To improve the accuracy and completeness of reporting GHD’s GHG Inventory 2008-2009 • To promote emission reductions with a particular focus on office energy and company travel Performance GHD has completed GHG Inventories over the past three years. During this time, we have continued 2008-2009 to improve the accuracy of the GHG Inventory. Following an external audit of the 2008 inventory the GHG inventory reporting boundary was extended and broadened. All units in t CO2-e 2007-2008 2008-2009 Direct GHG Emissions Scope 1 260 309 Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 8,784 9,500 Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 3 14,296 15,756 Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 & 3 23,080 25,256 Scope 1-3 23,340 25,565 Allowance for omitted items 2,334 1,243 Total Emissions 25,674 26,808 FTE 5,477 6,059 Scope 1 / FTE 0.05 0.06 Scope 2 / FTE 1.60 1.73 Scope 3 / FTE 2.61 2.88 Scope 1-3 / FTE 4.26 4.22 Allowance / FTE 0.43 0.21 Total Emissions 4.69 4.42 In 2009 the three largest sources of GHD’s GHG emissions were office electricity (41%), flights (24%) and hotels (14%). 26 GRI EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. REPORTED: GHD’S EFFORTS TO MINIMISE GHG EMISSIONS WITHIN OUR OPERATIONS Goal Establish procedures to reduce GHG emissions with an emphasis on electricity and travel. 2008-2009 • Preparation of Guidelines setting future GHG emission reduction targets to facilitate the subsequent preparation of Office Energy Plans (OEP) and Travel Plans by operating centres. Performance GHD has launched the OEP guidelines and OEP preparation (including energy audits) have 2008-2009 commenced for the most established GHD offices. Although guidelines for preparing OC Green Travel Plans are in draft format, some operating centres have plans under preparation. The inventory set out above indicates a decrease in emissions per FTE from 2007/08 of 6 percent. The latest inventory includes some new sources which have added 703 t CO2-e to our reported emissions. The emission reductions achieved are 6 percent if a direct comparison is made with the 2007/08 inventory. GRI EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. REPORTED: GHD’S WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE RECOVERY Goal GHD’s Sustainability and Environmental Policy states that GHD aims to “improve waste management 2008-2009 practices”. Performance As GHD is a decentralised company with leased offices of various sizes and resources, it has been 2008-2009 difficult to establish a reliable and common waste measurement regime. Accordingly at this time we are not able to accurately quantify waste data. We have estimated waste production as 84 kg per FTE based on industry data from Australia for office based activities, which translates to 509 t for GHD as a whole. 2009 Sustainability Report | 27 GRI EN26 Initiatives to mitigate impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation REPORTED: DEMONSTRATING SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN GHD’S CLIENT PROJECTS Goal GHD’s Sustainability and Environment Policy states: 2008-2009 In our project work we aim to: • Evaluate and improve the social and environmental performance of projects over which we have control or influence • Offer solutions that improve sustainability outcomes for both our clients and their stakeholders. Performance The central initiative for delivery of our policy commitment is the Project Impact Assessment (PIA) 2008-2009 process, described in Section 6 and above. The PIA procedure seeks to identify the potential social and environmental impacts of our projects and devise improvement strategies. In addition to the PIA, our Environmental Management System (EMS) processes identify the environmental impacts of our work. Controls to mitigate these impacts are established and audited to ensure GHD meets its environmental obligations and minimises any negative environmental impacts. Our ‘innovations’ initiative also encourages sustainability related innovation in our projects. An example includes the developing of a unique shading device for the outside of tall buildings to reduce electricity use in buildings by 30 percent. The mobile shade follows the sun’s path throughout the day, and incorporates photovoltaic cells that produce enough electricity to power the movement of the shade as well as contribute to 10 percent of the buildings remaining energy requirements. Other examples of innovative GHD projects are available by visiting: http://www.ghd.com/global/about-us/ innovation/our-innovations/ 28 Economic Indicators (EC) For more details on our financial performance over the past year, please see our 2009 Annual Review. GRI EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. REPORTED: ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Performance Increase (18%) in gross revenue (AUD 1.1bn) 2008-2009 Increase (37%) in net assets (AUD 151.6bn) GRI EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. REPORTED: FINANCIAL & OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR GHD DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Goal Implementation of a Climate Change Business Plan; incorporation of climate change (CC) in project 2008-2009 planning; development of a climate change risk manual. Performance 2008-2009: In 2008-2009 GHD identified and implemented a number of initiatives to manage the potential risks of climate change for GHD as a company and for GHD’s clients: • The Project Impact Assessment (PIA) was launched and used within GHD’s established core business areas. It evaluates the social, economic and environmental impacts of GHD’s projects and devised project improvement strategies, including climate change and greenhouse gas mitigation and impacts • Launch of new Climate Change Service Line to develop business in GHG abatement and CC risk adaptation 2009 Sustainability Report | 29 GRI EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement. REPORTED: THE IMPACT OF GHD’S TECHNICAL SERVICES ON INFRASTRUCTURE FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT Goal • Contribution to sustainable development through the provision of technical consulting services to 2008-2009 infrastructure projects • Use of the GHD in the Community to provide funds and skills for projects in disadvantaged communities across the world Performance Commercial Engagements: As an international professional technical services company, GHD’s 2008-2009 commercial services include the planning, design and construction supervision of water, energy, communications and transport infrastructure. These projects included the undertaking of a range of International Development Assistance (IDA) work. Pro-bono Engagements: Through GHD in the Community we continue to use GHD’s in-house skills to provide pro-bono services and support. In 2009 these services were extended to provide: • Safe drinking water & community education in Tanzania • Construction of children’s playground in a hospital in Hanoi • Environmental damage prevention following the Victorian bushfires in February 2009 • Initial response assistance to the oil spill off Moreton Island in Queensland, Australia • Provision of access/landscaping design services for Northcott disability services, Sydney, Australia 30 8. GRI Compliance GHD has used the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as a basis for compiling this Sustainability Report. We have self declared our Sustainability Report to qualify with a Level C report. Reliability While the GHD Sustainability Report is not audited externally verified this year, we have endeavoured to report in keeping with the GRI Reporting content and the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) via: Inclusivity GHD has determined which indicators are material to GHD (as an organisation and projects) via input from a range the range of key stakeholders being clients, employees. The Sustainability Report has resulted in a number of goals, or commitments under each indicator to ensure that GHD as an organisation has adequately demonstrated aspirational progress as a result of identified material areas by key stakeholders. Sustainability Context GHD’s key stakeholders have determined which are the most material indicators. These are reported with priority as the information was available. Some of the remaining indicators are also addressed to enable the report to deliver a balanced view of GHD’s performance and future goals. Completeness GHD has considered the voice (by survey) and requirements of a number of key stakeholders when determining the material indicators to report. It is considered that the identification and preliminary reporting of GHD’s performance on these material issues will enable GHD to expand and improve performance in future years. Balance GHD has reported on indicators considered to be material, where information is available and/or recorded by GHD irrespective of GHD’s associated performance being negative or positive. Comparability GHD has reported indicators to enable comparison as appropriate, both over time within GHD and as a comparison with other similar companies. Accuracy GHD is reporting accurately to the best of our ability. Where uncertainties or unknowns are present these are stated. Timeliness The reporting period was the 2009 fiscal year. Clarity GHD has clearly stated the information reported within the Report. 2009 Sustainability Report | 31 www.ghd.com
