Environmental and Social Report 2010 Contents Compiling This Report ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・002 Sharp and the Environment Sharp and Society Top Message・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・003 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・029 Objectives and Achievements in the ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・080 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) ・・・・・・・・・・・・005 Social Dimension of CSR Environmental Objectives and Achievements ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・030 Corporate Vision ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・007 Mass Balance ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・032 ■ For Customers Offering Products and Services Special Feature Environmental Accounting ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・033 ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・083 That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Aiming to Achieve a Green Society・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・008 ■ Technologies ■ For Business Partners Special Focus Developing Unique Environmental Technologies ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・034 Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers and Dealers ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・090 1. GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational!・ ・・ ・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・012 ■ Products ■ For Shareholders and Investors 2. Environmental Protection and Community Service in Indonesia ・ ・・ ・014 Developing Products and Devices with ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・041 Appropriate Return of Profits and Information Disclosure ・・・・・094 High Environmental Performance 3. Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity ・ ・・・・・ ・・ ・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・016 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・051 ■ For Employees ■ Operations Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace ・・・・・・・・・096 Management Promoting Environmental Sustainability Management ・・・・・・・・054 ■ For Local Communities Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management ・・・017 Raising the Level of Environmental Performance in Factories 057 Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen ・・・・・・・・・・104 Corporate Governance / Internal Control ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・018 Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices 061 System to Promote CSR Activities / Risk Management・・・・・・・020 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・063 Honors from Third Parties ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・110 Compliance ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・024 Minimizing and Recycling Waste ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・067 Outline of the Sharp Group ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・112 Effectively Using Water Resources ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・070 Independent Assurance Report ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・114 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories ・・・・・・・・・・・・071 Reducing Environmental Impacts in ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・073 Distribution and Packaging About the Cover ■ Relationships Conceptual rendering of GREEN FRONT SAKAI (when completed). GREEN FRONT SAKAI is a state-of-the-art, Promoting Environmental Communication・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・075 environmentally advanced manufacturing complex that mass-produces energy-saving LCD panels and Boundary of Environmental Performance Data,・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・077 energy-creating solar cells. See pages 12 and 13 for details. Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 001 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Compiling This Report ■ Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010, 001 Contents and System for Information Disclosure Annual Environmental Sharp Environmental 002 Compiling This Report Information on Sharp’s efforts toward corporate social responsibility (CSR), particularly and Social Report, and Social Report 2010 Booklet the environmental and social dimensions of CSR is made available in the following Summary Version Digest 003 Top Message three formats to meet the needs of various stakeholders. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Annual Environmental and Social Report, Summary Version 007 Corporate Vision This report outlines the highlights of Sharp’s CSR efforts during fiscal 2009 in a highly readable, easy-to-understand way, and is available in hardcopy form as well as being Annual Environmental 008 Special Feature posted to the Sharp website as a downloadable PDF file. and Social Report, Sharp Environmental Detailed Version PDF and Social Report 2010 012 Special Focus This report Annual Environmental and Social Report, Detailed Version This report 017 Management This detailed report and associated data relating to Sharp’s CSR efforts in fiscal 2009 are divided into four sections: Special Feature and Special Focus, Management, 029 Sharp and the Environment Sharp and the Environment, and Sharp and Society. In addition, this version is not made available in printed hardcopy form because of environmental considerations, 080 Sharp and Society Sharp Social & but rather is posted on the Sharp website as a downloadable PDF file. Website Environmental Web 110 Honors from Third Parties Relevant information posted to the Sharp website is indicated by this icon. Activities website 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Website 114 Independent Assurance Report The Sharp website will be redesigned to make the browsing experience smoother and provide better access to the detailed version (this report document), supplementary data, and the latest information. Sharp Social & Environmental Activities website ■ Referenced Guidelines http://sharp-world.com/corporate/eco/ • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Version), Ministry of the Environment, Japan • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (2006, Japanese), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment, Japan ■ Period and Items Covered Environmental Reporting Guidelines content index, GRI content index Period covered: Fiscal 2009 (April 2009 to March 2010) ■ Scheduled Publication Date for Next Report However, some actual facts prior to and after this period, as well as subsequent policies, objectives, and plans are also included. September 2011 (published annually since 1999) Coverage: ■ Inquiries Sharp Corporation, along with its domestic and overseas subsidiaries and affiliates. Sharp Corporation See page 77 for the boundary of environmental performance data and pages 78 and 22-22 Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8522, Japan 79 for the calculation standards for environmental performance indices. E-mail: eco-info@sharp.co.jp Environmental Planning Department, Environmental Protection Group Tel: +81-6-6625-0438 Fax: +81-6-6625-0153 Planning Department, CSR Promotion Group Tel: +81-6-6625-1167 Fax: +81-6-6625-1274 002 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Top Message Contributing to Achieving a Green Society by 001 Contents Providing Solar Power and Energy-Efficient Products 002 Compiling This Report on a Global Basis Based on Proprietary Technologies 003 004 Top Message and Original Product Engineering 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 017 Management 029 Sharp and the Environment 080 Sharp and Society 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group GREEN FRONT SAKAI (conceptual rendering) 114 Independent Assurance Report Katsuhiko Machida, Chairman Mikio Katayama, President Sharp’s Commitment to Solar Cells Recognized With the Goal to Be an Eco-Positive Company, Sharp Is with an IEEE Milestone*1 Expanding Its Global Efforts to Contribute to the Environment Recently, Sharp Corporation’s achievements in the commercialization and Sharp has established two business visions: “Contribute to the world through industrialization of solar cells from 1959 to 1983 have been recognized as an IEEE environmentand healthconscious business, focusing on energy-saving and Milestone, an award given by the IEEE, the world’s largest professional association for energy-creating products” and “Contribute to a ubiquitous society*2 with one-of-a-kind electrical, electronics, information, and telecommunications engineering. LCDs.” In terms of its corporate activities as a whole, Sharp has defined its corporate vision as being an “Eco-Positive Company,” the ideal state Sharp aims to achieve. Whenever Sharp founder Tokuji Hayakawa spoke of the future, he would begin by citing the potential of solar energy. He once said, “If we could invent a way to make “Eco-Positive Company” means a company that works with all stakeholders in creating electricity using the unlimited light of the sun, what it would contribute to humanity solutions that have a positive impact on the environment. Sharp is pursuing an would be immense.” Eco-Positive Strategy aimed at making this a reality. This strategy has four aspects: Technologies, Products, Operations, and Relationships, and Sharp is proactively Our predecessors at Sharp, starting with our founder, began researching solar cells deploying this strategy on a global scale as the basis of its efforts toward the 51 years ago, and with a large measure of ingenuity and many creative ideas, they environment. succeeded in mass-producing them four years later. From that day forward, even when solar cell applications were limited to lighthouses and space satellites, our Examples of successes of this strategy in fiscal 2009 include commercializing the LED predecessors continued their unceasing R&D efforts, working for the stable AQUOS LCD TV and LED lighting products, which deliver significant energy savings, generation of electricity in harsh environments. That dedication earned high praise starting mass production of blue LED chips, re-using a total of 5,050 tons of used from the IEEE. plastic recycled based on proprietary Sharp technology, achieving targets for percentage of net sales for Super Green Products and Devices for the fifth straight year, achieving The dream of contributing to the future of humanity that our predecessors laid out, Super Green Factory status for 24 plants in Japan and abroad, curbing greenhouse gas and the spirit of creativity vigorously pushing them forward to make that dream come emissions and reducing discharges of waste, etc. for the Sharp Group as a whole, and true, form the DNA of Sharp, and has most assuredly been passed down even today. starting operations at its LCD panel and solar cell plants at GREEN FRONT SAKAI. *1 The IEEE Milestone, established in 1983, honors significant technological innovations in the *2 A “ubiquitous society” refers to how the whole of society will be connected through the rapid areas of electrical, electronics, information, and telecommunications engineering that have 003 development of IT infrastructure and networks will always be accessible to users. contributed to the betterment of society and the development of industry. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Top Message 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 004 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Propagating Product Manufacturing That Contributes to Fulfilling Social Responsibilities as a Member of the Achieving a Green Society to Countries Around the World International Community Based on Its Business Philosophy 007 Corporate Vision from GREEN FRONT SAKAI and Business Creed of “Sincerity and Creativity” 008 Special Feature GREEN FRONT SAKAI is an environmentally advanced manufacturing complex that The balance of power in the international community has undergone a tremendous brings together the world’s most advanced technologies and knowledge, with the change in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers. In addition, the need to shift 012 Special Focus goal of making products befitting the green society to come. to a green society dedicated to preserving the global environment is becoming more 017 urgent. Management Sharp has constructed an LCD panel plant that employs 10th-generation glass substrates, the first in the world to do so, and a solar cell plant with a maximum In the midst of a rapidly changing business environment, Sharp is focusing on 029 Sharp and the Environment production capacity of 1 GW per year. The former became operational in October promoting business activities that contribute to development of society by making the 2009, and the latter went into operation in March 2010. With the participation of many achievement of the aforementioned visions its goal, while at the same time ensuring 080 Sharp and Society leading companies spanning multiple fields, Sharp is building a revolutionary that the Sharp Group as a whole fulfills its social responsibility as a member of the 110 Honors from Third Parties production system with low environmental impact by gathering together their international community. knowledge and expertise. Sharp is moving ahead with global efforts, taking into account the expectations of and 112 Outline of the Sharp Group In addition, Sharp has begun working with Osaka Prefecture University to carry out requests from stakeholders, including strengthening its management system, which 114 Independent Assurance Report joint research at GREEN FRONT SAKAI on plant cultivation and waste recycling, with comprises corporate governance and compliance, product safety and customer the goal of creating new technologies and generating new knowledge that will satisfaction activities, return of profits to shareholders, human resource development contribute to the coming era. and workplace health and safety, and social contribution activities. In addition, Sharp will continue to support the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Up to now, Sharp has constructed plants for front-end processes (initial fabrication related to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, which it joined and sub-assembly) for LCD panels and solar cells in Japan, but in the future, Sharp in June of last year, and strengthen related policy measures. intends to make GREEN FRONT SAKAI the mother factory that serves as a model for building plants in consuming regions overseas in cooperation with leading local By building on its foundation of manufacturing and technological competence, companies. Sharp has already begun production projects for LCD panels in China Sharp’s aim in the years to come is to fulfill its proper social responsibility and become and for solar cells in Europe, and will develop product engineering and manufacturing a corporate group that has earned the trust of society based on its business for “local production for local consumption” on a global basis that will contribute to philosophy and business creed of “Sincerity and Creativity.” the development of local industry. Sharp will work to disclose information concerning its corporate activities, and In addition, in the solar energy field, Sharp is aiming to be a total solutions company sincerely consider and make the valued opinions from all of its stakeholders reflected involved in every aspect of the value chain—from production of solar cell materials in management activities. and solar modules to system integration and even as far as being an independent power producer. We look forward to hearing your frank comments and opinions. The light of the sun showers down across our whole planet. Energy from solar power June 2010 generation can be produced for local consumption in every country in the world. There are many newly emerging economies and developing nations in regions where Chairman President the abundant amount of solar radiation is ideal for solar power generation, and the Katsuhiko Machida Mikio Katayama demand for total solutions for energy and industry in those locations is enormous. 004 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 001 Contents Sharp Contributes to Society Through Its 002 Compiling This Report Manufacturing and Technology-Oriented Business 003 Top Message 005 “Make products that others want to imitate.” These words, spoken by Sharp founder Tokuji 006 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Hayakawa, embody Sharp’s management concept. As a manufacturer, Sharp contributes to Business Philosophy society by being the first to make products that meet the needs of a new era. Successive We do not seek merely to expand our business volume. 007 Corporate Vision Rather, we are dedicated to the use of our unique, innovative generations of Sharp leaders have, in their own way, pursued this concept by making products technology to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of 008 Special Feature that contribute to society and in the process created a corporation that is known and trusted by people throughout the world. society. It is the intention of our corporation to grow hand-in-hand with 012 Special Focus our employees, encouraging and aiding them to reach their In 1973, Sharp clarified the unchanging spirit of its founder in the company’s business philosophy full potential and improve their standard of living. 017 Management and business creed. The business philosophy states that Sharp aims for mutual prosperity with Our future prosperity is directly linked to the prosperity of our customers, dealers and shareholders …indeed, 029 Sharp and the Environment society and stakeholders—the foundation of CSR today—by “contributing to the culture, benefits the entire Sharp family. and welfare of people throughout the world.” The business creed calls for “Sincerity and 080 Sharp and Society Creativity” and all employees must hold to it and follow it in order to realize the business 110 Honors from Third Parties philosophy. The goal that Sharp aims at through its CSR efforts is nothing less than realizing the business Business Creed 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp Corporation is dedicated to two principal ideals: philosophy through its business activities, as well as through social contribution activities with a 114 Independent Assurance Report primary focus on these business activities. Endowed with a “gene of creativity” since its founding, “Sincerity and Creativity” Sharp will continue to propose one-of-a-kind products and new lifestyles, as well as fulfill its social By committing ourselves to these ideals, we can derive responsibility, notably in the environmental and social areas, acting and behaving sincerely as a genuine satisfaction from our work, while making a corporation that is trusted by all. meaningful contribution to society. ■ Achieve the tenets of the business philosophy by promoting “Sincerity and Creativity” Sincerity is a virtue fundamental to humanity ... in all business practices always be sincere. Harmony brings strength ... trust each other and work together. Politeness is a merit ... Sales Realization of Business Philosophy always be courteous and respectful. Creativity promotes progress ... Service Production Perspective of social contribution through business activities remain constantly aware “Contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of the need to innovate and improve. of people throughout the world” Courage is the basis of a rewarding life ... Business Creed accept every challenge with a positive attitude. Dedicated to two principal ideals Perspective concerning employees Sincerity and “It is the intention of our corporation to grow Planning Procurement hand-in-hand with our employees” Creativity Business Activities Perspective concerning stakeholders “Prosperity is directly linked to the prosperity of R&D Design the entire Sharp family” Social Contribution Activities • The business creed is the central axis of all business activities. • “Sincerity” means a working attitude mindful of what will offer genuinely useful solutions and happiness to everyone. • “Creativity” means a working attitude not content with the way things are. An attitude which always seeks to 005 add value, and to make efforts to innovate and improve. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Approach to CSR Activities 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Sharp has sorted its CSR activities by four large categories. While ensuring the process of its activities and balance among the categories, Sharp is promoting Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 006 CSR activities with an emphasis on communicating with and engaging with society and its stakeholders. Sharp also advances the activities in each category from a standpoint of accomplishing its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company.” 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 017 Management 029 Sharp and the Environment Becoming an 080 Sharp and Society “Eco-Positive Company” 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 1 Creation of new value through Global Consumers 114 Independent Assurance Report environment business activities Business partners One-of-kind product and device strategy, universal design, customer satisfaction activities, social business, etc. Suppliers 2 Harmony with society and collaboration with partners Local Environmental conservation, respect for human rights, communities social contribution activities, supply chain CSR, etc. Communicating with and engaging with 3 society and Creation and innovation of corporate NGOs, stakeholders culture NPOs HR strategy, work-life balance, occupational health and safety, R-CATS (small-group activities), etc. Shareholders, investors 4 Basic social responsibility Corporate governance, internal control, Financial risk management, compliance, Government, institutions Employees, dividend payment, tax payment, etc. administrative job organs applicants 006 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Corporate Vision Corporate Vision: Eco-Positive Company 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Looking ahead to the year 2012, the 100th anniversary of its founding, Sharp has set two business visions. One is “Contribute to the world through environmentand health-conscious business, focusing on energy-saving and energy-creating products.” The other is “Contribute to a ubiquitous society* with one-of-a-kind LCDs.” The aim of both 007 Corporate Vision of these visions is to contribute to the next generation by using the proprietary technologies that Sharp has built up over many years of development. Through actions geared towards achieving these visions—indeed through everything that Sharp does—Sharp is striving to become an Eco-Positive Company, its new corporate vision. 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 017 Management 029 Sharp and the Environment What’s an Eco-Positive Company? ■ Corporate Vision: Eco-Positive Company 080 Sharp and Society By “Eco-Positive Company,” Sharp means a company that works with all stakeholders in creating solutions that have significantly more positive impact 110 Honors from Third Parties on the environment than the negative impact caused by company operations. Environmental contribution Environmental burden such as greenhouse gas 112 Outline of the Sharp Group A particular focus is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. By fiscal such as greenhouse 114 Independent Assurance Report 2012, Sharp’s goal is to have emission reductions that result from customer use of Sharp energy-creating and energy-saving products be more than gas emissions from ＜ emission reductions through products and services company operations double the total greenhouse gas emissions from business activities. To this Positive Impact end, Sharp is developing and promoting the use of solar cells and Negative Impact energy-saving products as well as reducing its emissions. In fiscal 2009, Sharp emitted 1.55 million t-CO2, but use of Sharp Fiscal 2009 greenhouse gas emissions: Fiscal 2009 greenhouse gas energy-creating and energy-saving products contributed to emission emission reductions: 1.55 million t-CO2 reductions of 2.41 million t-CO2, approximately 1.6 times the amount of (See page 63.) 2.41 million t-CO2 Sharp’s emissions. Method used for calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions Eco-Positive Strategy ■ The Four Aspects of the Eco-Positive Strategy Sharp’s Eco-Positive Strategy of environmental measures is geared to achieving its corporate vision. While building on the environmental protection know-how gained through its EP Super Green Strategy, which ran from fiscal 2004 to 2008, Sharp is working Technologies Eco-Positive Technologies with all stakeholders on new activities in four aspects of its Eco-Positive Generate new business through one-of-a-kind environmental technologies Strategy across the entire value chain. Eco-Positive Products Expand contributions to protecting the EP Eco-Positive EP environment through products and services Products Company Operations Eco-Positive Operations Reduce environmental impacts in product engineering and manufacturing Eco-Positive Relationships EP Enhance corporate value through Relationships involvement with the community * A “ubiquitous society” refers to how the whole of society will be connected through the rapid EP = Eco-Positive 007 development of IT infrastructure and networks will always be accessible to users. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp’s Activities in Solar Power Generation Special Feature Aiming to Achieve a Green Society 001 Contents Sharp first began R&D on solar cells in 1959, and four years later, in 1963, succeeded in mass-producing them. Since then, Sharp has been constantly engaged in product commercialization and in pushing forward with application development. 002 Compiling This Report Looking ahead to the green society that is to come, Sharp is working to provide total solar energy solutions and promote the wider use of solar power around the world. 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature Sharp’s Activities in Solar Power Generation 011 Aiming to Achieve a Green Society 012 Special Focus 017 Management Lighthouse on Ogami Island, Ume application satellite Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan (launched in 1976) 029 Sharp and the Environment (installed in 1966 ) (Photo: JAXA [Japan Aerospace (Photo: Japan Coast Guard) Exploration Agency]) 080 Sharp and Society 110 Honors from Third Parties IEEE Milestone recognition 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report Sharp’s Commercialization and Industrialization of Solar Cells Recognized as IEEE Milestone High Expectations for the Development of Technologies That Will Expand the Use of Clean Energy Derived from Solar Power Sharp’s achievements in the commercialization and industrialization of solar cells from I was deeply impressed by all of Sharp’s tireless efforts related to solar cells. Looking 1959 to 1983 have been recognized as an IEEE Milestone from the IEEE, the world’s at their initial applications, it would never have been a very profitable business just largest professional association for electrical, electronics, information, and from the likes of lighthouses and space satellites, but they persisted and never gave telecommunications engineering. up. In addition, I admire the fact that Sharp is the only manufacturer in Japan The IEEE Milestone honors significant technological innovations in the areas of certified by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) to supply solar cells for satellite use. Plus, given that they are used in lighthouses and on satellites, the electrical, electronics, information, and telecommunications engineering that have quality and reliability demanded is extremely high, and I imagine dealing with that created unique solutions and contributed to the betterment of society and the was also no easy matter. development of industry. To earn IEEE Milestone recognition, the achievement must have been accomplished at least 25 years ago. We can say that the steady development and accumulation of such technologies have led to the development of today’s solar power generation, and this is perfectly This recognition represents high praise for Sharp’s efforts to bring solar cells into reflected in the evaluation that accompanies the practical use and to contribute to the solar cell industry with products for applications recognition with this IEEE Milestone. ranging from lighthouses and space satellites to housing. This is Sharp’s second IEEE As for my hopes for Sharp, I would very much like to see Milestone, having been awarded one in 2005 for leading the industry in the Sharp make AC/DC power distribution systems that can development of electronic calculators from 1964 to 1973. It is also the 14th IEEE use the DC electricity generated by solar power systems Milestone for a Japanese company. directly in the home without suffering losses from the need to convert to AC power. I would like to see this Sharp’s History of Solar Cell Commercialization and Industrialization 1959 to 1983 become the standard in the industry in cooperation with 1959 Starts R&D in solar cells homebuilders. 1963 Succeeds in the mass production of single-crystal solar cells 1966 Installs a 225W solar module (the world’s largest, at the time) on the Ogami Island Further, I would like Sharp to resolutely take up the Isao Shirakawa, Ph.D. Lighthouse in Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan challenge of developing technologies that make IEEE Life Fellow and Member 1967 Starts development of solar cells for outer space practical use of solar power even for global problems of IEEE Kansai Section 1976 Sharp solar cells installed on the Ume application satellite such as desalination and agriculture. Executive Committee; Professor Emeritus, (Sharp is the only solar cell manufacturer in Japan certified by JAXA Osaka University 008 [Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency]) 1983 Starts development of amorphous solar cells Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Feature 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Winery, California, US Expo ’70 Commemorative Park, Osaka, Japan Central Bank of the Netherlands, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Football stadium, Mainz, Germany 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature Sharp’s Activities in Solar Power Generation 011 Aiming to Achieve a Green Society 012 Special Focus 017 Management 029 Sharp and the Environment 080 Sharp and Society 110 Honors from Third Parties Environment Agency, Oxford, UK Solar power plant, Sonnen, Bavaria, Germany Salzburg Airport, Austria CIS Tower, Manchester, UK 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report R&D and Initiatives to Expand the Use of ■ Sharp’s Cumulative Solar Cell Production Volume Solar Energy Spanning Half a Century 2009 The year was 1959 when Sharp began R&D on solar cells. Sharp saw the potential of clean energy early on, and with the strong determination of successive company heads, Sharp Total approx. 3.1 GW has been working on the development of solar power generation and promoting its widespread use for half a century. 2005 After four years of trial and error following the start of research, Sharp succeeded in 1976 Starts mass production Sharp solar of thin-film solar cells mass-producing solar cells in 1963. When development first began, costs were still high, cells installed and the main application was stand-alone power generation in locations where the electric on space satellite power grid did not reach, for example, remote lighthouses. In 1966, Sharp completed a 225-watt solar power system for a lighthouse on Ogami Island in Nagasaki Prefecture, at 1967 1994 Releases residential the time, the world’s largest such installation. And in 1967, the company began Starts development solar power systems development of solar cells for use in outer space, which were installed on the application of solar cells for outer space satellite Ume, launched in 1976. As of March 2010, Sharp solar cells are in use on more than 160 space satellites and at lighthouses in more than 2,500 locations. Sharp solar cells continue to serve as a valuable source of energy, and have been proven 1963 Starts mass production reliable even in harsh environments such as lighthouses exposed to intense wind and rain, of solar cells and in outer space where they are subject to severe temperature fluctuations. Since then, Sharp has made the most of this technology in developing residential solar power systems in 1994 and for the mass production of thin-film solar cells in 2005, which are being actively used around the globe. 1959 Starts R&D in solar cells As a result of these efforts that span over half a century, Sharp’s cumulative production of solar cells reached 3.1 GW (gigawatts)* by the end of 2009, estimated to be the equivalent of approximately one-sixth of the total global solar cells in use, based on data published by 1959 1963 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 organizations such as the International Energy Agency (IEA). (Year) 009 * 1 GW = 1,000 MW = 1,000,000 kW Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Feature ■ Forecast for World Electricity Demand (TWh) 40,000 001 Contents 36,346 TWh 35,000 002 Compiling This Report Other 30,000 82％ 003 Top Message 9,113 TWh Solar thermal 25,000 25.1％ Geothermal 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Renewable energy Photovoltaics All energy 20,000 2,570 TWh 8.3％ 55％ Wind 007 Corporate Vision 15,000 Biomass 008 Special Feature 276 TWh Sharp’s Activities in Solar Power Generation 10,000 1.1％ 34％ Small hydro 011 Aiming to Achieve a Green Society Large hydro 012 Special Focus 5,000 19％ 22％ 017 0 Management 2001 2010 2020 2030 2040 (Year) 029 Sharp and the Environment Source: Created by Sharp based on Renewable Energy Scenario to 2040, published by the European 080 Sharp and Society Renewable Energy Council (EREC) and reports of the German Advisory Council on Global Change (WBGU) 1 TWh = 1,000 GWh = 1,000,000 MWh = 1,000,000,000 kWh 110 Honors from Third Parties % is the percentage of all energy. Solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI that began operations in March 2010 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report Strengthening Development of Both Crystalline Aiming to Be a Total Solar Energy Solutions Company and Thin-Film Solar Cells Looking at mediumto long-term demand trends for photovoltaic power generation, Up to now, Sharp has been expanding its solar energy business focusing on solar energy is expected to continue to grow globally, based on world electric power crystalline solar cells. But in an effort to significantly broaden the potential of solar demand forecasts (see graph above) from the European Renewable Energy Council cells, Sharp has now pushed ahead to improve the performance of thin-film solar cells (EREC). Forecasts indicate that photovoltaic power generation will account for as and expand their production. Compared to crystalline solar cells, thin-film solar cells much as one fourth of total world electric power demand in 2040. use approximately one-hundredth the amount of silicon and require fewer steps in the Demand in Europe, which has grown significantly in recent years, has hit a temporary production process. In addition, because production efficiency can be readily plateau, reflecting the impact of the financial crisis, but in the medium term, it is increased, mass production is expected to reduce the cost of power generation. predicted that this market will continue to expand as a result of large-scale power In October 2008, Sharp raised the production capacity for thin-film solar cells at its generation projects. In the United States, construction of a large number of Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture) from 15 MW/year to 160 MW/year, large-scale power systems is being planned, such as the mega-solar energy projects and in March 2010, began thin-film solar cell production of 160 MW/year as the first proposed under the Green New Deal initiative. deployment of the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (in Sakai City, Osaka Up to now, Sharp has been building solar cell plants in Japan, but to meet burgeoning Prefecture). demand in all areas of the globe, Sharp plans to develop such plants in local areas in Crystalline solar cells feature high conversion efficiencies, and are ideal for residential the future, based on tie-ups with the local companies. Sharp will push “local applications where the available space for installation is limited. Thin-film solar cells production for local consumption” in which all links in the value chain—from suffer only a small amount of reduction in output in regions with high ambient procurement of materials to production and sales—will be completed within the temperatures, and so are ideal for large-scale power generation systems in consuming region. warm-temperature climates. In addition, Sharp is aiming to be a total solutions company, handling all aspects of Sharp is promoting the wider use of both crystalline and thin-film solar cells on a the value chain for solar power generation, from the materials for solar cells and global basis to meet a wide range of needs based on their respective characteristics. production of cell modules, to system integration and even being an independent power producer. 010 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Feature ■ Global Solar Radiation Source: METEONORM 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision In the southern hemisphere and at lower latitudes where many newly 008 Special Feature emerging economies and developing countries are located, the amount Sharp’s Activities in Solar Power Generation of solar radiation reaching the earth is high. Introducing solar power 011 Aiming to Achieve a Green Society generation in these regions would create tremendous amounts of renewable energy. 012 Special Focus 017 Management The Tokai Challenger, a solar car equipped with Sharp compound solar cells (cell conversion efficiency 30%) driven by a team from Tokai 029 Sharp and the Environment University, won the Global Green Challenge, one of the world’s largest solar car races. The team covered the approximately 3,000-kilometer 080 Sharp and Society course across the Australian continent at an average speed of over 100 km per hour for an impressive win! (October 2009) 110 Honors from Third Parties Winner in solar car race 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report Aiming to Reach Grid Parity Challenging the “Triple 50” Looking Toward 2050 In R&D on solar cells spanning more than 50 years, Sharp has consistently taken up the challenge to lower costs. Specifically, Sharp has been conducting R&D to raise According to a forecast for global electricity demand (see previous page) by the European Renewable Energy Council (EREC), it is assumed that 9,113 TWh per year conversion efficiencies, create resource-saving designs that reduce the amount of will be met by photovoltaic power generation, accounting for one-fourth of the total silicon used, and develop highly efficient production technologies. demand for electric power worldwide in the year 2040. To achieve this, 9 TW Based on these efforts, Sharp has so far more than doubled the conversion efficiency (terawatts) of solar cells will need to be installed on the planet, and for that, each of crystalline solar cells, about halved the thickness of the silicon wafer, and lowered year, new production lines with capacity equivalent to 109% of the previous year will have to be built in the future. These lines will have to run at full capacity for 30 years, costs by 90% or more. In addition, Sharp has also been conducting R&D on thin-film and the solar cells produced will have to generate electricity for 30 years. Naturally, solar cells. innovations in technology will be essential to achieve this. However, the cost of electricity generated by photovoltaic installations today is still Looking ahead to the year 2050, Sharp has set a goal called “Triple 50.” This is a relatively high compared to other forms of power generation, and reaching “grid development goal to, first, increase cell conversion efficiency to 50%, next, extend parity,” the point at which the cost of photovoltaic electricity is equal to or cheaper the power generating life of solar cells to 50 years, and than existing grid power, will be absolutely essential to bring about the widespread finally, lower the cost of solar modules to 50 yen per use of solar power. watt. As countries around the world are achieving remarkable economic progress, we will All of these goals are extremely ambitious, and to no longer be able to expand the consumption of limited fossil resources. Solar power, achieve them, even as progress is being made toward total solutions based on “local production for local which makes electricity from the unlimited light of the sun, will play an extremely consumption”, including R&D on smart grids and home important role. energy management systems, Sharp is pushing ahead Sharp will be working in cooperation with local governments and businesses in many with R&D by gathering knowledge and expertise from parts of the world to develop total solutions based on “local production for local around the world. consumption” involving the entire value chain of solar power generation. Through this Tetsuroh Muramatsu Executive Officer effort, Sharp intends to reach grid parity and contribute to the achievement of a green Group General Manager society through the accelerated growth of solar power generation. Solar Systems Development Group Sharp Corporation 011 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Focus 1 GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational! One of the world’s most environmentally advanced factories is now mass-producing energy-saving LCD panels and 001 Contents energy-creating solar cells. GREEN FRONT SAKAI is a culmination of Sharp’s proprietary expertise and contributes to the creation of a new age of electronics while also manufacturing products in the most environmentally friendly way. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Portions indicated by dotted lines and rooftop solar cell panels are an artist’s concept of the completed appearance. The area outside the 007 Corporate Vision Making Energy-Saving and Energy-Creating Panels GREEN FRONT SAKAI site differs from the area’s actual appearance. Located in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, GREEN FRONT SAKAI is a cutting-edge GREEN FRONT SAKAI 008 Special Feature 3,130 m m plant that produces energy-saving LCD panels and energy-creating solar cells in one Special Focus complex. 012 Special Focus 1 The LCD panel plant, which went onstream in October 2009, uses 10th-generation glass substrates, the world’s largest*¹, to produce energy-saving 40-inch and larger 2,880 mm 013 GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational! LCD panels employing Sharp’s proprietary UV2A technology*². Environmental Protection and Community 014 Service in Indonesia Operations began in March 2010 at the solar cell plant, where 1,000-by-1,400-mm 016 Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity glass substrates are used to produce thin-film solar cells that use just approximately one hundredth the amount of silicon used in crystalline solar cells. Thin-film solar cell panel 017 Management *1 As of October 2009. *2 See page 38. 10th-generation glass substrate 029 Sharp and the Environment Glass 080 Sharp and Society Coproduction Means Environmentally Friendly, Liquid Distribution substrates Hydrogen Efficient Operation chemicals gas 110 Honors from Third Parties Office GREEN FRONT SAKAI brings together cutting-edge technology companies that leasing Gas 112 Outline of the Sharp Group function as one virtual company, with coproduction and coexistence the keywords operations towards achieving environmentally friendly, efficient operation. 114 Independent Assurance Report Electric An integrated energy management center makes energy sources visible (estimated Color filters Bringing together advanced power Integrated energy management technologies to form usage volume, danger prediction, optimized operation, etc.) through the use of green center IT, large-screen LCDs, and broadband connectivity. This makes it possible to reduce Industrial “a unified virtual company” Energy the energy and power usage of the entire factory complex. gas An inter-building transport system running between the plants reduces lead-time. It Pure water supply, also cuts CO2 emissions during transportation and allows for ultra-efficient production. Packaging wastewater treatment Sewerage treatment Photoresist One of the World’s Most Environmentally Advanced Factories LCD panels Solar cells Inter-building transport system Available space such as the roofs of buildings on the site grounds is being used to install a solar power generation system that will provide a portion of the power used by the factories. Energy-efficient, long-lasting LED lighting fixtures are being installed throughout the site—the approximately 100,000 LED lighting fixtures will constitute one of the world’s largest such installations. Some outdoor LED fixtures will have built-in solar cells. Other environmentally friendly features include walkways paved with water-permeable bricks made from discarded LCD panel glass, and low-pollution electric vehicles used on the site. 012 LED lighting used throughout the site Water-permeable bricks used for walkways Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Focus 1 Coexistence with the Local Community Working to Build a Green Society GREEN FRONT SAKAI strives to work in harmony with the surrounding communities. GREEN FRONT SAKAI is also the hub of efforts to build a green society by 001 Contents implementing a series of eco-initiatives. New LCDs using energy-efficient panels, Sakai has been selected as an environmental model city by the Japanese government. products incorporating solar cells, solar power generation businesses, the DC 002 Compiling This Report GREEN FRONT SAKAI is contributing to the city’s efforts to become a low-carbon eco-friendly house running on direct current (DC) power, eco-offices combining municipality under the “Cool City Sakai” initiative. 003 Top Message environmental friendliness and productivity, and plant cultivation using An advanced water treatment plant allows GREEN FRONT SAKAI to treat wastewater trigeneration*—through such environmentally friendly plant operations and 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) from the public sewer treatment system and use it to meet a portion of water energy-creating and energy-saving technologies, Sharp is contributing to the creation requirements for production processes. Heat is also collected from treated wastewater of a green society. 007 Corporate Vision for use in air conditioning systems. * The use of electricity generated by solar cells, and CO2 and heat from factories. 008 Special Feature Through the establishment of an ecology laboratory jointly with Osaka Prefecture University, technologies like solar power and LED lighting are used in plant cultivation Special Focus and recycling of waste materials. And should a natural disaster occur, GREEN FRONT 012 SAKAI will provide water and electricity to disaster evacuation parks located adjacent Special Focus 1 Eco-friendly offices GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational! to the factory complex. 013 Sharp suggests ways to Environmental Protection and Community make offices both 014 Service in Indonesia environmentally friendly 016 and more productive Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity Eco-Friendly and Highly Efficient Operations through measures such as installing solar cells for power Make for an Environmentally Advanced generation, installing energy-efficient LED lighting fixtures, 017 Management Manufacturing Complex introducing products with Plasmacluster Ion technology, 029 Sharp and the Environment and adopting highly efficient videoconferencing systems GREEN FRONT SAKAI brings together 19 companies that use large-screen displays. Simulated photo including material producers and utilities providers, 080 Sharp and Society which work with Sharp’s LCD panel and solar cell plants Development of new LCDs Solar power generation to create one virtual company that is environmentally 110 Honors from Third Parties Sharp will be increasingly active New innovations in LCDs make friendly and highly efficient. as an energy company that possible a variety of new 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Efforts to become an uses clean solar energy to applications, such as the use of environmentally advanced factory generate electricity. LCD panels as signboards. 114 Independent Assurance Report in cooperation with Sakai City in its “Cool City Sakai” initiative include joint R&D with nearby Sumitomo Corporation project Osaka Prefecture University at its in the Canary Islands, Spain ecology laboratory at GREEN FRONT SAKAI and collaboration Solar cells for automobiles with the adjacent sewerage Kohki Narita Products incorporating Electricity generated by solar works to recycle wastewater. General Manager Energy Management solar cells cells mounted on the roof of a Department car can supplement the power Sharp is actively creating GREEN FRONT SAKAI requirements of the vehicle’s Planning Center products that incorporate solar operation. Sharp Corporation cells, to support a convenient Simulated photo lifestyle with minimal environmental impact. Plant cultivation using technologies such as DC eco-friendly houses trigeneration Sharp is creating electric Sharp uses power from solar appliances that run on DC cells as well as CO2 and heat power. They can use the DC from its factories to cultivate current from the solar cells, plants. In addition, technologies without loss. such as LED illumination and Plasmacluster Ion generators Simulated photo are creating new possibilities for agriculture. 013 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Focus 2 Environmental Protection and Community Service in Indonesia Consumer electronics manufacturing and sales company PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) and electronic components manufacturing company PT. Sharp 001 Contents Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) make environmental protection a cornerstone of their management, and both companies carry out a wide range of environmental protection and community service activities. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision Sharp in Indonesia ■ SEID and SSI’s Community Environmental Protection Activities 008 Special Feature Sharp first established a production plant in Indonesia in 1970. In 1995, it established PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) for the manufacture of electronic Special Focus components such as ICs and opto-devices, and in 2005 PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) for the manufacture and sale of TVs, refrigerators, and audio 012 GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational! products. After over 40 years in business, Sharp has become a familiar corporate 014 Special Focus 2 citizen of the country, well known by Indonesians as a popular brand name for TVs Environmental Protection and Community and home appliances such as refrigerators. 015 Service in Indonesia 016 Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity Environmental Protection Activities at Production Plants 017 Management The over 17,000 islands that make up Indonesia are home to a bounty of nature and 029 Sharp and the Environment a diversity of life forms. Today, however, the country is faced with pressing environmental problems like rain forest depletion and air and water pollution SEID partners with NGO 89.2 FM Green Radio to plant trees 080 Sharp and Society originating in urban areas. in Gunung Gede Pangrango National Park 110 Honors from Third Parties Both companies make environmental protection a cornerstone of their management. SSI was certified for ISO 14001 in 2000 and SEID in 2006. Besides reducing the 112 Outline of the Sharp Group environmental footprint of their factories, the two companies are using their unique traits and strengths in a range of community environmental protection activities. 114 Independent Assurance Report SEID is an official sponsor of Earth Hour 2010 SEID is promoting coral growth in the seas of in Indonesia, sponsored by the WWF Bali, Manado, and Pramuka Island (World Wide Fund for Nature) Through the Sharp Environment Idea Award, SEID encourages students in Indonesia to come up with innovative ideas for products and environmental measures SSI led environmental education and cleanup SSI planted 1,000 mangrove trees along activities at a local elementary school the beach at Pantai Samudra Baru, Karawang, West Java 014 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Focus 2 SEID “Eco Greener” Campaign SSI Achieves Super Green Factory Status in Fiscal 2009 001 Contents “Eco Greener” is a slogan that SEID is using for environmental efforts in both its SSI is using Sharp’s environmental management system to reduce the environmental business activities and community service. The company is reducing the impact of its factory and raise employee environmental awareness. Eco-efforts at the 002 Compiling This Report environmental impact of its offices and factory by using solar power, recycling paper, factory include using energy-efficient air conditioning, recycling water used for air and gathering wastewater in a bio-treatment tank to use it for things like watering conditioning, and adjusting delivery truck schedules to reduce CO2 emissions. 003 Top Message gardens. And through environment-related events, product exhibits, and social action Employee awareness is raised through regular education activities and one-day and programs around the country, SEID is working with NGOs, the mass media, and the one-week environmental initiatives, as well as through volunteer environmental 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) general public to raise environmental awareness among the community. protection and cleanup activities in the local community. These efforts led to Super 007 Corporate Vision Green Factory* (SGF) status for SSI in fiscal 2009. 008 Special Feature Special Focus 012 GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational! 014 Special Focus 2 Environmental Protection and Community 015 Service in Indonesia 016 Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity 017 Management Solar energy gathered in the daytime At the Eco-products International Fair 2010, the largest Reducing the factory’s environmental Employee awareness is raised through a weekly 029 Sharp and the Environment powers Sharp billboards like this international environmental fair in Asia, SEID displayed impact by installing water recycling “Environmental Day” and a semi-annual in Jakarta and Bali at night Sharp solar cells and energy-efficient products equipment on the cooling tower “Environmental Week” 080 Sharp and Society * Based on Sharp’s own certification system. See page 57. 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report Protecting the Environment, Helping Communities Fostering Eco-Positive People Protecting the environment is crucial to business growth. SEID has pledged to do SSI, which started operations in 1996, has focused itself on environmental everything it can to reduce the environmental impact of its factory, while contributing to sustainability management for years, and this paid off with the company’s recent environmental protection and the betterment of society. The company’s creative achievement of Super Green Factory (SGF) status. Besides reducing environmental environmental and social contribution activities include teaming up with NGOs and impact from its business activities, the company uses environmental and social other groups to protect rain forests and coral reefs, and sponsoring environmental contribution activities to raise environmental awareness among employees, their idea contests for students. families, and local students and residents. To achieve its goal of becoming an eco-positive company and an integral member of Besides stepping up its efforts to become an eco-positive company, SSI will strive to society, SEID is putting all its energy into activities to protect the environment. foster a society of “eco-positive people” in Indonesia. Standing, from left: Wahyu Murdowo, Administration Division; Standing, from left: Dian Satoru Hashimoto, Administration Ambarwati, Administration & Finance Director; Fumihiro Irie, Department; Akira Murakami, President; Ryunosuke Kitagawa, Administration Director; Yoshiharu Brand Strategy Group Director; Kuroda, President; Endah Karyani, Gina Handriany, Brand Strategy Administration Department Group; Indra Pasosong, Front row, from left: Fachruddin Administration Division Rachman, Administration Front row, from left: Siti Nurmala, Department; Agus Saptana, Administration Division; Cahyatih Administration Department; K, Administration Division; Novita Hendry Hariadi, Production Asri Ningtyas, Brand Strategy Control Department; Tri Pambudi, Group; Pandu Setio, Brand Administration Department; Fry Strategy Group Harly, Administration Department 015 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Special Focus 3 Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity Under the Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity, the Sharp Group carries out a multifaceted approach in which it protects biodiversity 001 Contents in business activities and social action programs at all worldwide bases. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision Contribute to Biodiversity Protection Through Business and Social Action Programs Sharp’s efforts for protecting biodiversity 008 Special Feature Biodiversity refers to the existence of a variety of ecosystems, species, and genes. Special Focus With the modern world’s environmental pollution, more and more species are becoming extinct and ecosystems are in danger. Since companies both affect and 012 GREEN FRONT SAKAI Is Fully Operational! Multifaceted benefit from biodiversity, it is crucial that they protect and make sustainable use of it in Business activities Social action programs 014 Environmental Protection and Community all of their business activities. approach Service in Indonesia Based on the Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity, the Special Focus 3 company formulated detailed measures, the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative, in November 016 Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity 2009. The initiative’s aim is to ensure the protection and sustainable use of the world’s Efforts throughout the value chain biodiversity through business activities and social action programs. Foster biodiversity-minded 017 Management Procure environmentally employees Sharp has detailed measures in each step of the value chain for ensuring that Procurement conscious parts and (Sharp Green Club activities, etc.) 029 Sharp and the Environment business activities exert minimal impact on biodiversity. And in social action programs, materials 080 Sharp strives to continue carrying out activities that match the lifestyles and Develop environmentally Plant trees and protect satoyama areas Sharp and Society Development conscious products and environment of each community and region. devices (Sharp Forests, etc.) 110 Honors from Third Parties In addition, Sharp has made biodiversity check lists and distributed these to bases Reduce the amount of around the world. The check lists explain the link between environmental measures Manufacturing greenhouse gases and Educate the general public 112 Outline of the Sharp Group waste generated in factories and biodiversity as well as are used to regularly monitor the progress of environmental (Elementary school environmental education, activities at each base. In the near future Sharp will quantitatively check progress at outdoor environmental education classes) 114 Independent Assurance Report Reduce the amount of each base according to assessment standards so that the entire Sharp Group can Sales greenhouse gases and waste generated in offices better protect biodiversity. See pages 105, 106, and 109 for details. Shift modes of Logistics transportation to reduce CO2 emissions See pages 29–79 for details. Biodiversity Protection a Simultaneous Worldwide Effort In the past, environmental measures have first been introduced in Japan and then transplanted to overseas Sharp bases at a later date. But Sharp’s new biodiversity initiative was launched simultaneously worldwide, with production bases in the UK and parts of Asia getting an enthusiastic early start. Sharp will continue these efforts on a worldwide scale, while incorporating the ideas of Sharp people in charge of activities in Emi Miura Takahiro Ishida different countries. Junior Manager Assistant Manager Environmental Planning Department Environmental Protection Group Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity Sharp Corporation 016 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management To continue to be a company that has the trust of people and society, Sharp is establishing priority action themes in the area of management, the foundation of its business 001 Contents activities, and will be working for continuous improvement while verifying and assessing the results of these activities. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Overview of Efforts and Achievements in Fiscal 2009 007 Corporate Vision In fiscal 2009, Sharp worked to accommodate an even greater number of demands activities, Sharp worked at the global level to build a framework and further measures for 008 Special Feature from stakeholders, particularly shareholders and investors, to strengthen corporate promoting compliance. It also worked continuously to be thoroughly compliant with governance and internal control. Accordingly, Sharp appointed an outside member to antitrust laws. 012 Special Focus its Board of Directors and worked for the stable operation of the company’s internal Sharp also pushed forward with ongoing efforts to improve specific managementcontrol system. related areas, such as developing and expanding business continuity measures to cope Management Sharp again revised the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the with major earthquakes and outbreaks of new strains of influenza, ensuring information Objectives and Achievements in the Sharp Code of Conduct, which serve as guidelines for taking action to promote security, and protecting personal information and intellectual property rights. 017 Area of Management Sharp’s CSR. Regarding compliance, the very basis of CSR in advancing business 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control System to Promote CSR / 020 Risk Management Self Evaluation objectives : Results exceeded objectives : Results nearly met : Certain results were accomplished Important Self 024 Compliance Actions in Fiscal 2009 EvalObjectives for Fiscal 2010 See Themes uation page(s) 029 Sharp and the Environment Objectives (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness in management • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness in Reinforce corporate management governance ○ • Clearer separation between functions to provide supervision and make important 18·19 080 Sharp and Society Achievements • Appointed outside member to Board of Directors (June) decisions from functions to execute business • Deepen, and continuously develop, put into practice, and re-evaluate internal control 110 Honors from Third Parties Objectives Steady operation of internal control system system Develop, maintain, • Revised Basic Policy for Internal Control in response to environmental changes inside • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system 19 112 Outline of the Sharp Group operate, and assess and outside company (August) ○ • Implement evaluations of validity and effectiveness of internal control and develop and internal control • Reviewed and continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control internal control system in accordance with requirements for internal control report website Achievements system system system under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act 114 Independent Assurance Report • Submitted internal control reports to disclose information on status of development and operation of internal control system (June) Objectives Revamp Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Sharp Code of Conduct • Ensure that content of revised Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of 20 Review systems for ○ Conduct is thoroughly conveyed to all directors, ofﬁcers, and employees and promoting CSR Achievements • Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Sharp Code of Conduct revised again (April 2010) website Objectives Expand and improve BCM (business continuity management) system • Ongoing improvement of BCM system • Review and develop BCP for domestic afﬁliated companies and others assuming Strengthen business • Reviewed and improved BCP (business continuity plan) for domestic production bases occurrence of major earthquake and outbreak of new strain of inﬂuenza ○ 21 risk management assuming occurrence of major earthquake • Develop and improve BCP for major overseas production bases Achievements • Developed BCP for domestic production bases assuming outbreak of new strain of influenza Objectives Ongoing improvement of compliance promotion system, policies, and measures • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion measures • Compliance training (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) for all employees in • Implemented compliance training based on Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook and Japan Practice compliance training on antitrust law through e-learning for all employees in Japan • Ongoing compliance training at all overseas bases • Appointed legal affairs staff members in four overseas regions, and implemented ○ 24–26 in business Achievements • Ongoing internal audits and guidance on complying with antitrust laws development and training on compliance systems in all regions • Create anti-bribery guidebook to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign public • Implemented internal audits and offered guidance on complying with antitrust laws to all ofﬁcials business groups in Japan Strengthen measures • Revamp content of self-checks for further strengthening conﬁdentiality and Objectives Expand and improve methods to promote information security at overseas bases for maintaining information security, and implement them on a continuing basis in Japan and conﬁdentiality and ○ 27 Achievements • Established autonomous information security management cycles at overseas bases overseas information security Strengthen Objectives Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal information • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal information personal • Implement internal audits related to protecting personal information information • Implemented internal audits related to protecting personal information ○ • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting 28 Achievements • Implemented education and awareness policies related to protecting personal personal information for employees and others protection system 017 information for employees and others Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Corporate Governance / Internal Control As a company that has statutory auditors, Sharp is improving the quality of management while strengthening its Director/Corporate Auditor system, for example, introducing 001 Contents the executive officer system, appointing an outside director, and establishing the Internal Audit Division to monitor and hold management in check as an organization that works with the Board of Corporate Auditors. In addition, by continuously developing and maintaining the internal control system, Sharp is working to enhance this system to 002 Compiling This Report ensure the propriety of operational activities of the entire Sharp Group. 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • (Corporate governance) • Appointed outside member to Board of Directors (June) • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness Further improve transparency, in management 008 Special Feature objectivity, and soundness in • Clearer separation between functions to provide supervision and make management important decisions from functions to execute business 012 Special Focus • Steady operation of internal control • Revised Basic Policy for Internal Control in response to • Deepen, and continuously develop, put into practice, and re-evaluate internal Management system environmental changes inside and outside company (August) control system • Reviewed and continuously put into practice various policies • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system Objectives and Achievements in the related to internal control system • Implement evaluations of validity and effectiveness of internal control and 017 Area of Management • Submitted internal control reports to disclose information on status develop internal control system in accordance with requirements for internal of development and operation of internal control system (June) control report system under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act 018 Management 019 Corporate Governance / Internal Control 020 System to Promote CSR / Concept of Corporate Governance Risk Management 024 Compliance Sharp is engaged in integrated production—from development to the In the future, Sharp will further strengthen its Director/Auditor/Executive Officer system, while manufacture and sale of products in a wide range of fields. Each of these working to enhance and improve corporate governance. 029 Sharp and the Environment areas is highly specialized, yet there is a close interrelation between them. Consequently, a management system is required in which directors who 080 Sharp and Society have a strong grasp of each area work closely with the R&D and ■ Corporate Governance System manufacturing divisions in order to facilitate speedy decision-making and 110 Honors from Third Parties business execution. Under such a concept, Sharp, as a company with Shareholders’ Meeting statutory auditors, is continuously improving the quality of its management Audit functions 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Supervision/ Election/dismissal while strengthening the Director/Corporate Auditor system. Supervision/decision-making Election/ Election/ Report dismissal dismissal 114 Independent Assurance Report Sharp is working to strengthen its system of corporate governance to Supplement supervisory functions Board of Directors Meeting Accounting Report Report Report Directors auditors satisfy the need for stronger decision-making and supervisory functions, Internal Control Committee Board of Corporate decision-making functions Audit Auditors as well as stronger business execution functions. Appointment/ Report Corporate auditors Monitoring Special Committee removal Coordination (Election/ In June 2008, Sharp introduced the executive officer system to focus on Compensation Committee dismissal) both management decision-making and execution of business processes, Nominating Committee Supervision Resolution/ report Audit Coordination Internal Audit Division as well as work toward effective and speedy corporate management. In Coordination addition, Sharp dissolved the Advisory Board established in 2006 to make Representative directors/managing directors the best use of opinions from knowledgeable outside experts in various (executive officers) Business execution functions fields aiming at a more transparent, objective, and sound management, Supplement business Deliberations on key policies and in its stead, appointed an outside member to the Board of Directors execution functions Executive Management in June 2009. Committee Corporate Technology Strategy Committee Executive officers, etc. Auditors Office To ensure the smooth functioning of the executive officer system, in April Strategic and consultative One-of-a-Kind Product Strategy Committee Business Deliberation/report 2010, Sharp revamped its governance system to more clearly separate execution Sharing information on Report Operational Operational Accounting and checks business progress audit audit audit Core Business supervisory and important decision-making functions from business Strategy Committee Business Promotion Committee execution functions, thereby enabling more rapid management by committees Investment Committee Executive officers emphasizing each respective role. Group general managers CSR/BRM Committee Heads of sales companies, etc. Sharp has also designated three of four current corporate auditors as Compliance Committee Ensure apt policy execution/ outside auditors, and has strengthened their capability to monitor and information sharing hold management in check by establishing the Internal Audit Division as 018 an organization that works with the Board of Corporate Auditors. Business execution (Business groups, functional groups, sales and marketing groups, subsidiaries and affiliates) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Status of Corporate Governance System The Basic Policy for Internal Control is reviewed and revised in response to environmental changes inside and outside the company. In accordance with this basic 001 Contents The Board of Directors Meetings of Sharp Corporation are held on a monthly basis to policy, Sharp has been documenting the business processes of Sharp Corporation’s make decisions on matters stipulated by law and management-related matters of business and functional groups, as well as its domestic and overseas subsidiaries, 002 Compiling This Report importance, and to supervise the state of business execution. To improve and has been conducting self-audits to assess whether they have been appropriately management agility and flexibility, and to clarify the responsibilities of the company structured and implemented and whether internal control is functioning effectively. 003 Top Message management during each accounting period, the term of office for members of the Board of Directors is set at one year. In addition, the Internal Audit Division is auditing the organizational and operational 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) status of these business processes and the company-wide control environment from In addition to the Board of Directors, the company has the Executive Management an independent perspective. 007 Corporate Vision Committee, where matters of importance related to corporate management and Internal control system business operation are discussed and reported twice a month. This committee 008 Special Feature facilitates prompt executive decision-making. In addition, the Business Promotion 012 Special Focus Committee generally meets once a month to share information and thoroughly review corporate and management policies with managers in each business area. Management The Board of Corporate Auditors formulates audit policies, listens to reports from Objectives and Achievements in the accounting auditors, and receives reports on the execution of duties, in particular from 017 Area of Management the Board of Directors. Corporate auditors also exchange information and opinions on 018 Management such matters as the progress of deliberations of important meetings, and auditing Message from an Outside Director 019 Corporate Governance / Internal Control (on-site auditing) results, which increases the validity of audits. The fundamental principle of corporate management is to maximize corporate value. System to Promote CSR / This is a difficult thing to accomplish and brings numerous strategic options and 020 Risk Management challenges. Today management has become far more complex and sophisticated 024 Compliance Selection, Compensation, and Evaluation than in the past, involving manifold variables. Naturally, one important aspect is the of Corporate Directors executive capability needed to view each variable in light of the business environment 029 and implement the best course of action. At the same time, an aspect that has Sharp and the Environment Sharp has established an Internal Control Committee as well as a Special Committee, become even more important is the management capability needed to carry out 080 Sharp and Society a Nominating Committee, and a Compensation Committee, which complement the optimal overall management taking the balance of all of these variables. supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. One purpose of establishing these The future of management will increasingly see the competitiveness of companies 110 Honors from Third Parties committees has been to improve the fairness and transparency of the selection and depend upon their ability to realize both partial enhancements in each business and compensation of corporate directors who have been entrusted by shareholders to overall optimization at the same time. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group manage the company. For Sharp, I believe a robust strategy for achieving this synchronization is to win the 114 Independent Assurance Report The nomination of directors is carried out by the Nominating Committee. The outside support and understanding of the broad range of stakeholders, and improve the director also participates in determining candidates for directors in the Nominating image of the Sharp brand still further, while taking full measures to raise brand value. Committee. In addition, monthly compensation and bonuses for all directors are at the Enhancing the Sharp brand is the key to enabling “spiral-up” management, which will lead to greater corporate value in the medium to long term. maximum limit of total compensation as set forth in a resolution adopted at a shareholders’ meeting, and will be fairly determined by setting evaluation criteria such As an outside director, I hope I can make even a small contribution to helping Sharp as financial results, level of contribution to the company, etc., in the Compensation achieve this kind of management. Committee which includes the outside director. Career Overview April 1992 Professor, Faculty of Commerce Developing and Maintaining the Internal Control System and Management, Hitotsubashi University Based on Japan’s Companies Act and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, August 2002 Dean, Graduate School of Sharp is developing and maintaining its internal control system to ensure the Commerce and Management, Hitotsubashi University properness of business of the entire Sharp Group. December 2004 Vice President and Executive Staff In May 2006, the Board of Directors passed a resolution to adopt a basic policy of Hitotsubashi University related to the development and maintenance of systems necessary to ensure the December 2006 Professor, Graduate School of properness of business (Basic Policy for Internal Control), as well as established the Commerce and Management, Hitotsubashi University (current Internal Control Committee to serve as an advisory panel to complement the position) supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. The quarterly meeting of the Internal Kunio Ito June 2009 Director, Sharp Corporation (current Control Committee discusses various policy measures related to the internal control Outside Director position) system and affirms their operational status. 019 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management System to Promote CSR / Risk Management Sharp has set up internal systems to promote CSR including a CSR/BRM Committee. Additional efforts toward CSR include adopting the Sharp Group Charter of 001 Contents Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct, and participating in the United Nations Global Compact. Sharp is also continuously improving business risk management to cope with events such as major disasters and outbreaks of new strains of influenza. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • Revamp Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Sharp • Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Sharp • Ensure that content of revised Group Charter of Corporate Code of Conduct Code of Conduct revised again (April 2010) Behavior and Code of Conduct is thoroughly conveyed to 008 Special Feature all directors, officers, and employees 012 Special Focus • Expand and improve BCM (business continuity management) • Reviewed and improved BCP (business continuity plan) for • Ongoing improvement of BCM system system domestic production bases assuming occurrence of major • Review and develop BCP for domestic affiliated earthquake companies and others assuming occurrence of major Management • Developed BCP for domestic production bases assuming earthquake and outbreak of new strain of inﬂuenza Objectives and Achievements in the outbreak of new strain of inﬂuenza • Develop and improve BCP for major overseas production 017 Area of Management bases 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control 020 Management System to Promote CSR / Structure to Promote CSR Policies and Activities United Nations Global Compact 023 Risk Management Sharp holds semi-annual meetings of the CSR/BRM* Committee to discuss and Sharp became a participant in the United Nations Global 024 Compliance check policies, measures, and progress for the entire company. These meetings are Compact in June 2009. Since then, Sharp has set concrete attended by an Executive Vice President (Chief Officer, General Administration) and all targets for its efforts in support of the 10 principles of the Global 029 Sharp and the Environment group general managers of both the business groups and the functional groups. This Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment, committee serves to complement the business execution functions of Sharp. and anti-corruption, and is working to further promote these 080 Sharp and Society efforts throughout the Sharp Group. In addition, Sharp has established the CSR Promotion Group for planning and 110 Honors from Third Parties promoting CSR policies and measures for the entire Sharp Group. The Global Compact’s 10 Principles See page(s) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group * BRM: Business risk management Human Rights 4–81·91· 114 Independent Assurance Report Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 92·96· Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and internationally proclaimed human rights; and 101–103 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. the Sharp Code of Conduct Labour To put into practice its Business Philosophy and Business Creed—the foundation of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Sharp’s CSR—and to fulfill its social responsibilities, Sharp has established the Sharp effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4·81·91·92· Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, the principles of corporate behavior of all Sharp Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 96–101 Group companies; and the Sharp Code of Conduct, the standards of conduct for all Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and directors and employees. These two documents apply to group companies around Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment the world as the common standards of the Sharp Group. and occupation. In addition, the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct are regularly Environment reviewed based on changes in the business environment, including changes in the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to nature of what society and stakeholders expect of companies, and revisions to environmental challenges; 4·8–16· existing laws and enactment of new ones. The latest revision of these documents Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 29–79 took place in April 2010. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Sharp Code of Conduct friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 4·17·25·26 including extortion and bribery. 020 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Creating Integrated CSR and BRM Activities 3) Improving and Expanding BCM and BCP Activities Sharp believes BRM (business risk management) is indispensable in fulfilling corporate Sharp considers BCM (business continuity management) to be a priority issue for 001 Contents management. This effort is intended to ensure the safety of employees and their social responsibility because it controls and mitigates the risk of losses and compliance violations, while at the same time helping the company quickly adapt to families and expedite an early recovery of important business operations when a 002 Compiling This Report changing business environments. That is why the company makes it a top priority to major disaster occurs. Sharp is also committed to continuously reviewing and 003 Top Message conduct integrated CSR and BRM activities. improving BCP (business continuity plans) to cope with natural disasters, such as a large-scale earthquake. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The CSR/BRM Committee (see page 20) regularly reviews major risks and deliberates on company-wide measures for dealing with them. As well, Sharp’s business groups In fiscal 2009, for all production sites in Japan, Sharp re-evaluated and reviewed 007 Corporate Vision and functional groups identify major risks pertinent to their business and mission, and BCPs assuming the occurrence of a large-scale earthquake and also worked to plan and promote measures to either prevent them or minimize their impact. develop BCPs that assume an outbreak of a new strain of highly virulent influenza. In 008 Special Feature addition, Sharp set a goal to develop BCPs for the supply chain and conducted a survey of its primary business partners (suppliers) in Japan on the status of their BCP 012 Special Focus Promoting BRM (Business Risk Management) development. Management 1) Rules of Business Risk Management In fiscal 2010, in Japan, Sharp will continue to review BCPs for production sites, and Objectives and Achievements in the Sharp developed the Rules of Business Risk Management as a basic policy for the will review existing BCPs and develop new ones for affiliated companies. In addition, 017 Area of Management Sharp will work to develop and improve BCPs for key overseas bases. company-wide promotion of BRM, and controls business risks based on these rules. 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control In clarifying potential risks pertinent to Sharp’s business activities, Sharp has identified 020 Management more than 100 risk items that could have a major impact on management. Those System to Promote CSR / items appear in the Rules of Business Risk Management as “specific risks.” 023 Risk Management To promote application of BRM, Sharp created a Specific Risk Control Manual that 024 Compliance organizes in a systematic way methods for minimizing and appropriately dealing with TOPICS 029 each risk, as well as proactive education and training programs to prevent such risks Sharp and the Environment from actually occurring. Promoting Measures to Combat New Strains of Influenza 080 Sharp and Society In addition, Sharp established the Rules of Emergency Response, detailing responses In April 2009, an outbreak occurred of a new strain of influenza—A(H1N1), the if a potential risk does come to pass. Taking prompt action when an emergency so-called “swine flu.” Even though it was declared a “low virulence” virus, it 110 Honors from Third Parties situation occurs works to minimize loss and prevent the damage from spreading not nevertheless spread like wildfire around the world, and large numbers of people 112 Outline of the Sharp Group only across the company, but also to society at large. These Rules also specify action became infected. items to be implemented to ensure prompt and appropriate information disclosure to Sharp, based on guidance from WHO (World Health Organization) and governments 114 Independent Assurance Report the broader community, such as stakeholders. of the countries where Sharp bases are located, had formulated an Action Plan to Combat New Influenza Strains in anticipation of a potential outbreak of a new strain Sharp periodically reviews and revises these Rules and the Manual to reflect changes of avian influenza (H5N1), which was feared would become “highly virulent,” and in society, for example, adding new specific risks and measures to deal with them. made preparations and introduced a variety of countermeasures in Japan and abroad. However, with the outbreak of this new “low virulence” influenza virus, it was 2) Management Methods for Important Risks thought that more flexibility was needed in implementing the action plan and various From among the specific risks, each business and functional group further selects related measures. In addition to establishing scenarios that will implement different those important risks which possess greater impact and higher probability of measures depending on the level of virulence of the virus, Sharp has now put in occurrence within their responsible area, and tackles them as priority management place measures to combat the spread of the flu, matched to the situation at each risks in each group’s risk management activities. business location and base, such as stronger health and hygiene management, and reinforcing controls on physical access. In addition, for its own unique action plan, Every six months, all groups formulate and push ahead with concrete measures Sharp has installed Plasmacluster Ion generators, which use Sharp’s proprietary intended to decrease the level of impact and the probability of occurrence of priority Plasmacluster Ion technology for deactivating harmful airborne substances, at its management risks. The results are then examined and validated. business locations (approximately 10,000 units in Japan and overseas). Also, through reports on occurrences of internal risks at company-wide meetings, Based on such efforts, no outbreaks of this new strain of influenza have occurred among Sharp employees, and no incidents have occurred which might be feared to information on BRM efforts of each group is shared across the entire company and have a major impact on business. reflected in selecting subsequent priority management risks and developing countermeasures for them. Sharp will continue to work to maintain its system of countermeasures and improve preparedness to combat new strains of influenza to be able to rapidly respond to any Sharp is using the PDCA management cycle to promote these efforts, and regards resurgence of A(H1N1) influenza or to a possible outbreak of new highly virulent this approach as an on-going operational management system. Sharp is also aiming strains of influenza. to further improve and enhance its policy measures to minimize and mitigate risks by 021 firmly anchoring BRM throughout the company. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Case Study Japan 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report CSR Efforts in Sales and Marketing Areas in Japan 3. Personal Environmental Challenge Declaration All employees of sales and service departments create a personal environmental challenge 003 Top Message The Domestic Sales and Marketing Group‚ which is in charge of all sales and declaration with reference to a program advocated by the Japanese Ministry of the marketing activities in Japan‚ conducts business, with a focus on CSR, based on the Environment. In this way, each individual can become aware of his or her own contribution 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) basic principles of “customer first” and “compliance first.” to building a sustainable society and can work to promote the widespread use of environmentally conscious products and participate in environmental social contribution 007 Corporate Vision To ensure that Sharp employees at sales and service bases all over Japan fulfill their activities. social responsibility in local communities and to create bases even more firmly 008 Special Feature anchored in local communities‚ Sharp is working to strengthen its efforts to make 4. Sales and Service Personnel Who Can Talk About the Environment contributions to local communities by further raising the level of awareness of CSR 012 Special Focus in Their Own Words among all employees and through sales and service activities. Being involved in sales and marketing of environment-related products, including Management In addition, Sharp is working to deepen the understanding of its CSR efforts among energy-creating solar cells, energy-saving LCD TVs, major home appliances, and LED Objectives and Achievements in the its business partners, and to build partnerships to promote CSR activities together, lighting products, all domestic sales and marketing divisions are taking the initiative in 017 Area of Management through such efforts as providing assistance to dealers seeking certification as Dealer acquiring Eco Test (Certification Test for Environmental Specialists) certification. 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control of Excellence in Promoting Energy-Efficient Products (see page 93 for more In addition, these divisions have implemented a program of e-learning for all sales and information). service employees with the goal of acquiring basic knowledge about the environment. 020 Management System to Promote CSR / 023 Risk Management 5. Promoting Community-Based Social Contribution Activities Structuring a PDCA Cycle for CSR and Building (See pages 105 and 106 for more information) 024 Compliance an Organization to Promote It A major CSR activity undertaken by Sharp sales and service bases is to jointly plan and 029 Sharp and the Environment The CSR Promotion Department, established within the Domestic Sales and participate in social contribution activities with local communities. These constructive action Marketing Group, works on the planning and promotion of a broad range of policies programs are intended to anchor Sharp sales and service bases more firmly in the 080 Sharp and Society community. In fiscal 2009, to engage in pursuits that would be more welcomed by and activities on a more pragmatic level, particularly in terms of compliance at sales communities, Sharp worked to increase its participation in activities sponsored by local 110 Honors from Third Parties and service sites. Looking to further boost CSR awareness and strengthen action governments and others. Community-based social contribution activities were held programs put in place at sales and service bases, Sharp is working to build a PDCA approximately 700 times at sales bases throughout Japan, with a total of about 17,400 112 Outline of the Sharp Group management cycle (“plan‚ do‚ check‚ and act”) for CSR by continuously providing participants. training and education, supporting on-site problem solving activities, and monitoring 114 Independent Assurance Report the results. Sharp has also been holding environmental education classes for elementary school children around the country in cooperation with the Weathercaster Network (WCN), a nonprofit educational organization of weather forecasters in the Japanese media. Approximately 300 employees from Sharp sales and service bases nationwide serve as Further Raising Awareness of CSR Among Sales ECO Navigators (teachers). and Service Employees 1. Holding Morning Meetings to Coordinate CSR Activities Words from a Staff Member Who Acquired Eco Test Certification At business locations shared by affiliated sales and service companies, morning meetings Recently, environmental issues are a hot topic in the news, are held at the beginning of each week to exchange sales and service information and and in studying for the certification, my sources of conduct joint planning and review of CSR efforts that each base is expected to implement information were TV, which I watch every day, and as a member of the local community. The leaders of the morning meetings use CSR-related newspapers. By paying close attention and keeping my information provided by the Domestic Sales and Marketing Group to improve every eyes and ears open, I was able to get some valuable employee’s knowledge of and insight into CSR. information. When I’m caught up in work, I tend to forget about the environment, but the green Eco Test certification 2. Introduction of an Online Self-Auditing System badge, which I always have on me at the office, makes me Each quarter, sales and service managers assess how well they are complying with laws aware that “We can start taking eco-friendly action and in-house rules related to operational activities, as well as the status of management Eriko Motomura anytime, anywhere.” Construction Support activities with respect to business risks. These results are analyzed quantitatively and Promotion Department “If I don’t do it, who will?” I try to keep this idea in mind, qualitatively, and are reflected in new policies and mechanisms to mitigate risks and prevent Sharp Amenity Systems and I bring my own water bottle, and use the back side of crises. Corporation the paper, too. 022 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Case Study Overseas 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report CSR Efforts at WSEC in China WSEC, 003 Top Message In April 2008, WSEC* built a system for carrying out CSR activities by formulating a Wuxi China CSR policy containing rules for managing in seven areas. WSEC’s CSR policy is 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) based on the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Shanghai Conduct. WSEC conducts CSR activities with a focus on the following four key areas. 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 1. Occupational Health and Safety 4. Social Contribution Activities Management In 2009 WSEC began working towards certification for the OHSAS 18001 For a number of years, the Sharp Charity Foundation has been used for social international occupational health and safety management standard. After efforts by contribution activities that include granting scholarships to outstanding students with Objectives and Achievements in the limited financial resources and conducting environmental education at elementary 017 employees to identify and remove the causes of risk through safety inspections, at the Area of Management end of December 2009 the company was certified for this standard. WSEC will strive schools. 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control to boost its level of OHSAS management so as to further improve occupational health Employees also actively participate in these activities by picking up litter around the 020 Management and safety. factories and in public parks, and donating a day of their salary to the charity or to System to Promote CSR / 023 Risk Management victims of the Sichuan earthquake. WSEC will continue to contribute to local society in any way it can, in the process raising Sharp’s image as a good corporate citizen in the 024 Compliance 2. Labor, Human Rights community. WSEC honors basic human rights and respect for the individual, abides by Chinese 029 Sharp and the Environment labor laws, works to prevent forced labor and child labor, and implements overtime * Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd., established in 1996 as a manufacturing and sales company for electronic components with the consent of employees. The company also strives to tap individual personality 080 Sharp and Society and motivation by holding annual employee training divided by management level and 110 Honors from Third Parties job description. And to ensure employees enjoy a pleasant living environment, in 2009 WSEC introduced dormitories with state-of-the-art equipment and amenities. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group WSEC will continue to provide employees with a workplace that is pleasant, Promoting CSR with the Cooperation of Related Divisions 114 Independent Assurance Report productive, and conducive to personal growth. I have been in charge of promoting CSR activities at WSEC since April 2008. This work is meaningful and highly 3. Compliance important. However, the scope of CSR is wide, and fulfilling CSR requires strong cooperation among each related WSEC strives to prevent illegal business practices such as unfair dealings, division. In March 2010, I made a business trip to Sharp misappropriation of funds, and bribes by holding a range of training based on the Corporation’s CSR Promotion Group in Japan. There, I Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook and Japan’s Antimonopoly Act. It has also was able to gain a deeper understanding of Sharp’s CSR formulated in-house rules relating to matters such as the prevention and early policy and of the specific actions Sharp’s bases in China detection of illegal acts. It also informs business partners, suppliers, and all company must take. Through closer collaboration with Sharp Corporation, I will continue doing my part at WSEC to departments in writing that under no conditions must they accept monetary gifts, Wan Min expand and improve our CSR efforts and raise our expensive gift items, or rebates. Manager corporate image. CSR Promotion Room WSEC 023 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Compliance In strengthening its global business expansion, Sharp has been developing and improving its compliance system for Sharp Corporation 001 Contents as well as affiliated companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries, and has been working to foster awareness of compliance on a global basis and promote the spread of this awareness throughout the Sharp Group. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • Ongoing improvement of • Implemented compliance training based on Sharp Group Compliance • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion measures compliance promotion system, Guidebook and training on antitrust law through e-learning for all • Compliance training (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) for all 008 Special Feature policies, and measures employees in Japan employees in Japan • Appointed legal affairs staff members in four overseas regions, and • Ongoing compliance training at all overseas bases 012 Special Focus implemented development and training on compliance systems in all • Ongoing internal audits and guidance on complying with antitrust laws regions • Create anti-bribery guidebook to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign Management • Implemented internal audits and offered guidance on complying with public ofﬁcials antitrust laws to all business groups in Japan Objectives and Achievements in the 017 Area of Management • Expand and improve methods to • Established autonomous information security management cycles at • Revamp content of self-checks for further strengthening conﬁdentiality and promote information security at overseas bases information security, and implement them on a continuing basis in Japan and 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control overseas bases overseas System to Promote CSR / 020 Risk Management • Ongoing implementation of • Implemented internal audits related to protecting personal information • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal policies to promote protection of • Implemented education and awareness policies related to protecting information 024 personal information personal information for employees and others • Implement internal audits related to protecting personal information Compliance • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to 028 protecting personal information for employees and others 029 Sharp and the Environment 080 Sharp and Society Basic Policy Regarding Compliance Raising Legal and Ethical Awareness to Ensure Compliance 110 Honors from Third Parties Sharp deﬁnes compliance as “observing company regulations and social codes of To foster legal and ethical awareness and ensure compliance with the law and social 112 Outline of the Sharp Group conduct, including laws and corporate ethics,” and regards it as the foundation of norms, Sharp Corporation and afﬁliated companies hold educational programs in fulﬁlling its CSR (corporate social responsibility). Accordingly, Sharp is pursuing on a Japan relating to compliance, including job-level-speciﬁc training for directors, senior 114 Independent Assurance Report global basis the ongoing development and strengthening of systems and policy executives, managers, mid-career employees and new employees, training for measures to promote management practices where compliance is given ﬁrst priority. employees transferred overseas, and specialized training in speciﬁc ﬁelds. In ﬁscal 2009, Sharp worked to foster awareness of compliance on a global basis and ensure that this awareness permeates the entire Sharp Group, by providing Strengthening the System to Promote Compliance compliance training based on the Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook to all Sharp is continuously reviewing and strengthening its compliance promotion system employees in Japan, and gradually implementing training programs at all overseas to grow its business in an appropriate manner in accordance with the law and social bases. In addition, Sharp’s Legal Affairs Division at its Head Ofﬁce worked to further norms. strengthen compliance through ongoing internal audits of the status of compliance promotion, targeting all business groups and afﬁliated companies in Japan. In ﬁscal 2009, the Compliance Committee met every three months to plan compliance measures and to conﬁrm the implementation of these measures for the entire Sharp In ﬁscal 2010, Sharp plans to work on the ongoing implementation of compliance Group from a global perspective. training for all employees in Japan (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) and at all overseas bases. While Sharp already had a legal affairs chief and staff members at each Sharp Corporation business group and afﬁliated company in Japan, in ﬁscal 2009, Sharp ﬁnished the process of appointing legal affairs staff members at the four overseas regions (US, Europe, China, Asia/Africa), as part of efforts to strengthen the compliance system internationally. 024 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Compliance with Antitrust Laws Preventing Corruption in All Forms and Sharp has made antitrust laws a priority area and is working constantly to ensure Dealing Properly with Donations 001 Contents compliance. In addition to providing training for all employees in Japan, revising The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct 002 Compiling This Report relevant manuals, and establishing an “antitrust law hotline” as a dedicated contact contain provisions that strictly prohibit any form of corrupt behavior such as bribery or point (established inside and outside the company) for reporting problems, in fiscal extortion of money or gifts, and require that donations be handled in a proper manner. 003 Top Message 2009, Sharp implemented an online education program (Japan), conducted training at all overseas bases, introduced a checklist of specific items to be followed to comply In Japan, Sharp prevents illegal payoffs and improper expenditures through a system 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) of compulsory reviews by the Monetary Contribution Examination Committee on CSR with antitrust laws in Japan (to prevent the formation of cartels) for its internal control self-check system, and Sharp’s Legal Affairs Division at the Head Office also began to assess the propriety of monetary disbursements such as donations and 007 Corporate Vision internal audits of the actions of all Sharp Corporation business groups. contributions made by Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies. 008 Special Feature In addition, in fiscal 2010, Sharp plans to prepare a guidebook aimed at preventing In fiscal 2010, Sharp plans to provide guidance and implement monitoring related to compliance with antitrust laws to affiliated companies in Japan, and develop and bribery of foreign public officials and will make every effort to publicize the contents on 012 Special Focus introduce the antitrust law checklist for the internal control self-check system to a global basis. Management overseas bases. Objectives and Achievements in the 017 Area of Management Preventing Insider Trading 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control Consultation Hotline for Compliance Issues Sharp has established regulations restricting insider trading, and has established Sharp Corporation and its domestic affiliated companies have a hotline (contact controls on material facts (“insider tips”) and instituted restrictions on the buying and System to Promote CSR / 020 Risk Management points inside and outside the company) for reporting problems and providing selling of stocks and other securities. Sharp has also implemented in-house training counseling services related to compliance issues. The hotline is open to employees, related to insider trading such as an educational campaign targeting Sharp Group 024 Compliance temporary staff, and employees of business partners, in line with the spirit of Japan’s employees in Japan on the corporate intranet and other methods, with the aim of 028 preventing insider trading by Sharp Group directors or employees. Whistleblower Protection Act. 029 Sharp and the Environment The Sharp Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the privacy of individuals who In addition, given the importance of disclosure, when “material facts specified in the report compliance violations or seek consultation will be strictly protected and that Financial Instruments and Exchange Act” and/or “important company information that 080 Sharp and Society should be disclosed in a timely manner as stipulated by securities exchanges” is there will be no unfavorable treatment or penalties against those persons. generated, Sharp will do its utmost to disclose and publicize them promptly. Further, 110 Honors from Third Parties regarding interviews by outside media, Sharp will deal with them in a positive manner, 112 Outline of the Sharp Group while fully honoring the spirit of disclosure and remaining attentive so as not to violate insider-trading regulations. 114 Independent Assurance Report In fiscal 2009, bearing in mind socioeconomic conditions in which problems with insider trading increased, Sharp tightened controls on material facts, as well as strengthened its efforts to the greatest extent possible to prevent insider trading, including instituting e-learning targeting all Sharp Group employees in Japan. 025 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Close-Up Putting Compliance Management into Practice on a Global Basis 001 Contents with the Goal of Becoming a Company Even More Trusted by Society 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Sharp is working to strengthen its system, and expand and improve measures ■ Compliance System to put compliance management into practice on a global basis. 007 Corporate Vision Board of Directors In 2009, to strengthen its system of compliance overseas, Sharp appointed 008 Special Feature those responsible for Sharp business in the four major regions around the world Management Strategy Meeting (US, Europe, China, Asia/Africa) as Compliance Officers (CO), and appointed a 012 Special Focus legal affairs staff member from Sharp’s Legal Affairs Division at the Head Office CSR/BRM Committee to each region. To strengthen the compliance function in the region, each legal Management affairs staff member, as staff of each regional CO, works in cooperation with the Executive Vice President legal affairs department of each base in the region, and also holds regular (Chief Officer, Objectives and Achievements in the 017 Area of Management General Administration) meetings with Sharp’s Legal Affairs Division at the Head Office. Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) cum Compliance Committee chairperson 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control To expand and improve compliance measures, beginning in fiscal 2009, Sharp Group General Manager of System to Promote CSR / made necessary changes to the Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook CSR Promotion Group 020 Risk Management Compliance Committee vice chairperson (produced by Sharp Corporation in Japan) in accordance with the laws of each (assists CCO) 024 region and country and within a scope that does not violate the spirit of the Compliance guidebook, and began to make the contents of the guidebook known to 028 Compliance Committee executives and employees at each overseas base. Sharp is also gradually 029 Sharp and the Environment implementing training in antitrust laws at all overseas bases. Secretariat: Legal Affairs Division, CSR Promotion Group 080 Sharp and Society Sharp Corporation’s Compliance Committee confirms the status of these efforts to promote compliance in all overseas regions, and works to ensure steady Group General Manager of Cooperation Group General Managers Group General Managers 110 Honors from Third Parties progress. Global Business Planning Group of global business affairs Compliance Officer (CO) Compliance Officer (CO) Compliance Officer (CO) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group In fiscal 2010, Sharp will continue to disseminate the contents of the Compliance Guidebook and conduct training in antitrust laws at all overseas 114 Independent Assurance Report bases, and also plans to develop and introduce a checklist of specific items Presidents of affiliated companies related to compliance with antitrust laws (anti-cartel formation) for its internal control self-check system. Chief of legal affairs meetings General managers of business Cooperation Cooperation Legal departments/ Further, in conjunction with even wider business expansion globally, including strategy planning departments, (CSR) Legal Affairs Division staff the “local production for local consumption” strategy (implementing planning, general managers of administrative divisions development, procurement, manufacturing, sales, and service rooted in the Chief of legal affairs Human Resources Group local region), Sharp will further expand and improve its initiatives to comply with various laws and regulations so that its business activities are carried out Legal staff Global Brand Strategy Group (legal affairs group) appropriately, in line with regulations applicable globally or unique to specific Cooperation Staff at functional regions. Customer Satisfaction Promotion Group departments Specialized meetings Cooperation Staff at functional In fiscal 2010, Sharp is also planning to produce guidebooks on preventing departments Environmental Protection Group bribery of overseas public officials and ensuring compliance with antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies in the same industry. Sharp will take Division general managers, department general managers Presidents of subsidiaries Intellectual Property Group steps to make the content of these guidebooks as widely known as possible, Each affiliated company president, Each subsidiary president is and will also provide advice from the legal divisions on these issues. division general manager, and responsible for compliance department general manager is Corporate Procurement Center at his/her own company. responsible for compliance at his/her In the future, as mentioned above, Sharp will continuously promote efforts to own company, division, and put compliance management into practice on a global basis. department. 026 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Basic Policy on Information Security Protecting Personal Information 001 Contents Sharp Corporation has established a basic policy on information security as outlined Sharp Corporation and its domestic affiliates have established a basic policy for below and is taking initiatives to ensure information security by promoting the safe and protection of personal information, and are promoting measures related to the 002 Compiling This Report secure use of information under its control as well as its information systems. protection of personal information by constructing an in-house management system. 003 Top Message 1. Sharp will construct mechanisms to ensure that problems such as unauthorized Specifically, each year, Sharp implements measures such as correcting problems disclosure (“leaks”), malicious alteration, or loss of information under its control does not uncovered during internal audits and conducting e-learning training for all employees. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) occur, and will manage its information assets in accordance with the importance of the Sharp is also taking proactive steps to improve this system, and educate employees information. Specially, Sharp will exercise strict control over the personal information of and make them aware of the importance of protecting personal information. 007 Corporate Vision customers and over important information disclosed by business partners and others. As a result of efforts to promote these measures, Sharp Corporation and the affiliated 008 Special Feature 2. In order for Sharp, together with its directors and employees, to ensure the security of companies in Japan listed below have acquired Privacy Mark* certification. information, Sharp will conduct education and training regarding information security for 012 Special Focus all directors and employees on a regular basis. As befits a company that has acquired certification, Sharp will constantly strive to improve and strengthen its system for protection of personal information in the future. Management 3. Sharp will comply with all laws and contractual obligations relating to information security. * A certification given to businesses that comply with the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) for Objectives and Achievements in the 4. Sharp will promote the construction of mechanisms to ensure the safe and proper use, personal information protection. 017 Area of Management and the continual management of information assets under its control. In addition, Sharp 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control will aim to become a leading company in information security by reviewing these mechanisms on a regular basis and working constantly to improve them. System to Promote CSR / 020 Risk Management ■ Privacy Mark Certification 024 Sharp Corporation Compliance Strengthening Systems to Raise the Level 028 of Information Security and Expanding Self-Checks Sharp Document Systems Corporation and Evaluation Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. 029 Sharp and the Environment Sharp Finance Corporation In line with the aforementioned Basic Policy on Information Security, Sharp has 080 Sharp and Society Sharp Engineering Corporation established in-house regulations and is carrying out various measures to protect the personal information of stakeholders, including customers, as well as trade secrets. Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation 110 Honors from Third Parties Sharp Corporation’s Privacy Mark Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Sharp holds semi-annual meetings of the IT Infrastructure/Information Security 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Committee, which brings together IT/security managers from throughout the Sharp 114 Independent Assurance Report Group in Japan. This committee ensures the thoroughness of the Basic Policy on Information Security and checks the implementation status of various action plans. In ■ E-Learning Screens addition, Sharp provides training through e-learning courses once a year for all Sharp Group employees in Japan. Sharp has established Regional Information Security Committees in four regions around the world (North America, Europe, China, and Asia), and has initiated activities to further strengthen the system for promoting security and improving the level of security. In fiscal 2005, Sharp Corporation introduced and has since been expanding a system for self-checks and evaluation in Japan and overseas to effectively implement security measures at each level of the organization and to improve the level of security throughout the entire Sharp Group. In fiscal 2009, Sharp established a framework to enable implementation of autonomous information security management cycles in each region when carrying out self-checks. In fiscal 2010, Sharp plans to review the self-check items and strengthen the measures for dealing with those items. 027 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Management Intellectual Property Strategy Protecting Intellectual Property 001 Contents Sharp regards its strategy on intellectual property as one of its most important Sharp’s business and R&D strategies are interlinked with its intellectual property management measures, and is promoting it together with its business strategy and assets, which are used to the fullest possible advantage. At the same time, Sharp is 002 Compiling This Report R&D strategy. Sharp is aggressively pursuing the acquisition of patents to ensure the firmly committed to protecting its own intellectual property rights, while respecting the superiority of its one-of-a-kind products and devices, thereby working to strengthen intellectual property rights of others. Even though Sharp regards discussion as the 003 Top Message the foundation of its business. basis for resolving cases of infringement, it is the company’s policy to seek judgment from a third party such as the courts when its intellectual property rights are not 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Regarding patent acquisition, Sharp is clarifying the business areas that form the core respected. of each of its businesses, and is staffing these core business fields with engineers well 007 Corporate Vision versed in patent-related matters. Sharp is thus able to file strategic patent applications By strengthening in-house rules, Sharp is also working to bolster protection for trade tightly focused on the actual situation. In addition, Sharp is also acquiring useful secrets and to prevent unauthorized disclosure of production technologies and 008 Special Feature patents invented in cooperation with other companies or derived from the activities of manufacturing know-how, particularly those that are unique or critically important to 012 Special Focus alliances, such as industry-university cooperation. Sharp. As of the end of March 2010, Sharp’s patent holdings consisted of 17,501 Japanese Further, counterfeit Sharp-brand products have had a growing impact in overseas Management patents and 22,568 foreign patents. Sharp is using this patent portfolio to strengthen markets in recent years, and Sharp is taking measures to counter these imitations Objectives and Achievements in the its strategic businesses, and is aggressively analyzing the products of competitors through cooperation with industry groups and with regulatory authorities taking 017 Area of Management with the aim of finding further applications. In addition, Sharp is filing applications and enforcement actions. 018 Corporate Governance / Internal Control registering rights for designs and trademarks globally under its brand strategy. With regard to respect for the intellectual property rights of others, Sharp is System to Promote CSR / responding by holding company-wide conferences for persons involved with patents 020 Risk Management and by training of engineers. 024 Date End of March 2008 End of March 2009 End of March 2010 Compliance 028 Japanese patents 17,957 18,449 17,501 Incentives for Employee Inventions 029 Sharp and the Environment Foreign patents 22,649 22,052 22,568 To comply with the intent of Article 35 of Japan’s Patent Law, Sharp Corporation 080 Sharp and Society consulted with employees before stipulating its in-house rules, called the “Regulations for Employee Inventions.” The regulations include detailed standards on rewarding an 110 Honors from Third Parties Intellectual Property Management System employee who comes up with an invention during work for the company, when and 112 Outline of the Sharp Group after the employee reports the invention and hands over the rights to the invention to In developing a unified intellectual property strategy, Sharp’s Intellectual Property the company. Group based at the Head Office is responsible for overall strategic management, and 114 Independent Assurance Report Sharp also reviewed and revised compensation systems in subsidiaries and affiliated is involved in a variety of activities related to intellectual property, working in mutual cooperation with patent-related departments located within the R&D groups and each companies in Japan according to the intent of the Patent Law, and has come up with production business group and base. programs that improve incentives for employees who devise inventions. Thus, Sharp has built and is promoting systems that compensate employees fairly and appropriately, depending on the contribution their invention makes to the company, as well as the contribution that each employee involved made to the invention. Sharp and Samsung Reach Settlement in LCD Patent Infringement Disputes On February 5, 2010, Sharp Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. signed a settlement agreement to end ongoing patent infringement disputes over LCD panels and modules. Since 2007, each company had brought lawsuits against the other in the US, Japan, Korea, and Europe, alleging infringement of patents for LCD panels and modules. Based on this settlement, all lawsuits were promptly withdrawn, bringing an end to all patent infringement litigation between the two companies. This settlement allows the two companies to mutually utilize the disputed patents relating to LCD panels and modules, owned worldwide by each company. 028 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Aiming to Contribute to the Environment In accordance with environmental conservation guidelines established in line with Sharp’s Basic Environmental Philosophy, the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, 001 Contents and the Sharp Code of Conduct, Sharp is pursuing environmental consciousness across all of its business activities. In fiscal 2010, Sharp will be further strengthening its efforts to contribute to the environment based on its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company.” 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision Basic Environmental Philosophy Corporate Vision Creating an Environmentally Conscious Company 008 Special Feature with Sincerity and Creativity Eco-Positive Company 012 Special Focus 017 Management The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Sharp and the Environment Contribution to Conservation of the Global Environment Strengthening Environmental Sustainability Management 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment The Sharp Group will make efforts to further contribute to global environmental conservation to Achieve the Corporate Vision by strengthening our development of proprietary technologies for protecting the global 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements environment, and by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. Sharp set up the Environmental Protection Group to plan and promote overall company strategy for protecting the global environment. This Group forms the core of 032 Mass Balance Sharp’s system to promote environmental conservation, and facilitates the deployment of environmental sustainability management on a global basis. 033 Environmental Accounting The Sharp Code of Conduct Specifically, the General Manager of the Environmental Protection Group serves as the 034 Technologies Contribution to Conservation of the Global Environment chair of the semiannual General Global Environmental Conference, where important 1. To Conserve the Environment matters such as environmental guidelines, strategies, and objectives are discussed 041 Products 2. To Develop Environmentally Conscious Products and Services, and Conduct and set for each division and for the Sharp Group as a whole. In addition, Sharp also Our Business Operations in an Environmentally Conscious Manner hosts Company-Wide GP (Green Product) and GF (Green Factory) Conferences to 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products discuss environmental measures concerning products and factories, as well as 054 Operations holding regional environmental conferences overseas to discuss environmental policies and measures for each region and each site. Sharp is also promoting various 075 Relationships ■ Sharp Group’s Environmental Sustainability Management environmental measures across the entire company, while working in close Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation cooperation with members of environmental departments at each site in Japan and 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Executive Management Committee overseas through various committees and project activities. 080 Sharp and Society General Global Environmental Conference For fiscal 2010, with the aim of further strengthening environmental sustainability • Company-Wide Chaired by the Environmental Protection Special Safety management to achieve its corporate vision of becoming an Eco-Positive Company, 110 Honors from Third Parties Group General Manager Management Committee Sharp has established a series of “Eco-Positive Strategic Measures” as priority objectives under the group performance evaluation system, based on Sharp’s original 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Company-Wide GP/GF Conference Pan-American Pan-European Asia China strategic management system (eS-SEM*). All divisions at Sharp Corporation are Chaired by the Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental 114 Independent Assurance Report Protection Group General Manager Conference Conference Conference Conference introducing these measures and taking proactive steps to achieve them. In the future, Sharp also plans to introduce these indicators at subsidiaries and affiliated companies • Company-Wide Product VOC Measures Workgroup • Site VOC Measures Workgroup in Japan and abroad, and with the objective of making its corporate vision a reality, • REACH Measures develop initiatives for contributing to the environment by the entire Sharp Group. Project Team * eS-SEM (e-Sharp Strategic Enterprise Management): Sharp’s original strategic management Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental system based on the balanced scorecard concept. Environmental conferences/committees conferences conferences conferences conferences at all sites (companies) in Japan at each at each at each at each subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Sharp Code of Conduct 029 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Environmental Objectives and Achievements Environmental Objectives and Achievements Sharp aims to achieve its corporate vision of becoming an Eco-Positive Company, and not only takes the environment into account in all its business activities, 001 Contents but also pursues what will create positive outcomes for the environment. All divisions set environment-related objectives, but this section reports on the objectives overseen by the Environmental Protection Group, which is responsible for company-wide environmental strategy, and on their results. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision Fiscal 2009 Achievement Summary 008 Special Feature Fiscal 2009 was the first year of Sharp’s Eco-Positive environmental strategy, and in These accomplishments have affected the entire Sharp Group, and despite an making the significant leap forward to the next stage, Sharp worked to achieve a increase in emissions resulting from the start of operations of the LCD plant at GREEN 012 Special Focus number of challenging objectives. In addition to results rooted in the current Super FRONT SAKAI (October 2009), the amount of greenhouse gas emissions for the Green Strategy, new accomplishments continue to emerge. Group as a whole was limited to a slight increase of 1% compared to the previous 017 Management fiscal year, and waste, etc. discharges were reduced by 14% over the same period. In particular, regarding goals for greenhouse gas emissions and waste discharges, Sharp and the Environment Sharp took up the challenge to reduce emissions below the level achieved in fiscal For a look at the main objectives and achievements, please refer to the table below 2007 at the 10 factories of Sharp Corporation that had achieved Super Green Factory and to the pages indicated on the right side of that table. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment status by fiscal 2007. As a result, greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 22% 030 and waste by 44% of the level of fiscal 2007 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 031 032 Mass Balance 033 Environmental Accounting Self Evaluation : Achieved more than targeted : Achieved as targeted : Achieved more than 80% of initial target : Achieved less than 80% of initial target Fiscal 2009 Self See 034 Technologies Stages Themes Major Objectives Fiscal 2009 Objectives Achievements Evaluation Fiscal 2010 Objectives Fiscal 2012 Objectives page(s) 041 Products Expand closed-loop plastic Use 1,200 tons of recycled material recycling plastic in new products Used 1,200 tons ○ Use 1,300 tons Use 1,500 tons 35 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products Establish LCD TV Optimize LCD TV Introduced recycling line 054 Operations ○ − − 51 Technologies Develop 3R recycling technology recycling line for LCD TVs technologies 075 Relationships Develop recycling technology Develop waste Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Develop LCD panel for the glass edge material 077 − − − LCD panel 36 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices recycling technology discarded during the LCD recycling technology panel production process 080 Sharp and Society Increase Super Green Products’ 41 share of net sales in Japan 60% or more 63% ◎ 60% or more 60% or more · 110 Honors from Third Parties 42 Increase Green Seal Products’ 45 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Improve 90% or more 87% △ 90% or more 90% or more I environmental share of net sales 49 114 Independent Assurance Report performance of products and Increase Super Green Devices’ Products devices share of net sales 20% or more 24% ◎ 20% or more 20% or more 44 · 45 Increase Green Devices’ share 47 of net sales 85% or more 90% ◎ 90% or more 95% or more Increase recycling Implement Recycle used Enhance and improve Increase efficiency of Reduced flat-panel TV efficiency to process high-value-added 51 products recycling system flat-panel TV recycling line recycling time to half ○ · growing number of CRT recycling of LCD TV 52 TVs collected panel glass 030 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Self Evaluation : Achieved more than targeted : Achieved as targeted : Achieved more than 80% of initial target : Achieved less than 80% of initial target Environmental Objectives and Achievements Fiscal 2009 Self See Stages Themes Major Objectives Fiscal 2009 Objectives Evaluation Fiscal 2010 Objectives Fiscal 2012 Objectives page(s) Achievements 001 Contents Build Integrated Management System (IMS) 5 overseas plants in total 5 overseas plants in total ○ − − 002 Compiling This Report Restructure Sharp Re-evaluate S-EMS and Environmental Management − − − Construct revised S-EMS Enhance and compile proposed revisions 003 Top Message System (S-EMS) improve 54 environmental Restructure framework to Prepare for transition to I 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) management promote environmental Set up supervisory sites management on an individual 56 − − − system sustainability management in each region company basis (set up regional 007 Corporate Vision system at offices in Japan supervisory sites for each company) Hold step 1 (basic course) Promote environmental Held step 1 Hold step 2 Hold step 3 008 Special Feature e-learning at offices in Japan and at (basic course) ○ (advanced course) (advanced course) plants and offices overseas 012 Special Focus 10 Sharp Corporation 10 plants equivalent to 2 plants SGF II grade A or All plants SGF II grade A plants: 2 plants equivalent SGF II grade A or higher ○ higher based on new or higher 017 Management to SGF II grade A or higher based on self evaluation evaluation criteria 7 Japanese plants Sharp and the Environment Certify more plants as (subsidiaries/affiliates): Introduced SGF II at 2 Implement SGF II at 3 SGF, All plants SGF II grade B 57 SGF, 3 SGF in total ○ 5 SGF in total or higher Green Factories (GF) introduce SGF II at 2 SGF, I 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment and Super Green Factories 3 SGF in total 60 (SGF) 21 overseas plants 030 Improve environmental (subsidiaries/affiliates): Introduced SGF II at 9 Implement SGF II at 11 SGF, All plants SGF II grade B Environmental Objectives and Achievements ○ 031 performance introduce SGF II at 9 SGF, SGF, 11 SGF in total 16 SGF in total or higher of plants and 11 SGF in total 032 Mass Balance offices Held forums in Europe, Hold forums in Europe, Hold forums at least once Hold forums at least twice Hold Eco Best Practice Forums Americas, China, and ◎ 58 Americas, and China a year in all regions a year in all regions 033 Environmental Accounting Asia Japan: Certify 43 out of the Strengthen certification 034 Technologies Japan: Certified all 54 criteria in Japan and overseas total 54 offices offices Japan: Ongoing certification Operations Overseas: Certify 4 (one Japan: Ongoing certification of all 54 offices 61 Certify more offices as Overseas: Certified 13 (3 041 Products Green Offices each in Europe, Americas, ◎ of all 54 offices Overseas: Certify all 20 · Europe, 3 Americas, 1 Overseas: Certify 8 (two each 62 China, and Asia) out of the China, and 6 Asia) out of offices 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products total 20 offices in Europe, Americas, China, the total 20 offices and Asia) 054 Operations 10 Sharp Corporation plants: Reduced by 22% from Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels (every fiscal year), Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce to below fiscal 2007 fiscal 2007 levels ◎ reduce by 3% compared to BAU (every fiscal year) 075 Relationships levels Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Curb 10 Sharp Corporation plants: Sharp Corporation plants: Reduce by 35% from fiscal 63 077 Reduce CO2 emissions Reduced by 43% from Standards for Environmental Performance Indices greenhouse (per adjusted production unit) Reduce by 35% from fiscal fiscal 1990 levels ◎ Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels (average for I gas emissions 1990 levels 1990 levels fiscal 2008 to 2012) 66 080 Sharp and Society Overseas plants (subsidiaries/ Reduce CO2 emissions Increased by 35% from 110 Honors from Third Parties affiliates): Reduce by 2% from Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year (every fiscal year) (per production unit) previous fiscal year previous fiscal year 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 10 Sharp Corporation plants: Reduce amount of waste Reduced by 44% from Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels (every fiscal year), Redue to below fiscal 2007 ◎ discharged fiscal 2007 levels reduce by 6% compared to BAU (every fiscal year) 67 114 Independent Assurance Report Reduce and levels I recycle waste Overseas plants (subsidiaries/ 69 Reduce amount of waste, etc. Increased by 19% from affiliates): Reduce by 2% from Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year (every fiscal year) discharged (per production unit) previous fiscal year previous fiscal year Reduce risk Formulate new chemical Reviewed new chemical Formulate new chemical Control emissions using new from Reinforce management management guidelines and management guidelines management guidelines (emission chemical management 71 ensure that they are firmly △ management index) and ensure guidelines (emission · harmful of chemical substances (introduced concept of 72 chemicals established at plants in Japan emission management index) that they are firmly established management index) Reduce Between fiscal 2007 and Reduce by 1% from Reduce by 1% from 73 distributionReduce CO2 emissions per ±0% from previous fiscal 2010, reduce by previous fiscal year by the previous fiscal year · related shipping volume fiscal year average 1% each year 74 Sharp Group in Japan (every fiscal year) CO2 emissions against fiscal 2006 031 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Mass Balance Mass Balance Sharp uses numerical values to accurately assess the relationship between its business activities and the environment, 001 Contents and uses them to promote environmental sustainability management. By making use of these current values at all stages of business activities to create proposals for policy measures and to analyze and evaluate the results, Sharp is aiming to effectively reduce the impact it has on the environment. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision INPUT Flow of Sharp Group business OUTPUT Energy consumption 27,624 TJ* 1 activities CO2 emissions Global 1.275 million t-CO2 Japan 0.971 million t-CO2 Overseas 0.304 million t-CO2 008 Special Feature Global Japan Overseas Technological • Electricity development, PFC emissions Japan 0.27 million GWPt-CO2 012 Special Focus 2,376 million kWh 2,027 million kWh 349 million kWh planning, design Global Japan Overseas • City gas 017 Management 76.781 million m3 73.888 million m3 2.893 million m3 SOx emissions Japan 3.1 tons Global Japan Overseas • LPG Sharp and the Environment 11,487 tons 10,211 tons 1,276 tons NOx emissions Japan 76.1 tons • Heavy oil, kerosene, gas oil, gasoline 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Global 7,604 kl Japan 5,817 kl Overseas 1,787 kl Drainage Global Japan Overseas (plants only) 9.547 million m3 7.729 million m3 1.818 million m3 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements PFCs purchased Japan 7.06 million GWPt-CO2*2 COD (chemical oxygen demand) Japan 11.8 tons 032 Mass Balance Chemical substances Manufacture Japan 11,709 tons Nitrogen pollutant load Japan 67.2 tons (PRTR) handled 033 Environmental Accounting Global Japan Overseas Water consumed 15.249 million m3 13.086 million m3 2.163 million m3 Phosphorous pollutant load Japan 0.8 tons 034 Technologies Packaging materials used Japan 34 thousand tons Final landfill disposal Japan 14.2 tons 041 Products Resources consumed Global 0.555 million tons*3 Chemical substances (PRTR) Japan (Released) 1.4 tons 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products released and transferred (Transferred) 1,940.7 tons Recycled into new products, reused as new parts, 054 Operations Logistics CO2 emissions Japan 42 thousand t-CO2 075 Relationships Energy consumption (vehicle fuel) Japan 615,537 GJ Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Transport volume Japan 191.996 million ton-km 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 080 Sharp and Society Product shipments Global 0.364 million tons Product use closed-loop material recycling, etc. 110 Honors from Third Parties Energy consumption (electricity) Global 36,191 TJ*4 (3,630 million kWh) CO2 emissions Global 2.253 million t-CO2*4 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Global 0.387 million t-CO2*5 CO2 reductions (849 million kWh) 114 Independent Assurance Report RECYCLE Material recycling Weight of that which was not recycled • Amount of used home appliances Air CRT TVs 29,173 tons Flat-panel TVs 845 tons Recycling into new products or materials, or reused (4 kinds) recycled into new home conditioners appliances (4 kinds) 6,937 Refrigerators/ Washing Japan 10,175 tons Japan 64,311 tons tons freezers 16,988 tons machines 10,368 tons (four home appliances, PCs, copiers) Other uses • Amount of recycled copiers Japan 2,769 tons • Amount of recycled PCs Japan 24 tons • Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastic Japan 1,200 tons*6 *1 TJ (terajoule) = 1012 Joules *4 Estimate of annual energy used and amount of CO2 emitted by products in the 11 major categories sold in fiscal 2009. *2 GWP (global warming potential) is a measure of how much a given amount of greenhouse gas will Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate. The calculation method has been partially revised. 032 contribute to global warming, expressed relative to an equivalent mass of CO2. *5 Amount of electricity generated (kWh) annually by Sharp solar cells shipped in fiscal 2009, plus CO2 emissions reduction (t-CO2). *3 Total weight of products in the 12 major categories sold in fiscal 2009 (estimate), plus waste, etc. *6 For details, see page 35. discharged from production sites. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Sharp introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999 to provide a quantitative assessment of the costs and benefits of its environmental conservation activities, 001 Contents and has applied the results to environmental sustainability management. Beginning in fiscal 2005, Sharp adopted a calculation format that follows the Environmental Accounting Guidelines published by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Environmental Conservation Costs Classification of Environmental Economic See page(s) Conservation Costs Benefits Environmental Conservation Effects 007 Corporate Vision Environmental Conservation Activities ( ): Category based on Environmental Accounting Guidelines, (Unit: ¥ million) (Unit: ¥ million) Sharp’s investment in plant and equipment at its existing Ministry of the Environment Description of Actual Estimated Estimated 008 Special Feature production facilities have remained flat, while Major Activities Investment Expenses Benefit Benefit Tangible Effects Benefit environmental conservation investment increased by Environmental • Operation of environmental Promote environmental sustainability management 012 Special Focus 21% over the previous fiscal year, reflecting the start of Sustainability management system 59 1,641 – – Number of employees Master 260 – Management • Promote environmental 55 operations of Sharp Display Products Corporation in (management sustainability management （60）（2,014） with environmental Expert 1,007 – 017 Management October. Overall, environmental conservation investment activities) • Environmental education education General 5,770 – Sharp and the Environment totaled approximately 4.3 billion yen. Environmental Supply environmentally conscious products (Unit: ¥ million) conservation expenditures were approximately 24.5 • R&D on solar power generation systems Green Seal products’ share of net sales 87% – 7 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment billion yen, an increase of 21% compared to the previous • Promote closed-loop Super Green products’ share of net sales 63% – I fiscal year. Planning recycling of plastic 11 709 4,722 123,846 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements and Design materials – Total amount of electricity generated by 2,755 GWh 57,855 • （124）（2,281） （54,136） solar power generation systems (R&D) • R&D on basic 34 032 Mass Balance Economic Benefits environmental CO2 emissions reduced by solar power generation systems 1.23 million t-CO2 I 1,784 technologies Electric power saved from energy-saving 2,976 GWh 62,496 50 Actual benefit was approximately 6.4 billion yen, resulting • R&D on biopaint products*2 033 Environmental Accounting from energy-saving effects and expanded recycling of CO2 emissions reduced by energy-saving products*2 1.18 million t-CO2 1,711 used toner cartridges. Estimated benefit was Reduce • Introduce PFC abatement systems Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by (Unit: ¥ million) 034 Technologies greenhouse • Install solar power controlling electricity and fuel consumption approximately 128.2 billion yen, due to the installation of gas emissions generation systems 2,800 2,481 2,049 4,305 (global CO2 emissions reduced 52 thousand t-CO2 75 PFC*1 abatement systems at Sharp Display Products （910） （2,494） （1,706） （1,736） 041 Products environmental • Introduce energy-saving 2.917 million conservation) equipment PFC emissions reduced GWPt-CO2*3 4,230 Corporation and growth in Sharp’s solar power generation business expansion, which led to steady Minimize and • Reduce waste discharge Waste recycled or sent for appropriate disposal 051 Manufacturing Expanding the Recycling of Used Products recycle waste and recycle waste into 8 10,341 1,831 57 increases in the amount of electricity generated. (recycle valuable resources （15）（7,725）（2,139） – Waste recycled 156 thousand tons – 054 Operations I *1 A general term for perfluorocarbon gases, which are greenhouse gases. resources) • Recycle water Recycled and reused water 16,436 km 3 – 72 075 Relationships Observe environmental laws and regulations Explanation of Terminology Prevent Prevent air/water pollution and noise/vibration • Install scrubbers 697 5,144 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation pollution – – 077 Environmental Conservation Costs • Introduce exhaust gas Promote risk management Standards for Environmental Performance Indices (prevent （2,346） （5,688） Overhead costs, personnel expenses, and investment associated with treatment systems Chemical substances properly managed and their discharge reduced environmental conservation activities, in addition to attendant depreciation. pollution) Reduce risk of soil contamination 080 Sharp and Society Economic Benefits Contributions to society and to the company, which result from environmental Collection, recycling, and proper disposal of used products conservation activities, expressed in monetary units. 110 Honors from Third Parties Actual benefit: Economic effects that can be assessed directly in monetary – Used PCs recycled 24 tons 51 terms, such as cost savings from energy-saving efforts and – I 112 Outline of the Sharp Group use of recycled water, as well as profits from the sale of Recycling/ • Promote collection, Used copiers recycled 2,769 tons 53 valuable resources. Logistics recycling, and proper 0 24 2,488 – Estimated benefit: Sharp Corporation uses the following terms to convert the (upstream/ disposal of （91） （21）（1,615） Used home appliances (4 categories) recycled 64,311 tons – • 114 Independent Assurance Report economic effects of reduced greenhouse gas emissions and downstream) used products 73 electricity savings from the use of solar power generation Environmental burden during distribution reduced I and energy-saving products into equivalent monetary – 74 amounts. Railway/ship cargo transport (container transport) 25,027 containers (1) Reduced greenhouse gas emissions converted into Number of low-pollution vehicles introduced 97.6% – equivalent monetary amounts: 1,450 yen/t-CO2. (2) Electricity savings converted into equivalent monetary Environmental social contributions amounts: Unit cost of electricity: 21 yen/kWh. • Expand social 104 Social – 132 – – Number of employees who attended Total 30,345 – contribution SGC activities I Sites Covered Responsibility （53） activities Number of schools where environmental 109 education was provided Total 600 – Sharp Corporation plants (Tochigi, Yao, Hiroshima, Nara, Katsuragi, Fukuyama, Mie, Tenri, Mihara, Kameyama and Toyama) and offices (Tanabe and the Head Office), 4,273 24,485 6,368 128,151 *2 Previously quantified by calculating the differences in annual power Advanced Materials & Energy Engineering Laboratories (Kashiwa), Sharp Total consumption between models introduced in the previous year and models Manufacturing Systems Corporation, Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation, Sharp （3,546） （20,276） （5,460） （55,872） introduced in the current year. Beginning with fiscal 2009, will be quantified Yonago Corporation, Sharp Display Products Corporation, and Sharp Mie Corporation. Note: Figures in parentheses below entries represent actual values by calculating the amount that the energy-saving products of Sharp’s from the previous fiscal year. Corporate Vision (page 7) contribute to reducing electricity consumption. Period Covered Referenced Guidelines *3 GWP (global warming potential) is a measure of how much a given amount 033 of greenhouse gas will contribute to global warming, expressed relative to an April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010 Environmental Accounting Guidelines equivalent mass of CO2. 2005 published by the Ministry of the Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Environment, Japan Sharp and the Environment Technologies Developing Unique Environmental Technologies Sharp is working to develop unique environmental technologies to raise the environmental performance of its products and devices, and to lower 001 Contents the environmental impact of its production facilities. Sharp is advancing research and development of people-friendly and environmentally friendly technologies covering four areas—energy saving and energy creation, 002 Compiling This Report effective use of resources, safety and peace of mind, and health and comfort. 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Expand closed-loop plastic material recycling 008 Special Feature • Use 1,200 tons of recycled plastic in • Used 1,200 tons • Use 1,300 tons • Use 1,500 tons new products 012 Special Focus 017 Management • Establish LCD TV recycling technology • Optimize LCD TV recycling line • Introduced recycling line for LCD TVs − − Sharp and the Environment 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment − − • Develop LCD panel recycling technology • Develop recycling technology for the • Develop waste LCD panel recycling 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements glass edge material discarded during the technology LCD panel production process 032 Mass Balance 033 Environmental Accounting Technologies R&D on Unique Environmental Technologies 034 Developing Unique Environmental In fiscal 2009, the volume of plastic derived from closed-loop plastic material recycling ■ One-of-a-Kind Technological Development Fields 040 Technologies technology that was recycled and reused in new products increased to 1,200 tons. This technology represents an example of a unique environmental technology that 041 Products contributes to the effective use of resources. Sharp also worked to develop recycling 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products technologies for LCD TVs and technologies for using biomass materials. Friendly to the Earth Sharp also developed and put into practical use UV2A technology, a photo-alignment 054 Operations technology for LCD panels that greatly reduces the power consumption of LCD TVs, Energy saving/ Effective 075 Relationships as well as a unique air flow control technology based on applied fluid dynamics that energy creation use of resources increases the energy efficiency of air conditioners. Sharp also developed compound Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation One-of-a-kind 077 solar cells that achieve the world’s highest conversion efficiency, and pursued new Standards for Environmental Performance Indices environmental instances where the effectiveness of Plasmacluster Ions, Sharp’s unique air 080 Sharp and Society purification technology, has been proven. technologies 110 Honors from Third Parties In addition, as initiatives looking to the future, Sharp began joint research with Osaka Safety and peace Health and Prefecture University on plant cultivation and recovering resources from waste at of mind comfort 112 Outline of the Sharp Group GREEN FRONT SAKAI, Sharp’s base in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. 114 Independent Assurance Report Sharp will continue to develop unique environmental technologies in the future, and will work to improve the environmental performance of its products and devices, and Friendly to People strengthen the level of environmental friendliness at its production facilities. 034 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Technologies Case Study 1 TOPICS 001 Contents Volume of Plastic Recycled and Used Reaches a Total of 5,050 Tons 002 Compiling This Report Developing and Using Closed-Loop Plastic Material The total volume of plastic ■ Use of Recycled Plastic Recycling Technology for Repeatedly Reusing Plastic recycled by closed-loop (Tons) 003 Top Message material recycling since fiscal 5,000 5,050 (Total) In fiscal 2001, Sharp and Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd.*1 jointly developed and 2001 reached 5,050 tons in 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) fiscal 2009, equivalent to a 4,000 3,850 put into practical use closed-loop plastic material recycling technology that repeatedly recovers plastic from used consumer electronics and reuses it in parts of new reduction of approximately 3,000 007 Corporate Vision 2,800 consumer electronics for the Japanese market. 9,000 kiloliters of crude oil. 2,000 1,950 008 Special Feature Sharp and Ube Industries, Ltd., a comprehensive chemical manufacturer in Japan, 1,330 1,000 810 have since jointly developed and introduced new technologies such as high-purity PP 1,200 012 Special Focus 390 separation and recovery technology*2 and plastic pigmentation technology*3, thereby 0 40 120 (Each year) 017 Management increasing the volume of recyclable plastic and expanding the use of recycled plastic. 2001 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 2009 (Fiscal year) As a result, the volume of plastic recycled and used in fiscal 2009 reached Sharp and the Environment approximately 1,200 tons. Sponsor: Research Association for Feedstock Recycling of Plastics, Japan 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment More than ever before, home appliances are being constructed from component parts Technological Achievement Award made from plastics composed of two or more different polymer materials. These Presented in June 2010, this award recognized Sharp for 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements plastics add value to the product, but are difficult to recycle. Sharp has been working developing highly original technologies and turning them into a to develop technologies to enable the use of closed-loop plastic material recycling to profitable business. 032 Mass Balance recover these new plastics for re-use. 033 Environmental Accounting In addition, in January 2010, Sharp licensed a patent (No. 3731009) to Ube ■ Awards Industries, Ltd. This patent relates to a process for recycling plastics that Sharp Fiscal Year Award Name and Sponsor Technologies invented in the course of technology development. Plastic recycling technology is now Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Minister’s Prize; 13th Global 034 expected to spread to other industries as a result. 2004 Environment Awards Developing Unique Environmental Sponsor: Japan Industrial Journal 040 Technologies *1 A consumer electronics recycling company in Japan established with joint-investment from 15th Best Technology Award 2005 Sharp, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, and five other companies. Sponsor: Japan Society of Polymer Processing 041 Products *2 Sharp’s original technology that separates and recovers high-purity PP (polypropylene) from Director-General’s Prize, Industrial Science and Technology Policy and Environment recovered plastic composed of metal parts and different types of resin. 2008 Bureau, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; 2008 Resource Recycling 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products *3 Ube Industries’ original pigment technology that makes it hard to see mixed foreign materials. Technologies and Systems Commendation Sponsor: Clean Japan Center 054 Operations 075 Relationships ■ Examples of Close-Loop Recycled Plastic Use Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation ■ Closed-Loop Plastic Material Recycling Flow 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Fully automatic Refrigerator/freezer washing machine 080 Sharp and Society Product use Divider for Handgrips Disassembly (customer) icemaker and Divider for multi-use 110 Honors from Third Parties multi-use compartment and New consumer electronics Used consumer electronics compartment icemaker 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Material evaluation, evaluation of remaining lifetime, Product Molding and assembly moldability evaluation, physical properties evaluation, review and Plastic parts 114 Independent Assurance Report design of plastic parts determination of formula for improving properties recovery Divider for Divider for multi-use freezer and compartment and multi-use freezer compartment Divider for freezer Pelletization Melting/extrusion Mixing with additives Cleaning Placing into crusher and vegetable Bottom cover compartment Plastic pigmentation High-purity PP Washing tub High-efficiency Base frame technology/flame-resistant separation and metal removal line 035 technology recovery technology Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Technologies Case Study 2 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Developing and Using Technology to Recycle LCD TVs Developing Highly Functional Paint Using Waste Glass In fiscal 2006, Sharp developed and put into practical use a new material for the rear from LCD Panels 003 Top Message cabinets of AQUOS LCD TVs for the Japanese market. When these widely popular In fiscal 2009, Sharp developed a highly functional paint offering high strength, and 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) LCD TVs reach the end of their service life sometime in the future, these cabinets can excellent abrasion and corrosion resistance, that uses glass edge material*4 discarded be recycled through the closed-loop material recycling*¹ process and the material during the LCD panel production process. 007 Corporate Vision re-used and recovered again and again. Since then, Sharp has continued to expand the number of AQUOS models*² that use this material. At the same time, Sharp is The glass used for LCD panels features outstanding physical properties such as high 008 Special Feature strength, low thermal expansion, and high heat resistance, but because its softening continuing its R&D efforts to enable cabinets from flat-panel TVs that use conventional materials to be recycled using closed-loop material recycling technology. temperature is high, re-melting this glass for re-use as a new raw material is difficult 012 Special Focus using existing equipment. Accordingly, Sharp succeeded in developing a highly In addition, Sharp has launched new initiatives to recover rare metals, particularly functional paint that takes advantage of the characteristics of LCD panel glass without 017 Management indium, from LCD panels, and recycle the glass that makes up LCD panel substrates. melting the waste glass by finely crushing it and mixing the resulting powder with a Sharp and the Environment As a leading manufacturer of LCD TVs, Sharp will continue the development and pigment. promote the practical use of recycling technologies This paint can dramatically improve the long-term 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment in the future. durability of products installed outdoors and 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements *1 See page 35. exposed to sunlight, wind and rain, and sand and *2 Fiscal 2009 models: LC-52AE6/46AE6, dust. Sharp is currently planning to use this paint 032 Mass Balance LC-60DS6/52DS6/46DS6/42DS6, LC-52DX2/46DX2, on the exterior parts of security LED lights, and LC-60LX1/52LX1/46LX1/40LX1, Highly functional will promote its adoption for home appliances in paint is slated to 033 Environmental Accounting LC-52SE1/46SE1/40SE1 be used on lamp covers the future. Sharp will also work to develop new Technologies applications, including opening up new market Rear cabinet that can be recycled in the closed-loop material recycling areas, such as architectural materials and 034 Developing Unique Environmental process (LC-40LX1) highway fixtures and equipment. Technologies Security LED light that will use the highly 040 functional paint Developing Technology to Recover Indium *4 Glass edge material is generated when the large glass 041 substrate sheets are cut down to screen size. Products from Waste LCD Panels 054 Operations In fiscal 2009, Sharp, working in cooperation with Osaka Prefecture University, developed recycling technology for waste LCD panels that uses sub-critical water*³. ■ How Highly Functional Paint Is Made 075 Relationships Taking advantage of sub-critical water’s effectiveness at dissolving organic substances, Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices this technology strips away the organic layer from the glass substrate of the LCD panel, and separates and recovers the indium, a rare metal, from the glass. Both the glass 080 Sharp and Society and the indium-containing components can be recovered efficiently. In fiscal 2010, Sharp will be working to further develop this technology and put it into practical use. 110 Honors from Third Parties *3 Up to a temperature of 374°C and a pressure of 218 atmospheres, water is a liquid but has Glass waste Coarse crushing Fine crushing 112 Outline of the Sharp Group not entered the gaseous state. This temperature and pressure is called the critical point, and (approx. 10 µm) water in a temperature range slightly below the critical point is called sub-critical water. 114 Independent Assurance Report ■ Indium Recovery Flow (summary) Glass Highly functional paint Paint base Security LED light Waste LCD panel Crushing Sub-critical water treatment (slated for practical use) Pigment Indium-containing 036 components Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Technologies Case Study 3 ■ Examples of Bioplastic Use ■ Example of Biopaint Use 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Developing and Using Technology for Utilizing Biomass Materials 003 Top Message Sharp is developing technology for using biomass materials in an effort to 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) reduce the consumption of limited fossil resources. Desktop holder for “docomo STYLE series” SH-02B mobile phone (NTT DOCOMO, Inc.) 007 Corporate Vision In fiscal 2006, Sharp developed technology that blends starch-based bioplastic (PLA) and general plastic, such as polypropylene and polysty008 Special Feature rene. And by increasing the durability of the blended bioplastic, it can withstand the closed-loop plastic material recycling* process. Since 2007, LC-65GX5 012 Special Focus this plastic has been used for desktop mobile phone holders released in Stand using biopaint 017 Management the Japanese market. Sharp has since improved some of the properties of this plastic, such as moldability and coloration, and is working to use it in Desktop holder for SoftBank 941SH Sharp and the Environment more products. mobile phone (SoftBank Mobile Corp.) 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Sharp and Kansai Paint Co., Ltd., a Japanese paint manufacturing and sales company, jointly developed a starch-based biopaint and began using ■ Awards 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements it in 2006 on the stands of AQUOS LCD TVs for the Japanese market. Sharp will further improve the performance of the paint and increase its use Year Award Name and Sponsor 032 Mass Balance in home appliances. Recognized for Excellence; 2nd Monodzukuri Nippon Grand Award Sponsors: Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and others 2007 033 Environmental Accounting * See page 35. Prize for Industrial Technology; 2007 JSCM Award Sponsor: Japan Society of Colour Material Technologies Environmental Technology Award; 40th JCIA Technology Awards 2008 Sponsor: Japan Chemical Industry Association 034 Developing Unique Environmental 040 Technologies 041 Products ■ Utilization Process for Biomass Materials General plastic Closed-loop material recycling 054 Operations 075 Relationships Bioplastic Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Polylactic acid (PLA) Pellets Molded into parts (a blend of PLA and general plastic) 080 Sharp and Society Products 110 Honors from Third Parties Starch Biopaint 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Esterified starch Biopaint 114 Independent Assurance Report Painted onto parts 037 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Technologies ■ Overview of Photo-Alignment Technology Case Study 4 001 Contents Polymers of alignment film 002 Compiling This Report Developing and Using UV2A Photo-Alignment Technology A special proprietary material developed by Sharp is coated onto the glass substrate for Greater Energy Efficiency in LCD TVs, a World First as an alignment film. 003 Top Message In fiscal 2009, Sharp developed a photo-alignment*¹ technology called UV2A*² 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) technology for LCD panels that can precisely control the alignment of liquid crystal Glass substrate molecules in a simple LCD panel structure. Sharp has fully incorporated this world007 Corporate Vision first*³ technology as a core technology for the production of a new type of LCD panel 008 Special Feature that will bring about a significant evolution in LCD TVs. UV light When exposed to UV light, the polymers in the alignment film orient themselves This photo-alignment technology uses a special material that responds to ultraviolet in the direction of the radiation. 012 Special Focus radiation for the alignment film in LCD panels. This technology controls the tilt angle of 017 Management the liquid crystal molecules, which are only around two nanometers*4 in size, with an Glass substrate accuracy measured in picometers*5 in accordance with the direction of the radiation. Sharp and the Environment Previous technologies tilted the liquid crystal molecules to manipulate the light by Liquid crystal forming structures called “protrusions” and “slits” in the individual cells where the molecules 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment The liquid crystal molecules then liquid crystal material is confined to stably control the alignment (orientation) of the align themselves in the direction 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements liquid crystal molecules. However, this architecture tends to scatter light passing of the polymers in the alignment film. through the cell from the backlight, causing light leakage, which is responsible for 032 Mass Balance floating black levels and lower light transmissivity (aperture ratio). UV2A technology Glass substrate eliminates the minute gaps in the protrusion-slit architecture, providing a more than 033 Environmental Accounting 20% higher aperture ratio compared to conventional panels while, at the same time, Technologies making it possible to display extremely deep blacks with a static contrast ratio of ■ Overview of Next-Generation LCD Panel Using UV2A Technology 5,000:1, a 60% improvement over conventional panels. The higher brightness also 034 Developing Unique Environmental improves the ability to reproduce brilliant whites, as well as enabling more efficient use Bright whites Deep, dark blacks 040 Technologies of light from the backlight, resulting in a significant reduction in the power consumed by the backlight. Conventional Newly developed Conventional Newly developed 041 Products LCD panel next-generation LCD panel LCD panel next-generation LCD panel Sharp has adopted UV A technology for LED AQUOS* LCD TVs. In addition, it is the 2 6 054 Operations optimum technology to enhance the performance of high-definition 4Kx2K displays and 3D TVs, which are expected to become the next generation of TVs. 075 Relationships Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation *1 A process that ensures a uniform alignment of the liquid crystal molecules in a certain direction. 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices *2 Abbreviation of Ultraviolet-induced Multi-domain Vertical Alignment. 080 Sharp and Society *3 On a production volume basis using large glass substrates of at least 6th generation or later. Protrusions and slits No protrusions or slits, Light leakage Almost no light leakage, Based on Sharp research. so whites are brighter so blacks are blacker *4 A nanometer is one billionth (10–9) of a meter. 110 Honors from Third Parties *5 A picometer is one trillionth (10–12) of a meter. *6 Used on models LC-60LX1/52LX1/46LX1/40LX1, LC-52SE1/46SE1/40SE1/32SC1. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Efficient use of the light from the backlight 114 Independent Assurance Report Conventional LCD panel Light from the backlight Newly developed next-generation LCD panel 038 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Technologies Case Study 5 Case Study 6 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Developing and Using Advanced Energy-Saving Technology Sharp Triple-Junction Compound Solar Cell Achieves World’s to Provide High Performance and High Efficiency in Air Conditioners Highest Conversion Efficiency of 35.8% 003 Top Message Indoor Unit: Unique Airflow Control Technology Based on Applied Fluid Dynamics Since 2000, Sharp has been advancing research and development on a triple-junction 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) compound solar cell*¹ that achieves high conversion efficiency by stacking three Sharp has developed an airflow control technology based on fluid dynamics that efficiently makes the best use of air currents, and has adopted it for use in the indoor unit photo-absorption layers. In fiscal 2009, Sharp achieved the world’s highest solar cell 007 Corporate Vision of split-system room air conditioners. This technology minimizes resistance to the flow of conversion efficiency*² of 35.8%*³. 008 Special Feature air, similar to the aerodynamic design of streamlined aircraft and high-speed trains, To boost the efficiency of triple-junction compound solar cells, it is important to enabling highly efficient heating and cooling without using excessive amounts of energy. improve the crystalline quality (the regularity of the atomic arrangement) in each 012 Special Focus photo-absorption layer (the top, middle, and bottom layer). It is also crucial that the 1 Proprietary louver design draws in air efficiently 2 Long diffuser panel tightly controls airflow solar cell be composed of materials that can maximize the effective use of solar energy. 017 Management Wide intake louver Cooling Heating Conventionally, Ge (germanium) is used as the bottom layer. However, in terms of Sharp and the Environment performance, although Ge generates a large amount of current, the majority of the 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment current is wasted, without being used effectively for electrical energy. The key to Air is drawn in efficiently through a wide intake louver, and is then The way the diffuser panel opens changes depending on whether solving this problem was to form the bottom layer from InGaAs (indium gallium gently blown out into the room from a long diffuser panel. the unit is set for heating or for cooling, and tightly controls the 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements flow so that the air does not blow directly on the body. arsenide), though the process to make high-quality InGaAs with high crystalline quality 3 New Power Concentration Guide constricts the airflow 4 Guide directs air toward wall surfaces, was difficult. 032 Mass Balance flowing smoothly to the left and right Cooling Heating No turbulence No separation Sharp succeeded in forming an InGaAs layer with high crystalline quality by using its 033 Environmental Accounting in airflow of airflow proprietary technology for forming layers. As a result, the amount of wasted current has been minimized, and the conversion efficiency has been successfully increased to Technologies By constricting the airflow, the Extending the airflow 35.8%. Based on these results, Sharp will continue its efforts toward even greater speed of the air is increased, Air is smoothly directed toward wall The air flows in a smooth guide further boosts 034 enabling the air to be blown farther the constricting power. surfaces by gradual curves that curve, reaching wall surfaces to improvements in solar cell conversion efficiency. Developing Unique Environmental even with the same power. minimize airflow loss. the right and left, also reducing uneven temperature variations. 040 Technologies ■ Awards *1 Compound solar cells utilize photo-absorption layers made from compounds consisting of two or more 041 Products Year Award Name and Sponsor elements such as indium and gallium. Due to their high Fluid Mechanics Technology Prize conversion efficiency, compound solar cells are used 054 Operations 2008 mainly on space satellites. Sponsor: Japan Society of Fluid Mechanics Technology Award *2 As of October 22, 2009, for non-concentrator solar cells at 075 Relationships Sponsor: Japan Society of Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers the research level (based on Sharp research). 2009 *3 Conversion efficiency confirmed by the National Institute of Contribution Award; Ichimura Industrial Award Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Sponsor: The New Technology Development Foundation Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST; one of 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices the organizations around the world that officially certifies Triple-junction compound solar cell energy conversion efficiency measurements in solar cells) 080 Sharp and Society Outdoor Unit: Fan Blades Are Modeled on the Shape of Bird Wings to with the world’s highest conversion in September 2009. (Cell surface: approx. 1 cm2) Minimize Air Flow Resistance efficiency of 35.8% 110 Honors from Third Parties The fan blades in the outdoor unit feature an airfoil geometry modeled on the shape of Conventional cell structure New cell structure 112 Outline of the Sharp Group bird wings, such as the albatross, which uses the full extension of its wings to glide efficiently on sea breezes, and the golden 114 Independent Assurance Report eagle, which can fly without stalling even ■ Power versus Airflow Volume 90 in forests where the air is frequently very N InGaP top N InGaP top 80 Previous fan design turbulent. This aerodynamic fan shape P P 70 Electric power (W) moves a higher volume of air for a given 60 Consumes N N (In)GaAs middle GaAs middle amount of power, reducing electricity 50 approximately P P consumption. 20% 40 less power to move N N the same amount Ge bottom InGaAs bottom 30 of air P P 20 Wing-shaped Bird-wing-shaped fan blades 10 fan • InGaP: Indium Gallium Phosphide • InGaP: Indium Gallium Phosphide 0 • (In)GaAs: (Indium) Gallium Arsenide • GaAs: Gallium Arsenide 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 039 • Ge: Germanium • InGaAs: Indium Gallium Arsenide Airflow volume (m³/minute) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Technologies Case Study 7 001 Contents Developing and Using Plasmacluster Ion Air-Purifying ■ Plasmacluster Ions’ Air Purification Mechanism (conceptual drawing) 002 Compiling This Report Technology 003 Top Message With the aim of creating healthy environments, Sharp developed Plasmacluster Ion 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) technology in 2000. Since then, Sharp has proven the efficacy of Plasmacluster Ion technology, including its ability to decompose and remove airborne mold fungi and 007 Corporate Vision inhibit the action of airborne viruses*¹, and has worked for its practical application. 008 Special Feature A proprietary Sharp air purification method, this technology generates, via plasma discharge, positive and negative ions like those found in nature and releases them into 012 Special Focus the air. These Plasmacluster Ions inhibit the action of airborne viruses and decompose 017 Management and remove airborne mold fungi. Sharp has jointly proven with academic research organizations around the world that Sharp and the Environment Plasmacluster technology is effective against 28 kinds of harmful substances, as of 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment the end of fiscal 2009. Moreover, Sharp proved in fiscal 2009 that high-density Plasmacluster Ions (25,000 ions/cm³) are effective in preserving skin moisture and 1 Plasmacluster Ions 2 Plasmacluster Ions 3 Plasmacluster 030 are released into the air decompose mold fungi Ions return to Environmental Objectives and Achievements confirmed their skin beautifying effects in fiscal 2010. Sharp will and viruses the air as water Plasmacluster Ion generators continue its efforts to advance Plasmacluster technology and electrically decompose water When Plasmacluster Ions come The OH radicals bond 032 Mass Balance further prove its efficacy. molecules in the air to generate into contact with the surfaces of with hydrogen (H) to positive and negative ions—the mold fungi and viruses, they turn form water (H2O), 033 Environmental Accounting *1 Effect after 10 minutes based on tests carried out in a sealed same kind found in nature. into highly oxidizing hydroxide which returns to the air. container having a volume of 1 m3, and not the result of empirical tests Those Plasmacluster Ions, (OH) radicals that instantly remove surrounded by water molecules, hydrogen (H) from surface Technologies in an actual habitable space. are then released into the air. proteins, breaking them down. 034 Developing Unique Environmental Technologies Efficacy of Plasmacluster Ions Confirmed by 040 Academic Research Organizations Around the World *² 041 Products Kitasato Research Center of Ishikawa Health Service Association, Japan Safety Confirmed: Plasmacluster Ions Are the Same Type of Ions that Exist in Nature Environmental Sciences, Japan 054 Operations Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Seoul University, Korea Control and Prevention, China 1 Confirmed that Plasmacluster Ions are the same type of 075 Relationships Identification of ion type airborne ions that exist in nature. Airborne Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Kitasato Research Center of Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation viruses Control and Prevention, China Environmental Sciences, Japan 077 2 Elucidation of ion's working Confirmed that Plasmacluster Ions react with proteins Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Airborne Kitasato Institute Medical Center bacteria Kitasato Institute Medical Center mechanism on the surface of airborne bacteria and viruses, 080 Sharp and Society Hospital, Japan Hospital, Japan (Dr. Gerhard Artmann, Aachen University and do not affect the internal cytoplasm. of Applied Sciences, Germany) 110 Honors from Third Parties Retroscreen Virology, Ltd., UK Professor Gerhard Artmann, Aachen 3 University of Applied Sciences, Germany Highly reliable safety data acquired in testing facilities Confirmation of ion safety that follow GLP*³ (good laboratory practice). Adhering 112 Outline of the Sharp Group viruses Retroscreen Virology, Ltd., UK Dr. Melvin W. First, Professor Emeritus, Harvard School of Public Health, US 114 Independent Assurance Report Graduate School of Advanced Sciences of Matter, Hiroshima University, Japan Purpose Test Name (abbreviation) Ion Concentration Setting Adhering Kitasato Institute Medical Center Airborne bacteria Acute skin irritancy Hospital, Japan Skin irritancy (normal-level) Approx. 1 million ions/cm³ allergens Osaka City University Medical School’s and corrosivity testing Department of Biochemistry Clinging Japan Spinners Inspecting Foundation Acute eye irritancy & Molecular Pathology, Japan odors Eye irritancy (normal-level) Approx. 13 million ions/cm³ and corrosivity testing University of Lübeck, Germany Inhalation toxicity testing Ishikawa Health Service Association, Japan Adhering mold fungi Genotoxicity (normal-level) (assessment of genetic impact Approx. 7 million ions/cm³ Airborne Japan Food Research Laboratories on lung tissue) mold fungi Professor Gerhard Artmann, Aachen University of Applied Sciences, Germany Skin moisture preservation Soiken Inc., Japan Testing organization: Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation *2 Empirical data for Plasmacluster Ion generating devices manufactured between October 2000 *3 GLP (good laboratory practice) is a set of standards for testing facilities, procedure and the end of March 2010. Omitted data includes the results of empirical tests on other manuals, etc. It is designed to ensure reliability in safety evaluation testing for chemical substances, etc. 040 harmful substances conducted at the same time by the same testing organization. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Developing Products and Devices with High Environmental Performance Along with having guidelines for environmentally conscious design, Sharp sets objectives for the development of environmentally conscious products and devices as well as 001 Contents assessment standards for certification as such. Every year, the company revises these guidelines and standards, thus constantly improving the environmental performance of its products and devices. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Super Green Products account for 60% or more of net sales in Japan • 63% • 60% or more • 60% or more 008 Special Feature • Green Seal Products account for 90% or more of net sales • 87% • 90% or more • 90% or more 012 Special Focus • Super Green Devices account for 20% or more of net sales • 24% • 20% or more • 20% or more 017 Management • Green Devices account for 85% or more of net sales • 90% • 90% or more • 95% or more Sharp and the Environment 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Making All Products Green Products Developing Super Green Products on a Global Basis 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Sharp calls its environmentally conscious products Green Products (GP). The GP Since fiscal 1998, Sharp has been certifying GPs for the Japanese market that offer a 032 Mass Balance Guidelines, which define development and design guidelines in line with seven particularly high level of environmental performance as Green Seal Products (GS concepts, have been in use at all product design departments in Japan and overseas Products). In fiscal 2004, Sharp began creating criteria and certifying GS Products 033 Environmental Accounting since fiscal 1998. with the highest possible levels of environmental performance as Super Green Products (SGP). In developing products, Sharp sets specific objectives according to the GP Standard 034 Technologies Sheet, which is formulated based on the GP Guidelines; and in the trial manufacture In fiscal 2009, Sharp surpassed its goal for SGP as a percentage of net sales but Products and mass production stages, it determines how well the actual product has met these missed meeting its goal for GS Products by a small margin. Sharp will make further objectives, with those achieving the standards being named GP. All new products improvements to its environmental performance and will work to meet its goals. 041 Developing Products and Devices with since fiscal 1998 have met the assessment criteria necessary to be designated as GP. High Environmental Performance Sharp began expanding SGP and Advanced Green Product (AGP) certification to 050 Sharp will continue working to develop even more environmentally conscious products for overseas markets in fiscal 2009 and continues to develop such products. products using GP Guidelines revised to reflect any new concepts that come into play. 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products The certification criteria are set by region, taking into consideration the characteristics of each region, such as local consumer needs and local systems. 054 Operations ■ Green Product Concepts (Fiscal 2010 Revision) 075 Relationships Products with superb energy-saving / energy-creating performance ■ Sharp GP System Energy Saving / Improve the energy efficiency and reduce the energy consumption of Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Energy Creating products; other measures 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Japan Overseas Resource Products designed to conserve resources 080 Sharp and Society Reduce the amount of materials used; design products that conserve Conservation resources during use; extend the life span of products; other measures 110 Honors from Third Parties Products designed for recycling Improved Super Green Super Recyclability Design products that are easy to disassemble; use easy-to-recycle Products Green materials; other measures Green Seal Products Products 112 Outline of the Sharp Group that are extremely Safe Use and Products that can be used and disposed of safely environmentally conscious 114 Independent Assurance Report Disposal Do not use substances that negatively affect people’s health or the Green Seal Products environment; other measures Green Products that offer Advanced particularly high levels of Green Products Use of Green Products that use green materials and devices Improved environmental performance Materials and Devices Use recycled materials / plant-based plastics; other measures Green Products Environmental Products that use batteries, manuals, and packaging with Environmentally conscious products based on Consciousness enhanced environmental consciousness Green Products seven concepts (judged by how well they meet Pertaining to Batteries, etc. Reduce product packaging; design products that allow easy removal of the objectives of the GP Standard Sheet) batteries; other measures Showing Eco Products that show their environmental performance and information Information of Products Acquire environmental labels (eco labels); implement LCA; other measures 041 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products ■ Ratio of SGP and GS Products to Net Sales in Japan (%) 100 GS Products 93 95 91 90 87 001 Contents 80 74 90 90 68 87 80 85 60 63 002 Compiling This Report 60 54 65 49 35 55 60 003 Top Message 40 50 50 20 SGP 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 10 30 0 5 20 007 Corporate Vision 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Actual results Target 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus ■ Assessment and Certification Standards for SGP and GS Products in Japan (Fiscal 2009) 017 Management Environmental Performance Criteria Sharp and the Environment Attainment levels for 73 evaluation items, External Environmental Claim Standards Required items including required items 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Global warming prevention Global warming prevention 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Satisfies (1) Consumes less power in operation Has low power SGP items (1) or standby modes than previous At least consumption, high energy 032 Mass Balance (Japan) to (9) models 90 points efficiency, etc. Is significantly more environmentally conscious than the products of other companies at the right (2) Has over 100% achievement rate of Point allocation 033 Environmental Accounting the energy-saving standard 20 points 034 Technologies Efficient use of resources Efficient use of resources Satisfies at least one of the following items: (3) Is easy to separate and Is designed for recyclability, Products disassemble, or is upgradeable resource saving, etc. Power consumption • Is the industry-leading model in its product category 041 Developing Products and Devices with Standby power consumption • Is the industry-leading model in its product category Point allocation High Environmental Performance • Consumes 0.1W or less (for remote controlled products/products with timer function) 050 20 points • Consumes 1.0W or less (phones, faxes, PCs) 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products Substitution of toxic chemical Substitution of toxic Energy creating • Has industry-leading conversion efﬁciency substances chemical substances Satisfies Resource savings during use • Is the industry-leading model in its product category 054 Operations GS items (1) (4) Meets the RoHS directive At least Meets the RoHS directive, (except electricity) (saves water and detergent, etc.) Products to (8) (5) Uses no substances prohibited 70 points etc. at the right under Sharp standards Compact/lightweight • Is the industry-leading model in its product category 075 Relationships Point allocation (6) Uses no Ni-Cd batteries • Is at least 30% lighter or more compact than previous models 35 points Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Recycled materials • Uses materials that were recycled using the closed-loop material recycling process Others Others Green materials • Uses no halogen-based ﬂame retardants, uses polyvinyl chloride substitutes 080 Sharp and Society (7) Uses less packaging material in total Has environmental label • Uses refrigerant with low global warming potential than previous models status, uses less packaging 110 Honors from Third Parties (8) Has undergone LCA materials, etc. Acquisition of Eco Mark • Has acquired the Eco Mark, authorized by the Japan Environment Association (9) Has environmental label status Point allocation Original technology • Is an environmentally conscious product that uses industry-ﬁrst or 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 25 points original Sharp technology 114 Independent Assurance Report ■ Examples of Certification Standards for SGP and AGP Overseas (TVs; Fiscal 2009) Energy efficiency performance standard Acquisition of environmental labels • Has overwhelmingly superior energy efﬁciency performance compared to products of other • Third-party environmental labeling is being acquired, or application has been made, or is SGP (overseas) companies expected to be made (Customer needs and various systems are taken into account in setting criteria for evaluation) • For countries/regions that have a multi-level ranking system, even if there is no third-party • Has excellent energy efﬁciency performance environmental label certiﬁcation system, be the best in the industry under the multi-level AGP (Customer needs and various systems are taken into account in setting criteria for evaluation) ranking system 042 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Identifying and Reducing Environmental Impacts Throughout Reducing VOCs in Products the Life of Products Sharp is working to make its products even more user friendly by reducing their 001 Contents Sharp performs a life cycle assessment (LCA) on its products to identify their impact VOC*³ emissions. 002 Compiling This Report on the environment throughout their service life. Converting this impact into CO2 In fiscal 2009, Sharp conducted measurements of VOCs in 41 models of 17 products emissions provides a quantitative measure that Sharp uses in its efforts to reduce for the Japanese market, focusing on consumer electronics that see frequent use in 003 Top Message environmental impacts by enabling it to focus on the areas where the impact is living rooms, and on mobile products. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) especially large. Sharp also provided low-VOC product In the future, Sharp will continue to work to enable the creation of products with development training, targeting 31 007 Corporate Vision engineers in various business groups. smaller environmental impacts. 008 Special Feature Sharp plans to continuously push forward ■ LCA Data for LCD TVs*¹ with developing low-VOC products, with the 012 Special Focus (kg-CO2) Materials, manufacture Distribution Use Disposal, recycling aim of providing products that are safer and 1,500 1,218 that offer greater peace of mind. 017 Management 1,136 1,085 1,000 *3 VOC (volatile organic compounds) are assumed Sharp and the Environment 796 to be one of the causes of multiple chemical sensitivity and/or sick building syndrome. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 500 Low-VOC product development training 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 0 Trial Introduction of Environmental Performance Evaluation -100 LC-52GX1W LC-52GX3W LC-52GX5 LC-52LX1 032 Mass Balance 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Indicators 033 Environmental Accounting *1 CO2 emissions during use is calculated from annual power consumption based on fiscal 2008 To inform consumers about the environmental performance of products in an measurement methods under targets set for Top Runner criteria based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (Energy Conservation Law). easy-to-understand way and to serve as guidelines for the creation of environmentally 034 Technologies conscious products within the company, Sharp has begun to introduce on a trial basis ■ LCA Data for Refrigerators Environmental Performance Evaluation Indicators. These indicators will show the rate Products (kg-CO2) Materials, manufacture Distribution Use Disposal, recycling of improvement compared to the previous model for “saving energy” and “saving 4,000 041 Developing Products and Devices with resources.” In the future, Sharp will be looking at additional indicators that are more 050 High Environmental Performance 3,000 readily understood, and plans to expand the number of models for which these 2,487 2,330 2,000 indicators are available. 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products 1,628 1,253 1,000 ■ Example of Environmental Performance Evaluation Indicators 054 Operations 0 (LC-52SE1 AQUOS LCD TV) -200 SJ-HV42M SJ-HD46P SJ-FS45R SJ-XF44S 075 Relationships 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Energy Resource Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation savings savings 077 ■ LCA Data for Air Conditioners*² Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 080 Sharp and Society (kg-CO2) Materials, manufacture Distribution Use Disposal, recycling -4.0% 5,000 110 Honors from Third Parties 4,000 3,681 3,414 3,363 3,354 3,000 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 2,000 LC-52SE1 1,000 114 Independent Assurance Report -40.9% 0 Reduction from the previous model LC-52DS6 -200 AY-R28XC AY-T28SV AY-U28SX AY-W28SX 2004 2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year) Energy Saving Resource Saving *2 In fiscal 2009, there was no new model with “2.8-kW cooling capacity dimension-free” that Annual power consumption Product weight would have been the successor to the AY-W28SX. Year-by-year changes in LCA data are reduced by 40.9% reduced by 4.0% shown up to fiscal 2008. 225 kWh/year 133 kWh/year 25.0 kg 24.0 kg Note: CO2 emissions during use is calculated using a CO2 emission coefficient of 0.373 Annual CO2 emissions also kg-CO2/kWh (after reflecting the Kyoto Mechanism credit; based on the emission coefficient reduced for user-end electricity for fiscal 2008 published by the Federation of Electric Power 83.9 kg-CO2 49.6 kg-CO2 043 Companies of Japan). LC-52SE1 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Developing Green Devices and Super Green Devices ■ Ratio of SGD and GD to Net Sales (%) 001 Contents Sharp calls its environmentally conscious devices Green Devices (GD). To define 100 guidelines for development and design based on seven concepts, Sharp established 90 84 85 002 Compiling This Report the GD Guidelines, which it began applying at all device design departments in fiscal 80 GD 73 85 2004. 80 003 Top Message 60 75 In developing devices, Sharp sets specific objectives according to the GD Standard 51 65 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Sheet, which is formulated based on the GD Guidelines; and in the trial manufacture 40 SGD and mass production stages, it determines how well the actual device has met these 24 007 Corporate Vision 40 21 24 24 objectives, with those achieving the standards being named GD. 20 7 12 Sharp began certifying devices from among GD with the highest possible levels of 5 20 20 008 Special Feature 5 10 15 0 environmental performance as Super Green Devices (SGD) from fiscal 2005. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 012 Special Focus In fiscal 2009, both GD and SGD exceeded their sales ratio targets. In the coming Actual results Target 017 Management years, Sharp plans to raise these figures even higher. Sharp and the Environment ■ SGD and GD Certification Standards (Fiscal 2009) ■ Green Device Concepts 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Environmental Performance Criteria Devices with superior energy efficiency and that consume less energy Energy Efficiency Reduce power consumption during operation and in standby mode; Percentage of External 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements other measures 34 evaluation Environmental Required items items satisfied, Claim Standards 032 Mass Balance Resource Devices designed to conserve resources including Conservation Reduce device weight or volume; other measures required items 033 Environmental Accounting Devices designed for recycling (1) Uses no lead, cadmium, or dioctyl Recyclability Use standard plastic; design devices that are easy to disassemble; phthalate (DOP) in polyvinyl chloride 034 Technologies other measures coatings Devices that can be used and disposed of safely (2) Is below EU RoHS threshold levels Products Safe Use and for specific chemical substances Manage usage of chemical substances contained in parts and materials; Disposal other measures (3) Complies with China RoHS 041 Developing Products and Devices with Satisfies Has Devices that make products last longer items (1) (4) Uses no formaldehyde in parts that environmental 050 High Environmental Performance come in contact with the human Long Life Extend the life of the product with exchangeable parts and consumables SGD to (13) More than 95% performance at (target: LCD devices); other measures at the right body the top of the 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products (5) Has been managed for chemical industry Devices that use packaging with enhanced environmental substances contained in parts and Packaging consciousness materials 054 Operations Reduce packaging; other measures (6) Contains no substances prohibited 075 Relationships Information Devices that give environmental information under Sharp standards Disclosure Provide information on chemical substances in devices; other measures (7) Has had chemicals in products for Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation export registered, and has been 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices managed for chemical substances 080 Sharp and Society (8) Total heavy metal content in printing inks on packaging is less than 100 ppm 110 Honors from Third Parties (9) Certificate can be issued showing that no substances prohibited under 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp standards are contained Satisfies items (1) (10) Amount of Sharp-managed 114 Independent Assurance Report GD to (10) substances contained in device More than 90% at the right has been disclosed (11) Consumes less power in operation and standby modes than previous models (12) Uses no arsenic in the glass substrates of LCD panel (13) Has undergone LCA 044 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Examples of Fiscal 2009 Certiﬁed SGP and SGD 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report LED AQUOS LCD TV Next-Generation LCD Module Incorporates SGP Japan SGD 003 Top Message Newly Developed LCD Panel and LED Backlight 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) ■ No. 1 in Energy Efficiency*¹ ■ Energy Efficient Newly developed LCD panel 007 Corporate Vision *1 LC-52SE1/46SE1/40SE1: As of January 28, 2010. • LCD panel: Newly developed LCD panel employs Comparison based on annual power consumption. Conventional Light from backlight UV2A*3, a world-ﬁrst*4 photo-alignment technology LCD panel 008 Special Feature Measured with the AV switch position set to “Normal.” that gives a higher aperture ratio for brighter images with less light. 012 Special Focus • Backlight: The LED backlight offers precise, LC-52SE1 • Features high image quality and even higher efﬁcient control of light. 017 Management energy efﬁciency by combining a next-generation LCD panel that uses newly developed • The newly developed LCD panel and LED UV2A technology with an LED backlight that offers precise, efﬁcient control of light. backlight combine to give outstanding energy Sharp and the Environment • Equipped with a Motion Sensor that senses a person’s movement and automatically efﬁciency. Next-generation switches to power saving mode. LCD panel 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment • Annual power consumption*² ■ High Contrast Highly efficient use of light (light transmission technology) LC-52SE1: 151 kWh/year, LC-46SE1: 136 kWh/year, LC-40SE1: 118 kWh/year • TV contrast*5 of 2,000,000:1. 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements LED backlight ■ Use of Green Materials *3 Ultraviolet-induced Multi-domain Vertical Alignment *4 On a production volume basis using large glass 032 Mass Balance • Halogen-free cabinet, halogen-free power cord and internal wiring, circuit board with substrates of at least 6th generation or later. Based on Brightness Black lead-free soldering, stand that uses resin blended with recycled material. Sharp research. level level 033 Environmental Accounting *5 When viewed from directly in front of the screen. TV ■ Design for Recycling contrast is the maximum contrast level a TV set is Adjusts brightness with capable of achieving (the ratio of maximum screen 034 Technologies • Rear cabinet can be recycled in the closed-loop material recycling process. brightness for an all-white signal to the minimum screen high precision and efficiency brightness with an all-black signal; in this case, Highly precise, efficient control of light Products *2 Calculated based on new revised standards issued in April 2010. 2,000,000:1 with AV position set to “Dynamic”). 041 Developing Products and Devices with 050 High Environmental Performance 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products SGP Solar-Powered Mobile Phone Japan 054 Operations ■ Energy Creating ■ Energy Creating ■ Energy Creating 075 Relationships • Features a solar panel made by • Features a solar panel made by • Features a solar panel made by Sharp. A 10-minute solar charge Sharp. A 10-minute solar charge Sharp. A 10-minute solar charge Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation provides approximately one minute provides approximately one minute provides approximately one minute 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices of talk time, or approximately two of talk time, or approximately two of talk time, or approximately three 080 Sharp and Society hours of standby time*6. hours of standby time*7. hours of standby time*8. ■ Waterproof ■ Waterproof ■ Waterproof 110 Honors from Third Parties • Waterproof (to standards equivalent • Waterproof (to standards equivalent • Waterproof (to standards equivalent 112 Outline of the Sharp Group to IPX5/IPX7) to IPX5/IPX7) to IPX5/IPX7) 114 Independent Assurance Report SOLAR PHONE SH002 SOLAR HYBRID SoftBank 936SH docomo STYLE series SH-08A for KDDI Corporation for SoftBank Mobile Corp. for NTT DOCOMO, Inc. *6 Typical value measured under artiﬁcial light under the following *7 Typical value measured with the solar charge lamp illuminated *8 Typical value measured with the solar charge lamp illuminated conditions: manufacturer’s setting at time of purchase changed to GREEN under the following conditions: unit used in Japan; when GREEN under the following conditions: unit used in Japan; when Power Saving Mode ON; charged under direct daytime sunlight in calling, solar charging initiated immediately after power runs out; calling, solar charging initiated immediately after power runs out, clear weather; oriented perpendicular to the sun; good mobile ambient temperature of 25°C; charged in direct daytime sunlight with the surface of the solar panel adjusted perpendicular to the reception (3 bars); when calling, solar charging initiated with the sun not obscured by clouds; charged with the solar panel sun, with the solar panel not in shadow and free of any adhering immediately after power runs out; and calling initiated immediately oriented perpendicular to the sun (with the solar panel not in dirt or stickers, outdoors (ambient temperature of 25°C) at 12 after turning unit ON. shadow); backlight brightness set to “2”; good mobile reception; noon in clear weather (sun is not obscured by clouds); good and call initiated by dialing “117” (automated time announcement) mobile reception; and call initiated by dialing “117” (automated immediately after turning unit ON. time announcement) immediately after turning unit ON. 045 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Examples of Fiscal 2009 Certified SGP 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Plasmacluster Refrigerator Plasmacluster Air Conditioner SGP Japan SGP Japan 003 Top Message ■ No. 1 in Energy Efficiency*¹ 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) *1 As of April 20, 2010. For CFC-free, home-use refrigerator/freezers in the Japanese market having a rated 007 Corporate Vision capacity of 501 liters or more. • High-performance compressor features outstanding 008 Special Feature energy efficiency, enhanced by adoption of a wide ■ No. 1 in Energy Efficiency*² AY-Z50SX linear inverter controller. 012 Special Focus • High-performance vacuum insulation contributes to *2 As of March 1, 2010. For 5.0 kW-class home-use air conditioners (AY-Z50SX). both saving energy and to reducing interior space 017 Management requirements to provide greater capacity. • Indoor unit uses a Tilt-Down/Tilt-Up Long Panel system and Wrap-Around Airﬂow, an • Annual power consumption: 260 kWh/year airﬂow control technology based on applied ﬂuid dynamics. By minimizing airﬂow Sharp and the Environment resistance, this technology provides healthy heating and cooling while curbing excess ■ Use of Green Materials energy use. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment • Outdoor unit features a new bird-wing-shaped fan developed by applying the principles • Uses recycled plastic made using closed-loop material of biomimicry. This unique design enables efﬁcient use of airﬂow and boosts efﬁciency recycling technology. 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements during operation. • Non-CFC refrigerant (R600a) has zero ozone depletion • Automatic ﬁlter cleaning function extends the beneﬁts of high energy efﬁciency. potential and approx. 1/400th the global warming 032 Mass Balance • Energy Miser function increases efﬁciency to save even more energy during operation. potential of conventional CFC substitutes. • Seasonal power consumption: 1,670 kWh 033 Environmental Accounting First product to receive the fiscal 2009 Evidence-Based Relaxation & Comfort Recommendation Mark (one mark 034 Technologies for “cooling” and a second mark for “heating”) Sponsor: Osaka Healthcare Service Industry Collaboration Platform (OHS: Open innovation of Healthcare Service) Products SJ-ZF52S 041 Developing Products and Devices with 050 High Environmental Performance SGP Plasmacluster Washing Machine Japan SGP LED Lamp Japan 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products ■ No. 1 in Water Saving*³ ■ Long Life 054 Operations *3 For washer/dryers with a 10 kg capacity. Washing a 10 kg • Design life of 40,000 hours*4, approximately 40 times longer than load uses 67 liters of water and requires approximately 35 ordinary incandescent lamps. (25,000 hours*4 for intermediate base 075 Relationships minutes of time. As of February 2010. [E17] compact lamp models) Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation • Newly developed Hot Steam technology showers 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices laundry with a ﬁne mist of steam that lifts dirt off of ■ Energy Efficient 080 clothing to save water and shorten wash time. DL-L60AV Sharp and Society • Miniscule power consumption. Electricity costs*5 for models DL-L401N and • Shower Wash and Shower Rinse modes use the DL-L401L (power consumption: 4.1 W) are approximately 28 yen per month recirculating pump to efﬁciently sprinkle detergent and 110 Honors from Third Parties (when used 10 hours per day × 30 days), and approximately 50 yen per rinse water onto laundry. month for models DL-L601N and DL-L601L (power consumption: 7.5 W). 112 Outline of the Sharp Group ■ Energy Efficient ■ Use of Green Materials 114 Independent Assurance Report • Power consumption: 2,050 Wh (wash and dry) • Mercury-free ES-V510 ■ Adjustable Color and Brightness • The DL-L60AV has an adjustable color function that enables users to change the color of light from the lamp ranging from warm white to daylight Plasmacluster Ion Technology white using the remote control; brightness adjustments also possible. Chairman’s Prize, the A proprietary Sharp air purification method, this technology generates—through plasma *4 Design life is regarded as the time until total luminous ﬂux declines to 70% Energy Conservation discharge—and releases into the air positive and negative ions like those found in nature. These ions Center, Japan; Grand Prize of the initial level. However, product service life cannot be guaranteed. for Excellence inhibit the action of airborne viruses (effect after 10 minutes based on tests carried out in a sealed container having a volume of 1 m³, and not the result of empirical tests in an actual habitable space) *5 Calculated at the rate of 22 yen/kWh (tax included) as a measure of in Energy Efficiency and electricity charge. Conservation 046 and break down and eliminate airborne mold. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Examples of Fiscal 2009 Certiﬁed SGP and SGD 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Polycrystalline Solar Module SGP Japan SGP Digital B/W MFP Japan for Residential Applications 003 Top Message ■ High-Efficiency Energy Creation ■ Energy Efficient 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) • Highly efﬁcient energy creation using unlimited sunlight. • Energy-saving design: Pre-heat and auto power • Module conversion efﬁciency: 13.9% shut-off modes 007 Corporate Vision ■ Higher Installed Capacity ■ Use of Green Materials 008 Special Feature • Resistance to wind pressure of the solar modules and • Complies with the EU RoHS directive mounting systems (hardware to fix the modules to the roof) • PVC-free AC power cords 012 Special Focus was improved. Now more modules can be installed in a given installation area on a roof than previously, enabling ■ Space Saving 017 Management higher installed power generation capacity. ND-160AV Installed • Four functions (copy, print, fax, and scan) in one Sharp and the Environment Example capacity compact body ND-153AU ND-160AV • Wingless design eliminates protruding paper 3.67 kW system 4.48 kW system 22.0% 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Number of installed modules: 24 Number of installed modules: 28 higher output trays 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 032 Mass Balance MX-M310FP 033 Environmental Accounting 034 Technologies Note: Actual installation area and the number of modules may vary depending on installation conditions and other factors. Eco Mark certification (Japan) Products 041 Developing Products and Devices with High Environmental Performance SGD 1/4-Type 5-Megapixel CMOS SGD Surface-Mount*² LED Device for Lighting 050 Camera Module with AF Function 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products ■ High Color Rendering • High color rendering depicts illuminated objects with colors close to 054 Operations ■ Smallest Size and Thinnest Profile those perceived under natural light. in the Industry*¹ • Color rendering index (Ra)*³: 85 075 Relationships GM2BB50BM0C *1 As of November 10, 2009. For 1/4-type *2 Suitable for planar lighting fixtures (such as ceiling lights to illuminate large spaces). Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 5-megapixel CMOS camera modules with AF *3 A numerical value expressing the level of color distortion compared to a reference light source. 077 (auto-focus) function (based on Sharp research). The closer the value to 100, the lower the color distortion. Standards for Environmental Performance Indices • Module volume: 0.36 ml; thickness: 5.0 080 Sharp and Society mm. ■ High Luminous Efficiency, at the Industry’s Top Level*4 • Features a 1/4-type 5-megapixel CMOS *4 As of December 18, 2009 (based on Sharp research). For LED devices for lighting in the 0.5 W input 110 Honors from Third Parties image sensor that uses 1.4 µm pixel power class with color rendering index (Ra) of 85. cells, among the smallest in the industry. • Double molded package structure improves light extraction efﬁciency to deliver a 112 Outline of the Sharp Group • Designed to meet the need for high luminous flux of 38 lumens. resolutions, high image quality, and high 114 Independent Assurance Report performance, as well as small size and TOPICS thinner profiles, in cameras embedded in mobile phones. Sharp Starts Mass Production of Blue LED Chips Growth in demand for LED backlights for LCD TVs and LED lighting ﬁxtures has led to a RJ64SC100 rapid increase in the demand for blue LED chips. Sharp started blue LED chip production at its Mihara Plant in Mihara City, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan in January 2010. Sharp will start production at the Fukuyama Plant in Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture within 2010 as well. This will boost Sharp’s production capacity of blue LED chips to approximately ﬁve billion units a year in ﬁscal 2011. 047 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Examples of Fiscal 2009 Certified SGP and AGP 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report LED AQUOS LCD TV Digital B/W MFP Thin-Film Solar Module SGP Australia SGP North America AGP Europe 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature ■ Energy Efficient 012 Special Focus • TEC value*² of 1.71 kWh, 017 Management a 41% reduction compared to the Sharp and the Environment LC-52LE700X previous model (AR-M257). MX-M260 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment ■ No. 1 in Energy Efficiency*¹ NA-F128G5 *1 Comparison based on values made public by companies ■ Third-Party Environmental Certification 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements under MEPS. As of January 2010. ■ High-Efficiency Energy Creation • ENERGY STAR® 032 Mass Balance • Achieved a 7-star rating, the industry’s highest, under • Highly efficient energy creation using unlimited sunlight. Australia’s MEPS (Minimum Energy Performance • Module conversion efficiency 9.0%, an improvement of 033 Environmental Accounting Standards) program. 5.9% over the previous model (NA-F121G5). • Features high image quality and even higher energy • Because thin-ﬁlm silicon solar cells can be fabricated 034 Technologies efficiency by combining a next-generation LCD panel using low-temperature processes at less than 200°C that uses newly developed UV2A technology for *2 Typical amount of energy consumed in a hypothetical week and because there are fewer steps in the production measured as stipulated under the ENERGY STAR program. Products brighter images with less light, with an LED backlight Value is for total electricity consumed during five days of use, process, they can be manufactured using less energy that offers precise, efficient control of light. cycling between full operation and Sleep mode or turned off, than conventional crystalline silicon solar cells. 041 • Annual power consumption: 363 kWh/year and two days in Sleep mode or turned off. Developing Products and Devices with 050 High Environmental Performance 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products TOPICS 054 Operations Spreading the Use of Environmentally Conscious Products on a Global Scale 075 Relationships Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC), Sharp’s US sales subsidiary, has Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation received an ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence in Energy-Efficient Product Four Sharp MFPs (MX-2600N, MX-3100N, AR-5516, and AR-5520) were 077 US certified for the Thai Green Label*4 by the Thai government. These models Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Design 2010 sponsored by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Thailand offer high environmental performance through such features as pre-heat and 080 Sharp and Society and the Department of Energy (DOE). The ENERGY STAR Awards 2010 were given to companies and organizations out of the more auto power shut-off modes. 110 Honors from Third Parties than 17,000 that participate in the ENERGY STAR program*³. *4 The Thai Green Label program is run by the Thailand Environment Institute (TEI) and the The award presented to SEC recognized its key Thai Ministry of Industry and recognizes 112 Outline of the Sharp Group accomplishments, including its focus on promoting the environmentally outstanding products and widespread use of energy-efficient equipment by offering services. The program was launched by the 114 Independent Assurance Report consumers ENERGY STAR-qualified products in nine Thailand Business Council for Sustainable Development (TBCSD) in 1994. categories and by introducing its line of LED backlight LCD TVs which feature significantly reduced power consumption. In addition, the award cited the involvement of SEC in taking a leadership role within the industry to develop efficiency metrics that are a key element of the ENERGY STAR program. At the certification ceremony on October 8, 2009 *3 An environmental labeling system to promote savings through the Plaque for the ENERGY STAR use of energy-efficient electrical appliances. Award for Excellence 2010 048 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products ■ SGP and AGP-Certified Models for Fiscal 2009 Product Model Product Model 001 Contents LC-60LX1/52LX1/46LX1/40LX1 LC-46LE600E, 40LE600E/S, 002 Compiling This Report LC-52SE1/46SE1/40SE1 32LE600E LC-52DX2/46DX2/40DX2 LC-52LE700E/S, 46LE700E/S, LCD TV LC-60DS6/52DS6 LCD TV 40LE700E/S, 32LE700E/S, 003 Top Message LC-52AE6/46AE6/40AE6 46LU700E/S, 40LU700E/S, Europe LC-26DE7/20DE7, LC-20NE7 32LU700E/S, 46LX700E, 40LX700E, 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 32LX700E SJ-ZF52S, SJ-XF52S/XF47S/XF44S Refrigerator SGP 007 Corporate Vision SJ-XW47S/XW44S Digital MFP MX-M260 008 Special Feature Air conditioner AY-Z63SX/Z50SX LC-52LE700UN/46LE700UN/ LCD TV 40LE700UN/32LE700UN North 012 Special Focus Washing machine ES-V510, ES-TG830, ES-GE60K/GE55K America Digital MFP MX-M260/M310 017 Air purifier KC-Y80/Y65/Y45 Management Australia LCD TV LC-52LE700X/46LE700X Plasmacluster Ion IG-B200/B100/B20, IG-BK100 Sharp and the Environment generator IG-BC15/BA15 MX-M283N/M363N/M453N/ M503N/M363U/M453U/M503U 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment SH006, SH005, SH004, SH003, SH002, SHY01 Digital MFP MX-M160D/M160DK/M200D/ SGP Japan SoftBank 943SH/942SH/941SH/940SH/ Europe M200DK, MX-M310 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Mobile phone 832SHs/832SH/936SH/935SH/934SH/933SH DM005SH Thin-film solar module NA-F128G5 032 Mass Balance SH-06B/05B/03B/02B/01B/08A/06A/05A AGP Facsimile UX-D82CL/D82CW North MX-M283N/M363N/M453N/ 033 Environmental Accounting America Digital MFP M503N/M363U/M453U/M503U Electronic dictionary PW-AC910/AC900 034 Technologies Australia LCD TV LC-46LB700X/40LB700X DL-L60AV LC-40LE700X Products DL-L60AN/L60AL/L40AN/L40AL Taiwan LCD TV LC-52AE6T/46AE6T LED lamp DL-L601N/L601L/L401N/L401L 041 Developing Products and Devices with DL-L81AN/L81AL High Environmental Performance DL-J40AN/J40AL 050 Digital MFP MX-C381, MX-M310FP/M260FP 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products LCD monitor 054 Operations (information display) PN-E601/E521/E471 075 Relationships Solar module ND-160AV/160AVL/114CV/160AV1/160AL Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices ■ Number of Environmental Label Products in Fiscal 2009 080 Sharp and Society LCD TVs Blu-ray Disc recorders Audio products MFPs Hong Kong MFPs Air conditioners 110 Honors from Third Parties 44 3 9 72 Energy-Saving Label 5 8 International ENERGY 112 Outline of the Sharp Group STAR® Program*1 Printers LCD monitors (information displays) Facsimiles Air conditioners MFPs Air conditioners Thai Green Label 3 20 16 9 4 10 114 Independent Assurance Report MFPs Calculators Power conditioners for solar power generation systems China Environmental MFPs Taiwan Energy-Saving Air conditioners Eco Mark*2 Label 20 4 8 Labeling 23 4 PCs LCD TVs LCD TVs Projectors MFPs PC Green Label*2 EU Eco Label*3 8 20 Energy Conservation 8 8 38 Certification*6 LCD monitors (information displays) Air conditioners MFPs Printers MFPs Nordic Swan*4 Blue Angel*5 19 2 13 4 14 049 Target countries: *1 Japan, United States, EU nations, etc. *2 Japan *3 EU nations *4 Norway, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden *5 Germany *6 China Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Green Procurement 001 Contents In 2000, Sharp established the Green Procurement Guidelines and began joint efforts with suppliers to ensure that parts and materials are environmentally conscious. 002 Compiling This Report Beginning in 2003, Sharp investigated chemical substance content, as stipulated by 003 Top Message the Japan Green Procurement Survey Standardization Initiative (JGPSSI)*¹, and took measures toward eliminating RoHS*²-designated substances. Sharp was in complete 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) compliance with the RoHS Directive for all products for the European market by the end of fiscal 2005. Since fiscal 2006, Sharp has conducted online surveys of 007 Corporate Vision Japanese and overseas suppliers, in line with the Green Procurement Guidelines and 008 Special Feature the Survey Manual for Chemical Substances in Parts and Materials. In addition, Sharp constructed a system to meet the REACH*³ regulation registration 012 Special Focus criteria in fiscal 2008 and completed pre-registration*4 by the end of November 2008. 017 Management In fiscal 2009, Sharp held meetings to explain its action plan to comply with the Meeting aimed at suppliers to explain Sharp’s action plan to comply with the REACH regulation REACH regulation. These sessions were aimed at suppliers, particularly in Japan, but Sharp and the Environment also in Europe, Asia and China, and were part of Sharp’s efforts to pursue global *1 A council that aims to standardize research on chemical substances in parts and materials, comprising 2 organizations and 59 companies, mainly electronics manufacturers including investigation of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs), as well as to construct a Sharp Corporation. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment system to manage notification obligations. Sharp plans to completely fulfill its *2 An EU directive on the “Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances,” RoHS notification obligations under the REACH regulation by June 1, 2011. restricts the use of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements (PBB), and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) in electrical and electronic equipment entering the EU market after July 1, 2006. 032 Mass Balance *3 REACH is a new regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals produced in and imported into the EU. 033 Environmental Accounting *4 Pre-registration: A transition regulation for the application of REACH to existing chemical substances. Companies were given a grace period until official registration if they had 034 Technologies pre-registered between June 1 and December 1, 2008. Products Green Procurement Guidelines 041 Developing Products and Devices with 050 High Environmental Performance 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products 054 Operations 075 Relationships Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 080 Sharp and Society 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report 050 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Expanding the Recycling of Used Products Sharp recycles products that have reached the end of their service life based on three policies: 1) improve the recycling rate and aim for zero landfill disposal, 2) improve the 001 Contents efficiency of the recycling system to reduce recycling costs, and 3) incorporate recycling technologies into the development and design of products. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Enhance and improve recycling system • Increase efficiency of flat-panel TV • Reduced flat-panel TV recycling time to half • Increase recycling efficiency to process • Implement high-value-added recycling of 008 Special Feature recycling line growing number of CRT TVs collected LCD TV panel glass 012 Special Focus 017 Management Recycling Four Kinds of Home Appliances in Japan ■ Sharp Corporation’s Processed and Recycled Units Sharp and the Environment for the Four Home Appliances in Japan (Air Conditioners, TVs, Refrigerators, and Washing Machines) (Thousands of units) 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment As a member of the B Group*¹ for home appliance recycling, Sharp has constructed 2,000 2,098 and is operating a highly efficient recycling system based on 18 recycling plants in 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 1,800 345 Japan. 032 Mass Balance Since April 2009, Sharp is recycling flat-panel TVs (LCD and plasma) and laundry 1,600 dryers that were additionally designated under the revised Law for Recycling of 1,469 367 033 Environmental Accounting 1,400 1,370 Specified Kinds of Home Appliances. Sharp began sharing the use of all designated 1,299 1,313 74 take-back sites with the A Group*² in October 2009. 1,200 351 034 Technologies 367 In addition, the introduction of the Eco-Point system*³ in May 2009 led to a rapid 388 382 1,000 Products increase in the number of CRT TVs collected to approximately 1.28 million units per 327 Developing Products and Devices with year (up 105% over the previous year). The B Group as a whole responded swiftly, 800 318 041 298 300 1,127 High Environmental Performance and these used TVs were properly recycled. 600 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products In fiscal 2009, Sharp recovered about 2.28 million units (up 53% over the previous 400 499 605 053 408 444 fiscal year) and processed and recycled about 2.1 million units (up 43% over the previous fiscal year) of the four types of home appliances designated under the Law 200 054 Operations for Recycling of Specified Kinds of Home Appliances. The recycling rates exceeded 0 205 187 186 186 185 075 Relationships the legal standard for all four kinds of appliances. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Air conditioners CRT TVs Flat-panel TVs Refrigerators/freezers Washing machines/dryers 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Building a Recycling Line for Flat-Panel TVs 080 Sharp and Society Sharp and Kansai Recycling Systems Co, Ltd.*4 jointly built a recycling line exclusively ■ Sharp Corporation’s Processing and Recycling Status for flat-panel TVs at Plant No. 2 of Kansai Recycling Systems, which began operations of the Four Home Appliances in Japan (Fiscal 2009) 110 Honors from Third Parties in April 2009. In preparation for the expected increase in the number of flat-panel TVs Washing to be collected in the future, Sharp has worked to improve efficiency ever since Air CRT Flat-panel Refrigerators/ 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Unit conditioners TVs TVs freezers machines/ operations began. The installation of a dedicated processing line for small-screen TVs dryers 114 Independent Assurance Report and the introduction of labor-saving equipment in fiscal 2009 made it possible to slash Recycling rate % 90 90 80 77 89 the time required to dismantle a TV set nearly in half. Sharp will continue to study dismantling lines and strive to make further operational improvements. Legally required recycling rate % 70 55 50 60 65 *1 The B Group consists of Sharp Corporation, Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Sony Corporation, Hitachi Units collected from Thousand 189 1,286 90 371 349 Appliances, Inc., Fujitsu General Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, and other companies. designated collection sites units *2 The A Group consists of Toshiba Corporation, Panasonic Corporation, and other companies. Processed and recycled units Thousand 185 1,127 74 367 345 *3 Designed to stimulate consumption and promote the use of environmentally friendly products, units this program allows buyers of certain types of energy-efficient air conditioners, refrigerators, and TVs to earn “eco points” that can be exchanged at a later time for other goods. Processed and recycled weight Tons 7,655 32,106 1,048 21,992 11,648 *4 A consumer electronics recycling company in Japan established with investment from Sharp 051 Corporation, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, and five other companies (Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Recycled weight Tons 6,937 29,173 845 16,988 10,368 Sony Corporation, Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Fujitsu General Ltd., and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation). Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products TOPICS ■ Sharp Corporation’s Total Weight of Parts or Materials That Can Be Transferred for a Fee or Free of Charge to Those Who Will Use Those Parts or Materials in New Products (Fiscal 2009) Handling the Rapid Increase in the Collection and Recycling 001 Contents Washing of CRT TVs Item Unit Air CRT Flat-panel Refrigerators/ machines/ conditioners TVs TVs freezers 002 Compiling This Report dryers Kansai Recycling Systems Co, Ltd. anticipates an increase in the number of CRT TVs taken back from consumers in conjunction with the end of terrestrial analog TV Iron Tons 1,779 3,677 387 8,882 5,092 003 Top Message broadcasts in Japan scheduled for July 2011. A second plant went into operation in Copper Tons 489 1,268 12 281 194 December 2006, exclusively to recycle TVs. This state-of-the art-plant features an 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) integrated, start-to-finish recycling line—from disassembling the TV sets to refining Aluminum Tons 1,141 8 52 97 96 glass cullet*¹. 007 Corporate Vision In fiscal 2009, as a result of the Eco-Point system which began in May, the number of Ferrous/nonferrous compounds Tons 2,507 60 14 3,156 1,502 008 Special Feature CRT TVs collected increased rapidly, but Kansai Recycling Systems was able to handle this increase by significantly boosting processing efficiency by making CRT glass Tons − 16,706 − − − 012 Special Focus improvements to the disassembly line, including developing and installing a fully Other valuable resources automated system to remove the anti-implosion band*² from CRTs, and installing Tons 1,019 7,452 379 4,569 3,482 (plastics, etc.) 017 Management conveyors to transport the recovered parts and materials. Total tonnage Tons 6,937 29,173 845 16,988 10,368 Sharp and the Environment In particular, up to now, the anti-implosion band was removed manually by pulling the metal band away from the CRT as part of the dismantling process. This involved a ■ Sharp Corporation’s Recycling Component Ratio of Materials for the Four Home Appliances 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment great deal of hand labor, but the introduction of this fully automated system both 12.6% reduced the burden on workers and ensured their safety while at the same time 25.5% 4.3% 14.7% 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements dramatically improving efficiency. 25.6% 0.0% 45.8% 0.2% Kansai Recycling Systems will strive to further boost efficiency and improve the work Air Flat-panel 032 Mass Balance conditioners CRT TVs 44.9% environment by developing new recycling technologies, and will work to contribute to 7.0% TVs 033 Environmental Accounting the effective use of resources as well as promote deeper understanding of the 36.1% recycling process by hosting tours of its facilities. 16.4% 57.2% 1.7% 1.4% 034 Technologies 26.9% 33.6% 6.2% *1 Cullet is granulated glass from crushed CRTs. In the recycling process, contaminants are carefully removed from the glass to convert it into a nearly pure raw material suitable for Refrigerators/ Washing Products use in a variety of applications. machines/ freezers 52.3% 49.1% *2 A metal band clamped around the CRT to prevent glass shards from scattering in the dryers Developing Products and Devices with 041 High Environmental Performance event an accidental implosion causes the picture tube to shatter. 18.6% 14.5% 0.6% 0.9% 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products 1.7% 1.9% 053 Iron Copper Aluminum Ferrous/nonferrous compounds CRT glass Other valuable resources Fully Automated Anti-Implosion Band 054 Operations Removal System ■ Sharp Corporation’s Amount of Fluorocarbons Used as Refrigerants A robot lifts the CRT from the conveyer, and (Collected, Shipped, and Destroyed) (Fiscal 2009) 075 Relationships moves it into position in the fully automatic anti-implosion band removal device. The Unit Air conditioners Refrigerators/ Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation freezers 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices removal device rotates the CRT while detaching the anti-implosion band. Refrigerant fluorocarbons collected kg 116,090 40,363 080 Sharp and Society Refrigerant fluorocarbons shipped to destruction contractors kg 116,154 40,105 110 Honors from Third Parties Refrigerant fluorocarbons destroyed kg 115,565 40,099 112 Outline of the Sharp Group ■ Sharp Corporation’s Amount of Fluorocarbons Included in Insulation 114 Independent Assurance Report (Collected, Shipped, and Destroyed) (Fiscal 2009) Refrigerators/ Unit Air conditioners freezers Fluorocarbons contained in insulation material liquefied kg − 60,769 and collected Fluorocarbons contained in insulation material liquefied, kg − 60,117 collected, and shipped to destruction contractors Fluorocarbons contained in insulation material liquefied, kg − 57,854 collected, and destroyed • Differences in the totals shown for weights collected, shipped, and destroyed (by destruction contractors) reflect differences 052 in reporting periods. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Products Continuing Design-for-Recycling Training Recycling PCs in Japan 001 Contents Since fiscal 2001, to promote easy-to-recycle product design, Sharp has been In compliance with the Japanese Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization of conducting design-for-recycling training with the cooperation of Kansai Recycling Resources, Sharp is recycling homeand business-use PCs. 002 Compiling This Report Systems Co., Ltd., mainly aimed at personnel responsible for product planning and design. For home-use PCs, the PC industry is working with Japan Post Service Co., Ltd. to 003 Top Message collect used PCs at post offices nationwide as part of a common industry system for This training program combines actual hands-on experience in dismantling used collection and recycling. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) consumer electronics and home appliances, with seminars and visits to a recycling line to observe dismantling operations, and aims to The PC3R Promotion Association has been assigned to efficiently collect and recycle 007 Corporate Vision encourage participants to reflect their experience of business-use PCs within a common industry framework starting in February 2009. design-related problems in their work to plan and In fiscal 2009, recovered and recycled PCs amounted to approximately 6,200 home008 Special Feature design new products. and business-use desktop and notebook PCs (up 9% over the previous fiscal year) 012 Special Focus In fiscal 2009, this program was offered three times and about 2,000 monitors (about the same as the previous fiscal year). for a total of 45 participants. Sharp will offer this 017 Management training program on an ongoing basis, and will work ■ Amount of Sharp PCs Collected and Recycled in Japan (Fiscal 2009) to ensure that the concept of design-for-recycling Sharp and the Environment Hands-on training in dismantling used pervades the entire design process. Amount Amount Amount Actual Recycling Legally home appliances Product Business-use treated for amount required 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment category Home-use collected collected recycling reused rate recycling (kg) (units) (%)*² (kg) (kg) rate (%)*³ 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Recycling TVs and Other Consumer Electronics Business-use 124 15 032 Mass Balance in the United States Desktop Home-use 3,440 418 3,564 2,807 78.8 50.0 PCs Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC), Sharp’s sales subsidiary in the US, established Total 3,564 433 033 Environmental Accounting the Electronic Manufacturers Recycling Management Company, LLC (MRM) in Business-use 835 284 cooperation with Panasonic Corporation of North America and Toshiba America 034 Technologies Notebook Home-use 16,143 5,489 16,978 11,748 69.2 20.0 Consumer Products, LLC in September 2007 for the recycling of audio-visual PCs Products products, mainly TVs. The MRM recycling network expanded Total 16,978 5,773 nationwide in November 2008, providing recycling opportunities Developing Products and Devices with Business-use 244 20 041 High Environmental Performance at approximately 600 collection points. MRM holds special CRT events and carries out voluntary activities to promote the monitors Home-use 4,542 372 4,786 3,261 68.1 55.0 051 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products recycling of used consumer electronics and complies fully with Total 4,786 392 053 the laws and regulations of each state. Business-use 907 213 054 Operations As a result of these efforts, the US Environmental Protection LCD monitors Home-use 5,875 1,379 6,782 5,684 83.8 55.0 Agency (EPA) named MRM winner of its National TV Recycling Total 6,782 1,592 075 Relationships Challenge*¹ in October 2009. Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation *2 Ratio of the amount of recycled parts and materials to the amount of used products treated for 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices *1 The National TV Recycling Challenge, issued in 2009, is part of the Plaque for the National TV recycling. EPA’s Plug-In To eCycling consumer electronics recycling program. Recycling Challenge award *3 Ratio of reusable resources targeted for achievement by the end of fiscal 2003 (in line with the 080 Sharp and Society Japanese Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources). 110 Honors from Third Parties Reusing and Recycling Copiers in Japan Collecting Portable Rechargeable Batteries in Japan 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp is reusing and recycling copiers collected both through Sharp distribution Sharp is a member of the Japan Portable Rechargeable Battery Recycling Center channels and common industry channels. All of the approximately 34,000 used (JBRC) and takes part in the JBRC’s system for the collection of used rechargeable 114 Independent Assurance Report copiers collected (down 11% over the previous fiscal year) were dismantled and batteries. In fiscal 2009, the JBRC collected approximately 1,355 tons of used divided manually according to type of material, and recycled. Some of the parts and batteries. devices were reused. Sharp also collected approximately 970,000 used toner cartridges (up 11% over the previous fiscal year) through its own collection channels and remanufactured them into approximately 430,000 toner cartridges (up 78% over the previous fiscal year; 12 varieties of cartridges), assuring customers the same quality as new toner cartridges. Sharp will continuously work to increase the number of kinds of toner cartridges it 053 remanufactures as well as the amount recycled. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Promoting Environmental Sustainability Management Sharp continuously strives to strengthen environmental sustainability management and raise employees’ environmental awareness by building an Integrated Management 001 Contents System that unifies environmental and quality management systems based on its own strategic management system, and by implementing environmental education programs. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Build Integrated Management System − − 008 Special Feature • 5 overseas plants in total • 5 overseas plants in total 012 Special Focus − − • Restructure S-EMS • Re-evaluate S-EMS and compile • Construct revised S-EMS 017 Management proposed revisions Sharp and the Environment − − • Restructure framework to promote environmental sustainability management 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment system at offices in Japan • Set up supervisory sites in each region • Prepare for transition to management on an 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements individual company basis (set up regional supervisory sites for each company) 031 Mass Balance • Promote environmental e-learning (offices in 033 Environmental Accounting Japan, plants and offices overseas) • Hold step 1 (basic course) • Held step 1 (basic course) • Hold step 2 (advanced course) • Hold step 3 (advanced course) 034 Technologies 041 Products Operations Developing the Sharp Environmental Management System Stepping Up Environmental 054 Promoting Environmental Sustainability Sharp began working to obtain ISO 14001 certification in fiscal 1995. And since fiscal Education 056 Management 2004, Sharp has put in place at all plants and offices in Japan and overseas a Sharp offers employee environmental Master Raising the Level of Environmental proprietary environmental management system (S-EMS: Sharp Environmental education, divided into Master, Expert, Environmental 057 Performance in Factories Management System) aimed at reinforcing environmental legal compliance and and General courses according to the Master training (Japan) Improving the Level of Environmental improving environmental activities. S-EMS is Sharp’s original environmental 061 level of knowledge about the Performance of Offices management system based on ISO 14001 plus an additional 49 original criteria. environment. Expert 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions In fiscal 2006, based on Sharp’s proprietary strategic management system (eS-SEM: 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste e-Sharp Strategic Enterprise Management), Sharp merged the previously separate • IMS auditor training • S-EMS auditor training S-EMS and QMS (Quality Management System) into the Integrated Management • Environmental ISO trainer program 070 Effectively Using Water Resources • Environmental laws and regulations training System (IMS). Through total optimization, the IMS allows problem solving to become • Recycling training Effectively Managing Chemicals Used easier and management to become more efficient and precise. In fiscal 2009, two 071 • Eco Best Practice Forums in Factories Reducing Environmental Impacts in plants in China adopted the IMS. 073 Distribution and Packaging Beginning in fiscal 2010, Sharp will reform the framework for promoting its system of • Basic environmental General • Company-wide 075 Relationships environmental sustainability management at offices in Japan, and will further training environmental training • New employee training (e-learning) Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation strengthen its environmental efforts by setting up new supervisory sites to manage • New section chief training 077 • Overseas assigned employee training Standards for Environmental Performance Indices offices in each region. In addition, Sharp will restructure S-EMS and enhance and 080 Sharp and Society expand environmental self-monitoring and internal audits. 110 Honors from Third Parties Environment-Related Accidents or Violations of Laws 112 Outline of the Sharp Group There were no lawsuits against the Sharp Group, or fines levied against the Group related to the environment in fiscal 2009. There were also no serious 114 Independent Assurance Report environment-related accidents. 054 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Examples of Environmental Education Courses 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report ■ Master Course Total of 5,671 Employees Pass the Eco Test The Master course is designed to foster the leaders needed for future environmental Beginning in fiscal 2007, Sharp approved the Eco Test (Certification Test for 003 Top Message sustainability management. Environmental Specialists) sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Industry, as a certification that qualifies an employee to receive an incentive payment Environmental Master training was held six times for a total of 260 people in fiscal under a program to promote independent skills development, and began encouraging 007 Corporate Vision 2009. The training included studying employees to take the test. In particular, all domestic sales and marketing divisions, examples of efforts to improve energy 008 Special Feature being involved in sales of environment-related products such as energy-creating solar efficiency, environmental safety cells and energy-saving LCD TVs, have been working on their own initiative to gain 012 Special Focus consultation, and visits to recycling Eco Test certification with the goal of nurturing “sales and service personnel who can facilities. Sharp is working to expand talk about the environment in their own words.” In addition, the stories of employees 017 Management the content studied in this training who have passed the Eco Test are posted on the Sharp website in the Environmental course across the entire company. Sharp and the Environment and Social Activities section with the aim of motivating more employees to take the test in the future. Environmental Master training 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment In fiscal 2009, 2,783 employees acquired the certification, bringing the number of 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements ■ Expert Course Sharp employees who have passed the test to a total of 5,671*¹. This represents 18% of the 32,300 employees*² of the Sharp Group in Japan, and 6% of the overall total of 031 Mass Balance The Expert course provides training with the goal of understanding environmental 95,245 persons*¹ who have passed the certification test. 033 Environmental Accounting laws and regulations, and of gaining specialized expertise related to various *1 As of March 31, 2010. operational activities. *2 As of April 1, 2010. 034 Technologies In fiscal 2009, Sharp conducted Internal Environmental Auditor training for 123 041 Products individuals. In addition, training on environmental laws and regulations were held at sales bases in Japan, the Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture), and the Holding Environmental Refresher Sessions Operations Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara At the Mie Plant, Sharp has been holding regular environmental refresher sessions for 054 Prefecture) for a total of 227 Promoting Environmental Sustainability employees. The aim is to improve employee knowledge and awareness of the Management participants. 056 environment by inviting speakers from corporations and government agencies to Raising the Level of Environmental Eco Best Practices Forums were also make presentations on their environmental initiatives. In fiscal 2009, three such 057 Performance in Factories held 10 times overseas for persons in refresher sessions were held, with 212 employees in attendance. Improving the Level of Environmental charge of promoting environmental 061 Performance of Offices efforts at production facilities. 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Training on environmental laws and regulations 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste 070 Effectively Using Water Resources ■ General Course Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 071 This course is intended to help employees master in Factories 073 Reducing Environmental Impacts in basic knowledge about the environment and Distribution and Packaging improve environmental awareness. 075 Relationships The Domestic Sales and Marketing Group Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation implemented environmental e-learning for all of 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices the nearly 5,700 sales personnel in Japan, with Environmental refresher session with an invited speaker 080 Sharp and Society the aim of bringing environmental knowledge to from outside the company sales and marketing locations. 110 Honors from Third Parties Environmental e-learning 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report 055 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment ■ ISO 14001-Certified Plants and Offices Europe Operations Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM)*2 UK Japan Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES) Spain Plants 001 Contents Tochigi Plant Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France 002 Compiling This Report Yao Plant Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland Hiroshima Plant Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (SEEG) Germany 003 Top Message Nara Plant Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. (SUK) 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) UK Katsuragi Plant (including Toyama Plant) Sharp Laboratories of Europe, Ltd. (SLE) 007 Corporate Vision Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant Sharp Electronics France S.A. (SEF) France Offices 008 Special Feature Mie Plant Sharp Electronics (Italia) S.p.A. (SEIS) Italy Tenri Plant Sharp Electronics (Schweiz) AG (SEZ) Switzerland 012 Special Focus Plants Mihara Plant Sharp Electronics (Nordic) AB (SEN) Sweden 017 Management Kameyama Plant Sharp Electronics Benelux B.V. (SEB) Netherlands Sharp and the Environment Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation *2 Manufacturing division of SUK Asia, Middle East, Oceania 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Sharp Yonago Corporation Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co., Ltd. (SOCC) Sharp Mie Corporation 031 Mass Balance Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) 033 Environmental Accounting Kantatsu Co., Ltd. Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) 034 Technologies Sharp Takaya Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) 041 Thailand Products Head Office/Tanabe Building Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Operations Sharp Corporation Makuhari Building (Tokyo Branch) Plants Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) Malaysia Tokyo Ichigaya Building 054 Promoting Environmental Sustainability Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Philippines 056 Management Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Indonesia Raising the Level of Environmental Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. 057 PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Performance in Factories Sharp-Engineering Corporation Improving the Level of Environmental Shanghai Sharp Mold and Manufacturing Systems Co., Ltd. (SSMC) China 061 Performance of Offices Sharp Document Systems Corporation Offices Sharp India Ltd. (SIL) India 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation Sharp Korea Corporation (SKC) Korea 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste Sharp Trading Corporation Malaysia S&O Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SOEM) 070 Effectively Using Water Resources Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sharp Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (SES) China Effectively Managing Chemicals Used One Stop Support Corporation 071 Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) in Factories Sharp Office Rental Corporation Reducing Environmental Impacts in Sharp Electronic Components (Taiwan) Corporation (SECT) Taiwan 073 Distribution and Packaging Sharp Electronics Sales Okinawa Corporation Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SEM) Malaysia 075 Relationships Sharp Finance Corporation Sharp-Roxy Sales (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SRS) Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Singapore 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Recycling Plant Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd. Sharp Electronics (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SESL) Offices 080 Sharp and Society North America Sharp Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. (SSDI) India Sharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA)*1 US Sharp Middle East Free Zone Establishment (SMEF) UAE 110 Honors from Third Parties Plants Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd. (SCA) Australia 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC) Sharp Corporation of New Zealand Ltd. (SCNZ) New Zealand 114 Independent Assurance Report US Offices Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc. (SLA) Sharp-Roxy Sales & Service Company (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SRSSC) Malaysia 056 Sharp Electronics of Canada Ltd. (SECL) Canada Sharp-Roxy (Hong Kong) Ltd. (SRH) Hong Kong (China) *1 Manufacturing division of SEC Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Raising the Level of Environmental Performance in Factories Sharp is working to raise the level of environment performance at all its factories to a level above Green Factory by putting into place a certification system that evaluates the 001 Contents environmental performance of its production facilities using its own criteria and standards. Sharp is also promoting efforts to raise all its plants to the level of Super Green Factory, which features an extremely high level of environmental performance. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • 10 Sharp Corporation plants 008 Special Feature • 2 plants equivalent to SGF II grade A or • 10 plants equivalent to SGF II grade A or • 2 plants SGF II grade A or higher based on • All plants SGF II grade A or higher higher higher based on self evaluation new evaluation criteria 012 Special Focus 017 Management • 7 Japanese plants (subsidiaries/affiliates) • Introduce SGF II at 2 SGF • Introduced SGF II at 2 SGF • Implement SGF II at 3 SGF • All plants SGF II grade B or higher Sharp and the Environment • 3 SGF in total • 3 SGF in total • 5 SGF in total 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 030 • 21 overseas plants (subsidiaries/affiliates) Environmental Objectives and Achievements • Introduce SGF II at 9 SGF • Introduced SGF II at 9 SGF • Implement SGF II at 11 SGF • All plants SGF II grade B or higher • 11 SGF in total • 11 SGF in total • 16 SGF in total 031 Mass Balance 033 Environmental Accounting • Hold Eco Best Practice Forums in Europe, 034 Technologies Americas, and China • Held forums in Europe, Americas, China, • Hold forums at least once a year in all • Hold forums at least twice a year in all and Asia regions regions 041 Products Operations Promoting Environmental Sustainability Making More Factories Super Green Factories ■ Green Factory Concepts 054 Management Sharp defines factories with a certain level of environmental consciousness as Green Greenhouse Minimize emission of greenhouse gases 057 Raising the Level of Environmental Factories (GF). The basic policies and operational know-how for achieving GF status gases 060 Performance in Factories have been formulated in line with 10 concepts in the GF Guidelines, which Sharp has Improving the Level of Environmental been applying at all production bases in Japan since fiscal 1999 and overseas since Energy Minimize energy consumption 061 Performance of Offices fiscal 2001. 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Waste Minimize discharge of waste With construction of the Kameyama Plant, in fiscal 2003 Sharp established 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste assessment criteria for Super Green Factories (SGF)—factories with exceptionally high levels of environmental performance—and launched efforts to award in-house Resources Minimize resource consumption 070 Effectively Using Water Resources certification. The Kameyama Plant was the first plant to achieve this certification. Effectively Managing Chemicals Used Sharp started GF certification in fiscal 2004 and overseas as well, and Sharp achieved Chemical Minimize risk of environmental pollution and accidents caused by 071 in Factories its medium-term objective of having all Sharp plants in Japan and overseas certified substances chemical substances Reducing Environmental Impacts in for GF status and all 10 Sharp Corporation plants in Japan certified for SGF status by 073 Distribution and Packaging Atmosphere, fiscal 2007. Minimize environmental burden on the atmosphere, water, and soil 075 Relationships water, soil For the assessment criteria, Sharp has established 21 environmental performance Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Harmony with 077 evaluation items covering five different areas to provide more detailed scoring in the Endeavor to preserve nature both on and off site Standards for Environmental Performance Indices nature assessment. A plant must score 70 or more points out of a possible 100 in the 080 Sharp and Society assessment process to earn GF certification, and score 90 or more points to achieve Harmony with Encourage harmony with the local community 110 Honors from Third Parties SGF certification. the community 112 Outline of the Sharp Group In fiscal 2009, an additional one plant in Japan and two overseas were certified as Environmental Foster high environmental awareness among employees SGF, making 24 of Sharp’s 38 worldwide plants SGFs. consciousness 114 Independent Assurance Report Information Disclose information on the environment 057 disclosure Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations SGF II—An Initiative to Further Enhance the Environmental ■ SGF/SGF II System SGF II system 200 points Performance of SGF 001 Contents Beginning in fiscal 2008, Sharp launched SGF II, a new initiative for plants in Japan Grade S 002 Compiling This Report that have attained SGF certification. In addition to prior initiatives that focused on 180 points 003 Top Message upgrading environmental equipment such as the introduction of high-efficiency Previous Grade A equipment and abatement systems, SGF II incorporates the “soft” aspects in SGF/GF system Improved 160 points 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) evaluation points, such as the know-how to maintain and manage this environmental Grade B equipment so that they operate at full performance. SGF II also focuses on reducing 140 points 007 Corporate Vision the absolute amount of greenhouse gases emitted and waste discharged. Improved Super 008 Special Feature In fiscal 2009, Sharp began expanding its SGF II efforts to plants outside of Japan Green Factory Grade C that have been SGF certified, and looking ahead to fiscal 2012, will aim to achieve the 90 points 012 Special Focus goal of having all plants in Japan and overseas reach grade B or above under the Green Factory 017 Management SGF II system. 70 points Sharp and the Environment ■ SGF II Quantified Environmental Performance Criteria and Assessment 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Case Study: Japan Weighting in Japan 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Assessment Sub Environmental performance criteria Total Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Equipment weighting total 031 Mass Balance Up to now, Sharp has been focusing on utility equipment* in pursuing reductions in • Reductions in PFC gases 033 Environmental Accounting environmental impacts at its production facilities in Japan. But Sharp’s environmental • Promotion of variable supply control systems 034 Technologies management divisions, in cooperation with the production engineering divisions and Reductions in greenhouse gas • Recovery and recycling of waste heat 25 emissions per production unit • Introduction of high-efficiency equipment points the production divisions, have also been taking proactive steps to reduce the • Introduction of new energy sources 041 Products environmental impact of production equipment, which accounts for a large • Implementation of managerial percentage of the impacts, without hurting product quality or productivity. decision-making standards Operations (For examples of these efforts, see pages 65, 66, 69, and 70.) Promoting Environmental Sustainability • PRTR atmospheric emissions 054 Management * Ancillary services and equipment such as power, air conditioning, etc. Reductions in the release of • PRTR water emissions 27 chemical substances • Sulfoxides produced by combustion points 057 Raising the Level of Environmental • Elimination of all noxious odors 100 points 060 Performance in Factories • Zero discharge to landfill 061 Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices Case Study: Overseas Appropriate disposal of industrial waste • Conﬁrmation of appropriate disposal • Recycling waste as valuable resources 18 points 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Raising Environmental Performance Levels Through Eco Best Reductions in the consumption of • Use of rain and condensate water 10 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste Practice Forums industrial water • Recovery of production rinse water points 200 points 070 Effectively Using Water Resources As a way of improving the “soft” aspects prioritized under SGF II, Eco Best Practice • Disaster and ﬁre prevention measures Forums for mutual learning are being held at overseas production bases in all regions. for hazardous materials 20 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used Monitoring and safety 071 • Special safety measures points in Factories Begun in fiscal 2009, these meetings generate new ideas and promote the sharing of • Adoption of central monitoring measures Reducing Environmental Impacts in valuable know-how, with the goal of raising the level of environmental performance at 073 Distribution and Packaging each plant. The forums are linked by videoconference to give participants from each Reduction of Greenhouse gas • Rate of emissions reduction 40 075 Relationships plant opportunities to introduce their environmental protection efforts and discuss environmental emissions reduction points impacts and 077 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation problems and solutions. contribution to Waste discharge 30 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices management • Rate of emissions reduction reduction points In fiscal 2009, Eco Best Practice Forums were held a 080 Sharp and Society total of 10 times in Europe, Asia, China, and the 100 Environmental • Equipment replacement scheme 10 points 110 Honors from Third Parties Americas. Sharp will continue to hold these forums to equipment • Maintenance management points Safety spread advanced eco efforts and ideas across the measures 112 Outline of the Sharp Group organization as it makes its plants even more Equipment other • Equipment replacement scheme 10 than environmental • Maintenance management points environmentally sound. equipment 114 Independent Assurance Report 10 Information disclosure • Assign points for each item disclosed 058 Eco Best Practice Forum held in Asia points Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations ■ SGF and GF Certified Plants ■ SGF Certified Plants Worldwide 001 Contents Country Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Sharp Corporation 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 002 Compiling This Report Tochigi Plant GF GF GF SGF 1 Hiroshima Plant 2 Mihara Plant 3 Fukuyama Plant 4 Yao Plant 5 Katsuragi Plant Yao Plant GF GF SGF SGF 6 Nara Plant 7 Tenri Plant 8 Kameyama Plant 9 Mie Plant 10 Tochigi Plant Equivalent to SGF II grade A or higher 003 Top Message Hiroshima Plant GF GF SGF SGF 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies in Japan Nara Plant GF GF SGF SGF 11 Sharp Yonago Corporation 007 Corporate Vision 4 12 13 Katsuragi Plant GF GF GF SGF Sharp SGF II 12 Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation 1 2 3 Corporation 10 (based on self evaluation) in place 008 Special Feature Fukuyama Plant GF GF GF SGF 13 Kantatsu Co., Ltd. 11 Mie Plant SGF SGF SGF SGF 012 Special Focus SGF in Japan: 13 Tenri Plant GF GF GF SGF 8 9 017 Management Mihara Plant Japan GF GF GF SGF 5 6 7 Sharp and the Environment Kameyama Plant SGF SGF SGF SGF SGF Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies Overseas 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation GF GF GF SGF Introduce 1 SUKM (UK) 2 SMF (France) 3 SEES (Spain) Sharp Yonago Corporation GF GF SGF SGF II 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 4 NSEC (China) 5 SOCC (China) 6 SSEC (China) Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation GF GF GF GF 031 Mass Balance 7 SMTL (Thailand) 8 SOEM (Malaysia) 9 SMM (Malaysia) Sharp Mie Corporation GF GF GF GF GF 10 SSI (Indonesia) 11 SEMEX (Mexico) 033 Environmental Accounting Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. GF GF GF GF GF GF Kantatsu Co., Ltd. GF GF GF SGF SGF overseas: 11 034 Technologies Sharp Takaya Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. GF GF GF GF GF GF 1 041 Products SEMEX Mexico GF GF GF SGF 2 Operations 3 SUKM*1 UK GF GF GF SGF 4 5 6 Promoting Environmental Sustainability 11 054 Management SEES Spain GF GF SGF 7 Introduce SGF II Note: Underlined plants 8 9 057 Raising the Level of Environmental SMF France SGF SGF SGF SGF 10 achieved SGF in fiscal 2009 060 Performance in Factories SOCC GF SGF SGF SGF China Improving the Level of Environmental NSEC GF GF SGF SGF 061 Performance of Offices SOEM SGF SGF SGF 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Malaysia SMM GF GF GF SGF 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste SMTL Thailand GF SGF SGF ■ Number of SGF Certified Plants (No. of plants) 070 Effectively Using Water Resources SMCA*2 US GF GF GF 40 40 39 39 *3 *3 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used SSEC GF GF GF GF SGF 38 38 38 38 38 071 36 in Factories Reducing Environmental Impacts in WSEC GF GF GF GF 073 China 30 31 Distribution and Packaging STW GF GF GF 075 Relationships 21 SSMC GF GF GF GF 24 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 21 16 077 SKC Korea GF GF GF GF 20 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 11 SATL Thailand GF GF GF 16 9 080 Sharp and Society 6 SPC Philippines GF GF GF 10 110 Honors from Third Parties 8 17 SSI GF GF SGF 3 13 15 10 12 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Indonesia 2 3 1 SEID GF GF GF 0 1 1 2 2 5 114 Independent Assurance Report SIL India GF GF GF 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 (Fiscal year) Plan Plan 059 SMPL Poland GF SGF in Japan SGF overseas *3 Except new plant *1 Manufacturing division of SUK *2 Manufacturing division of SEC Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations TOPICS SSEC in China Achieves SGF Certification 001 Contents Kameyama Plant Makes “Best 100 New Energies” List Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC)*1 in China acquired ISO 14001 002 Compiling This Report certification in 1998, and has been working continuously to reduce its impact on the Sharp is putting energy-creation into practice at its Kameyama Plant, a Super Green environment, including reducing CO2 emissions by installing energy-efficient Factory. Working with Cenergy Co., Sharp has installed a 5,210 kW solar power 003 Top Message equipment, reducing waste by re-using packaging materials used to ship products, generation system on the roof and walls of the factory, and also set up a 200 kW and properly managing chemical substances. In particular, this factory, which is floating solar power generation system on a nearby stormwater retention pond. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) located in Shanghai City where water is a serious problem, is concentrating on These efforts were evaluated and chosen as one of the Best 100 New Energies*2 reducing the amount of the water it uses by introducing equipment to recycle water 007 Corporate Vision sponsored by the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization after inspections of the heat exchangers in air conditioners. In fiscal 2009, SSEC (NEDO) and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in fiscal 2009. was able to reduce both CO2 emissions and supplied water compared to the levels 008 Special Feature of the previous fiscal year. In addition, SSEC was able to hold down the amount of *2 A program to select projects from around Japan that are outstanding in their use of new 012 Special Focus waste, etc. As a result of such activities, SSEC acquired SGF certification in fiscal energies, and by widely disseminating information about them, promote the introduction 2009. It has also received high marks from the city of Shanghai, as shown in the of new and renewable energies nationwide. 017 Management table below. Sharp and the Environment 029 Fiscal Year Accreditation Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 2005 Shanghai Exemplary Clean Manufacturer 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Green Company in the Pudong New Area, 2007 031 Mass Balance Shanghai 033 Environmental Accounting Green Company in the Pudong New Area, 2008 Shanghai 034 Technologies Shanghai Exemplary Clean Manufacturer 041 Products Water-Saving Company of Shanghai 2009 Shanghai Exemplary Clean Manufacturer 5,210 kW solar power generation system Operations installed on the roof and walls at the plant *1 SSEC manufactures air conditioners, refrigerators, Promoting Environmental Sustainability washing machines, and air purifiers. 054 Management 057 Raising the Level of Environmental 060 Performance in Factories ■ CO2 Emissions ■ Amount of Waste, etc. Discharged (Thousand t-CO2) Per sales unit (t-CO2/million yuan) (Thousand tons) Per sales unit (t-CO2/million yuan) Improving the Level of Environmental 061 50 15 4 1.0 Performance of Offices 12.7 12.7 0.8 Floating 200 kW solar power generation system 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40 10.8 12 1.0 set up in cooperation with Kameyama City on a 3 0.9 0.75 stormwater retention pond that is adjacent to 30 9 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste 2 0.5 the factory. Proof-of-concept tests are underway. 20 43 43 40 6 3.4 3.1 3.1 ■ Awards Received by the Kameyama Plant 070 Effectively Using Water Resources 10 3 1 0.25 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used Fiscal Year Award Name and Sponsor 071 in Factories 0 0 0 0 Sustainable Management Pearl Award; 3rd Japan Sustainable Reducing Environmental Impacts in 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal 073 Management Awards Distribution and Packaging year) year) 2004 CO2 emissions Per sales unit Waste, etc. Per sales unit Sponsors: Japan Sustainable Management Awards Committee, 075 Relationships Mie Prefecture 077 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation ■ Amount of Water Supplied Energy Conservation Encouragement Award; 4th Japan Cogeneration Standards for Environmental Performance Indices (Thousand m3) 2005 System Award 400 080 Sharp and Society Sponsor: Japan Cogeneration Center 300 334 335 289 Economy, Trade and Industry Minister’s Prize; 8th Japan Water Award 110 Honors from Third Parties 200 Reported by 2006 Sponsor: Japan Water Award Committee Chi Xiao Yun 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 100 Environment and Minister of the Environment Award; Fiscal 2007 Commendation for Quality Management 0 Division 2007 Outstanding Measures Against Global Warming 114 Independent Assurance Report 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal SSEC Sponsor: Ministry of the Environment year) 060 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices Sharp established the Green Office certification system as an initiative to increase the level of environmental performance at its offices. 001 Contents This system builds on the know-how accumulated under the Green Factory certification system, which achieved demonstrable results in strengthening the environmental performance of production facilities. This system was introduced in Japan in fiscal 2007 and overseas in fiscal 2009. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Certify more offices as Green Offices • Strengthen certiﬁcation criteria in Japan and 008 Special Feature • Japan: 43 out of the total 54 offices • Japan: Certiﬁed all 54 offices overseas • Japan: Ongoing certiﬁcation of all 54 • Overseas: 4 (one each in Europe, • Overseas: Certiﬁed 13 (3 Europe, 3 • Japan: Ongoing certiﬁcation of all 54 offices offices 012 Special Focus Americas, China, and Asia) out of the total Americas, 1 China, and 6 Asia) out of the • Overseas: Certify 8 (two each in Europe, • Overseas: Certify all 20 offices 20 offices total 20 offices Americas, China, and Asia) out of the total 017 Management 20 offices Sharp and the Environment 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Expanding the Green Office Certification System in Japan ■ Green Office Certification Standards (Japan, Fiscal 2009) Sharp formulated its Green Ofﬁce certiﬁcation system to improve the environmental Field Key Evaluation Indicators (number of items) 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements performance level of its ofﬁces and began applying it at the 54 ofﬁces of its main sales Adherence to environmental laws Conditions of compliance as evaluated by audits, 031 adherence to laws, other measures (3) Mass Balance subsidiaries in Japan in ﬁscal 2007. Reduction of environmental impact Selling of environmentally conscious products, improvement 033 Environmental Accounting This certiﬁcation system establishes evaluation criteria that add Sharp’s own through work specific to each business of employee skills, other measures (2) evaluation indicators to ISO 14001 and covers 27 items in eight ﬁelds. An office is division 034 Technologies recognized as a Green Ofﬁce if it meets the performance-evaluation criteria of all eight Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, other measures (4) 041 Products ﬁelds at a speciﬁed level. Reducing environmental impacts generated by normal business activities, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as Waste management Promotion of zero discharge to landfill, other measures (4) Operations contributing to the environment through sales of energy-efﬁcient products or solar Promoting Environmental Sustainability power systems, which is the primary business of a sales company, and involvement in Green purchasing, etc. Promotion of green purchasing, other measures (4) 054 Management community social action programs, are evaluated on a comprehensive basis. Environmental maintenance in the Operational management of facilities and equipment, Raising the Level of Environmental 057 In ﬁscal 2009, all 54 ofﬁces attained Green Ofﬁce certiﬁcation. Sharp plans to work to workplace other measures (4) Performance in Factories strengthen the certiﬁcation standards in the future. Implementation of environmental Achievement ratio of education programs, 061 Improving the Level of Environmental education other measures (2) 062 Performance of Offices Environmental social action programs Implementation of community activities, other measures (4) 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Expanding Green Offices Globally 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste In ﬁscal 2009, Sharp began to introduce the Green Office certification system ■ Green Office Certification Standards (Overseas, Fiscal 2009) 070 Effectively Using Water Resources overseas for the 20 ofﬁces of its main sales subsidiaries. Because the situation varies Field Key Evaluation Indicators (number of items) Effectively Managing Chemicals Used widely in countries and regions abroad, for example, environmental laws and 071 regulations are different in each country and region, these ofﬁces were evaluated in Factories Expansion of sales of energy-saving Selling of environmentally conscious products, other 073 Reducing Environmental Impacts in based on a combination of “common criteria,” which all ofﬁces must address, and and energy-creating products measures (Common: 1; Optional: 2) Distribution and Packaging “optional criteria” that each individual ofﬁce works to satisfy based on their own 075 Relationships speciﬁc circumstances. An ofﬁce is certiﬁed as a Green Ofﬁce if it fulﬁlls both common Reduction of environmental impacts Reduction of electricity use, promotion of the 3Rs, other criteria and optional criteria to a certain level. from business activities measures (Common: 8; Optional: 9) Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices In ﬁscal 2009, a total of 13 offices* (in Europe, the Americas, China, and Asia) attained Environmental governance Formulation of environmental action plan, other measures 080 Sharp and Society (Common: 1; Optional: 3) Green Ofﬁce certiﬁcation. Conditions of compliance as evaluated by audits, Adherence to environmental laws 110 Honors from Third Parties Sharp will work to improve the environmental performance of its offices around the adherence to laws, other measures (Common: 3) world by working to ensure that outstanding examples of these efforts are propagated Providing environmental education for employees, 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Environmental communication, etc. involvement in environmental community activities, throughout its international operations. other measures (Common: 3; Optional: 3) 114 Independent Assurance Report 061 * SUK (UK), SEIS (Italy), SEB (Netherlands), SEC (US), SMA (US), SECL (Canada), SES (China), SECT (Taiwan), SEM (Malaysia), SMEF (UAE), SESL (Singapore), SCA (Australia), SCNZ (New Zealand) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations GREEN FRONT SAKAI Receives “Excellent Eco-Commuting Business Site” Certification SUK in the UK Achieves Green Office Certification 001 Contents Four of Sharp’s production sites and offices in Osaka Prefecture—GREEN FRONT All staff members at Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. (SUK), Sharp’s sales subsidiary 002 Compiling This Report SAKAI (including participating companies) (located in Sakai City), the Yao Plant (Yao in the UK, work together under the leadership of senior management to help City), and the Hirano and Kami Offices (both in Osaka City)—have received Excellent protect the environment. 003 Top Message Eco-Commuting Business Site certification*¹ from the Conference SUK carries out various measures to reduce its environmental impact, including 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) on Promotion of Public Transportation. With the aim of reducing the installation of energy-saving equipment and a motion-sensor lighting system, CO2 emissions and promoting the health of employees, these the use of recycled paper, and the installation of solar panels on SUK office roofs. 007 Corporate Vision business sites were evaluated based on their success in In July 2009, SUK introduced a recycling scheme for discarded toner cartridges. 008 Special Feature encouraging commuting by public transportation. SUK is also keen to raise awareness about the importance of environmental 012 Special Focus *1 This system certifies and accredits business sites that actively engage in protection and to encourage employees to proactively do their part to save the voluntary efforts to promote eco-commuting. This program works to environment. Related activities include displaying educational, environment017 widely disseminate information about successes under this system to Management related banners and posters throughout SUK offices and participating in a promote the widespread adoption of eco-commuting. government-promoted bike commute program. Sharp and the Environment Makuhari Office Receives “Distinguished Organization of Merit From November 23 to 27, 2009, SUK held a Green Week event where, with the 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment help of external presenters, unique programs were implemented each day on in Promoting the Creation of a Sustainable Society”Award at four themes, one of which was global warming. For stakeholders, SUK 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Fourth National Convention for the Promotion of 3R Initiatives introduces Sharp’s environmental activities through sales promotion materials, its 031 Mass Balance website, ads, and exhibitions, and works to expand sales of Sharp energy-saving The Sharp Makuhari Office (located in Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture) won a “Distinguished Organization of Merit in Promoting the Creation of a Sustainable Society—Minister’s Award” products. 033 Environmental Accounting as a company with outstanding 3R activities (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) at the fourth As a result of these efforts, SUK achieved Green Office certification in fiscal 2009. 034 Technologies National Convention for the Promotion of 3R Initiatives*² sponsored by the Ministry of the And, after rigorous assessment, Sharp subsidiaries in the UK, including SUK, Environment and others. The Makuhari Office won the award based on its comprehensive were certified for the Carbon Trust Standard, proving that we have taken real 041 Products activities to maximize recycling of waste paper, reducing action on climate change. Operations the volume of organic waste by installing a kitchen food waste composter, and recycling industrial waste. SUK will continue to make efforts to minimize the impact of its business activities Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management on the environment by promoting best practices and encouraging its staff to get *2 This event brings together businesses, administrative bodies, involved in protecting the environment. Raising the Level of Environmental 057 and ordinary citizens with the aim of promoting efforts to Performance in Factories achieve the creation of a waste-free society and formulate 061 Improving the Level of Environmental plans for a sustainable recycling-oriented society by Performance of Offices exchanging knowledge and experience and by providing an 062 opportunity for each individual participant to re-examine their At the awards ceremony on 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions own lifestyle and deepen their understanding of the 3Rs. October 16, 2009 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste Car Sharing at SEMC 070 Effectively Using Water Resources In 2009, Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation (SEMC), a sales subsidiary in Effectively Managing Chemicals Used Japan, introduced car sharing at three sites (Ichigaya and Ueno in Tokyo, Ebisu in 071 in Factories Osaka). All shared vehicles are equipped with a GPS linked to a centralized manageReducing Environmental Impacts in Solar cells for installation on buildings and Carbon Trust Standard certified 073 Distribution and Packaging ment system that monitors vehicle running conditions and route information. The educational material on solar power system enables eco driving by monitoring sudden start-ups and accelerations and by displayed in the reception area 075 Relationships automatically calculating gas mileage, thus contributing to efficient use of travel time Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation and increased environmental awareness. 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 080 Sharp and Society ■ Car Sharing System Vehicle 110 Honors from Third Parties management Computer Daily logs system terminal Shared vehicle Vehicle Gas mileage Reported by 112 Outline of the Sharp Group running calculations Djelloul Kitter GPS satellite conditions Eye-catching environmental Regulatory & Environment Division 114 Independent Assurance Report banners and posters SUK In-vehicle GPS 062 • Vehicle reservations • Shared database Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sharp is taking active measures to curb greenhouse gas emissions resulting from its business activities. Sharp is reducing CO2 emissions through the introduction of 001 Contents cogeneration systems and energy-efficient equipment, the installation of solar power generation systems, and the meticulous implementation of energy-saving activities at plants and offices. At the same time, Sharp is also reducing emissions of greenhouse gases such as PFCs*¹ by installing abatement systems and adopting replacement 002 Compiling This Report gases with lower global warming potential. 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • CO2 emissions for 10 Sharp Corporation plants 008 Special Feature • Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 22% from ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce to below ﬁscal • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU*2 2007 levels 012 Special Focus • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 3% compared to BAU*2 017 Management • CO2 emissions per adjusted production • CO2 emissions per adjusted production unit Sharp and the Environment unit*³ for 10 Sharp Corporation plants for Sharp Corporation plants*4 • Reduce by 35% from ﬁscal 1990 levels • Reduced by 43% from ﬁscal 1990 levels • Reduce by 35% from ﬁscal 1990 levels • Reduce by 35% from ﬁscal 1990 levels 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment (average for ﬁscal 2008 to 2012) 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements • CO2 emissions per production unit*5 for overseas plants (subsidiaries/afﬁliates) 031 • Reduce by 2% from previous ﬁscal year • Increased by 35% from previous ﬁscal • Reduce by 2% from previous ﬁscal year • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 2% from Mass Balance year previous ﬁscal year 033 Environmental Accounting *1 A general term for perﬂuorocarbon gases such as CF4 (carbon tetrachloride) and C2F6 (carbon hexaﬂuoride), and the like, which are greenhouse gases. 034 Technologies *2 Business As Usual: Amount of CO2 estimated to be emitted assuming no CO2 emissions reduction measures are implemented (estimated using weighted average of CO2 emission units for each plant). *3 Per adjusted production unit (t-CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ {production output (100 million yen) ÷ Japanese corporate price index determined by the Bank of Japan}. Corporate price 041 index: Until ﬁscal 2006, “Electrical machinery and equipment”; for ﬁscal 2007 and thereafter: weighted average of “Electrical machinery & equipment,” “Information & communications equipment,” and Products “Electronic components & devices.” *4 10 Sharp Corporation plants + GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant ■ Amount of Sharp Group’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions Operations *5 Per production unit (t-CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ production output (100 million yen) (Thousand t-CO2) Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management 2,000 Raising the Level of Environmental Sharp Group Activities to Control Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1,798 057 Performance in Factories 1,683 Improving the Level of Environmental Even as production increased with the start of operations at Sharp Display Products 1,600 322 061 Corporation, the Sharp Group was able to hold its greenhouse gas emissions in ﬁscal 1,544 1,531 1,545 Performance of Offices 338 063 2009 to an increase of 1% compared to the previous ﬁscal year thanks to a variety of 58 261 270 343 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions measures (see graph at the right). 54 290 066 1,200 52 48 56 245 In addition, for ﬁscal 2010 and beyond, Sharp established a target to lower CO2 214 280 278 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste emissions by 3% of baseline (BAU emissions) for the 10 factories of Sharp Corporation, 800 070 Effectively Using Water Resources based on a program to reduce CO2 emissions, taking ﬁscal 2007 as the peak year for Effectively Managing Chemicals Used such emissions. By strengthening efforts and extending them even to production 071 1,129 in Factories equipment as well as utility equipment, the 10 Sharp Corporation factories were able to 1047 938 948 400 932 Reducing Environmental Impacts in reduce CO2 emissions by 6% compared to the previous ﬁscal year, and by 22% 073 Distribution and Packaging compared to ﬁscal 2007 levels (see graph at top-left of the next page). 075 Relationships 0 At the same time, initiatives launched at bases abroad were able to lower CO2 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 077 emissions at overseas production facilities to levels slightly below last ﬁscal year’s Standards for Environmental Performance Indices results. However, in the midst of a rapidly worsening business environment, CO2 CO2 emissions from plants in Japan CO2 emissions from overseas plants 080 Sharp and Society emissions per production unit increased by 35% compared to the previous ﬁscal year CO2 emissions from offices in Japan and overseas PFC emissions 110 Honors from Third Parties (see graph at middle-left of the next page). • In calculating PFC emissions, prior to fiscal 2005, values for global warming potential were taken from the IPCC’s Second Assessment Report (SAR). For fiscal 2006 and later, the values used Although plans call for production to expand in ﬁscal 2010, Sharp will continue efforts to 112 Outline of the Sharp Group were taken from the IPCC’s Third Assessment Report (TAR). curb greenhouse gas emissions to the greatest extent possible. These efforts will be • Emissions from the Toyama Plant (Toyama City, Toyama Prefecture) were included beginning in 114 Independent Assurance Report based on continuously promoting energy-saving measures and on installing and fiscal 2006. properly operating abatement systems on all PFC emission sources at newly expanded • Emissions from the Advanced Materials & Energy Engineering Laboratories (Kashiwa City, Chiba 063 Prefecture) and Sharp Display Products Corporation were included beginning in fiscal 2009. plants. In addition, at plants outside of Japan, Sharp plans to actively work on reducing • Refer to page 79 for the CO2 emission coefficients used. CO2 emissions. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations ■ Amount of CO2 Emissions for Sharp Group Plants Promoting Private Power Generation (Thousand t-CO2) 001 Contents 1,600 Sharp is working to provide a stable supply of electric power and reduce CO2 emissions by generating its own electricity privately. Sharp has been installing 1,419 002 Compiling This Report cogeneration and fuel cell systems, as well as solar power generation systems. 1,291 1,200 290 1,218 1,227 003 Top Message 1,146 245 214 77 280 278 72 ■ Self-Generated Electricity* Output at Sharp Corporation Plants 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 73 59 125 800 Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 007 Corporate Vision 1,052 Self-generated electricity output (millions of kWh) 246 287 261 285 008 Special Feature 400 859 975 878 824 * Electricity generated by on-site cogeneration systems, solar power generation systems, and fuel cell 012 Special Focus systems. 017 Management 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Sharp and the Environment 10 Sharp Corporation plants Subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Overseas subsidiaries and affiliated companies 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements ■ CO2 Emissions per Production Unit for Overseas Plants (t-CO2/100 million yen) 031 Mass Balance 50 033 Environmental Accounting 40 034 Technologies 29.0 30.4 30 041 Products 24.8 22.1 22.5 Operations 20 Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management 10 Raising the Level of Environmental 057 Performance in Factories 0 Improving the Level of Environmental 061 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Performance of Offices 063 ■ CO2 Emissions per Adjusted Production Unit for Sharp Corporation Plants Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 066 (t-CO2/100 million yen) 50 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste 070 Effectively Using Water Resources 40 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 071 in Factories 30 Reducing Environmental Impacts in 32.2 073 Distribution and Packaging Down 43% 20 075 Relationships Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 18.4 17.8 18.5 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 10 080 Sharp and Society 0 110 Honors from Third Parties 1990 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group • Per adjusted production unit (t-CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ {production output (100 million yen) ÷ Japanese corporate price index determined by the Bank of Japan}. 114 Independent Assurance Report Corporate price index: Until fiscal 2006, “Electrical machinery and equipment”; for fiscal 2007 and thereafter: weighted average of “Electrical machinery & equipment,” “Information & 064 communications equipment,” and “Electronic components & devices.” Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Case Study 1 Saving Energy Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes Case Study 2 Saving Energy Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Reducing the Volume of Air Circulating in Cleanrooms Reducing the Amount of Steam Used 003 Top Message The Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) is working to save energy in The Fukuyama Plant (Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture) is working to reduce the the cleanrooms where the production processes for LCD panels take place. amount of steam used to add humidity in air conditioning and to heat purified water in 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) cleanrooms. A large volume of air must be circulated in the cleanrooms to maintain the fabrication 007 Corporate Vision environment at a high level of cleanliness and at a constant temperature and humidity, Cleanrooms must be humidified to maintain a constant temperature and moisture and this requires large amounts of electric power for air conditioning. Implementing level. The Fukuyama Plant had previously been using air conditioners that use steam 008 Special Feature energy-saving measures has been challenging up to now because of the potential to treat outside air*2 for this purpose, but since fiscal 2008, has been introducing 012 Special Focus that altering the air conditioning design could have a significant effect on product membrane humidifying systems. In addition, the plant has been implementing a quality. However, Sharp’s production divisions, working together with the energy variety of measures to reduce the amount of steam used, such as utilizing waste 017 Management supply divisions, conducted research and did a number of analyses regarding the energy collected from fabrication equipment to heat purified water and provide space effects of cleanliness and temperature/humidity on product quality, and as a result, heating instead of steam, as well as reducing heat losses in the steam distribution Sharp and the Environment were able to both preserve the fabrication environment and save energy. pipes that run between facilities. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Specifically, the airflow from the fan filter units*1 (FFU) used in the temporary storage As a result of these measures put into effect in fiscal 2009, the amount of utility gas areas for products (buffers) and in the transport equipment areas (loaders) was (city gas) used to fuel steam boilers was reduced by approximately 320 km3N, 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements reduced by 15%. In addition, the number of FFUs operating in the areas for the enabling CO2 emissions to be reduced by approximately 730 t-CO2. 031 Mass Balance sputtering, dry etch, and CVD processes—carried out in the course of the TFT fabrication process—that have no direct impact on product quality, was reduced by *2 Equipment that adjusts the temperature and humidity of outside air to maintain the cleanrooms 033 Environmental Accounting 75%. The number of FFUs operating in the automated carrier trackway and guideway at a constant temperature and humidity. 034 Technologies areas was also reduced by 27%, reflecting the fact that there was a large margin ■ Outside Air Conditioning Systems between the specs demanded for cleanliness and the actual values in those areas. 041 Products Steam humidifying system Membrane humidifying system As a result, Sharp is able to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 4,700 t-CO2 per Operations year. Energy-saving coil Warm-water coil Dry fog humidifier Steam humidifier Medium-performance filter Energy-saving coil Warm-water coil Membrane humidifier Warm-water coil Cold-water coil Cold-water coil Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management *1 Self-contained modules installed in the ceilings of rooms to provide a flow of microfiltered air to create a clean environment. Raising the Level of Environmental Air Air 057 Performance in Factories Improving the Level of Environmental 061 Performance of Offices 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions The membrane humidifying system adds moisture to the air through water vapor evaporation by 066 ■ Sputtering, Dry Etch, and CVD Processes passing the air through a humidifying material impregnated with water. 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste Number of units in Ceiling 070 Effectively Using Water Resources operation reduced Fan coil unit (with cooling functions) Case Study 3 Saving Energy Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 071 Fan filter unit in Factories Reducing Environmental Impacts in (FFU) 073 Distribution and Packaging Pursuing Greater Energy Efficiency by Controlling the 075 Relationships Temperature of Equipment Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation The Mie Plant (Taki Township, Mie Prefecture) has been holding CO2 Reduction 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Meetings in a plant-wide effort to save energy in production processes, which 080 Sharp and Society account for a large percentage of the energy consumed. As part of this effort, the plant has been working to save energy used for the equipment that processes the 110 Honors from Third Parties Equipment Equipment glass substrates for LCD panels. To maintain product quality, the interior of the equipment is maintained at a high temperature of around 80°C. However, research 112 Outline of the Sharp Group and analysis on the effect that temperature has on product quality showed that the 114 Independent Assurance Report temperature could be lowered to approximately 60°C without hurting quality. As a The volume of air flowing around the equipment was adjusted to a level that would not hurt product quality, and the number of FFUs in operation was reduced by 75%. result, electric power usage is reduced by approximately 10%, enabling CO2 065 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 emissions to be reduced by approximately 70 tCO2 per year. Sharp and the Environment Operations Case Study 4 Saving Energy Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes Case Study 6 Saving Energy Reducing the Environmental Impact of Utility Equipment 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Reducing the Number of Air Conditioning Units by Installing Pursuing Energy Savings in Air Conditioning by Using Bypass Ducts Outside Cold Air 003 Top Message The Nara Plant (Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture) is working to save energy by The Kameyama Plant is promoting energy savings for air conditioning by using 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) re-engineering the configuration that air conditioning units operate in. outside cold air. 007 Corporate Vision In the cleanrooms of Plant No. 6, three air conditioning units were used to maintain Outside air conditioning systems incorporate warm-water coils (34°C) for heating, and temperature and humidity. However, the plant reduced the amount of heat that needs cold-water coils (7°C) for cooling and dehumidifying air that passes through the unit. 008 Special Feature to be removed from production equipment and adjusted the air exhaust from During the winter, the cold-water coils are not used, but to prevent damage from 012 Special Focus fabrication processes to cut the air conditioning load, enabling the way the air freezing, cold water must be pumped through a freezing-prevention circuit. Previously, conditioning units operate to be re-configured. A bypass air supply duct was installed, chilled water at a temperature of 7°C was used for this purpose, but the Kameyama 017 Management connecting two of the air conditioning units, and allowing one of the air conditioning Plant made a change in the circuit to use the return water (at 17°C) from the chilled units to be taken out of service. This enables a reduction in CO2 emissions of water (13°C) supplied to the system used to remove heat from cleanrooms. Sharp and the Environment approximately 120 t-CO2 per year. This not only made it possible to reduce the amount of 7°C water used, but also 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment enabled the use of cold outside air to capture heat in the return water, thereby 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements ■ Bypass Ducts in Air Conditioning Units achieving energy savings in air conditioning. In addition, a mechanism was adopted that automatically adjusted the volume of water flowing in the freezing-prevention 031 Mass Balance circuit according to the outside air temperature. This allowed heat to be captured from ○ In operation ○ In operation ×Out of service the 17°C return water not only in the winter, but also in the spring and autumn when 033 Environmental Accounting the outside air temperature drops below 17°C, lengthening the time when outside air 034 Technologies Air Air Air cooling can be used. conditioner conditioner conditioner 041 Products These efforts enable CO2 emissions to be reduced by approximately 540 t-CO2 per year. Operations Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management ■ Mechanism for Using Outside Air for Cooling Raising the Level of Environmental 057 Bypass duct Performance in Factories Water returning from the system that removes waste heat from Improving the Level of Environmental 061 Production processes cleanrooms is used instead of 7°C water. Performance of Offices Air conditioning energy is saved because the heat of the return 063 water is captured by outside air. Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 7°C chilled water 066 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste Outside air 13°C chilled water 070 Effectively Using Water Resources Case Study 5 Saving Energy Outside air conditioning unit Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 071 in Factories Reducing Environmental Impacts in Replacing Mercury Vapor Lamps with LED Security Lights 073 Cleanroom Distribution and Packaging The Yao Plant (Yao City, Osaka Prefecture) replaced twelve 400-watt mercury vapor 17°C return Air at constant 075 Relationships lamps with 40-watt LED security lights. As a result, CO2 emissions are reduced by water Cooling temperature/humidity Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation approximately 6 t-CO2 per year. Fan filter units 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 080 Sharp and Society Heat 110 Honors from Third Parties Chilled water header Equipment 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report 066 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Minimizing and Recycling Waste Sharp has been working to bring down its total amount of waste discharged and to recycle as much of its waste as possible. 001 Contents In fiscal 2009, Sharp was able to dramatically reduce the level of waste, etc. discharged from the Sharp Group by strengthening measures to reduce waste, particularly spent developer solution. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Amount of waste discharged*1 at 10 Sharp 008 Special Feature Corporation plants • Reduced by 44% from fiscal 2007 levels • Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU*3 • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 6% compared to BAU 012 Special Focus 017 Management • Amount of waste, etc. discharged per production unit*2 at overseas plants Sharp and the Environment (subsidiaries/affiliates) • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Increased by 19% from previous fiscal year • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Every fiscal year: Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment *1 Amount of waste discharged = Industrial waste discharged + general waste from business activities 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements *2 Amount of waste, etc. discharged = Waste discharged + valuable resources *3 Business As Usual: Amount of waste estimated to be discharged assuming no waste reduction measures are implemented 031 Mass Balance (estimated using weighted average of waste discharge units for each plant). 033 Environmental Accounting Reducing the Amount of Waste, etc. Discharged by ■ Amount of Waste, etc. (Including Valuable Resources) Discharged by the Sharp Group 034 Technologies the Sharp Group (Thousand tons) 300 041 Products In fiscal 2009, the Sharp Group in Japan and overseas discharged less waste, etc. (waste and valuable resources recovered from waste) than the previous fiscal year. Operations Overall Sharp was able to achieve a 14% reduction in the total amount of waste, etc. 250 248 Promoting Environmental Sustainability discharged (see graph at right). Sharp Display Products Corporation, which began 6 054 223 Management operations at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture) in October 2009, 40 6 Raising the Level of Environmental was able to curb emissions of waste, etc. by constructing a new system to reclaim 057 200 197 34 Performance in Factories 6 4 191 Improving the Level of Environmental spent developer solution within the GREEN FRONT SAKAI complex. 6 061 3 Performance of Offices 158 34 29 The 10 Sharp Corporation plants achieved dramatic reductions in waste emissions by 150 6 4 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions increasing the percentage of valuable resources recovered by 7.4 points compared to 24 32 067 the previous fiscal year, and by reducing waste emissions by 33% compared to the 3 Minimizing and Recycling Waste previous fiscal year and by 44% compared to fiscal 2007 (see graph at top-left of the 100 069 198 next page). This is the result of strengthening efforts to curb waste discharges under a 180 plan to reduce waste emissions below fiscal 2007 levels. The Kameyama Plant 153 070 Effectively Using Water Resources 132 (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) and the Mie Plant (Taki Township, Mie Prefecture), in 50 118 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 071 particular, contributed greatly by reducing a significant amount of waste fluid. in Factories 073 Reducing Environmental Impacts in Beginning in fiscal 2010, Sharp has declared a goal of reducing waste by 6% of Distribution and Packaging 0 baseline (BAU emissions), and will work to further strengthen its efforts. In addition, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 075 Relationships fiscal 2009 was the ninth consecutive year for Sharp production plants in Japan, Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation including those of subsidiaries and affiliated companies, to achieve zero discharge to 10 Sharp Corporation plants Plants of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices landfill*4 (see graph at middle left of the next page). Plants of overseas subsidiaries and affiliated companies Offices in Japan and overseas 080 Sharp and Society Overseas plants were able to reduce total waste, etc., discharged by 15% over the • Emissions from the Toyama Plant (Toyama City, Toyama Prefecture) were included beginning in ﬁscal 2006. • Emissions from the Advanced Materials & Energy Engineering Laboratories (Kashiwa City, Chiba Prefecture) previous fiscal year as a result of making efforts to achieve SGF status. However, the 110 Honors from Third Parties and Sharp Display Products Corporation were included beginning in ﬁscal 2009. effects of a decline in production output led to an increase in waste, etc. discharged *4 Sharp defines “zero discharge to landﬁll” as a ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of less than 0.5%. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group per production unit of 19% compared to the previous fiscal year (see graph at the Final landﬁll disposal rate (%) = Amount of landﬁll disposal / amount of waste, etc. discharged bottom of the next page). (amount of waste discharged + amount of valuable resources) x 100 114 Independent Assurance Report In ﬁscal 2005, to make the deﬁnition of zero discharge to landﬁll more rigorous, Sharp replaced the value for the denominator of “total amount of waste generated” with “amount of waste, 067 etc., discharged (amount of waste discharged + amount of valuable resources)”, a smaller value. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations ■ Amount of Waste and Valuable Resources Discharged, and Percentage ■ Amount of Waste by Category from Sharp Corporation Plants (Unit: tons) of Valuable Resources Recovered, at 10 Sharp Corporation Plants 001 Contents (Thousand tons) Percentage of valuable resources recovered (%) Waste, etc.* 1 Waste* 2 Recycled into valuable resources 200 198 100 Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 002 Compiling This Report 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 29 180 003 Top Message Waste alkali 96,073 83,396 50,757 95,342 81,583 46,186 731 1,813 4,571 150 153 38 75 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 24 132 Waste oil 37,722 38,066 34,963 19,572 12,874 13,554 18,149 25,193 21,410 118 007 Corporate Vision 15 38 Sludge 100 170 50 22,041 18,509 11,695 21,771 18,382 11,592 270 127 103 142 008 Special Feature 129 Waste fluid (waste acid) 23,890 23,055 17,464 20,572 19,678 14,371 3,318 3,377 3,094 102 28.4 012 Special Focus 50 21.0 25 15.5 Waste paper 6,907 6,596 7,076 1,739 1,053 766 5,168 5,543 6,310 13.2 14.5 017 Management 95 Waste glass 6,481 5,977 4,875 6,481 5,789 4,764 0 188 112 Sharp and the Environment 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Scrap iron 531 409 442 117 14 32 414 395 410 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Waste discharged Valuable resources Waste plastic 2,819 2,486 2,725 1,795 1,536 1,730 1,024 950 995 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Percentage of valuable resources recovered Others 2,027 1,825 2,241 1,820 1,590 1,651 207 235 590 031 Mass Balance Total 198,491 180,319 132,238 169,209 142,499 94,646 29,281 37,821 37,595 ■ Final Landfill Disposal Rate of Waste from Plants in Japan 033 Environmental Accounting Final landfill disposal rate (%) (Unit: tons) 034 Technologies 1.6 1.54 Recycled (not including valuable resources) Intermediate treatment Final landfill disposal 041 1.4 Products Zero discharge to landfill for 9 consecutive years Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 1.2 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 Operations Promoting Environmental Sustainability 1.0 Waste alkali 95,342 81,583 46,186 0 0 0 0 0 0 054 Management 0.8 Waste oil Raising the Level of Environmental 19,572 12,874 13,554 0 0 0 0 0 0 057 Performance in Factories 0.6 Final landfill disposal rate: Improving the Level of Environmental Less than 0.01% Sludge 21,759 18,374 11,580 11 7 12 1 0 0 061 Performance of Offices 0.4 Waste fluid (waste acid) 20,552 19,677 14,370 20 0 0 0 1 0 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 0.2 0.12 0.06 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 067 Waste paper 1,683 1,003 722 53 48 42 3 2 2 Minimizing and Recycling Waste 0 069 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Waste glass 6,478 5,775 4,761 1 11 0 2 2 2 (Fiscal year) 070 Effectively Using Water Resources • Figures from ﬁscal 2004 include subsidiaries and affiliates. Scrap iron 117 14 30 0 0 2 0 0 0 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 071 in Factories Waste plastic 1,719 1,464 1,638 71 68 90 4 4 2 Reducing Environmental Impacts in 073 ■ Waste, etc. Discharged per Production Unit Distribution and Packaging Others 1,799 1,589 1,652 21 0 0 0 1 0 (Including Valuable Resources) at Overseas Plants 075 Relationships Per production unit (ton/100 million yen) Total 169,021 142,353 94,493 177 134 146 10 10 6 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 5 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 4.27 *1 Amount of waste, etc. discharged = Waste discharged + valuable resources 4 080 Sharp and Society 3.44 *2 Amount of waste discharged = Waste recycled + intermediately treated + amount of landfill disposal 3.06 3.20 3 2.70 110 Honors from Third Parties 2 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 1 114 Independent Assurance Report 0 068 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Case Study 1 Reducing Waste Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes Case Study 3 Reducing Waste 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report Recovering a Valuable Resource by Installing Reducing Waste by Reusing Wooden Pallets a Phosphoric Acid Recovery System The Tochigi Plant (Yaita City, Tochigi Prefecture) manufactures LCD TVs using LCD 003 Top Message Sharp’s Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) has installed a phosphoric panels supplied from the Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture). In the 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) acid recovery system that reclaims as a valuable resource the phosphoric acid past, the wooden pallets used to ship the LCD panels were treated as waste and contained in the liquid waste discharged as part of the LCD panel fabrication process. discarded. 007 Corporate Vision In the past, the phosphoric acid was removed as an impurity and processed as In fiscal 2009, to reduce the amount of waste discharged, the Tochigi Plant began to 008 Special Feature industrial waste. Now, the collected phosphoric acid is re-processed by this system to return the wooden pallets used for 37-, 40-, 42and 46-inch LCD panels to the 012 Special Focus a concentration of around 50%, enabling it to be sold as a valuable resource. In Kameyama Plant for re-use, enabling waste to be reduced by approximately 100 tons addition, this system enabled industrial waste to be reduced by approximately 35% per year. 017 Management compared to before its introduction. Sharp and the Environment 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment ■ Phosphoric Acid Recovery System Cation-exchange Reverse osmosis Vacuum evaporation 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements resin membrane concentration equipment 50% 031 Mass Balance phosphoric acid 033 (a marketable Environmental Accounting product) 034 Technologies Impurities in the liquid 041 Products waste (aluminum) are Recovered phosphoric Wooden pallets to be returned to the adsorbed by the resin acid is concentrated Kameyama Plant and re-used Operations and separated out Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management Raising the Level of Environmental 057 Performance in Factories 061 Improving the Level of Environmental Case Study 2 Reducing Waste Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes Case Study 4 Reducing Waste Performance of Offices 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reducing Concentrated Salts Recovering Valuable Resources from Discarded 067 Electronic Components Minimizing and Recycling Waste The Mie Plant (Taki Township, Mie Prefecture) has been holding regular Waste 069 Reduction Meetings to work on reducing waste for the entire plant. A part of these In the past, the Yao Plant (Yao City, Osaka Prefecture) had been disposing of used 070 Effectively Using Water Resources efforts is to work to reduce the amount of alkaline waste known as “concentrated parts such as printed circuit boards that contain a mixture of materials such as plastic Effectively Managing Chemicals Used salts generated during treatment of wastewater from production processes. and metals as waste. However, in fiscal 2009, the plant signed an agreement with a 071 in Factories contractor who made these parts available for sale as a valuable resource, enabling a Reducing Environmental Impacts in The Mie Plant reclaims all wastewater from production processes. However, the 073 wastewater contains chemical substances, and they are removed using chemical reduction in the amount of waste sent for disposal by approximately 3 tons per year. Distribution and Packaging agents. Previously, in the removal process, the chemical substances reacted with the 075 Relationships chemical agents, generating large amounts of concentrated salts. However, a review Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation was conducted of the amount of chemical agents used, and as a result, the amount 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices of concentrated salts generated was reduced by approximately 3% compared to the 080 Sharp and Society previous fiscal year. 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report 069 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Effectively Using Water Resources Sharp uses as little new water (water from the water supply system) as possible and recycles as much as it can in efforts to contribute to the preservation and effective use 001 Contents of this valuable resource. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Preserving and Effectively Using Water 007 Corporate Vision Case Study 1 Reducing the Use of Purified Water The amount of water used by the Sharp Group in fiscal 2009 increased by 6% over Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Processes 008 Special Feature the previous fiscal year due to the startup of Sharp Display Products Corporation. However, the water used by all of Sharp Corporation’s 10 plants was down 12% 012 Special Focus thanks to thorough recycling measures and a drop in production volume. Sharp will Using Less Purified Water for Glass Substrate Processing continue to preserve and use water effectively by using less new water and stepping 017 Management up water recycling measures. Equipment Sharp and the Environment At Sharp’s Mie Plant (Taki Township, Mie Prefecture), divisions in charge of environ■ Amount of Water Used by the Sharp Group mental management and production technology matters are reducing the use of 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment (Million m³) purified water in production processes. 20 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements During processing, enormous amounts of purified water are used to clean the LCD 15.9 16.4 16.2 031 Mass Balance 15 0.3 0.3 0.3 15.2 panel glass substrates. The volume of purified water required is determined by the 2.0 2.2 2.3 14.3 0.4 0.4 2.0 need to ensure a constant supply to the processing equipment. However, the actual 033 Environmental Accounting 2.0 amount used at any given time fluctuates within a certain range. To eliminate waste 1.2 1.3 1.3 10 3.6 1.3 and enable more efficient use of purified water, the Mie Plant worked to narrow the 034 Technologies range of these fluctuations, which made it possible to reduce the overall volume of 5 12.5 12.6 12.3 041 Products 10.6 water used. 9.3 Operations 0 The glass substrates are washed with purified water in each processing stage. By 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) reducing the washing time for each stage, the Mie Plant was able to reduce the time Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 and water required per panel—without sacrificing the cleanliness of the panels. Management 10 Sharp Corporation plants Plants of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan Raising the Level of Environmental 057 Plants of overseas subsidiaries and affiliated companies Offices in Japan and overseas Performance in Factories Improving the Level of Environmental • Emissions from the Toyama Plant (Toyama City, Toyama Prefecture) were included beginning 061 Performance of Offices in fiscal 2006. • Emissions from the Advanced Materials & Energy Engineering Laboratories (Kashiwa City, Chiba Case Study 2 Reducing the Use of Purified Water 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Prefecture) and Sharp Display Products Corporation were included beginning in fiscal 2009. Reducing the Environmental Impact of Utility Equipment 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste ■ Amount of Water Reused at Sharp Group Plants 070 Effectively Using Water Resources (Million m³) 25 Water-Saving Measures for Outside Air Conditioning 071 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used Equipment in Factories 073 Reducing Environmental Impacts in 20 19.3 0.09 18.9 0.24 To ensure a uniform level of humidity for the air in the cleanrooms at the Mie Plant, a Distribution and Packaging 17.2 0.04 0.2 0.2 17.0 0.40 water membrane humidifying system was adopted for the outside air conditioning 0.2 075 Relationships 15 0.05 2.4 equipment. The plant had previously carried out regular dispersion of water to the 14.0 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 0.2 humidifying membrane, but now has a device for regulating the amount dispersed. 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices This has allowed it to reduce annual use of purified water by approximately 0.26 10 080 million tons. Sharp and Society 5 13.7 17.0 19.0 18.5 14.2 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 114 Independent Assurance Report 10 Sharp Corporation plants Plants of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan Plants of overseas subsidiaries and affiliated companies 070 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories Sharp thoroughly controls chemical substances used at its plants and has established Special Safety Management Committees to meticulously manage safety 001 Contents according to the physical properties of hazardous materials and toxic chemicals. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • Reinforce management of chemical substances 008 Special Feature • Formulate new chemical management • Reviewed new chemical management • Formulate new chemical management • Control emissions using new chemical guidelines and ensure that they are firmly guidelines (introduced concept of emission guidelines (emission management index) management guidelines (emission 012 Special Focus established at plants in Japan management index) and ensure that they are firmly established management index) 017 Management Sharp and the Environment Effective Management of Chemical Substances When introducing new chemical substances and handling equipment and when Japan was approximately 1.4 tons, an 81% decrease from the previous year. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment revamping existing handling equipment, Sharp conducts rigorous preliminary audits The chemical management guidelines Sharp had planned on formulating in fiscal 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements based on the process assessment system*¹ to ensure safety, health, and lower 2009 will now include the concept of an emission management index, and the environmental impact. 031 Mass Balance formulation and implementation of these guidelines in fiscal 2010 will mean reinforced Sharp strives for effective management of chemical substances: employees handling management of chemical substances. 033 Environmental Accounting these go through regular education and drills to prevent accidents, the Special Safety Management Committees oversee all control activities, and checks are carried out *1 A system for conducting preliminary safety assessments when introducing new chemical 034 Technologies substances and handling equipment and when revamping existing handling equipment. through an environmental safety audit system*². *2 A system for assessing the environmental, safety, and compliance activities of the division in 041 Products Of the chemical substances covered by the PRTR*³ Law, the number of chemicals charge of environmental management at factories. handled in quantities greater than 500 kg in fiscal 2009 at each plant in Japan *3 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system to collect and publicize data, such as Operations the amount of harmful chemicals discharged and transferred. amounted to 14 substances or 11,709 tons (down 11% from the previous fiscal year). *4 Based on guidelines published by four major electrical and electronic machinery associations in Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 As well, because of efforts to control VOCs (volatile organic compounds) and the Japan, fluorine compounds in wastewater are not included in calculations of emissions into Management Raising the Level of Environmental revision of the method for calculating emissions*4, the total amount discharged in local bodies of water because they are water insoluble. 057 Performance in Factories Improving the Level of Environmental 061 Performance of Offices ■ Destinations of PRTR-Listed Chemical ■ Fiscal 2009 PRTR Data (Japan) (Unit: kg) 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Substances in Japan Amount discharged Amount transferred Amount consumed Chemical Amount handled Amount removed 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste Discharge to Into atmosphere Into public water area Into sewage To off-site Contained in products Recycled water areas Transfer to sewers 2-Aminoethanol 10,532,256 703 44 0 1,057,798 0 7,274,285 2,199,426 070 Effectively Using Water Resources 0.00% 0.00% Ethylene glycol 792 0 24 0 0 0 0 768 Discharge Transfer to waste 071 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used into atmosphere 16.57% Xylene 1,295 35 0 0 518 0 0 742 072 in Factories 0.01% Silver and its water-soluble compounds 20,187 0 0 0 0 19,212 975 0 Reducing Environmental Impacts in N, N-dimethyl-formamide (DMF) 35,328 14 0 0 5,920 0 0 29,394 073 Consumption Distribution and Packaging 1, 3, 5-Trimethylbenzene 1,213 10 0 0 1,116 0 0 87 0.20% 075 Relationships Lead and its compounds 4,000 0 0 0 231 3,760 9 0 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Treatment 077 Recycle 21.05% Arsenic and its inorganic compounds 675 0 0 0 603 61 11 0 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 62.17% Pyrocatechol (also known as catechol) 4,226 0 0 0 4,226 0 0 0 080 Sharp and Society Phenol 2,040 20 0 0 1,836 0 0 184 110 Honors from Third Parties Hydrogen-fluoride and its water-soluble salts 1,096,439 535 0 0 862,223 0 0 233,641 Boron and its compounds 4,341 8 0 0 4,333 0 0 0 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether 1,753 0 2 0 1,696 0 0 55 114 Independent Assurance Report Molybdenum and its compounds 4,280 0 34 0 152 509 3,585 0 071 Total 11,708,825 1,325 104 0 1,940,652 23,542 7,278,865 2,464,297 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations ■ Atmosphere Emissions in Japan Risk Communication and Information Disclosure (Ton) (Ton) 001 Contents NOx emissions 9.9 SOx emissions On the environmental and social activities section of the Sharp website and in site 150 10 135.5 reports published by the plants, Sharp regularly discloses information on the 002 Compiling This Report 120 8 8.3 environmental risk associated with business activities. Sharp also promotes 90 95.7 6 communication between the company, its neighboring residents, and the local 003 Top Message 76.1 government through regular environmental festivals and meetings. 60 4 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 3.1 Soil and groundwater surveys conducted at all plants in Japan in 1998 identified 30 2 007 Corporate Vision chlorine solvent pollution at four plants (Nara, Yao, Tenri, and Katsuragi). With the 0 0 exception of the Nara Plant (Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture), all sites have 008 Special Feature 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) reduced contamination levels below those of the environmental standard using pumping*² and bioremediation*³. Sharp is continuing purification at the Nara Plant in 012 Special Focus order to reduce its contamination levels below those of the environmental standard, 017 Management ■ Pollutant Loads of Public Water Areas in Japan*¹ and regularly notifies government authorities and residents of the cleanup progress. In (Ton) (Ton) fiscal 2009, Sharp once again held meetings to notify the government and residents Sharp and the Environment 25 COD (chemical oxygen demand) 150 Nitrogen pollutant load that the pollution has not spread to groundwater outside the plant and that steady progress is being made in cleanup measures. 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 20 120 104.8 At the Fukuyama Plant (Fukuyama City, Hiroshima 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 15 14.9 90 12.5 11.8 77.3 67.2 Prefecture), Sharp, local residents, and the local 10 60 municipal government each collect and analyze 031 Mass Balance 5 30 wastewater samples two times a year. The results 033 Environmental Accounting are checked and compiled and then used as 0 0 another way Sharp can communicate and foster 034 Technologies 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) good relations with all concerned parties. 041 Products (Ton) Phosphorous pollutant load *2 Polluted groundwater is pumped up and purified in 2.5 Operations treatment facilities. Three-party wastewater sampling and 2.0 *3 Using microorganisms, hazardous substances are analysis at the Fukuyama Plant Promoting Environmental Sustainability broken down and rendered harmless. 054 Management 1.5 1.4 Raising the Level of Environmental 1.3 057 1.0 Performance in Factories 0.8 Appropriate Storage and Treatment of PCB Wastes in Japan Improving the Level of Environmental 061 0.5 Performance of Offices 0 *1 Because the accuracy of the calculations Sharp does not use PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), with the exception of a certain 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) was improved, the figures for past years amount present in high-voltage transformers. Sharp also complies to the fullest extent 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste were revised. with laws and regulations covering PCB wastes, their proper storage, and reporting requirements to the government. In addition, Sharp has achieved its target of 070 Effectively Using Water Resources completing registration with the Japan Environment Safety Corporation (JESCO) for 071 treatment of its PCB wastes prior to the 2016 deadline set by law. Sharp will continue Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories Special Safety Management of Hazardous Materials and to treat PCB wastes according to schedules set by JESCO. 072 Toxic Chemicals Reducing Environmental Impacts in 073 Distribution and Packaging Special safety management is Sharp’s program to safely manage the hazardous ■ Status of Stored PCBs in Japan 075 Relationships materials and toxic chemicals among the chemical substances used at its plants. Capacitors recovered from High-voltage transformers Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Sharp strives for meticulous, wide-ranging management of these substances—from (including those currently in use) High-voltage capacitors discarded home appliances and 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices R&D to production lines. fluorescent lamp ballasts 080 Sharp and Society 38 units 144 units Approx. 12,500 units Sharp has established Special Safety Management Committees at each plant in Japan made up of engineers in the production, technical, and environmental As of March 31, 2010 110 Honors from Third Parties management divisions. The committees oversee the process assessment system, 112 Outline of the Sharp Group carry out education and emergency response training in preparation for the possibility of an accident, and conduct cross audits related to the way these substances are 114 Independent Assurance Report handled, all with the goal of continuously raising the level of safety. 072 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Reducing Environmental Impacts in Distribution and Packaging In cooperation with shipping contractors, Sharp is working to decrease environmental impacts in distribution, for example, by optimizing transport methods 001 Contents and load efficiency. In packaging, Sharp is also working to further reduce environmental impacts by reducing the use of packaging materials. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 007 Corporate Vision • CO2 emissions per shipping volume*1 by 008 Special Feature Sharp Group in Japan • Between fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2010, reduce • Reduce by 1% from previous fiscal year • ±0% from previous fiscal year by average 1% each year against fiscal • Reduce by 1% from previous fiscal year 012 Special Focus 2006 (every fiscal year) 017 Management *1 CO2 emissions per shipping volume (t-CO2/thousand ton-km) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ shipping volume (thousand ton-km). Starting in fiscal 2009, ton-kilometer (thousand ton-km) is used as the denominator since this gives a more accurate picture. Sharp and the Environment 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Promoting Measures to Reduce Environmental Impacts Shifting to Environmentally Friendly Modes of Transport 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements in Each Area of Distribution in Japan ■ Transport Volume by Rail and Ship 031 Mass Balance Sharp established the Committee for Compliance with the Energy Conservation Law In Japan, Sharp is shifting from (Thousand ton-km) as a Shipper in fiscal 2006. This committee assesses the environmental impacts of conventional trucking to more 30,000 30,574 033 Environmental Accounting distribution and logistics in the areas of product sales, procurement and production, environmentally friendly 25,832 waste disposal, and parts*2, and works to strengthen energy-saving measures in transportation modes, such as rail 22,993 034 Technologies 19,987 20,000 17,648 distribution across the Sharp Group. Sharp has declared an objective of achieving an and ships. In fiscal 2009, Sharp 041 Products 10,595 14,196 average annual reduction in CO2 emissions per shipping volume of 1% or greater, a significantly expanded shipping 6,345 legal mandate for specified shippers, for all members of the Sharp Group in Japan, volume by ship, and was able to 10,000 Operations and is promoting efforts to save energy, such as shifting to environmentally friendly increase the use of rail and ship Promoting Environmental Sustainability modes of transport and improving transport and load efficiencies. transport by 18% over the 13,642 12,398 11,636 12,926 054 Management 0 Raising the Level of Environmental previous fiscal year. Sharp will 057 In fiscal 2009, Sharp Group CO2 emissions from shipping activities in Japan were 42 2006 2007 2008 2009 Performance in Factories continue expanding the shift in (Fiscal year) thousand t-CO2. This was up 11% from the previous fiscal year but still 15% lower Rail Ship 061 Improving the Level of Environmental transport modes. Performance of Offices than the base year of fiscal 2006. Emissions per shipping volume were 0.22 t-CO2/thousand ton-km, about the same as the previous fiscal year and 8% lower 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions than fiscal 2006. 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste *2 Distribution of parts used for after-sales service, such as repair and maintenance of products. Case Study: Environmentally 070 Effectively Using Water Resources Friendly Modes of Transport Effectively Managing Chemicals Used ■ System to Promote Energy Savings in Distribution 071 in Factories Sharp Gets Eco-Rail Mark for Mobile Phone Shipment 073 Reducing Environmental Impacts in Committee for Compliance with the Energy Distribution and Packaging After an evaluation by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and the 074 Conservation Law as a Shipper Railway Freight Association, in fiscal 2008 Sharp acquired the Eco-Rail mark*3 for 075 Relationships Chairperson: Environmental Protection Group General Manager shipping approximately 63% of its mobile phones (in fiscal 2007) using rail for Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation distances over 500 km. Sharp has 077 Office Standards for Environmental Performance Indices been expanding on this: in fiscal 080 Sharp and Society 2008 this figure was 71.1% and in Sharp Corporation fiscal 2009 73.6%. 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Corporate Global Logistics Environmental *3 A product brand can be Eco-Rail CS Promotion Sharp Electronics certified if the product travels at Procurement Center Center Protection Group Group Marketing Corporation 114 Independent Assurance Report (procurement and (product sales (parts distribution) (waste disposal and other affiliated least 500 kilometers on land and Sharp mobile phone packages carry the Eco-Rail mark production distribution) distribution) logistics) 30% or more of the goods are (package on the left is for SoftBank Mobile Corp. companies 073 carried on railways. and the package on the right is for NTT DOCOMO, Inc.) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Operations Introducing Low-Pollution Vehicles TOPICS 001 Contents Sharp is switching to the use of low-pollution vehicles for the cars used by sales SEC’s Eco-Transport Measures Honored for 4th Consecutive Year people and for the forklifts used in logistics activities. More and more low-emission, 002 Compiling This Report hybrid, and electric vehicles are being used as business vehicles and now all forklifts In the US, Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC), Sharp’s sales subsidiary, strives for used are electric. environmentally friendly transportation through participation in the SmartWay 003 Top Message Transport Program*. The total weight of freight volume of products distributed by SEC that complies with the program has reached 99%. SEC has increased 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) intermodal shipments since fiscal 2008 and this has helped to increase operational 007 Corporate Vision ■ Percentage of Low-Pollution Vehicles Used as Business Vehicles in Japan fuel efficiency. In addition, SEC installed a new software system that looks at the （％） supply chain network to optimize distribution resource planning. SEC is also working 008 Special Feature 100 0.2 4.5 1.8 4.9 4.7 5.2 6.3 5.5 7.3 5.6 with Climate TransAct, an EU-sponsored pilot program to reduce greenhouse gases in transportation. 012 Special Focus 90 At the fourth annual awards ceremony under this program sponsored by the US 80 017 Management Environmental Protection Agency, SEC was honored with an excellence award for 70 these efforts, the first shipper to win this Sharp and the Environment 60 award four years in a row. 74.3 50 81.3 82.8 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 85.6 84.7 40 * A joint effort by the US Environmental 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements 30 Protection Agency and industry to promote 20 environmentally conscious shipping and 031 Mass Balance distribution. 10 20.9 2.6 2.4 033 Environmental Accounting 0 11.9 7.3 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 034 Technologies Electric vehicles Hybrid vehicles Low-emission vehicles Conventional vehicles 041 Products Operations Promoting Environmental Sustainability 054 Management Raising the Level of Environmental Case Study: Low-Pollution Vehicles Case Study: Reduction in Packaging 057 Performance in Factories 061 Improving the Level of Environmental Hybrid Trucks Recycling Plastic Packaging Trays Performance of Offices 063 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions At the West Japan Logistics Center in Hiroshima, which mainly handles the One of the ways Sharp saves resources is by recycling plastic packaging trays. The distribution of mobile phones, Sharp delivery partner Tonami Transportation Co., Ltd. cut-off edges of molded plastic trays, which are used for packaging smalland 067 Minimizing and Recycling Waste uses hybrid trucks (4-ton models) for deliveries in the region. These hybrids help medium-size LCD modules, are made into repellets (recycled resin) that are mixed in reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 10% compared to diesel trucks. with the new raw material when making the trays again. About 15 to 20% of the raw 070 Effectively Using Water Resources material for the trays is recycled material, and in fiscal 2009 this totaled approximately Effectively Managing Chemicals Used 240 tons. This works out to about 10% of the plastic trays ordered. 071 in Factories 073 Reducing Environmental Impacts in ■ Recycling of Plastic Packaging Trays 074 Distribution and Packaging 075 Relationships Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 080 Sharp and Society Packaging tray material Packaging tray molding Cut-off edges of packaging trays 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Hybrid truck used for local deliveries 114 Independent Assurance Report Material manufacturer 074 Repellets Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Relationships Promoting Environmental Communication To provide environmental communication for its wide range of stakeholders, Sharp discloses environmental information through exhibitions and forums, 001 Contents and various media including newspaper ads and TV commercials, as well as Environmental and Social Reports and websites. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision Disclosing Environmental Information Through the Spreading Environmental Information Environmental and Social Report, Website, and Site Reports Through Advertising and Commercials 008 Special Feature Every year, Sharp issues a report on its environmental and social activities, and To inform a wider audience of its environmental activities, Sharp 012 Special Focus discloses in plain language its policies, objectives, achievements, challenges, and creates TV and newspaper ads that introduce its solar energy future plans related to the environment and CSR. Sharp’s website uses articles from initiatives as well as the environmental friendliness of its 017 Management the Environmental and Social Report, and also presents more specialized content with products, such as LED AQUOS LCD TVs, LED lighting, and air examples of specific activities and detailed data. conditioners. Sharp and the Environment In addition, since fiscal 2004, a site report has been issued for each factory in Japan 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment and overseas with the goal of securing greater trust in the community by aggressively Newspaper ad disclosing environmental information. Copies of these reports are distributed to TOPICS 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements residents in the vicinity as well as to visitors to the facilities, and are also posted on 032 Mass Balance Social and Environmental Activities web pages on the Sharp website. Environmental and Social Report, Site Report, and The 2010 edition of the Environmental and Social Report will be produced in two Newspaper Ads Receive Awards One after Another 033 Environmental Accounting forms—a detailed version for professionals and specialists (PDF), and a simplified The 2009 edition of Sharp’s Environmental and Social Report won an award of merit 034 Technologies version for the general public (printed hardcopy and PDF)—with the aim of meeting in the 13th Green Reporting Awards sponsored by Toyo Keizai Inc. and the Green the widely varying needs of various Reporting Forum. The Mie Plant’s 2009 site report profiling the plant’s environmental 041 Products stakeholders. In addition, the Sharp and social contribution activities won the Encouragement Prize in the 13th website has been redesigned to make Environmental Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment 054 Operations the browsing experience smoother. and the Global Environmental Forum. The Mie Plant was also the winner of the Site Report Prize in the 12th Green Reporting Awards last year. Together, these improvements are Relationships intended to provide various Since fiscal 2008, Sharp has been running a series of newspaper ads with the tag 075 stakeholders with easier access to line “The Sun is the answer. Sharp: A world leading solar company.” This Promoting Environmental Communication information about Sharp’s Sun-and-Sharp series of ads has received high marks, as shown in the table below. 076 environmental and CSR efforts. Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices ■ Awards Received by “The Sun and Sharp” Newspaper Ad 080 Sharp and Society Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2009 Corporate Brand Award, 57th Nikkei Advertising Awards (Japanese, English, and Chinese editions) 110 Honors from Third Parties Winner of an award of merit in the 13th Green Grand prize in the media (newspaper) category, Reporting Awards Fiscal 38th Fujisankei Communications Group Advertising Awards 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 2008 Grand prize in the readers’ choice category, 25th Yomiuri Advertising Awards 114 Independent Assurance Report Grand prize in The Daily Yomiuri Advertising Award, 25th Yomiuri Advertising Awards Prize in the advertiser planning category, 29th Newspaper Advertising Awards Fiscal Grand prize in the media (newspaper) category, 2009 39th Fujisankei Communications Group Advertising Awards Website for Sharp’s social and environmental Mie Plant Site Report Runner up in the advertiser participation category, activities: Winner of the Encouragement Prize in the 13th 77th Mainichi Advertising Design Competition http://sharp-world.com/corporate/eco/ Environmental Communication Awards 075 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Relationships Participation in Worldwide Exhibitions Environmental Forums Around the World 001 Contents Sharp introduces its environmental activities to the public by taking part in trade fairs To more widely disseminate information on its initiatives on behalf of the environment, and exhibitions around the world. At Eco-Products 2009, one of Japan’s largest Sharp has been holding environmental forums for government officials, journalists, 002 Compiling This Report environmental fairs, Sharp used the slogan “Sharp eco efforts will change the world. and the general public. In fiscal 2009, Sharp held such forums a total of four times in Sharp—an eco-positive company” to show how it is contributing to a green society. Japan, China, and Indonesia. 003 Top Message On display were solar power systems, and energy-efficient products like the LED Sharp has held a total of nine environmental forums in China since fiscal 2007, 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) AQUOS LCD TV, LED lighting, and home appliances. An exhibit of GREEN FRONT including two in fiscal 2009, in Shenyang and Hangzhou. At the Hangzhou forum, a SAKAI showed collaboration with companies in other industries that is making this an total of 26 government officials and journalists 007 Corporate Vision environmentally state-of-the-art manufacturing complex. gathered to hear Sharp presentations on the 008 Special Feature At IFA 2009 in Germany, one of the world’s largest consumer electronics fairs, Sharp’s targets and actions that make up its slogan was “Sharp—a green company” as it showed off environmentally friendly Eco-Positive Company corporate vision and 012 Special Focus products including the LED AQUOS, LED lighting, solar panels, and combination Eco-Positive Strategy. Hangzhou Deputy solar-LED lighting units. Mayor Zhang Jianting introduced his city’s 017 Management environmental policies and offered Sharp some Sharp also took part in the Eco-products International Fair 2010 in Jakarta, Indonesia, advice. The forum was a valuable opportunity Sharp and the Environment the largest exhibition of its kind in Asia. Besides showing the latest environmentally to strengthen ties with government officials friendly products, the Sharp booth had scale models of Solar House, Solar Town, and A scene from the 9th Environmental 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment and the media. Solar Buildings representing Sharp’s vision for the green society of the near future. Forum in Hangzhou, China The booth attracted large numbers of visitors including representatives from 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Indonesian government ministries. 032 Mass Balance 033 Environmental Accounting Factory Tours and Community Exchanges 034 Technologies To enhance communication with its wide range of stakeholders, Sharp holds factory tours, exchange conferences, and other events in Japan and overseas. 041 Products Sharp Corporation holds public festivals at its 054 Operations factories, where employees host their families and local residents to help them learn about Relationships Sharp’s environmental activities, interact with and know the environment better, and enjoy 075 Promoting Environmental Communication eco-related games and events. Participants 076 Sharp’s “eco-positive” pamphlet have praised Sharp for such efforts to Eco-Products 2009 (Tokyo, Japan) (Eco-Products 2009) Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation contribute to the community and get to know 077 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices residents in a lively, amicable atmosphere. 080 Environmental fun section of a family day Sharp and Society At the Advanced Development and Planning at the Fukuyama Plant Center (Tenri City, Nara Prefecture), local 110 Honors from Third Parties government officials are invited once a year to 112 Outline of the Sharp Group learn about Sharp’s environmental activities and exchange ideas so that both sides can 114 Independent Assurance Report work together to make local society better. In fiscal 2009, fruitful ideas were exchanged at a meeting between Sharp and Mie University in an effort to improve environmental reporting IFA 2009 (Berlin, Germany) Eco-products International Fair 2010 and the Mie Plant site report. Discussion session with members of (Jakarta, Indonesia) Mie University 076 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment ■ Boundary of Environmental Performance Data Europe Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries. Note that the category “plants” includes non-consolidated Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM)*2 UK subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Plants 40 plants/30 companies (18 plants/9 companies in Japan, 22 plants/21 companies overseas) Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES) Spain Plants Consolidated Offices 77 offices/30 companies (54 offices/8 companies in Japan, 23 offices/22 companies overseas) 001 Contents subsidiaries Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France As of March 31, 2010 Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland 002 Compiling This Report Japan Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (SEEG) Germany 003 Top Message Tochigi Plant Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. (SUK) UK 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Yao Plant Sharp Laboratories of Europe, Ltd. (SLE) 007 Corporate Vision Hiroshima Plant Sharp Electronics France S.A. (SEF) France Consolidated Nara Plant Offices Sharp Electronics (Italia) S.p.A. (SEIS) Italy 008 Special Feature subsidiaries Katsuragi Plant (including Toyama Plant performance) Sharp Electronics (Schweiz) AG (SEZ) Switzerland 012 Special Focus Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant Sharp Electronics (Nordic) AB (SEN) Sweden 017 Management Mie Plant Sharp Electronics Benelux B.V. (SEB) Netherlands (including Advanced Materials & Energy Tenri Plant Engineering Laboratories performance) Sharp Electronics Russia LLC (SER) Russia Sharp and the Environment Mihara Plant *2 Manufacturing division of SUK Plants 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Asia, Middle East, Oceania Kameyama Plant 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co., Ltd. (SOCC) 032 Mass Balance Consolidated Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China Sharp Mie Corporation subsidiaries 033 Environmental Accounting Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) Sharp Yonago Corporation 034 Technologies Sharp Display Products Corporation Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) Non-consolidated Consolidated Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) 041 Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Products subsidiary subsidiaries Thailand Kantatsu Co., Ltd. Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Affiliated 054 Operations companies Malaysia Sharp Takaya Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Plants Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) 075 Relationships Head Office/Tanabe Building Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Philippines 077 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Sharp Corporation Makuhari Building (Tokyo Branch) PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Indonesia Calculation Standards for Environmental 079 Tokyo Ichigaya Building PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Performance Indices Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Shanghai Sharp Mold and Manufacturing Systems Co., Ltd. (SSMC) China 080 Sharp and Society Non-consolidated subsidiaries Sharp India Ltd. (SIL) India Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. 110 Honors from Third Parties Offices Sharp Korea Corporation (SKC) Korea Sharp-Engineering Corporation Affiliated 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Consolidated companies S&O Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SOEM) Malaysia Sharp Document Systems Corporation subsidiaries Sharp Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (SES) 114 Independent Assurance Report Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation China Sharp Trading Corporation Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sharp Electronic Components (Taiwan) Corporation (SECT) Taiwan Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SEM) Malaysia North America Consolidated Sharp-Roxy Sales (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SRS) Offices Singapore subsidiaries Consolidated Sharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA)*1 US Sharp Electronics (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SESL) Plants subsidiaries Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico Sharp Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. (SSDI) India Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC) Sharp Middle East Free Zone Establishment (SMEF) UAE Consolidated US Offices Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc. (SLA) Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd. (SCA) Australia subsidiaries 077 Sharp Electronics of Canada Ltd. (SECL) Canada Sharp Corporation of New Zealand Ltd. (SCNZ) New Zealand *1 Manufacturing division of SEC Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices ■ Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices 001 Contents [1] Period covered April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010 002 Compiling This Report [2] Organizations covered Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries. Note that the category “plants” includes non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies. 003 Top Message Plants: 40 plants/30 companies (18 plants/9 companies in Japan, 22 plants/21 companies overseas) 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Offices: 77 offices/30 companies (54 offices/8 companies in Japan, 23 offices/22 companies overseas) [3] Calculation method for environmental performance indices 007 Corporate Vision Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Version) published by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment were used as reference. 008 Special Feature Environmental performance indices Unit Calculation method 012 Special Focus Electricity purchased annually (kWh) x units of heat used*1 + Σ [ Annual consumption of each fuel x heat value per unit *2 ] 017 Management *1 Based on regulations of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (enforced April 1, 2006): • Daytime electricity 9.97 MJ/kWh • Nighttime electricity 9.28 MJ/kWh Sharp and the Environment *2 Based on the heat value per unit per energy source used by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy (February 2002): • City gas 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider: Overseas Japan Energy consumption TJ • Tokyo Gas/Osaka Gas: 45.0 GJ/km3 • Fukuyama Gas: 46.0 GJ/km3 • Toho Gas/Hiroshima Gas: 46.04655 GJ/km3 • Hokkaido Gas: 46.05 GJ/km3 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Highest figure from among those known in Japan: • 46.05 GJ/km3 032 Mass Balance • LPG: 50.8 GJ/t • Heavy oil: 39.1 GJ/kl • Kerosene: 36.7 GJ/kl • Gas oil: 37.7 GJ/kl • Gasoline: 34.6 GJ/kl 033 Environmental Accounting • Steam: (SSEC) 2.817 GJ/t, (WSEC) 3.771 GJ/t, (NSEC) 3.782 GJ/t • Heating/cooling: Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider (currently, only the 0.799 GJ/GJ value for Makuhari is available) 034 Technologies Electricity Million kWh Electricity purchased annually 041 Manufacture Products City gas Million m 3 City gas purchased annually 054 Operations LPG Tons LPG purchased annually 075 Relationships Heavy oil, kerosene, gas oil, gasoline kl Fuel oil purchased annually I N 077 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, P PFCs purchased Million GWP PFCs purchased annually Calculation Standards for Environmental U t-CO2 079 Performance Indices T Chemical substances (PRTR) handled Tons Among the substances covered under the PRTR Law*3, the total amount of substances handled in quantities greater than 500 kg annually at each plant 080 Sharp and Society Water consumed Million m3 Annual consumption of water supply, well water, and water for industrial use 110 Honors from Third Parties Packaging materials used Thousand tons Packaging materials consumed annually 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Resources consumed Million tons Total weight of products in the 12 major categories sold in fiscal 2009 (estimate), plus waste, etc. generated 114 Independent Assurance Report Logistics Energy consumption GJ Revised ton-km system TJ Estimate of annual energy used by products in the 11 major categories sold in fiscal 2009. Product use Energy consumption (million kWh) Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate (using a heat value per unit of 9.97 MJ/kWh). Home appliances (four kinds) Amount of used home appliances (four kinds) recycled into new home appliances Copiers Amount of recycled copiers Recycling Tons PCs Amount of recycled PCs Amount of closed-loop material Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastics recycling of plastics 078 *3 Law Concerning Reporting, etc. of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and the Environment Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Environmental performance indices Unit Calculation method 001 Contents Σ [ Electricity purchased annually x CO2 emission coefficient + annual consumption of each fuel x CO2 emission coefficient for each ] 002 Compiling This Report CO2 emission coefficient • Electricity 003 Top Message Fiscal year 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Overseas Japan CO2 emission coefficient (t-CO2/MWh) 0.421 0.425 0.410 0.453 0.373*1 0.373*1 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Using the fiscal 2003 coefficient of each country from the Report on the CO2 Emissions Intensity of the Power Sector of Various Countries that was compiled by the Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association (June 2006) 007 Corporate Vision *1 Based on the values officially announced by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (after reﬂecting the Kyoto Mechanism credit) 008 Special Feature • City gas CO2 emissions Million t-CO2 Overseas Japan Calculated by multiplying the standard calorific value (GJ/km3) individually confirmed for each gas provider × carbon conversion factor (0.0136 t-C) × 44/12(t-CO2/t-C) 012 Special Focus • Tokyo Gas/Osaka Gas: 2.244 t-CO2/km3 • Fukuyama Gas: 2.294 t-CO2/km3 • Toho Gas/Hiroshima Gas/Hokkaido Gas: 2.296 t-CO2/km3 Highest figure from among those known in Japan: 017 Management • 2.296 t-CO2/km3 Sharp and the Environment Values taken from the guidelines for calculating, reporting, and announcing greenhouse gas emissions, Article 3 of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan: 029 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment • LPG: 2.999 t-CO2/t • Heavy oil: 2.710 t-CO2/kl • Kerosene: 2.489 t-CO2/kl • Gasoline: 2.322 t-CO2/kl • Gas oil: 2.585 t-CO2/kl • Steam: (SSEC) 0.166 t-CO2/t, (WSEC) 0.158 t-CO2/t, (NSEC) 0.159 t-CO2/t 030 Environmental Objectives and Achievements • Heating/cooling: Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider (currently, only the 0.034 t-CO2/GJ value for Makuhari is available) Σ [ Annual emissions of each PFC gas (t) x global warming potential of each PFC gas*2 ] 032 Mass Balance Million Manufacture PFC emissions GWP t-CO2 *2 Based on the IPCC’s Third Assessment Report: • Sulfur hexaﬂuoride: 22,200 • The coefficient corresponding to segmentalized gas is used for HFC and PFC 033 Environmental Accounting (1) When a gaseous fuel is burnt: 034 Technologies Handled as if there are no emissions because it is assumed that the fuel contains no sulfur. SOx emissions Tons (2) When a liquid fuel is burnt: 041 Products O Amount of sulfur contained in fuel (kg/year)/32(kg-S) × (32+16×2) (kg-SO2)/1,000 U T (1) When a gaseous fuel is burnt: 054 Operations P Fuel consumption per year (Nm3/year) × dry base combustion gas (Nm3/Nm3) × concentration of released NOx (ppm) × 10–6×(14+16×2) (kg-NO2) / 22.4 (Nm3)/1,000 U T NOx emissions Tons (2) When a liquid fuel is burnt: 075 Relationships Fuel consumption per year (liters/year) × fuel specific gravity (kg/liter) × dry base combustion gas (Nm3/kg) × concentration of released NOx (ppm) × 10–6×(14+16×2) (kg-NO2) / 22.4 (Nm3)/1,000 077 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Drainage Million m3 Annual drainage into public body of water and sewer system 079 Performance Indices COD (chemical oxygen demand) Tons COD concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 080 Sharp and Society Nitrogen pollutant load Tons Nitrogen concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 110 Honors from Third Parties Phosphorus pollutant load Tons Phosphorus concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Final landfill disposal Tons Final landfill disposal of industrial waste + final landfill disposal of general waste discharged from business activities 114 Independent Assurance Report Chemical substances (PRTR) Among the substances covered under the PRTR Law, the amount of substances, which are handled in quantities greater than 500 kg annually at each Tons released and transferred plant, released and transferred CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 Revised ton-km system Logistics Transport volume Million ton-km Revised ton-km system Product shipments Million tons Total weight of products in the 11 major categories sold in fiscal 2009 (estimate) Estimate of annual energy used and amount of CO2 emitted by products in the 11 major categories sold in fiscal 2009. Calculation based on each Product use CO2 emissions Million t-CO2 product’s annual energy consumption rate. The calculation method has been partially revised. CO2 reductions Million t-CO2 Amount of electricity generated annually by Sharp solar cells shipped in fiscal 2009, plus CO2 emissions reduction Weight of that which was not recycled Recycling into new products or materials, or reused Tons Weight of four kinds of home appliances, PCs, and copiers collected – Weight recycled into new products or materials, or reused 079 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR On the basis of the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct, Sharp sets major social themes and targets for each type of stakeholder 001 Contents within the framework of CSR and promotes activities following those themes, to continue to be a company that has the trust of people and society. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision Promoting CSR Efforts in the Social Dimension Overall Results of CSR Efforts in Fiscal 2009 008 Special Feature To promote CSR efforts in the social dimension, Sharp develops important initiatives In fiscal 2009, Sharp was able to meet its objectives. These included gaining high for its different types of stakeholders, sets fiscal-year goals, and implements a variety ratings for after-sales service, deploying CSR Procurement Surveys on a global basis, 012 Special Focus of measures. working to achieve work-life balance, providing environmental education classes at elementary schools in Japan and overseas, and making efforts to protect biodiversity, 017 The Sharp business philosophy states: “Our future prosperity is directly linked to the Management particularly activities involving Sharp Forests. prosperity of our customers, dealers and shareholders …indeed the entire Sharp 029 Sharp and the Environment family.” Therefore, Sharp makes efforts to communicate with its various types of The results of Sharp’s special efforts such as these can be seen in the Close-Up and stakeholders and promotes CSR activities accordingly. Topics sections on pages categorized by type of stakeholder. Sharp and Society Sharp will work proactively to incorporate these CSR objectives and measures into 080 Objectives and Achievements operational processes by regularly assessing their progress and by utilizing a 082 in the Social Dimension of CSR management system that enables the identification of emerging problems and the implementation of further improvements. 083 For Customers 090 For Business Partners 094 For Shareholders and Investors 096 For Employees R-CATS* Small-Group Activities with a CSR Perspective 104 For Local Communities To offer products and services that deliver satisfaction and peace of mind to stakeholders, particularly customers, all Sharp employees belong to small groups 110 Honors from Third Parties called R-CATS*. These teams engage in group activities that take the viewpoint of Pursuing customer satisfaction stakeholders in confronting the challenges of improving the quality of their work and (see page 83 “For Customers”) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group building new systems and methods to carry out job tasks. 114 Independent Assurance Report Under these activities, all employees in Japan, as well as at all production bases overseas, take the perspective of CSR in working to solve problems and complete assigned tasks at their individual workplaces. Company-wide meetings are held twice a year where the highest achieving teams selected from Japan and abroad present the results of their activities with the aim of sharing examples of improvement with the entire company. In fiscal 2009, approximately 37,000 employees from across the Sharp Group participated in R-CATS activities, and worked to solve problems and accomplish tasks from the perspective of CSR at their individual workplaces. Making efforts to acquire OHSAS 18001 * R-CATS: Revolution-Creative Action Teams (see page 96 “For Employees”) Holding environmental education classes for elementary schools worldwide 080 (see page 104 “For Local Communities”) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results nearly met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Field Important Self See Themes Actions for Fiscal 2009 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2010 page(s) (Stakeholders) 001 Contents Objectives • Improve level of quality on a global basis • Strengthen global quality assurance and customer service activities 002 Compiling This Report • Strengthen quality evaluation system 83, 84 • Constructed global market response information system that gathers and Secure quality and can consolidate domestic and overseas product quality and customer ○ overseas and 003 Top Message safety Achievements satisfaction information • Expand overseas call centers website • Established technical safety standards for each overseas design base and • Undertake technical education of 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) developed risk management manual for emerging countries engineers at overseas bases 007 Corporate Vision Objectives • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • The pursuit of usability • Establish analysis methods for usability 008 Special Feature For Customers Create products that • Proactively developed Voice of the Customer (VOC) program overseas and improve products by taking on are easier to use ○ customer’s point of view 85, 86 (North America), in addition to Japan, and implemented product • Sequentially develop VOC program 012 Special Focus Achievements improvement overseas, following on from North America 017 Management Objectives • Further boost basic service and develop one-of-a-kind services • Improve service quality 029 Sharp and the Environment • Proactively use customer feedback • Improved customer convenience by making repair consultation call center taken when making repair visits Sharp and Society Improve customer • Undertake customer satisfaction skill 87–89 satisfaction toll-free in Japan ○ Achievements • Implemented visiting repair service that allows customers to select time training 080 Objectives and Achievements • Improve service technical strength and date they want repairs to be made by expanding 365-days-a-year 082 in the Social Dimension of CSR service and introducing service staff shift work system in Japan 083 For Customers Objectives • Continue expanding implementation of supply chain CSR measures overseas • Build system to conduct audits and do on-site verification of status of CSR 90–93 For Business Promote CSR across 090 For Business Partners • Implemented CSR Procurement Survey for local suppliers serving Sharp ○ measures at suppliers and Partners entire supply chain website Achievements production bases in North America, Europe, and Asia 094 For Shareholders and Investors 096 For Employees • Continue improving information disclosure and strengthen information • Improve information disclosure to Improve Objectives transmission for shareholders and investors shareholders and investors and respond 94, 95 For Shareholders communication with 104 For Local Communities shareholders and ○ to diversifying needs of investors and and Investors • Increased amount of information available on website website investors Achievements • Held various kinds of IR meetings 110 Honors from Third Parties Objectives • Continue strengthening human rights education • Continue strengthening human rights 112 Outline of the Sharp Group awareness activities • Undertake human rights training 114 Independent Assurance Report • Undertook approximately 40 human rights training sessions at business Expand efforts related sessions at business sites and affiliates sites and affiliates in Japan ○ 96 to human rights in Japan Achievements • Undertake human rights training sessions for management staff assigned overseas Objectives • Continue training to support development of global business • Continue training to support development of global business For Employees Strengthen human • Approximately 60 employees received overseas assignment register • Nurture global management staff △ • Promote GATE/G-BANK training and 97 resource development training (GATE) Achievements • Approximately 140 employees received global personnel register training SHINE program (G-BANK) Objectives • Introduce and develop diversity program • Establish diversity program Development of • Expand work-life balance measures company-wide • Formulated and promoted specific objectives and measures to promote • Improve workplace for diversity diversity management utilization of four demographic groups: female, non-Japanese, physically ○ inclusion 98–101 (strategy for utilizing Achievements or mentally challenged, and elderly employees in Japan employee diversity) • Established work-life balance and diversity information site “Win-Win Network” 081 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results nearly met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Field Important Self See Themes Actions for Fiscal 2009 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2010 page(s) (Stakeholders) 001 Contents Objectives • Continue strengthening industrial accident risk reduction activities • Continue strengthening activities to reduce and remove industrial accident 002 Compiling This Report risks • Conducted regular health and safety inspections at 11 major plants in Japan • Implement risk assessment aimed at 003 Top Message introducing occupational health and • Implemented risk assessment, training, and other measures aimed at introducing occupational health and safety management system ○ safety management system and 102 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Achievements • Acquired OHSAS 18001 certification at 2 sites in Japan and 2 bases measures to reduce and remove risks overseas • Acquire OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation at 6 007 Corporate Vision sites in Japan • Strengthen global health and safety 008 Special Feature efforts 012 Special Focus Objectives • Continue strengthening efforts to promote mental health care • Strengthen measures for primary prevention of mental illnesses (illness Promote occupational prevention and health promotion) 017 Management For Employees health and safety • Conducted survey into operational status of support system for employees taking or returning from medical leave due to mental health • Undertake mental health group work reasons, and ensured proper operation ○ training 103 029 Sharp and the Environment Achievements • Held Mental Health Promotion Meetings twice during the year, • Improve knowledge of mental strengthening information sharing and coordination between health-related issues by encouraging Sharp and Society representatives from each site acquisition of third-party certification in mental health management 080 Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Objectives • Continue strengthening measures against lifestyle diseases • Continue strengthening measures against 082 lifestyle diseases • Health checkup participation rate was 99.99%. Proactively undertook • Continue strengthening health exams 083 For Customers speciﬁc health guidance (active support and motivational support), and for lifestyle diseases (periodic ratio of follow-up observations was 99% ○ checkups) with follow-up observations 103 090 For Business Partners Achievements • Stimulate health education activities • Promoted walking events such as company-wide team walking (approximately 15,200 participants for the year) • Stimulate regular exercise by holding 094 For Shareholders and Investors company-wide sports events for all employees 096 For Employees Japan • Promote and expand Sharp Forest 104 For Local Communities • Promote further Sharp Forest activities (10 locations) activities • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools, provide • Provide environmental education at 500 craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools elementary schools, provide 110 Honors from Third Parties Objectives • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service craftsmanship education at 100 bases elementary schools 112 Outline of the Sharp Group • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of having 30,000 • Hold new educational programs that employees volunteer combine factory tours, visits to the Sharp 114 Independent Assurance Report Technology Hall, and • Held Sharp Forest activities 37 times with a total of about 1,500 environment/craftsmanship classes employees participating • Provide educational support for persons • Provided environmental education for about 28,700 children at 500 with disabilities (at special-needs schools) elementary schools and craftsmanship education for about 3,800 children • Continue local social contribution 104 Expand and diversify I For Local Achievements at 100 elementary schools activities at all Sharp sales and service 109 social contribution • A total of about 17,400 employees participated in about 700 local social ○ bases and Communities activities contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service bases • Encourage volunteering among website • A total of about 30,000 employees participated in volunteer activities at all employees, with a goal of having 30,000 Sharp ofﬁces and bases employees volunteer Overseas • Continue activities centered on Sharp • Expand activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in China Charity Foundation in China Objectives • Expand environmental education in overseas regions • Continue expanding environmental education in overseas regions • In China, provided scholarships (179 people at 11 universities), donated Sharp LCD TVs (38 units to 33 hospitals), carried out beautification campaigns in areas near Sharp bases, conducted tree-planting activities, Achievements built elementary schools and libraries, etc. • Conducted environmental education lessons at overseas locations, primarily in North America and China (for about 6,000 children at a total of 74 schools) 082 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Constantly thinking from the customer’s point of view in order to develop and provide products and services that customers find useful is one of Sharp’s fundamental values. 001 Contents Sharp is also applying customer feedback toward making better products that customers can rely on for years and striving to improve sales and after-sales service. Sharp seeks to satisfy customers so that they choose Sharp now, next time, and every time. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • Improve level of quality on a global • Constructed global market response information system that gathers and • Strengthen global quality assurance and customer service activities basis can consolidate domestic and overseas product quality and customer • Strengthen quality evaluation system overseas 008 Special Feature satisfaction information • Expand overseas call centers • Established technical safety standards for each overseas design base and • Undertake technical education of engineers at overseas bases 012 Special Focus developed risk management manual for emerging countries • Improve products by taking on • Proactively developed Voice of the Customer (VOC) program overseas • The pursuit of usability 017 Management customer’s point of view (North America), in addition to Japan, and implemented product • Establish analysis methods for usability and improve products by improvement taking on customer’s point of view 029 Sharp and the Environment • Sequentially develop VOC program overseas, following on from North America Sharp and Society • Further boost basic service and • Improved customer convenience by making repair consultation call • Improve service quality Objective and Achievements develop one-of-a-kind services center toll-free in Japan • Proactively use customer feedback taken when making repair visits 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR • Implemented visiting repair service that allows customers to select time • Undertake customer satisfaction skill training and date they want repairs to be made by expanding 365-days-a-year • Improve service technical strength For Customers service and introducing service staff shift work system in Japan 083 Offering Products and Services 089 That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Basic Stance and Vision on Quality and Sharp established a CS Promotion Center and a Quality Assurance Division that 090 For Business Partners undertake product service and quality control in each business group, and the Sharp Customer Satisfaction (CS) Group, including overseas bases and subcontractors, established a system that can 094 For Shareholders and Investors The Sharp Group meets customer needs and demands, and offers safety, quality, provide safe, high-quality products and service. In ﬁscal 2009, Sharp constructed a reliability, and better environmentally friendly products and services to gain customer global market response information system that gathers and can consolidate 096 For Employees trust and to improve customer satisfaction. domestic and overseas quality and customer satisfaction information, and endeavors 104 For Local Communities to further improve quality and customer satisfaction. 110 Honors from Third Parties Quality Philosophy 112 Outline of the Sharp Group To respond to society’s needs and make products that satisfy our customers, ■ Quality and CS System we keep the slogan “Quality First” in mind at all times. 114 Independent Assurance Report Customers (worldwide) Inquiries, response 品質第一 私たちの心です Building a relationship of trust through quality and service so that customers choose Sharp Quality First in Heart and Mind now, next time, and every time. Call center Service company Service agent Retail outlet Quality slogan CS slogan CS Promotion Group Coordination Sales and • Quality control division • Service division marketing divisions Quality and Customer Satisfaction Promotion System Response Sales companies Coordination Coordination report, Information sharing, instructions, investigation Sharp undertakes all its business activities from product development through sales approvals Company-wide CS conference and service based on management from the customer’s point of view and has Business groups Overseas bases Global CS conference Company-wide quality established the CS Promotion Group as a company-wide promotion organization to Sharp Corporation • Quality control division Coordination • Quality control division conference, etc. further boost product quality and safety, and customer satisfaction. president • Service division • Service division Sharp Group (worldwide) 083 Subcontractors Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Quality Assurance System ISO 9001-Certified Sites 001 Contents Sharp specifies the quality levels it provides to customers, thus ensuring that all Certified business groups and subsidiaries in Japan Location employees in product planning, design, production, sales, and after-sales service aim Audio-Visual Systems Group Yaita City, Tochigi Prefecture; Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture 002 Compiling This Report for the same targets in their ongoing pursuit of quality improvement. Sharp bases in Japan and abroad (business groups, manufacturing companies, etc.) have obtained Health and Environment Systems Group Yao City, Osaka Prefecture 003 Top Message the international ISO 9001 certification of quality management. They have also Communication Systems Group Higashi-Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) adopted the SHARP Corporation Standards—the Sharp Group’s proprietary quality assurance standards—and conduct various quality assurance activities in each stage Personal Solutions Business Development Group Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture 007 Corporate Vision of the productBusiness Solutions Group Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture making process, from 008 Special Feature planning, design, and Quality assurance in the planning stage Solar Systems Group Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture; Yao City, Osaka Prefecture Expectation/ manufacture to demand Planning Plan products with comfortable operability Osaka City, Osaka Prefecture; Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture; 012 Special Focus and a sense of high quality that respond to Product-making cycle testing/evaluation and customer expectations Electronic Components and Devices Group Tenri City, Nara Prefecture; Mihara City, Hiroshima Prefecture; marketing. Quality assurance in the design stage Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture 017 Management Customers Design Inspect and confirm the safety of the product and the degree of achievement Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture; Taki Township, Mie Prefecture; of quality targets Liquid Crystal Display Group Tenri City, Nara Prefecture; Yamato-Koriyama City, 029 Sharp and the Environment Quality assurance in the production stage Nara Prefecture; Minato Ward, Tokyo Production Inspect and test the safety of the product Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture; Shinjuku Ward, Tokyo; Sharp and Society and 100% realization of quality Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. Osaka City, Osaka Prefecture Objective and Achievements Quality assurance on the market 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Satisfaction/ impression Sales, afterReflect customer feedback obtained Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation Yao City, Osaka Prefecture sales service through telephone support and after-sales Quality assurance service in product-making For Customers system Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Niigata City, Niigata Prefecture 083 Offering Products and Services Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sumida Ward, Tokyo; Osaka City, Osaka Prefecture 089 That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Sharp Yonago Corporation Yonago City, Tottori Prefecture Sharp Voluntary Product Safety Action Policy 090 For Business Partners Since the Sharp Group acknowledges that ensuring product safety is one of the most Certified bases (companies) overseas Country 094 For Shareholders and Investors important management issues and one of its corporate social responsibilities, for Sharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA) US customer safety and peace of mind it promotes information disclosure and prioritizes 096 For Employees Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico efforts to ensure the safety of the products it manufactures and sells. To put this into practice, Sharp compiled a voluntary action plan on product safety and it strives to Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM) UK 104 For Local Communities receive an even higher level of confidence from society. Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France 110 Honors from Third Parties Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES) Spain 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Efforts to Ensure Product Safety Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland 114 Independent Assurance Report At Sharp, product safety is based on adherence to the safety standards, laws, and Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) China regulations of every country. In addition, Sharp has its own technical safety standards, which are applied to all products. Through these standards, Sharp aims to ensure Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) China complete safety even when rare and unexpected problems arise, especially Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co,. Ltd. (SOCC) China concerning issues such as incombustible material usage and abnormal motion Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China detection. To ensure an even higher level of safety, Sharp revises the standards whenever the need arises. Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) China Also, Sharp is adjusting its system for ensuring product safety overseas so that Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) Malaysia unexpected product problems can be dealt with more swiftly and precisely. Along with Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) Thailand responding in a timely manner to changes in the social situation and revisions to laws pertaining to product safety, Sharp will continue to increase its efforts at offering Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Thailand products that customers can use with peace of mind. Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Philippines PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Indonesia Indonesia 084 PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Applying Customer Feedback to the Making of Products Case Study 001 Contents In order to deliver products that customers find easy to use, Sharp is implementing VOC (Voice of the Customer) activities so that customer evaluations and opinions are Understanding Various Customer Needs and Incorporating Them 002 Compiling This Report put to use when products are made. into Product Design 003 Top Message As part of these activities, Sharp set up an intranet site, the Voice of the Customer Sharp also promotes the manufacture of products that take into consideration Portal, where employees in charge of areas such as planning, development, and universal design, so many more customers can comfortably use its products. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) design can freely access anonymous customer feedback sent to Sharp’s Customer Assistance Center. Sharp improves its products by considering how to make them “easy to see,” “easy to 007 Corporate Vision understand,” and “easy to operate” for all users, including the elderly and the In addition, Sharp investigates what problems customers actually face and what they physically or mentally challenged. Towards that 008 Special Feature actually want through a product development process based on the concept of end, Sharp conducts tests and field research in ■ Listening to User Opinions user-centered design (UCD), as outlined in the international ISO 13407 standard. the upstream stages of product development to 012 Special Focus Sharp then incorporates its findings into the specifications and design of its products. understand how customers use products. Sharp comes up with product improvement ideas by 017 In addition to the feedback gathered from the Customer Assistance Center, Sharp Management listening to feedback from customers as they gathers and analyzes information about how customers interact with products actually use products in their homes and offices 029 Sharp and the Environment through field research and surveys, and creates design proposals based on these and by observing precisely how the products are results. Also, Sharp gains an understanding of customer needs and complaints that being used. Sharp and Society the customers themselves are not even aware of through interviews and product In addition, the developers themselves evaluate Objective and Achievements testing (usability tests), where customers actually operate products, and improves 080 the products by wearing tools (such as cataract in the Social Dimension of CSR products based on these results. goggles, weights, and gloves) that simulate the Verifying operability for a user in a For Customers experience of the elderly, and increase their wheelchair Through activities such as these, Sharp is raising the appeal of its products. awareness of universal design by experiencing 083 the loss of freedom anew. ■ Experiencing Disabilities Offering Products and Services 089 That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction As a result of these efforts, as of April 2010, 107 ■ Basic User-Centered Design Process models of 19 products had been recognized as 090 For Business Partners universal design home appliances by the Plant the user1 Association for Electric Home Appliances in 094 For Shareholders and Investors centered process Specify the Japan. 2 context of use 096 For Employees Evaluate designs Specify user and 104 For Local Communities 5 6 Goal 3 against user requirements organizational requirements Evaluation using tools that simulate the experience of being aged 110 Honors from Third Parties Produce 4 design solutions 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report ■ Usability Tests Global VOC System Underway At Sharp, the Voice of the Customer (VOC) program is being proactively expanded to use the raw information gathered from customers at call centers in Japan to create easy-to-use products and improve quality. Based on these efforts, a Global VOC System was Global VOC System built to be able to easily search the contents of inquiries from customers at the overseas call centers. Using this system, customer inquiries to the North American sales subsidiaries are gathered in Japan and merged with the Japanese customer inquiries and can be searched in Japanese and English. The system will be globally expanded in the future to include call center information A customer tries out a product Developers observing the user during testing from Europe and China. 085 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Case Study Product Improvements in Japan Case Study Product Improvements Overseas 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report AQUOS LCD TV (LC-LX1/DS Series) AQUOS LCD TV (LC-LE810UN/820UN Series) 003 Top Message ■ Use of large buttons on the remote control ■ Use of a remote control with improved operability for • Frequently used buttons are double in size compared to previous models peripheral devices (for North America) 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) • Certiﬁed for Color Universal Design (CUD)* thanks to adopting an easily • Use of separate selection These luminous buttons blink 007 Corporate Vision visible color combination for the color keys frequently used for buttons for each target functions in digital broadcasts peripheral device to be 008 Special Feature operated * A user-oriented design system developed in consideration of people with various types of color vision to allow information to • Improved the remote control 012 Special Focus be accurately conveyed to as many individuals as possible. The by using luminous buttons system was developed by the Color Universal Design and by making the button for 017 Management Organization, a nonproﬁt entity in Japan. a selected peripheral device flash when the remote 029 Sharp and the Environment control is used LC-60LE810UN Sharp and Society Objective and Achievements 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR ■ Inclusion of a connection guide (for North America) • Improved the guide by explaining the connection method for For Customers LC-60LX1 each peripheral device and by using illustrations in the 083 instructions to clarify how to connect the devices Offering Products and Services 089 That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Digital Cordless Facsimile (UX-D82CL/CW) 090 For Business Partners ■ Simple operation by choosing options on 094 For Shareholders and Investors the touchscreen LCD 096 For Employees • Three “entry buttons” to choose which function you Phone want to use first 104 For Local Communities • “Touch guide” where the LCD and the buttons guide you through the operations 110 Honors from Third Parties Press the entry button… Copy 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report Fax UX-D82CL Connection guide by connected device Three “entry buttons” to choose ■ A simple screen to choose without hesitating which function you want to use Choose one and touch Set the original while looking at the screen 086 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Customer Service That Exceeds Expectations Global Customer Support System 001 Contents From before a product is purchased until after the customer is finished using a Sharp has established call centers in Japan and at major overseas bases, and product, Sharp’s Customer Assistance Center in Japan always aims to meet or adequately responds to customer inquiries. 002 Compiling This Report exceed customer expectations. The large-scale call centers in and outside Japan assume the role of a control tower. 003 Top Message All Customer Assistance Center agents (operators) are periodically monitored by a For example, if a customer calls for repair service, the call center diagnoses whether response-quality manager. Based on those results, agents undergo training to the product is broken or not by asking questions, and contacts the service agent after 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) improve their responsiveness in terms of providing assistance that matches the confirming the symptoms of the problem and the cause. For cases such as this, customer inquiry as well as their methods of speaking and listening. This enables the Sharp has a system in place that connects its call centers and service agents via a 007 Corporate Vision agents to maintain a high level of response skills while also boosting their awareness network and allows the company to keep track of the progress from repair request to of customer satisfaction. completion. 008 Special Feature The number of consultations and inquiries has been increasing in conjunction with Additionally, small-scale call centers, in cooperation with Sharp sales and marketing 012 Special Focus growth in Sharp’s business. That is why in fiscal 2009, Sharp changed its repair divisions, work firmly rooted in their local communities and contribute to improved 017 consultation call center from a system where the customer must pay for part of the customer satisfaction and expanded sales. Management call to a toll-free system, further enhancing customer convenience. 029 Sharp and the Environment In addition, Sharp offers new services to satisfy customers, such as Fault Diagnosis ■ Call Centers and Number of Customer Inquiries Handled Navigation on the Sharp website, where customers themselves diagnose the Sharp and Society symptoms of the problem and solve the problem by following the instructions on the 080 Objective and Achievements screen, without calling the Customer Assistance Center. Europe in the Social Dimension of CSR 120,000 cases US For Customers China 820,000 cases 1,020,000 cases 083 Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Japan 089 4,620,000 cases 090 For Business Partners 094 For Shareholders and Investors ASEAN 320,000 cases 096 For Employees Large-scale call centers (support ranging from 104 For Local Communities Fault Diagnosis Navigation page on consultation on purchases to repairs) Training to improve responsiveness the Sharp website Small-scale call centers (mainly repair inquiries) 110 Honors from Third Parties Note: Number of cases in fiscal 2009 112 Outline of the Sharp Group ■ Number of Calls Received at the Customer Assistance Center (Japan) 114 Independent Assurance Report (Thousand calls) 5,000 Sharp Flat-Screen TVs Rate High in Customer Satisfaction in China 4,615 4,098 4,245 In April 2009, the China National Household Electric 4,000 3,728 Appliances Service Association announced the results of its survey on customer service satisfaction. Survey results 3,000 3,000 named the Sharp AQUOS a Satisfactory Brand of Flat-Screen TV. 2,000 The survey, carried out in 14 major cities in seven regions, covered 15 brands of flat-screen TVs and other consumer 1,000 electronics. Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) was given high marks for installation and repair visits. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 087 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Aiming to Remain No. 1 in After-Sales Service Educational Activities for the Safe Use of Products 001 Contents In Japan, Sharp is advancing customer satisfaction innovation activities to give Through its website and pamphlets, customers peace of mind by offering faster and more accurate after-sales service. Sharp is enlightening customers on 002 Compiling This Report the safe use of its products. To provide quick service beyond what customers expect, in fiscal 2009 Sharp 003 Top Message introduced 365-days-a-year service and a service staff shift work system in Safety information on air conditioners metropolitan areas in Japan, allowing customers to select the time and date they want was added to the website in fiscal 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) the repairs to be made. 2009. Moreover, Sharp is undertaking other efforts, such as 007 Corporate Vision In addition, Sharp achieved reliable service where repairs were completed in one visit including a pamphlet on the safe use by precisely discovering the location of the fault in the product using the fault of microwave ovens with the user 008 Special Feature diagnosis tool. manual in the product package. 012 Special Focus Moreover, Sharp works to raise CS awareness among its employees by increasing the number of CS Meisters (masters), employees who have demonstrated outstanding 017 Management customer response skills and extensive service knowledge and who can train other service employees to maximize their potential. Through these efforts, Sharp is raising 029 Sharp and the Environment employee response skills and giving peace of mind to customers receiving after-sales Sharp and Society service. Disclosure of Information When Quality Problems Arise Objective and Achievements In the event that a Sharp product is found to be responsible for injury to customers or 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR for damage to property, Sharp will disclose relevant information immediately in For Customers TOPICS newspapers and via its website, or through other methods. Sharp also has contact points to directly receive inquiries from customers and is striving to keep quality 083 Offering Products and Services problems to an absolute minimum. No. 1 in After-Sales Service Ranking 089 That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Sharp obtained the number one position in four product categories—flat-screen TVs, During fiscal 2009, Sharp notified customers as below, providing free-of-charge 090 For Business Partners Blu-ray/DVD/HDD recorders, air conditioners, and washing machine/dryers—in the inspection, repair, and product recovery. Nikkei Business magazine’s 2009 After-Sales Service Satisfaction Ranking survey in Based on the Sharp Voluntary Product Safety Action Policy, Sharp also releases on its 094 For Shareholders and Investors Japan. website details of serious accidents involving products that are judged to be caused 096 For Employees by a product or suspected to be caused by a product that were reported to the Fiscal 2009 ranking Fiscal 2008 ranking Surveyed products Consumer Affairs Agency and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan. 104 For Local Communities 1 2 Flat-screen TV 1 3 BD/DVD/HDD recorder 110 Honors from Third Parties 1 5 Air conditioner 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 1 1 Washing machine/dryer 114 Independent Assurance Report Sharp will continue various efforts to provide an even higher standard of service from the customer’s point of view. Free-of-Charge Inspection and Repair Words from a Service Employee (CS Meister) • Refrigerator/Freezer for Japan (January 2010) If anything became lodged between the refrigerator and its door, various problems Most people who I visit for repairs are customers who would occur, making it difficult or even impossible to open or close the door. And have a negative image of product failures. forcibly opening or closing the door in such a situation raised the risk of the door For those customers to change their image to a becoming unhinged. Sharp advised customers on the safe use of its refrigerators positive one through our “impressive service” and make and conducted free inspections and parts replacement. them want to buy a Sharp product again, we, CS Meisters, and all service employees continue to make • AV Center Computer Monitor and LCD IT TV for Japan (June 2009) diligent efforts to provide detailed service to meet each Masao Takahashi A defective film condenser part in the power supply section raised the risk of smoke customer’s needs. CS Meister and strange odors being emitted from inside the monitor and TV. Sharp conducted Junior Manager free inspections and parts replacement. Nishi Chiba Service Station Sharp-Engineering Corporation 088 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Customers Close-Up Indonesia: Sharp Service Firmly Rooted in the Community 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID), Sharp’s manufacturing and sales ■ Contributing to Earthquake Recovery Efforts 003 Top Message subsidiary, strives to serve its customers across the over 17,000 islands that make 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) up Indonesia through locally rooted service aimed at providing people with products they can depend on. 007 Corporate Vision Product repair is normally a cause of dissatisfaction among customers, but SEID 008 Special Feature believes that service calls are a great opportunity to interact directly with customers. SEID thus makes the most of this chance to determine customer 012 Special Focus wishes so that it can offer services that truly meet needs. 017 Management One of these efforts is the Platinum Service that SEID offers purchasers of AQUOS LCD TVs and Healsio superheated steam ovens to help them get the most The SEID branch in Padang was damaged in Customers bring their Sharp products for the Sumatra earthquake repair at the temporary tent service outlet 029 Sharp and the Environment satisfaction out of these products. This value-added service has proved extremely popular among users: SEID promises that it will replace for free a product that Sharp and Society malfunctions within 30 days after purchase; and that a service technician will arrive Objective and Achievements within three hours of receiving a call from a customer and that SEID will lend the 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR same product if repair is not completed during the service visit. For Customers In September 2009, there were two large earthquakes, one in West Java 083 (magnitude 7.6) and one in Sumatra (magnitude 7.9). To help victims, SEID ran a Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction campaign in which it offered free repair and half-price parts replacement. Although 089 the SEID branch in Padang was damaged in the September 30 Sumatra Ad informing customers of the servicing Repairing a TV at the temporary service outlet 090 For Business Partners earthquake, it had set up temporary tent facilities a week later to resume helping campaign customers. SEID carried out more than 500 repairs in a month and received many 094 For Shareholders and Investors words and letters of thanks from customers. Words from a Service Manager 096 For Employees SEID vows to step up efforts so that it can contribute to society by offering Sharp has been in Indonesia for almost 40 years and has been able to take this long customers exactly the valued-added services they need. journey thanks to our dedicated customers. 104 For Local Communities Our service division is constantly in contact with customers. That is why we strive in 110 Honors from Third Parties a number of ways to offer service that meets the particular needs of the people here. 1) All service personnel are also sales people (handing out catalogs and presenting 112 Outline of the Sharp Group new products). ■ SEID Efforts for Earthquake Victims 2) Call center staff inform customers of sales campaigns and events. 114 Independent Assurance Report 3) We call purchasers of AQUOS within one week to thank them. Notices of the campaign ran in newspapers and other media. 4) We make a follow-up call to customers who have had product repairs. • September 2 earthquake in West Java 5) We call customers six months after repair to make sure their products are From October 5, an 18-day servicing campaign was held (total of 125 repairs). working properly. Last year there were two earthquakes in Indonesia large • September 30 earthquake in Sumatra enough to merit a relief team from Japan. Because of the From October 6, a one-month servicing campaign was held (total of 559 repairs). large-scale damage and large number of victims, we helped in relief efforts by donating money and daily supplies as well as offering free repair and half-price parts replacement for Sharp product owners. Many customers thanked us for this. We will continue to step up efforts to be a locally rooted company that helps customers through the provision of valuable information and after-sales service that truly Katsumi Itoi meets needs. General Manager SEID Service Division 089 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Business Partners Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers and Dealers Sharp conducts its procurement activities on the basis of fair evaluation, ensuring that all companies are provided with equal opportunities. 001 Contents Sharp aims for mutual prosperity with business partners by building relationships of cooperation and trust through dialogue and communication that deepen mutual understanding. Sharp is also promoting CSR activities throughout the entire supply chain. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • Continue expanding implementation of supply chain CSR • Implemented CSR Procurement Survey for local suppliers serving • Build system to conduct audits and do on-site verification measures overseas Sharp production bases in North America, Europe, and Asia of status of CSR measures at suppliers 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 017 Management Determining Procurement Based on Providing Equal Close Communication and Mutual Understanding 029 Sharp and the Environment Opportunity and Fair Evaluation In fulfilling social responsibility through business activities in a wide range of areas Sharp has production activities around the world and it chooses who it will procure such as product safety, minimizing environmental impact, human rights and labor, and Sharp and Society local parts, materials, and equipment from by providing all Japanese and overseas health and safety, it is not enough that Sharp alone acts properly; the entire supply Objective and Achievements chain must do so as well. 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR suppliers with an equal opportunity to do business with Sharp. This opportunity includes a fair evaluation of whether a supplier’s procurement conditions meet Sharp’s To help its business partners gain an understanding of such concepts and to deepen 083 For Customers requirements for quality, standards, and performance. the understanding between Sharp and its business partners, Sharp business groups For Business Partners Sharp has also formulated Basic Purchasing Principles that contribute to a and overseas production bases have been holding regular roundtables and meetings prosperous coexistence with business partners. The Principles stipulate impartiality for their suppliers. In addition, buyers for various materials used by Sharp exchange 090 Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers ideas and information with sales representatives of suppliers on a daily basis. and fairness in all purchasing activities and the creation of a relationship of 093 and Dealers cooperation and trust with suppliers. 094 For Shareholders and Investors Basic Purchasing Principles Close communication and mutual understanding Entire company 096 For Employees Business and Purchasing Policies Explanation In procurement activities (including commissioning manufacture), Sharp will comply Meeting (once a year) 104 For Local Communities with all laws, regulations, and social standards, and enhance the mutual relationship 110 Honors from Third Parties with suppliers. Also, Sharp will practice the conservation of the environment and Business groups Business corporate social responsibility with suppliers’ support. Supplier meeting (semi-annually) partners 112 Outline of the Sharp Group • Explanation of industrial and product trends 114 Independent Assurance Report • Explanation of business plans ■ Requests to Suppliers • Open exchange of opinions 1) Compliance with laws and social • Compliance with laws related to manufacture Purchasing staff standards and distribution of material 2) Promotion of sound business Buyers from each parts category • Compliance with laws related to labor exchange opinions and information operations • Compliance with laws related to health and with business partners on a daily basis. 3) Consideration for the environment safety and arrangement of proper labor 4) Securing optimal quality and cost environment 5) Stable supply of parts and materials • Prohibition of child and forced labor 6) Leading technology • Prohibition of discrimination based on race 7) No disclosing of confidential and sex and respect for the dignity of each information employee • Compliance with environmental laws • Prohibition of bribery and unfair act Basic Purchasing Principles (full text) 090 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Business Partners Promoting CSR Measures Throughout the Supply Chain CSR Procurement Survey Status 001 Contents To help its business partners (suppliers) gain an understanding of Sharp’s CSR In fiscal 2007, Sharp began gradually introducing a CSR Procurement Survey using philosophy and promote concrete measures toward CSR among suppliers, Sharp an online response system to enable suppliers to use the Internet to enter answers to 002 Compiling This Report created its own Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook and distributed it to self-checks based on the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. major suppliers in Japan, and also made it available on the Sharp website in 003 Top Message Based on the results of the self-check, Sharp requests that suppliers prepare and Japanese, English, and Chinese editions. submit an improvement plan for any area that received a low score and where 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Through this initiative, Sharp is advancing CSR efforts throughout the entire supply improvement is needed. chain by requesting that suppliers around the world step up their efforts in areas 007 Corporate Vision In fiscal 2009, Sharp extended these efforts by conducting a second survey of major related to CSR. suppliers in Japan, and also began surveys of local suppliers throughout the Asian 008 Special Feature This guidebook conforms to the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook produced region as well as Europe and North America. As a result, the introduction of the CSR and distributed by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Procurement Survey to major suppliers around the world was completed. 012 Special Focus Association (JEITA). Suppliers around the world are making full use of its content to Sharp plans to continue conducting surveys once a year as a general rule. Sharp will 017 guide their own concrete efforts in the principal areas related to CSR that are covered Management also provide support for making needed improvements to low-scoring areas and by international standards. items and will build and gradually implement a CSR audit framework for visiting the 029 Sharp and the Environment production sites of suppliers to verify their CSR efforts. Sharp and Society Contents of the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook 080 Objective and Achievements I. Human Rights and Labor in the Social Dimension of CSR • Prohibit forced labor • Prohibit inhumane treatment and infringements of human rights 083 For Customers • Prohibit child labor • Prohibit discrimination • Pay appropriate wages • Regulate working hours • Respect the right to freedom of association For Business Partners II. Occupational Health and Safety Status of Supplier Self-Evaluations in the CSR Procurement Survey* • Apply safety measures for equipment and instruments • Promote safe activities in the 090 Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers workplace • Promote hygiene in the workplace • Apply appropriate measures for and Dealers occupational injuries and illnesses • Properly manage disasters and accidents • Be ■ Rankings by Overall Score 093 Rank definitions careful about physically demanding work • Promote safety and hygiene in all company 094 For Shareholders and Investors facilities • Promote health maintenance programs for employees D rank : 3.8% A : Excellent B : Good 096 For Employees III. Environment C rank : 9.5% • Establish and apply an environmental management system • Control hazardous C : Fair 104 For Local Communities chemicals in products • Control hazardous chemicals in manufacturing • Minimize D : Inadequate environmental pollution (water, soil, air) • Obtain environmental permits • Promote resource B rank : 39.5% A rank : 47.3% 110 Honors from Third Parties and energy saving by reusing, reducing, and recycling (3R) • Promote greenhouse gas reduction • Promote waste reduction • Disclose environmental preservation activities 112 Outline of the Sharp Group IV. Fair Trading • Prohibit corruption and bribery • Prohibit abuse of a superior position • Prohibit the offering and ■ Evaluation Ranking by Area 114 Independent Assurance Report receiving of inappropriate proﬁt and advantage • Prohibit impediments to free competition • Provide (%) accurate information on products and services • Respect intellectual property • Use appropriate 100 4.9 1.2 0.7 0.3 2.4 0.7 1.7 14.3 1.9 7.0 export procedures • Disclose appropriate company information • Detect injustice promptly 15.9 19.8 19.1 80 23.8 23.6 19.9 V. Product Quality and Safety 28.7 • Establish and apply a quality management system 60 32.2 32.0 29.2 30.7 • Ensure product safety 40 VI. Information Security • Secure computer networks against threats 20 • Prevent the leakage of personal information 42.1 50.7 56.3 78.0 43.3 72.3 47.3 • Prevent the leakage of customer and 0 third-party confidential information Overall CSR Human rights Occupational Environment Fair trading Product quality Information promotion efforts and labor health and safety and safety security VII. Contribution to Society Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook • Contribute to society and community (Japanese, English, and Chinese editions) A rank B rank C rank D rank Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook * Status of suppliers serving Sharp production bases in Japan, China, and Malaysia that 091 completed the CSR Procurement Survey in fiscal 2009. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Business Partners Advancing Local Procurement Audits and Education to Ensure Full Compliance Sharp is also promoting local procurement in Japan and overseas in line with its “local with the Subcontract Act 001 Contents production for local consumption” strategy under which the links in the value To comply with the Subcontract Act (Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract 002 Compiling This Report chain—from design to development, procurement, production, and Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors) in Japan, Sharp Corporation and its affiliated sales/marketing—end within the region where products are purchased and used. companies implement compliance checks and in-house education on an ongoing 003 Top Message In Japan, Sharp has been involved in constructive information exchanges with basis. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) technologically strong smalland medium-size suppliers, including holding business Regarding compliance checks, since fiscal 2002, Sharp’s Corporate Procurement matchmaking events in areas where Sharp production sites are located. In addition, Center has conducted regular audits of all business groups in Japan once a year. In 007 Corporate Vision overseas, Sharp has set up international procurement offices in Malaysia, Hong Kong, fiscal 2009, all business groups began self-audits, in which they check how well they Singapore, and South Korea, and is aggressively promoting procurement from local are complying with the Subcontract Act. And to ensure thorough observance of the 008 Special Feature suppliers for production bases in each country. Subcontract Act across the entire Sharp Group, self-audits have begun at places 012 Special Focus By advancing local procurement efforts at production bases in countries around the other than the business groups, such as functional groups and affiliated companies. world, Sharp is working to contribute even more to local communities where Sharp is In fiscal 2010, Sharp is planning to implement an intranet Subcontract Act training 017 Management expanding its business for the benefit of both Sharp and local suppliers. system for functional groups and affiliated companies, in an effort to raise awareness 029 Sharp and the Environment and improve knowledge among staff members. Sharp and Society Objective and Achievements 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR 083 For Customers Close-Up Deploying Supply Chain CSR Measures on a Global Basis Words from a Purchasing Staff For Business Partners Member at an Overseas Base 090 In Korea, CSR is actively carried out by business Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers With the globalization of its business activities, Sharp has been deploying CSR efforts around the world throughout the entire value conglomerates and public corporations that value 093 and Dealers chain—from design to development, procurement, production, sales/marketing, and service—and is working to implement global it as a way to continuously extend and manage measures in cooperation with suppliers to support CSR efforts along the value chain to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. customer satisfaction as well as to contribute to 094 For Shareholders and Investors the local community. On the other hand, for the Since fiscal 2007, Sharp has been gradually implementing CSR Procurement Surveys for suppliers of production and procurement bases in Japan and China. In fiscal 2009, in addition to these partners, Sharp introduced the same survey to local suppliers for companies here that focus on profit without 096 For Employees having any long-term vision, CSR activities are still production and procurement bases in Europe, North America, and Asia. As a result, the deployment to all Sharp Group production and procurement bases around the world is complete. in their infancy. 104 For Local Communities At each overseas base, Sharp is conducting surveys and working to raise awareness and promote knowledge of CSR via Promoting CSR with our vendors in Korea has 110 Honors from Third Parties harmonious communications with local business partners, including holding briefings for suppliers led primarily by local employees. given me a better understanding of what Sharp is ultimately pursuing. Among the various codes in 112 Outline of the Sharp Group In the future, Sharp will work together with suppliers to continuously raise the level of its CSR efforts through regular surveys and Sharp’s Code of Conduct, I am most impressed visits to production sites to verify the status of CSR efforts, and will strive to contribute to the development of a sustainable society by the one that advises us to accept our 114 Independent Assurance Report throughout the entire supply chain. competitors and not do anything to damage their business reputation. I feel that CSR activities are important for raising ■ Production and Procurement Bases where CSR Procurement Surveys Were Introduced in Fiscal 2009 Sharp’s profile and for letting customers see Sharp as a North America 1 SMCA (US) 2 SEMEX (Mexico) socially responsible corporation. Internally, CSR Europe 3 SUKM (UK) 4 SMF (France) 3 activities will generate 6 5 SEES (Spain) 6 SMPL (Poland) 4 integration, teamwork, and 5 16 17 1 respect for Sharp over the Asia 7 SIL (India) 8 SATL (Thailand) 8 long run. 7 2 9 15 9 SMTL (Thailand) 10 SEM (Malaysia) 10 11 12 Se Sung Hun 11 SOEM (Malaysia) 12 SMM (Malaysia) 13 14 Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 13 SEID (Indonesia) 14 SSI (Indonesia) (SEM) 15 SPC (Philippines) 16 SKC (Korea) Korean Branch 17 SEM Korean Branch (Korea) 092 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Business Partners Working Together with Dealers in Their Efforts for the Environment 001 Contents Besides working with its suppliers, Sharp’s CSR efforts include a range of joint efforts Excellence in Promoting Energy-Efficient Products, sponsored by the Energy with retailers and dealers. Conservation Center, Japan. 002 Compiling This Report Sharp’s sales companies in Japan have been working together with dealers in their In fiscal 2009, 98 of the dealers who worked with Sharp received Dealer of Excellence 003 Top Message efforts on behalf of the environment through routine sales activities, such as certification for the first time. Naruden Inc. of Wakayama Prefecture received the presenting ideas for in-store displays that help facilitate understanding of the benefits Economy, Trade and Industry Minister’s Prize, and Life Page Fujiden of Yamaguchi 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) of energy-efficient products among consumers, and holding workshops on Prefecture won the Environment Minister’s Prize. environmentally conscious products. As part of this effort, Sharp provides assistance 007 Corporate Vision to dealers to gain certification under a commendation system entitled Dealer of Related information Page 22: CSR Efforts in Sales and Marketing Areas in Japan 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus Words from the Winner of the Economy, Trade and Industry Minister’s Prize (Naruden Inc.) 017 Management We are forever grateful. We offer our most sincere thanks to Sharp for introducing us to this competition. 029 Sharp and the Environment Sharp’s philosophy of spreading the use of energy-efficient products is in line with our own company creed. So, we thought if we were going to do this, then Sharp and Society we should shoot for the top. Objective and Achievements Thanks to Sharp’s patient and caring guidance, we were able to make the list of finalists in our first year of this competition. We then continued to raise our 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR employees’ energy-saving awareness and the entire store worked together to come up with our own ways to promote energy savings. As a result, we made the list of finalists for the next two years, and this year received the Economy, Trade and Industry Minister’s Prize. 083 For Customers Our customers were the ones most thrilled with this prize. I think this achievement is the result of the culmination of our many efforts. We have always For Business Partners conducted business with the aim of forming bonds with customers by providing them with the products and information they need based on our motto “A customer’s smile is our greatest treasure.” We don’t just sell home appliances; we help solve energy problems by providing fully electric home systems and 090 Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers solar power systems. And we try to give back to the community by working with local governments to contribute to the nursing care and social welfare 093 and Dealers fields. I offer our deepest gratitude to our customers, who have given us their warm support and encouragement, to Sharp for its constant cooperation and Hiroyuki Naruse backup, and to all of our other business partners without whom this award would not have been possible. 094 For Shareholders and Investors Store manager Naruden Inc. We want to continue providing the public with energy-efficient Sharp products. 096 For Employees 104 For Local Communities 110 Honors from Third Parties Words from the Winner of the Environment Minister’s Prize (Life Page Fujiden) Everyone at our store—myself and all staff—consider it an honor to win this prize. I would also like to thank everyone that helped us in our achievement. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Winning this prize elicited a far greater response from customers than I expected. Many people congratulated us in writing or in person, and many ordered 114 Independent Assurance Report energy-efficient products and solar power systems. And local newspapers and other media came to do stories on us. I was also happy to receive congratulations from my family, colleagues, friends, and the members of the social and environmental NPO that I run. This is the third time our store has vied for this prize. This time, we were praised for changing the way our employees think about saving energy. Our initiatives have included upgrading all in-store lighting to LED and raising awareness among the community at environmental events and at local school events through a theme song that we wrote ourselves. I also think we won this award for acting as energy-efficiency advisors who help customers achieve an eco-lifestyle by offering energy-efficient products to match each customer’s level of environmental awareness. And of course we have Sharp and others in our industry to thank for their support over the past three years. We are now looking to take our environmental efforts to the next level. We want to establish a local store focusing on solar power systems and Sharp’s DC Eco-House*. We also want to work together with other companies like us to promote local electronics stores as the place to buy energy-efficient products. Toshiaki Fujiwara We will continue singing our energy-efficiency song for the sake of our children’s future. Store owner Life Page Fujiden * The DC Eco-House is a next-generation house intended to improve energy efficiency and is centered on a home energy management system that makes advantageous use of information technology. Electricity generated by a solar power generation system is stored as direct current (DC) and supplied in the same form to DC-powered consumer electronics in the home. 093 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Shareholders and Investors Appropriate Return of Profits and Information Disclosure One of the most important management principles for Sharp is to return a portion of profits to shareholders. Through general shareholders’ meetings and IR (investor 001 Contents relations) activities that respond to the diversifying needs of investors, Sharp is promoting communication with shareholders and investors, and the valuable feedback of these stakeholders is applied toward management improvements. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • Continue improving information disclosure and strengthen • Increased amount of information available on website • Improve information disclosure to shareholders and investors information transmission for shareholders and investors • Held various kinds of IR meetings and respond to diversifying needs of investors 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 017 Management Basic Policies Concerning Profit Sharing IR Disclosure Policy 029 Sharp and the Environment Sharp considers distributing profits to shareholders to be one of the most important Sharp discloses information to shareholders and investors in a fair and timely manner, Sharp and Society management issues. While maintaining consistently stable dividend payouts, and in order to increase trust in its IR activities and to ensure a proper assessment of 080 Objective and Achievements while considering its consolidated business performance, financial situation, and Sharp’s corporate value in capital markets. in the Social Dimension of CSR future business development in a careful and comprehensive manner, Sharp Sharp discloses information designated under the laws and regulations of Japan, and 083 For Customers implements a set of measures to return profits to its shareholders. also actively discloses other information, such as business development, 090 For Business Partners For fiscal 2009, Sharp distributed a year-end dividend of 10 yen per share, an management policy, and strategy. increase of 3 yen compared to an interim dividend of 7 yen, due to improved business For Shareholders and Investors performance. The total annual dividend was 17 yen per share. ■ How Sharp Discloses Corporate Information in a Timely Manner 094 Sharp will use internal reserve funds for investment in future growth fields, the Appropriate Return of Profits and Resolved/approved facts, financial results Occurred facts Information Disclosure development of uniquely featured products and proprietary devices, overseas 095 business development, and environmental protection. Administrative departments in each business group, division, and subsidiary, etc. 096 For Employees ■ Net Income per Share (Consolidated) and Cash Dividends per Share Report on information related to material facts 104 For Local Communities Fiscal year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Management Planning Board, Corporate Accounting and Control Group 110 Honors from Third Parties Net income (yen) 80.85 93.25 93.17 ▲114.33 4.00 Judgment (confirmation) on material facts Report Cash dividends (yen) 22 26 28 21 17 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Chief Officer of General Administration (responsible for information handling) ■ Share Distribution 114 Independent Assurance Report (as of March 31, 2010) Resolution, approval, and report of timely disclosure Japanese securities companies Treasury stock Board of Directors, President 19,902,808 10,285,175 (1.79%) (0.93%) Other Japanese corporations Instructions for timely disclosure 61,831,128 Chief Officer of General Administration (responsible for information handling) (5.57%) Procedures for timely disclosure Foreign shareholders 219,748,534 Securities and Finance Department or Corporate Public Relations Division (19.78%) Japanese individual Timely disclosure shareholders Japanese financial institutions* (stock exchange, mass media) 255,851,459 543,080,783 (23.03%) (48.90%) * A total of 86,250,000 shares (7.77%) in investment trusts and pension trust funds are IR disclosure policy 094 included in shares held by Japanese financial institutions. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Shareholders and Investors Holding Open General Shareholders’ Meetings Communication with Shareholders and Investors 001 Contents Sharp holds ordinary general shareholders’ meetings earlier than most Japanese Major activities in fiscal 2009 included holding individual interviews and meetings with companies and sends out early notices of the meetings. It also strives to create an institutional investors and analysts at the Osaka and Tokyo offices upon request, as 002 Compiling This Report environment that enables shareholders to easily exercise their voting rights. Efforts well as hosting briefings on quarterly financial results and business strategies, and include allowing shareholders to exercise voting rights by computers and mobile giving factory tours. 003 Top Message phones, participating in an electronic voting platform for institutional investors, and Sharp holds overseas meetings to retain existing shareholders and attract new 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) posting English notices about the meetings on its website. In addition, Sharp is shareholders, for example, visiting influential institutional investors in the US, Europe, working to further enhance information disclosure, such as by posting video of the and Asia. 007 Corporate Vision shareholders’ meeting on the website the day after the meeting for a certain period of time. In addition to enhancing the contents of the IR website, Sharp has improved the site’s 008 Special Feature search capability and viewability. 012 Special Focus Sharp also held explanation sessions for salespeople in charge of individual investors IR Activities Designed to Meet the Diversifying Needs of at securities companies and participated in securities company-sponsored 017 Management Investors conferences, where Sharp explained its business results and strategies and held question-and-answer sessions. 029 Sharp and the Environment Sharp is striving to disclose a wide range of information in a timely and accurate manner while proactively engaging in communication with shareholders and investors Through future IR activities, Sharp will continue to make sure a broad range of Sharp and Society through domestic and overseas IR activities. It also provides investors with investors fully understand the condition of the company’s business. Objective and Achievements easy-to-understand information on company performance, such as financial briefings 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR and presentation materials. 083 For Customers SRI (Socially Responsible Investment)* Information on the IR website is constantly being updated and expanded, as Sharp strives to provide information needed by investors in a timely manner, including As of September 2010, the following SRI ratings agencies had given Sharp a 090 For Business Partners favorable CSR rating or included Sharp in their SRI indices. financial materials and reports given at briefings. There is also a site for individual investors, where they can easily access relevant information presented in an • FTSE4Good Global Index (UK) For Shareholders and Investors easy-to-understand format that employs layman’s language, charts, graphs, and • FTSE KLD Global Climate 100 Index (US) 094 • Ethibel Sustainability Index (Belgium) Appropriate Return of Profits and figures. • Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (Japan) Information Disclosure 095 And to further promote understanding of its businesses and strategies among • oekom research AG (Germany), Corporate Responsibility Prime Status 096 For Employees investors, Sharp does all it can to make its annual reports engaging and informative. Sharp is continuing to go beyond its legal obligations to supply certain designated 104 For Local Communities information by actively disclosing additional information about its businesses, as well as its management policies and strategies. 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report * Investment in companies that fulfill not only their financial obligations but their environmental and social responsibilities as well. IR website 2009 Annual Report Investor relations 095 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace Sharp stresses the importance of basic human rights and personal dignity, provides opportunities for growth to enthusiastic employees, fosters the diverse abilities of 001 Contents all employees, and promotes a workplace that utilizes employee diversity. It also has systems for helping employees maintain a healthy balance between their work and home lives, and it strives to create a workplace that offers employees mental and physical well-being. 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision • Continue strengthening • Undertook approximately 40 human rights training sessions at business sites • Continue strengthening human rights awareness activities human rights education and affiliates in Japan • Undertake human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan 008 Special Feature • Undertake human rights training sessions for management staff assigned overseas 012 Special Focus • Continue training to support • Approximately 60 employees received overseas assignment register training • Continue training to support development of global business development of global (GATE) • Nurture global management staff 017 Management business • Approximately 140 employees received global personnel register training • Promote GATE/G-BANK training and SHINE program (G-BANK) 029 Sharp and the Environment • Introduce and develop • Formulated and promoted specific objectives and measures to promote • Establish diversity program Sharp and Society diversity program utilization of four demographic groups: female, non-Japanese, physically or • Expand work-life balance measures mentally challenged, and elderly employees in Japan • Improve workplace for diversity inclusion Objective and Achievements • Established work-life balance and diversity information site “Win-Win Network” 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR • Continue strengthening • Conducted regular health and safety inspections at 11 major plants in Japan • Continue strengthening activities to reduce and remove industrial accident risks 083 For Customers industrial accident risk • Implemented risk assessment, training, and other measures aimed at • Implement risk assessment aimed at introducing occupational health and reduction activities introducing occupational health and safety management system safety management system and measures to reduce and remove risks 090 For Business Partners • Acquired OHSAS 18001 certification at 2 sites in Japan and 2 bases • Acquire OHSAS 18001 certification at 6 sites in Japan overseas • Strengthen global health and safety efforts 094 For Shareholders and Investors • Continue strengthening efforts • Conducted survey into operational status of support system for employees • Strengthen measures for primary prevention of mental illnesses (illness For Employees to promote mental health care taking or returning from medical leave due to mental health reasons, and prevention and health promotion) ensured proper operation • Undertake mental health group work training 096 • Held Mental Health Promotion Meetings twice during the year, strengthening • Improve knowledge of mental health-related issues by encouraging Creating a Fair, Positive, and information sharing and coordination between representatives from each site acquisition of third-party certification in mental health management 103 Progressive Workplace • Continue strengthening • Health checkup participation rate was 99.99%. Proactively undertook • Continue strengthening measures against lifestyle diseases 104 For Local Communities measures against lifestyle specific health guidance (active support and motivational support), and ratio • Continue strengthening health exams for lifestyle diseases (periodic diseases of follow-up observations was 99% checkups) with follow-up observations 110 Honors from Third Parties • Promoted walking events such as company-wide team walking • Stimulate health education activities (approximately 15,200 participants for the year) • Stimulate regular exercise by holding company-wide sports events for all 112 Outline of the Sharp Group employees 114 Independent Assurance Report Respect for Basic Human Rights and Personal Dignity Good Labor-Management Relationship Through Dialogue The Sharp Code of Conduct, based on the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Sharp respects employees’ right to organize and right of collective bargaining based Behavior, stipulates the guiding principles for all executives and employees regarding on the laws in each country and region, and works to strengthen trusting relationships protecting basic human rights and personal dignity and prohibiting both child and with labor unions. forced labor. In Japan, Sharp has monthly meetings of labor-management heads: these include the Sharp works to ensure respect for human rights by annually conducting human rights Central Labor-Management Council, which involves top executives from both sides, training at each site in Japan (a total of approximately 40 sessions in fiscal 2009) and and local labor-management meetings at each site, where opinions are exchanged on endeavors to prevent human rights violations overseas, based on local laws. the business environment and labor-management issues. Moreover, both domestically and internationally, Sharp aims to promote efforts in line In Europe, Sharp holds European Works Council meetings every year to review with the human rights and labor standards stipulated in the United Nations Global managerial issues from throughout Europe. With the enactment of the Employment Compact, in which Sharp participated in June 2009. Contract Law in 2008 in China, Sharp bases in that country hold employee representative assemblies where participants give opinions on proposals for their working conditions in a democratic manner before decisions are made. 096 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Personnel, Education, and Training Systems That Value Talent Development and Motivation-Boosting Programs Employee Initiative and Diversity 001 Contents ■ Open Recruitment System To increase its global competitiveness, Sharp systematically promotes human Sharp implements the Open Recruitment System in Japan to solicit applicants from among all resource development. In addition to holding seminars classified by function and job 002 Compiling This Report employees company-wide, inviting them to take newly available positions in critically type to help employees deepen their knowledge and gain required expertise, Sharp important areas, such as expanding business in newly emerging economies, pioneering new 003 Top Message has implemented a variety of personnel, education, and training systems designed to business, as well as developing new technologies and products. In fiscal 2009, jobs were bring out the character, motivation, and creativity of each employee. Sharp’s human offered in approximately 70 projects, and about 150 employees were assigned a new 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) resource development systems (introduced below) are based on respect for employee position. individuality and diversity. 007 Corporate Vision ■ Personnel Declaration/Career Development System, Career Development Rotation 008 Special Feature Next-Generation Human Resource Development Systems Sharp Corporation has a number of job rotation systems that promote individual skills and 012 Special Focus career development. Under Sharp’s Personnel Declaration/Career Development System, once ■ Leadership Program, Challenge Course a year all employees in Japan document a career development plan and their job aptitude. 017 Management Sharp introduced the Sharp Leadership Program in Japan as an educational and promotion Sharp then uses the information to develop skills and organize job rotations. system targeting all employees, from younger employees in semi-managerial positions to Sharp also implements a Career Development Rotation to give employees in Japan the 029 Sharp and the Environment those in supervisory positions, with the objective of systematically nurturing management opportunity to experience multiple types of jobs. The aim is to systematically foster personnel. In addition to education based on an MBA (Masters of Business Administration) “T-shaped”* personnel who balance a high degree of expertise and a wide intellectual horizon. Sharp and Society curriculum, this program provides practical training that includes overseas assignments and participation in a key project. It is intended to nurture management skill and leadership that * Personnel who have acquired a wide range of knowledge and solid skills-based experience that Objective and Achievements 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR is in line with global standards. serves as the foundation. 083 For Customers The Challenge Course, for younger employees in semi-managerial positions, eliminates seniority-based factors and sets up a monthly compensation system based on Education, Training, and Self-Development Support Systems 090 For Business Partners performance. Along with an education support system, it is intended to enable early promotion of younger personnel. 094 For Shareholders and Investors ■ Seminars Classified by Function and Specialized Field ■ Overseas Assignment Register Training In Japan, Sharp widely conducts training programs aiming at the acquisition of the For Employees and Global Personnel Register Training specialized knowledge and skills necessary in various job types, such as technology, planning, procurement, manufacturing, quality control, sales, service, accounting, and 096 In 2008, Sharp introduced and began promoting its intellectual property. Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace overseas assignment register training (GATE) and its global 103 personnel register training (G-BANK). Designed to help ■ Correspondence Course, Essential Course employees systematically acquire the knowledge and skills 104 For Local Communities To support self-development, correspondence education essential for working overseas, GATE targets employees newly tapped for overseas assignments. G-BANK targets courses are offered for employees to acquire the 110 Honors from Third Parties knowledge, skill, and certification necessary in their jobs, young mid-career employees interested in working overseas or in working on overseas-related projects and was designed to help them including basic business knowledge, foreign languages, 112 Outline of the Sharp Group and specialized knowledge. acquire English skills and basic knowledge and to train future candidates for overseas 114 Independent Assurance Report assignments. In fiscal 2009, approximately 60 employees received GATE training, and In the Essential Course, topical themes are set, and approximately 140 employees received G-BANK training. employees in Japan simultaneously receive lectures on the latest trends and theory by university professors and ■ SHINE Program (for fostering young global employees) leading experts in those fields via a videoconference system. The SHINE (Sharp International New Experience) Program in Japan is an in-service training system to foster the abilities of younger employees who will play a central role in the global ■ Step-Up Campaign (Qualification Acquisition Encouragement Plan) business of the future and to nurture global personnel. Supporting self-development for employees, Sharp introduced the Qualification Acquisition Under this program‚ Sharp sends highly motivated employees overseas for 18 months to Encouragement Plan in September 2004 in Japan to reward employees who have acquired two years to gain work experience at overseas bases and study foreign languages at local any of the specified six qualifications, such as public accountant certification. Adding to this, language schools. Since its introduction in 2004, Sharp has dispatched 50 trainees to 13 Sharp has been broadening the range of qualifications, from specialized fields such as different countries through this program. technology and technical skills, to foreign languages and IT, which are directly connected to daily duties. Sharp now provides incentives in recognition of 200 qualifications. ■ Master System Approximately 5,500 qualified applicants received the respective incentives in fiscal 2009. The Master System in Japan was designed to create and develop one-of-a-kind technical ■ Commendation System skills, pass down these skills to the younger generation, and foster master technicians. Through the scouting and nurturing of highly skilled persons, Sharp aims to maintain vitality Sharp annually honors domestic and overseas employees and divisions/departments that have achieved outstanding performance. In fiscal 2009, approximately 110 awards were 097 within the company organization. The system covers seven types of skills. presented to about 1,400 employees. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Efforts Toward Diversity Diversity Inclusion Sharp believes in the importance of utilizing the diversity of its employees, in other (Workplace Improvement for Equal Opportunity) 001 Contents words, “diversity management*,” to quickly and flexibly respond to significant changes Sharp disseminates information about the effectiveness and importance of diversity as 002 Compiling This Report in the business environment. From this point of view, Sharp initiated the Corporate a business strategy, and is working to create a work environment that can accept Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program as the first step in diversity diversity. 003 Top Message management in June 2005 in Japan . 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) In October 2004, the company established the Corporate Equal Partnership Project Team, which was responsible for planning and promoting the above program, and in 007 Corporate Vision March 2009, changed the name of the organization to the Diversity Development Team. Case Studies 008 Special Feature In addition to continuing to create an environment where women can excel, Sharp in 012 Special Focus Japan is promoting total diversity, including utilizing the skills and talents of Win-Win Network non-Japanese employees in Japan, employing the physically or mentally challenged, Sharp posts information on its intranet 017 Management and reemploying retirees who have reached mandatory retirement age. Win-Win Network that disseminates 029 Sharp and the Environment information on work-life balance and The Diversity Promotion Committee is made up of managers responsible for promoting diversity, with the aim of creating a work diversity and members representing various groups. The Committee holds regular environment where diverse employees Sharp and Society meetings to confirm the implementation status of diversity promotion measures for can happily exercise their potential. Objective and Achievements each group, exchange views on policies, and share information on problems. The aim 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Sharp uses its Win-Win Network to post of the Committee is to foster mutual cooperation while promoting diversity in a results of in-house attitude surveys and 083 For Customers consistent manner. information for non-Japanese employees Sharp Corporation’s concept of diversity is based on its business philosophy of “It is as well as to introduce a variety of role 090 For Business Partners models for all employees. the intention of our corporation to grow hand-in-hand with our employees, 094 For Shareholders and Investors encouraging and aiding them to reach their full potential and improve their standard of living”. The company defines the concept behind its diversity efforts as fulfilling its For Employees one-of-a-kind business potential by making full use of the diversity of its employees. By 096 encouraging each employee to respect and place value on the individuality of others, Win-Win Network information site Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace Sharp is aiming to foster new corporate value, develop unique one-of-a-kind products, 103 provide one-of-a-kind services, and achieve higher levels of customer satisfaction. 104 For Local Communities ■ Concepts Underlying the Diversity Program Participation in WNF (Women’s Networking Forum) 110 Honors from Third Parties NonJapanese With the aim of becoming a corporation in ① Consistently promote diversity. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Women which women can succeed, Sharp joined ② Based on their unique individual attributes, formulate and the Women’s Networking Forum (60 promote programs aimed at promoting the active Diversity Program 114 Independent Assurance Report corporations/organizations and 550 participation of women, non-Japanese employees in Diversity & Inclusion members), which was established in 2005 Physically Japan, the physically or mentally challenged, and the or in Japan with the aim of increasing the mentally elderly. challenged motivation of women working at various The ③ As a foundation for promoting diversity, strive to ensure elderly corporations. Sharp currently participates that systems supporting the balance between work in the forums held once a year in both and family are established and become widespread. Tokyo and Osaka as the organizing Work-Life Balance (Way of Working) corporation. ④ Work to build a corporate environment that accepts diversity. Business Philosophy, Business Creed In this way, Sharp is networking beyond the corporate framework and creating a Female employees participating in the * Diversity management (strategy for utilizing diverse employees) accepts the ideas and values of work environment that can accept forum plenary session employees with diverse backgrounds (with regard to gender, age, or nationality) without being diversity. influenced by previous corporate or social standards. It is a strategy for promoting company growth and the personal satisfaction of employees by responding rapidly and flexibly to changes in the business environment. (Taken from the report by the Diversity Work Rule Study Group of the Japan Federation of Employers’ Associations.) 098 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Establishing Diversity Programs ■ Sharp Corporation Personnel Composition (As of end of fiscal 2009) 001 Contents Promoting Activities of Female Employees Male Female Total (persons) 002 Compiling This Report (Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program) Directors, auditors 15 0 15 003 Top Message Sharp continues to promote the Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Managers 3,035 48 3,083 creation of an environment where Employees Strategy Program Targets 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) female employees can excel, not Sub-managers 7,233 498 7,731 1) Female leader candidate development as preferential treatment for General staff 9,957 1,560 11,517 007 Corporate Vision program: Expanding the number of female women, but as a business managers (at least 100 persons in fiscal 2012) strategy for maximizing the Subtotal 20,225 2,106 22,331 008 Special Feature 2) Development of female junior managers: abilities of each female employee. Increase the ratio of junior managers to all Total 20,240 2,106 22,346 012 Special Focus female employees (30% in fiscal 2012) Ratio (%) 90.6 9.4 100.0 017 Management ■ Percentage of Female Junior Managers (Sub-Managerial Positions)*1 ■ Personnel by Gender at Major Overseas Subsidiaries (As of end of fiscal 2009) 029 Sharp and the Environment (%) 30 Non-supervisory employees 24.8 Directors/managers (permanent employees) Total Sharp and Society 25 22.3 23.9 Base 19.8 21.1 Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) 20 17.3 Objective and Achievements 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR 15 SEC (US) 81.0 19.0 65.6 34.4 68.8 31.2 10 (Sales) 083 For Customers 5 SMCA (US) 81.8 18.2 42.4 57.6 46.0 54.0 090 For Business Partners 0 (Manufacturing) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) SEMEX (Mexico) 094 For Shareholders and Investors *1 Sharp Corporation in Japan only (As of April 1 each year) 100.0 0.0 53.8 46.2 53.8 46.2 (Manufacturing) For Employees ■ Number of Female Managers*2 SEEG (Germany) 90.4 9.6 61.1 38.9 66.6 33.4 (Sales) (Persons) 096 Creating a Fair, Positive, and 63 60 SUK (UK) Progressive Workplace 53 85.7 14.3 67.4 32.6 71.9 28.1 103 50 48 (Sales) 40 39 SUKM (UK) 104 For Local Communities 95.5 4.5 66.5 33.5 68.1 31.9 30 28 (Manufacturing) 20 21 110 Honors from Third Parties SEES (Spain) 10 96.8 3.2 54.0 46.0 57.0 43.0 (Manufacturing/sales) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 0 2005 *3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 SMPL (Poland) (Year) 90.0 10.0 29.8 70.2 31.0 69.0 114 Independent Assurance Report (As of April 1 each year) (Manufacturing) *2 Managers at Sharp Corporation in Japan, including personnel posted to domestic affiliates SATL (Thailand) *3 Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program started in 2005 83.0 17.0 25.8 74.2 28.0 72.0 (Manufacturing) SMM (Malaysia) 74.0 26.0 34.7 65.3 40.4 59.6 Employment of Non-Japanese (Manufacturing) SEID (Indonesia) With the globalization of business, ■ Percentage of Overseas Sales 84.3 15.7 63.1 36.9 64.5 35.5 (Manufacturing/sales) Sharp is working globally to secure Subsidiaries Headed by Local Employee SESC (China) human resources who match the (%) 84.9 15.1 60.8 39.2 63.3 36.7 (Sales) needs of each overseas base and is 45.0 developing a systematic training SOCC (China) 40.7 40.7 91.8 8.2 27.9 72.1 29.6 70.4 policy. In the future, Sharp plans to 40.0 39.3 (Manufacturing) 37.9 strategically nurture local human NSEC (China) 35.0 63.8 36.2 60.0 40.0 60.6 39.4 resources to play a central role in 37.0 (Manufacturing) overseas markets. WSEC (China) 30.0 68.9 31.1 45.4 54.6 47.8 52.2 (Manufacturing) 099 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (End of fiscal year) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Promoting the Employment of the Physically or Mentally Challenged Case Study 001 Contents Sharp has been deeply concerned about social service and welfare since its establishment and has worked to promote the employment of the physically or Efforts of Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. 002 Compiling This Report mentally challenged. Each company within the Sharp Group makes efforts to proactively employ the physically or mentally challenged and create a better work The precursors of Sharp Tokusen Industry Co., a special subsidiary, were the 003 Top Message environment for these employees. Hayakawa Branch Factory, a pressing factory for blinded WWII veterans, and later the Tokusen Metal Limited Partnership, which was founded in 1950—both established on 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The ratio of physically or mentally challenged employees at Sharp Corporation is the strong feelings of Sharp founder, Tokuji Hayakawa, who wanted to repay persons 2.09%,* exceeding the rate mandated by law (1.80%) as stated in the Act for with disabilities for opening up his life path. In 1977, Sharp Tokusen Industry was the 007 Corporate Vision Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. first company to be certified as a special subsidiary to employ the physically or mentally challenged in Japan. It changed and expanded its operations to fit the 008 Special Feature In April 2010, the Sharp Group received special approval to include affiliated development of Sharp Corporation’s electronics business, and operates utilizing companies when calculating the employment ratio for the entire Sharp Group in cutting-edge equipment today. 012 Special Focus Japan. Sharp will make further efforts to increase the employment ratio in the future. Sharp Tokusen Industry’s main business includes the processing and inspection of 017 Management * As of June 2009; the results of Sharp Corporation (including Sharp Tokusen Industry Co., a laser chips, the processing of refrigerator parts, the functional evaluation of mobile special subsidiary) phones, LCD panel repairs, document printing, digitization, and translation. 029 Sharp and the Environment For employees, having the company stand as a viable business is the greatest joy of all. Towards that end and to help fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, Sharp Sharp and Society ■ Physically or Mentally Challenged Employment Rate in Japan Tokusen Industry will continue to proactively expand employment and will further Objective and Achievements (%) develop its areas of business. 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR 2.5 083 For Customers 2.02 2.02 2.02 2.09 2.0 2.00 090 For Business Partners Rate mandated by law 094 For Shareholders and Investors 1.5 1.80 1.59 1.63 1.49 1.52 1.55 For Employees 1.0 096 Creating a Fair, Positive, and 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Year) 103 Progressive Workplace Sharp Corporation Average of all private-sector firms (based on a survey by the Japanese Ministry of Heath, Labour and Welfare) The current office building and a scene from the floor 104 For Local Communities 110 Honors from Third Parties ■ Employment by Disability Reemployment of Seniors Other physical disabilities: 4 employees 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Intellectual disabilities: 2 employees 114 Independent Assurance Report In response to the fact that public pension is not paid until a retiree is 65 years of age Wheelchair: 3 employees in Japan, Sharp basically reemploys interested employees who have reached the mandatory retirement age of 60 (until they are eligible to start receiving a public pension). This is not in response to a legal request, but from the stance of the Total: Deafness: 31 employees company to promote the utilization of senior employees that have a high work ethic 50 employees and from the stance of the employee to give back to society their skill and knowledge Physical disabilities: 10 employees accumulated over many years. As of May 1, 2010 Related information Page 107: Social Welfare Activities in Japan 100 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Close-Up Promoting Efforts to Achieve a Work-Life Balance 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report ■ Work-Life Balance Support Programs (Main Programs and In line with its promotion of diversity, Sharp supports its employees by creating a Participation at Sharp Corporation) 003 Top Message rewarding, safe, and healthy workplace. Sharp gives employees a choice of work Participation Program (Year and no. of persons) 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) styles—allowing them to select the style that best suits them at various stages in name Description their lives—thereby helping them achieve a work-life balance that will enable them 2007 2008 2009 007 Corporate Vision to lead rich lives both at work and at home. Allows a leave of any length until the last day of March following the child’s first birthday or until the child is 18 months old. 008 Special Feature Additionally, Sharp is systematically expanding various programs pertaining to Childcare Childcare assistance grants: 68 170 109 Leave 1) The 10-day period beginning at the start of the childcare leave (1) (78) (54) childcare and nursing care, such as those for reducing working hours and for ( ): Men period is treated as a period with pay. 012 Special Focus allowing family-care leave. To create a workplace that is conducive to utilizing such 2) An allowance of 60,000 yen a month is provided during the leave period (excluding the 10-day period when salary is paid). programs, Sharp is working to familiarize employees with the programs and to 017 Management promote their use. Those efforts include posting comments on the Sharp intranet A system by which an employee can reduce work time for a Reducedmaximum of three hours per day in units of 30 minutes during from employees who have achieved a work-life balance and actively encouraging Hours pregnancy. Also allows a female/male employee the same 029 Sharp and the Environment Employment fathers to take childcare leave. During reduced-hours employment system until the last day of March after 70 80 72 her/his child has reached the sixth year of elementary school. Childbearing/ Sharp and Society These efforts have been highly appraised from outside the company, with Sharp Childcare Eligible employees can take multipurpose leave (paid) on an hourly basis up to a total of five days per year. Objective and Achievements receiving certification from the Japanese Ministry of Health, 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Allows flexible work schedules (work day start and end times) until Labour and Welfare based on the Act on Advancement of Childcare the last day of March after the child has reached the sixth year of 083 For Customers Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, as well Support elementary school. Allows an employee to shorten working hours up 302 344 389 as the 2009 Nikkei Child-Raising Support Award sponsored by Work to an average of three hours per day in one-hour units and/or take Program multipurpose leave (paid) (up to 32 times, five days per year), using 090 For Business Partners Nikkei Inc. either the morning hours or afternoon hours of core work time. 094 For Shareholders and Investors Since April 2010, Sharp has been expanding and improving its Nursing Care Allows an employee to take leave to care for a family member Leave requiring nursing care for a total of two years (can be divided up). 9 11 11 nursing care system, strengthening the structure so that The next-generation For Employees employees can continue working while providing nursing care certification mark Allows flexible work schedules (work day start and end times) for and can work more flexibly when involved in care giving. Those (nicknamed Kurumin) nursing care for a six-month period per application (can be renewed Nursing Care 096 Creating a Fair, Positive, and shows that the company Support Work if necessary). Employee can shorten working hours in one-hour units efforts include extending the duration periods specified under is certified by the up to an average of three hours per day and/or take multipurpose 6 9 9 Progressive Workplace Program 103 Sharp’s Nursing Care Leave and Reduced-Hours Employment Ministry of Health, leave (paid) (up to 32 times, five days per year), using either the Labour and Welfare. morning hours or afternoon hours of core work time. for Nursing Care programs. 104 For Local Communities Other programs: 110 Honors from Third Parties Guaranteed Reemployment after Childbearing/Childcare, Paternity Leave, Daycare Adaptation Leave, Reduced-Hours Employment for Nursing Care, Reduced Weekly Working Days for Nursing Care, Home 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Publishing and Distributing Various Support Guidebooks Helper Expense Subsidies, Volunteer Leave, Multipurpose Leave, Leave of Absence/Increasing Half-Day Use of Annual Paid Holidays for Fertility Treatment, Fertility Treatment Financing System In Japan, Sharp has posted its Work-Life Balance Guidebook on the Sharp 114 Independent Assurance Report intranet, providing support for employees trying to balance work and Words from an Employee Who Took Childcare Leave childbearing/childcare. The guidebook includes information on various company programs, methods for applying for these programs, application procedures at Being a double-income family, I wanted to experience infant parenting, which can only be experienced now, government offices, and other tips useful to employees and have the opportunity to share the experience as a during pregnancy and while on leave. couple, so I took approximately two weeks of In this age of low birth rates and an aging population, childcare leave. Sharp is also working to create a workplace where Childcare was busier than I imagined and I had little employees can continue to work while providing nursing time to relax, but I think being able to understand how Yukimi Kawaguchi care for family members. The Nursing Care Guidebook, hard it is was very beneficial for me and my family. Assistant Manager which provides information on company nursing care Development Department II Moreover, I used the childcare support work program Advanced Technology Development Center programs, consultation contact points inside and soon after my child was born and have been making Audio-Visual Systems Development Group outside the company, nursing care insurance, and other efforts to balance work and childcare from day to day. Sharp Corporation tips, was published in spring 2010 for the purpose of As a result, I feel I have gained the understanding of those around me. My supporting employees who work while providing nursing Work-Life Balance Guidebook colleagues have even given me advice on childcare. I would like to continue using care. and Nursing Care Guidebook company programs in the future to balance both work and childcare. 101 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Basic Philosophy and Principles on Health and Safety Promoting the Introduction of the Occupational Health and Sharp Corporation has established the Basic Philosophy and Principles on Health and Safety Management System 001 Contents Safety. Every year, the company draws up specific objectives and action plans, with Sharp is promoting the introduction of an occupational health and safety management 002 Compiling This Report the goal of totally eliminating industrial accidents. system in an effort to further address the potential risk of accidents in the workplace 003 Top Message and to promote proactive safety activities that prevent or reduce risks. Sharp aims to Basic Philosophy acquire OHSAS 18001*2 certification at all Sharp Corporation production sites. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) With the goal of creating a work environment where everyone at Sharp can work Four sites have already acquired certification, and a further six sites are making efforts healthily and safely, Sharp places the utmost priority on health and safety and is 007 Corporate Vision to acquire certification in fiscal 2010. working with sincerity and creativity to achieve the target of zero industrial accidents. In fiscal 2009, Sharp created a structure for implementing risk assessments and 008 Special Feature internal auditor training, and prepared various documents, such as manuals. In fiscal 012 Special Focus 2010, Sharp will promote efforts to raise the level to the certification audit level, based Health and Safety Principles on the efforts to date. 017 Management 1. Zero industrial accidents. 2. Each individual promotes his or her own health and safety. In addition, Sharp is also making efforts to acquire OHSAS 18001 or certification for 029 3. Observe the rules and coexist in harmony with local communities. occupational health and safety management system standards in each country*3 for Sharp and the Environment its overseas manufacturing bases, and plans to globally strengthen its occupational Sharp and Society health and safety management. Objective and Achievements 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Aiming for a Secure, Safe, and Healthy Workplace 083 For Customers ■ OHSAS 18001-Certified Sites & Overseas Bases (as of the end of March 2010) Every three months, Sharp Corporation holds Central Health and Safety Committee Meetings that bring the company and the labor union together to confirm the status of Date certification 090 For Business Partners Sites & overseas bases acquired company-wide health and safety efforts and share valuable information. It has also 094 For Shareholders and Investors organized a team consisting of Central Health and Safety Committee members to Plant No. 2 May 2004 conduct health and safety inspections at each plant. Mie Site For Employees Plants No. 1 and 3 April 2009 Moreover, a Health and Safety Committee consisting of labor and management 096 representatives at each business location holds a monthly meeting to report and Japan Kameyama Site June 2007 Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace discuss health and safety activities and decide on improvement measures. Also, the 103 Mihara Site January 2010 Health and Safety Council at each business location holds meetings to further 104 For Local Communities improve the health and safety of subcontractor employees permanently stationed Toyama Site February 2010 within Sharp sites. 110 Honors from Third Parties PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (Indonesia) February 2009 The result of these continuing measures is that Sharp’s frequency rate*1 of 112 Outline of the Sharp Group lost-worktime industrial accidents in 2009 was 0.20. Sharp’s frequency rate is Overseas Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (Poland) September 2009 consistently below the national average for the manufacturing industry. 114 Independent Assurance Report Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (China) December 2009 *1 Indicator that represents the incidence of industrial accidents per million work hours (one day or more of suspended operations). *2 One of the occupational health and safety management system certification standards, and is ■ Sharp Corporation’s Annual Industrial Accident Rates the most widely and internationally used standard today. (Frequency Rate of Lost-Worktime Industrial Accidents) *3 For example, Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Limited acquired TIS 18001 Thai occupational health and safety certification (August 2007) 2.0 1.9 1.83 1.75 1.5 1.02 1.09 1.12 1.0 0.5 0.21 0.15 0.17 0.20 0.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Year) All-industry average Manufacturing industry average Sharp Corporation 102 Note: Averages for all industries and the manufacturing industry are based on a survey by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Employees Enhancing Mental Health Care and Expanding the Support System for Employees Taking or Returning from Medical Leave Specific Programs for Mental Health Care 001 Contents • Providing job-level-specific training and other mental health awareness activities for all In order to help employees prevent mental illnesses or deal with them at an early employees. 002 Compiling This Report stage and to support employees on medical leave in making a smooth return to work, • Providing mental stress checkups simultaneously with regular physical checkups for 003 Top Message Sharp Corporation has an improved counseling system in which medical specialists or all employees. industrial counselors are stationed at main offices and plants. The company also • Providing face-to-face counseling at main sites by company counselors or medical 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) conducts various training and educational activities. specialists. • Giving advice by e-mail, phone, or in-person counseling through specialized outside 007 Corporate Vision Also, as part of periodic health checkups, Sharp Corporation carries out mental stress organizations. checkups on all employees by self-diagnosis (99.8% participation rate in fiscal 2009). • Counseling for those employees who have experienced major changes in their 008 Special Feature For employees who are diagnosed with high stress levels, the company gives environment, such as transfer, transfer not accompanied by family, and job promotion. one-on-one counseling through company physicians or counselors. • A support system that provides ongoing communication with employees on medical 012 Special Focus leave from work. In fiscal 2010, Sharp will promote efforts to (1) undertake mental health group work • A support program to help employees who were on medical leave from work make a 017 Management training, (2) improve knowledge of mental health-related issues by encouraging the smooth return to work, in cooperation with an industrial physician, one’s assigned acquisition of third-party certification in mental health management, and (3) foster the department, and the General Affairs Department. 029 Sharp and the Environment proactive use of internal and external counseling resources. • Providing a trial period for employees who were on medical leave to support their return-to-work training. Sharp and Society • Holding regular meetings attended by the person in charge of mental health at every office and plant, and the company’s healthcare staff. 080 Objective and Achievements Promoting the Sharp “Get Healthy” Campaign in the Social Dimension of CSR 083 For Customers To prevent metabolic syndrome and other lifestyle diseases and thus improve employee health, Sharp is deploying a Get Healthy campaign at all business locations Your body is your “capital” and your health is your “asset.” 090 For Business Partners in Japan. This campaign distributes a record sheet that enables employees to keep Invest in your health today! track of their goals for exercise, diet, stopping smoking, losing weight, and other ~ What you can do for your health ~ 094 For Shareholders and Investors lth health aspects as a way of supporting employees in their own efforts to improve their ea rh lifestyle habits. Diet yo u es t in For Employees The company-wide team walking event, which is aimed at making employees Three balanced meals Inv in 096 you Creating a Fair, Positive, and accustomed to exercise, started in fiscal 2005 with over 3,000 employees est a day prevent obesity. rh 103 Progressive Workplace participating, and it continues to grow with 15,000 employees participating in fiscal Teeth Invest Inv in you ea lth r hea Chewing food lth 2009. As a result, approximately 42% of employees diagnosed with metabolic 104 For Local Communities properly is one simple syndrome who participated in this event were able to be excluded from that designation in health checkups in fiscal 2009. way to prevent obesity. Quit smoking Exercise 110 Honors from Third Parties Aim to chew one In addition, Sharp is providing support for smokers and is promoting quit-smoking mouthful 30 times. Smoking injures Burn internal fat by 112 Outline of the Sharp Group campaigns. Efforts include collaborating with nurses and dental hygienists to educate the arteries, increasing energy consumption. smokers about the harmful effects of cigarettes through educational workshops and so quit smoking. Start by walking more. 114 Independent Assurance Report personal coaching, as well as encouraging employees to participate in events such as a “Quit Smoking Marathon” or “Mission Sparkling Clean Teeth.” Health Mind Sharp will continue its proactive approach towards its employees on the theme of “The health investments that you, too, can do: diet, quit smoking, exercise, chew, and Fatigue is a warning of abnormalities psychological care.” in your body and mind. If you are tired, it is important you rest. ■ Physical Checkup Participation Rates (in Japan) (%) 100 99.8 99.94 99.987 99.997 99.997 99 98 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 103 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Local Communities Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen Based on its business philosophy “to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of people throughout the world” and as a corporate citizen, Sharp addresses various 001 Contents social challenges with a global viewpoint and conducts community-based social contribution activities, aiming for a harmonious coexistence with society. Sharp recognizes environment, education, and social welfare as priority fields, has created structures and systems for these activities, and voluntarily and continuously 002 Compiling This Report tackles these areas. 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Objectives for Fiscal 2009 Achievements for Fiscal 2009 Objectives for Fiscal 2010 007 Corporate Vision Japan: • Held Sharp Forest activities 37 times with a total of about 1,500 • Promote and expand Sharp Forest activities • Promote further Sharp Forest activities employees participating • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools, 008 Special Feature (10 locations) • Provided environmental education for about 28,700 children at 500 provide craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools and craftsmanship education for about 3,800 • Hold new educational programs that combine factory tours, visits to 012 Special Focus elementary schools, provide craftsmanship children at 100 elementary schools the Sharp Technology Hall, and environment/craftsmanship classes education at 100 elementary schools • A total of about 17,400 employees participated in about 700 local • Provide educational support for persons with disabilities • Continue local social contribution activities at all social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service bases (at special-needs schools) 017 Management • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and Sharp sales and service bases • A total of about 30,000 employees participated in volunteer activities at • Encourage volunteering among employees, with all Sharp offices and bases service bases 029 Sharp and the Environment • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of having a goal of having 30,000 employees volunteer 30,000 employees volunteer Sharp and Society Overseas: • In China, provided scholarships (179 people at 11 universities), donated • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in Objective and Achievements • Expand activities centered on Sharp Charity Sharp LCD TVs (38 units to 33 hospitals), carried out beautification China 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Foundation in China campaigns in areas near Sharp bases, conducted tree-planting activities, • Continue expanding environmental education in overseas • Expand environmental education in overseas built elementary schools and libraries, etc. regions 083 For Customers regions • Conducted environmental education lessons at overseas locations, primarily in North America and China (for about 6,000 children at a total of 74 schools) 090 For Business Partners 094 For Shareholders and Investors Fundamental View of Social Contribution Activities SGC Community-Based Social Contribution Activities 096 For Employees Sharp promotes social contribution activities based on the ■ Three Important Fields Jointly established by Sharp and its labor union in Japan in June 2003, the Sharp Green business philosophy “to contribute to the culture, benefits and of Social Contribution Club (SGC) is a volunteer organization that aims to contribute to local communities and to For Local Communities welfare of people throughout the world.” Activities increase employee awareness of volunteering through social contribution activities. In fiscal 2009, a total of approximately 30,000 employees participated in various activities, 104 Social Contribution Activities as a Sharp focuses on social challenges from a global viewpoint and such as local cleanup campaigns and creating Sharp Forests to preserve the woodlands Corporate Citizen uses its own resources to conduct community-based activities Environment 109 and satoyama (areas between the foot of mountains and arable land) in areas near Sharp that contribute to society in Japan and in areas around the world. bases and sales offices around Japan. 110 Honors from Third Parties Harmony and Sharp recognizes education, environment, and social welfare as Coexistence with Society These nature preservation and cleanup efforts have earned high praise. The Hachihon112 Outline of the Sharp Group priority fields for these activities, has created structures and Education Social Welfare matsu Yoshikawa Sharp Forest in Hiroshima Prefecture was given the Hiroshima systems for these activities, and voluntarily and continuously Prefecture Afforestation Award by the Hiroshima Prefecture Afforestation Promotion 114 Independent Assurance Report tackles these areas. These activities will improve corporate value Organization. The Mie site was honored for its Kushida River cleanup campaign by the as well as help Sharp aim for a harmonious coexistence with Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Chubu Regional Bureau, and four Sharp society. Group companies in Hirano, Osaka were recognized by the Osaka City Director General Structures and Systems for Promoting Social Contribution Activities Environment Bureau for their beautification campaigns. Sharp Corporation has a division specializing in the promotion of all domestic and overseas social contribution activities and is expanding measures and systems for these activities. For its environmental education lessons for elementary school children, Sharp continues to develop human resources, including training employees to serve as instructors in regions throughout Japan and registering those employees as in-house-qualified personnel. Sharp jointly established the Sharp Green Club (SGC) with its labor union in Japan to provide employees with opportunities for contributing to communities through such volunteer activities as local cleanup campaigns and forest preservation activities. Sharp has also made Kazutoshi Goto it easier for its employees in Japan to participate in social contribution activities by SGC Chairman introducing a volunteer leave system, where employees can take up to a one-year leave from (Executive Officer, 104 Wakakusayama Green Campaign 2010 Group General Manager, work to engage in volunteer activities, and a multipurpose leave system, where employees CSR Promotion Group; can receive eight days of extra paid leave per year to engage in socially valuable activities. Sharp Corporation) Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Local Communities Case Studies Environment 001 Contents Sharp undertakes environmental conservation activities as a corporate citizen and contributes to the global environment through its business activities, as laid out in its vision of “Becoming an Eco-Positive Company.” Sharp works closely with local communities, carrying out Sharp Green Club (SGC)-centered activities, such as cleanup campaigns and 002 Compiling This Report Sharp Forest work, at all production sites and sales and service bases in Japan. Cleanup campaigns and forest preservation work are also among the activities conducted at bases 003 Top Message outside of Japan. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Environmental Conservation Activities in Japan 007 Corporate Vision ■ Sharp Forests 008 Special Feature SGC is developing 11 Sharp Forests near its large-scale production sites and sales and service bases. The basic concept of the Sharp Forest initiative is to foster environmental 012 Special Focus awareness through tree-planting activities that give people a greater understanding of the bonds they have with forests and the creatures that inhabit them. In addition to 017 Management planting trees, Sharp is also emphasizing activities to help take care of the trees that 029 Sharp and the Environment have already been planted. The Sharp Forest initiative aims to increase employees’ environmental awareness and Sharp and Society contribute to the regeneration of forests and satoyama areas between the foot of Objective and Achievements mountains and arable land. As a new Sharp Forest activity, Sharp has begun Outdoor Environmental Participation in 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR conducting outdoor environmental education classes on the subject of biodiversity. Education Classes at Sharp Forests Local Cleanup Schemes 083 For Customers In August 2009, Sharp conducted outdoor Local sales and service bases are continuing Related information Page 16: Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity Sharp Forests environmental education classes at the participation in activities conducted by the Page 109: International Day for Biological Diversity 090 For Business Partners Konoyama Sharp Forest in Osaka Prefecture local government with the aim of undertaking activities directed at students who have taken “activities that the community will appreciate 094 For Shareholders and Investors ■ Cleanup Campaign Promotion elementary school environmental education even more.” The Kitakyushu Building Sharp promotes cleanup campaigns in areas and communities near all Sharp offices classes (see page 106) to teach them registered as a “City of Kitakyushu Road 096 For Employees around Japan. In fiscal 2009, a total of approximately 23,000 employees participated in forestry preservation and the importance of Supporter” in 2006 as a pioneer in this area. regenerating satoyama areas, which they On the 25th of every month, the roads 810 campaigns. For Local Communities cannot learn about at their desks. around the building are cleaned using Related information Page 22: Further Raising Awareness of CSR Among Sales and Service Employees cleaning equipment supplied by the city. 104 Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen 109 Overseas Environmental 110 Honors from Third Parties Conservation Activities 112 Outline of the Sharp Group As a corporate citizen, Sharp is proactively undertaking environmental conservation 114 Independent Assurance Report activities, such as biodiversity protection, targeting various environmental social issues at local bases around the world. Specifically, Sharp is conducting such activities as afforestation, silviculture, mangrove tree planting, coral reef Mangrove Tree Planting in Indonesia Community Cleanup in Malaysia Earth Day Tree Planting regeneration, and cleanup campaigns. In January 2010, employees of In June 2009, manufacturing base S & O In an Earth Day-related event in May 2009, Sharp aims to develop environmental manufacturing base P.T. Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SOEM) sales base Sharp Electronics of Canada Ltd. awareness among its employees through Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) and local conducted a community cleanup with local (SECL) planted maples and other trees. The residents participated in a tree-planting residents to pick up litter, clean out gutters, company plans to hold events celebrating these activities, while at the same time campaign at a beach in Karawang. Some and plant seedlings. Earth Day not only in areas around the contributing to the global environment. 1,000 mangrove tree seedlings were company but in other areas as well. Sharp will continue developing planted. community-based environmental conservation activities. Related information Page 109: International Day for Biological Diversity activities 105 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Local Communities Case Studies Education 001 Contents Sharp is undertaking educational activities directed at children, on whose shoulders the future will rest, to increase their awareness of global environmental issues and their interest in science, and to get them thinking about future careers. In Japan, Sharp officially began providing environmental education at elementary schools from fiscal 2006 and 002 Compiling This Report craftsmanship education at elementary schools from fiscal 2009. Recognizing that environmental issues are global social issues, Sharp is also undertaking environmental education 003 Top Message around the world, notably in the United States and China. 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Educational Activities in Japan 007 Corporate Vision ■ Elementary School Environmental Education Since October 2006, Sharp has conducted environmental education activities in collaboration with the Weathercaster Network (WCN) 008 Special Feature and with the cooperation of the Asaza Fund at a total of 500 elementary schools across the nation annually. The aim of the classes is to 012 Special Focus foster concern for the global environment in children, on whose shoulders the future will rest, by conveying to them current global environmental issues in easy-to-understand lessons, leading them to do environmentally conscious activities at home. 017 Management By January 2010, classroom presentations had been given in a total of approximately 1,500 schools, reaching 100,000 children. In fiscal 2009, classroom presentations had been given in a total of 500 schools to approximately 29,000 children. In addition, in April 029 Sharp and the Environment 2010, this activity was highly appraised and received the Minister’s Award from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology at the 19th Grand Prize for the Global Environment Award.* Sharp and Society The classes offer a choice of a total of four courses: two courses that combine global warming with recycling or new energy (solar Objective and Achievements power), as well as two courses that add ecosystem protection to the aforementioned courses. WCN representatives teach students 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR about global warming, while Asaza Fund representatives teach about ecosystem protection, and Sharp presenters known as ECO President Mikio Katayama and WCN 083 For Customers Navigators teach about recycling and new energy. ECO Navigators are appointed from among Sharp personnel involved in sales and Chairwoman Ryoko Fujimori (left) receive the service activities at bases around the country, and receive special training to serve as instructors. Minister’s Award from the Ministry of Education, 090 For Business Partners Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; 19th * Established in 1992, this award is one of the most respected and oldest environmental awards in Japan. (Organizers: Fujisankei Communications Group, Grand Prize for the Global Environment Award Sponsors: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; Ministry of the Environment; Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; and 094 For Shareholders and Investors Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism) Related information Page 16: Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity Page 22: Further Raising Awareness of CSR Among Sales and 096 For Employees Service Employees ■ Elementary School Craftsmanship Education For Local Communities From fiscal 2009, craftsmanship education classes are being given at a total of 100 elementary schools around Japan annually. These classes aim at conveying to children in easy-to-understand language the fun and dreams of craftsmanship, and the importance of 104 Social Contribution Activities as a teamwork, an inquiring mind, and curiosity in craftsmanship, in the hope that the lessons will act as a catalyst to increase students’ Corporate Citizen 109 interest in science and get them thinking about future careers. Sharp presenters known as Technology Navigators teach classes that convey the fun and ingenuity of craftsmanship through the 110 Honors from Third Parties evolution history of familiar electrical products, group work planning future products, and disassembling and reassembling the products. Technology Navigators are appointed from among Sharp engineers from various divisions, and receive special training to serve as Elementary school class 112 Outline of the Sharp Group in craftsmanship education instructors. 114 Independent Assurance Report Overseas Environmental Education Environmental education directed at elementary school students in the United States and China began in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2009, classroom presentations had been given at 74 schools, including Asia. Environmental Education in China Environment Education in North In fiscal 2009, 36 environmental education classroom America presentations had been given to approximately 2,400 In fiscal 2009, 31 environmental elementary school children in China. education classroom presentations were In China, representatives from all nine Sharp given to approximately 3,100 elementary Chinese bases teach classes with content linked to school children in North America. national environmental policies, such as the reduction When these activities began, in the use of plastic shopping bags and energy presentations were given from two saving, in cooperation with the China National bases in New Jersey and California in Committee for the Wellbeing of the Youth, a state the US, but from fiscal 2009 activities extra-governmental organization that promotes have expanded to eight North American 106 various activities with the goal of ensuring the sound Elementary school class in China bases, including Canada and Mexico. Elementary school class in the US upbringing of the next generation of children. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Local Communities Case Studies Social Welfare 001 Contents Sharp is globally promoting various community-based activities, such as the employment of the physically or mentally challenged, job assistance for the physically or mentally challenged by offering sales opportunities to vocational training centers, environmental education classes for physically or mentally challenged children, and support through 002 Compiling This Report donations and charity. 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Social Welfare Activities in Japan 007 Corporate Vision ■ Activities at a Special Subsidiary ■ Providing Sales Opportunities for Vocational Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. supports social Training Center* Products 008 Special Feature participation by and employment opportunities for As a joint effort between labor and management, Sharp the physically or mentally challenged by changing supports the social participation and independence of 012 Special Focus and expanding its operations to fit the the physically or mentally challenged, and provides development of Sharp Corporation’s electronics sales opportunities for handmade products from 017 Management business and by providing work experience vocational training centers at its offices, working 029 Sharp and the Environment training. together with local governments and non-profit Sharp Tokusen Industry’s approach to expanding organizations. In fiscal 2009, sales began regularly at Sales at the Yao Site Sharp and Society the Tanabe Head Office and the Yao Site, and there are the employment of the physically or mentally Objective and Achievements challenged received recognition in October 2009 plans to expand sales to other sites in the future. 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Award from the Osaka Prefectural when the Osaka Prefectural Association of Association of Employment Development * A workplace for the physically or mentally challenged 083 who have difficulty gaining immediate employment at corporations and businesses. For Customers Employment Development gave the company an award for being a “company that contributed to ■ Environmental Education at Special-Needs Schools 090 For Business Partners the employment of persons with disabilities.” A After the National Association for the Deaf School Sharp Tokusen Industry employee also received an Principals praised Sharp for its environmental 094 For Shareholders and Investors award for long-time service. education lessons at elementary schools, Sharp 096 For Employees began an environmental education program at elementary special-needs schools for educating the Related information Page 100: Promoting the Employment For Local Communities deaf across Japan. The classes are conducted in of the Physically or Mentally Challenged sign language and utilize visual experiments, making 104 Social Contribution Activities as a Work experience training them easy for deaf children to understand. Proper Environmental education classes Corporate Citizen 109 classes began from fiscal 2010. 110 Honors from Third Parties Overseas Social Welfare Activities 112 Outline of the Sharp Group As a corporate citizen, Sharp is 114 Independent Assurance Report proactively undertaking activities, targeting priority issues in social welfare even at local bases around the world. Sharp is specifically focusing on undertaking donation and charity activities for facilities and schools for the physically or mentally challenged and the elderly. These activities will lead to an improved Donating to a Facility for Charity Activities in China Providing Health Support social awarenes in Sharp employees, the Disabled in Thailand In June 2009, sales base Sharp Electronics in Indonesia while at the same time contributing to In August 2009, sales base Sharp Thai Co., Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) held a charity In July 2009, manufacturing and sales base local society. Ltd. (STCL) donated clothing and food and auction to gather money for building an PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID), in made monetary contributions collected from elementary school. The money collected was cooperation with a local health center, Sharp will continue developing employees to a facility for visually impaired donated to cover part of the construction offered free medial check-ups to nearby community-based social action programs. children. costs. residents. SEID also distributed booklets on health in an effort to raise awareness in the 107 community. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Local Communities Case Studies Other Areas 001 Contents Blood Donations Disaster Area Reconstruction Assistance 002 Compiling This Report Every year, Sharp calls for blood donations at its sites in Japan so that: 1) employees Sharp works in “harmony with the community” as stated in the Sharp Group Charter 003 Top Message can contribute to society, 2) Sharp can increase employees’ awareness of voluntary of Corporate Behavior and conducts social contribution activities as a “good activities, and 3) participants can be informed of blood test results to use for their own corporate citizen.” Based on this idea, when a large-scale disaster occurs, overseas 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) health control. In fiscal 2009, Sharp employees in Japan made more than 2,200 blood or in Japan, Sharp takes into consideration the state of the local business activities in 007 Corporate Vision donations. the country or area and provides assistance through monetary donations and relief supplies, working with local subsidiaries and related associations such as the Nippon Sharp sales bases in Japan ask business partners to participate in giving blood. And 008 Special Feature Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), Kansai Economic Federation, and Japanese blood drives are held actively at Sharp bases outside of Japan as well. Red Cross Society. 012 Special Focus ■ Blood Donations by Sharp Corporation Employees in Japan (Persons) 017 Management 3,000 2,723 Examples of Recent Support 029 Sharp and the Environment 2,614 2,550 2,500 2,441 (1) April 2010, Qinghai Earthquake, China: 2,205 · Donation approximately 14 million yen Sharp and Society Objective and Achievements 2,000 (2) January 2010, Haiti Earthquake: 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR · Donation approximately 4 million yen 083 For Customers 1,500 (3) September 2009, Sumatra Earthquake, Indonesia: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) · Donation, relief package, etc. approximately 10 million yen 090 For Business Partners (4) August 2009, Typhoon Morakot, Taiwan: · Donation approximately 3 million yen 094 For Shareholders and Investors 096 For Employees For Local Communities 104 Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen 109 110 Honors from Third Parties Donating blood at Donating blood in Thailand the Amagasaki Building (Japan) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report TOPICS Sharp Charity Foundation in China Actively Help Out the Community in Fiscal 2009 In June 2009, Sharp bases in China jointly donated money to the Shanghai Charity Foundation, a public fund, to carry out such social contribution activities as granting scholarships, planting trees, and donating Sharp products to public institutions. The foundation donated 38 LCD TVs to 33 public hospitals around the country, including the Children’s Hospital of Fudan University in Shanghai. To address the needs of the community, Sharp bases in China will continue making such contributions. At the monetary donation ceremony Presenting a university student with a scholarship 108 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Sharp and Society For Local Communities Close-Up Sharp Starts Worldwide Initiative for Supporting Biodiversity 001 Contents May 22 is the United Nations International Day for Biological Diversity. In support of this day, Sharp carried out various activities around the world for the protection of 002 Compiling This Report biodiversity. 003 Top Message In Japan, the Sharp Green Club (SGC) led SGC Green Wave 2010, an event that took take place on May 22 in the 11 Sharp Forests located across the country between Hokkaido and Kyushu. Sharp employees planted trees—including special International Day for Biological Diversity commemorative trees—tended forests, hosted 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) biodiversity lectures by local ecology specialists, and conducted wildlife surveys in line with the particular characteristics of each Sharp Forest. These activities were valuable opportunities for protecting biodiversity and increasing employee awareness. 007 Corporate Vision Outside Japan, Sharp subsidiaries carried out a range of activities suited to each region, including planting trees, tending forests, protecting the habitat of wild birds, and holding awareness-raising programs. 008 Special Feature Related information Page 16: Multifaceted Approach to Biodiversity Page 105: Environmental Conservation Activities in Japan, Overseas Environmental Conservation Activities 012 Special Focus All together now—biodiversity activities in 27 countries and regions worldwide 017 Management 029 Sharp and the Environment Sharp and Society Events held Objective and Achievements at the 11 080 in the Social Dimension of CSR Sharp Forests 083 For Customers in Japan Silvicultural activities Tree planting Forest workshop Tree thinning Tree planting Sapporo Sharp Forest, Yaita Sharp Forest, Tochigi Kameyama Eko Forest, Mie Taki Sharp Forest, Mie Sharp Green Club Asuka Forest, 090 For Business Partners Hokkaido Nara 094 For Shareholders and Investors 096 For Employees For Local Communities 104 Social Contribution Activities as a Maintenance of bamboo grove Biodiversity lecture Tree planting Tree planting Tree thinning Silvicultural activities 109 Corporate Citizen near ancient burial mound Konoyama Sharp Forest, Kagawa Sharp Forest, Kagawa Hiroshima Airport Side Ryuoh-zan Sharp Forest, Fukuoka Sharp Takasu Forest, Tenri Kofun Sharp Forest, Nara Osaka Sharp Forest, Hiroshima Hiroshima Fukuoka 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report Tree planting Biodiversity lecture UK US Tree planting Preserving national park grounds Environmental class for children Tree planting Tree planting Tree planting 109 France China Malaysia Thailand Philippines Korea Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Honors from Third Parties Honors from Third Parties (Since Fiscal 2009) 001 Contents ■ Efforts 002 Compiling This Report Year Month Award Sponsor Winner Research Association for Feedstock Recycling of 003 Top Message 6 Technological Achievement Award Sharp Corporation Plastics (Japan) 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) IEEE Milestone (for the commercialization and industrialization of solar cells) IEEE (US) Sharp Corporation 007 Corporate Vision 4 Award of Merit, 13th Green Reporting Awards Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 008 Special Feature Minister’s Award; Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; 19th Grand Sharp Corporation, Prize for the Global Environment Award (for elementary school environmental education) Fujisankei Communications Group (Japan) Weathercaster Network 012 Special Focus Conference on Promotion of Public Transportation GREEN FRONT SAKAI; Yao, Excellent Eco-Commuting Business Site certification 017 Management (Japan) Hirano, and Kami Sites Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Sharp Electronics Corporation 029 Sharp and the Environment ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence 2010 Energy (US) (US) 080 Sharp and Society 2010 56th Okochi Memorial Technology Award (for the development and practical Sharp Corporation, 3 application of an LCD panel that uses high-performance crystalline silicon TFTs Okochi Memorial Foundation (Japan) Semiconductor Energy 110 and integrates the peripheral circuits onto the panel itself) Laboratory Co., Ltd. Honors from Third Parties 111 2009 Consumers’ Choice Outstanding After-Sales Service Company, Sharp Electronics Sales China Electronic Chamber of Commerce 4th National Electronics Products After-Sales Service Convention (China) Co., Ltd. 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 3rd place overall, CSR Company Ranking Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 114 Independent Assurance Report Caring Company Logo 2009/2010 Sharp-Roxy (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong Council of Social Service (China) (for contributions to society and the environment) (China) 2 Ministry of the Environment, Encouragement Prize, 13th Environmental Communication Awards Mie Site Global Environmental Forum (Japan) 1 World’s Top 500 Corporations – China Contribution Award Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Southern Weekly (China) Co., Ltd. 2009 Outstanding CSR Award Sharp Electronics Sales (China) First Financial Daily (China) Co., Ltd. 12 Excellent Company Award, 2009 Internet IR Best Company Awards Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. (Japan) Sharp Corporation Grand Prize, 2009 4th Nikkei Child-Raising Support Award Nikkei Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 11 Sharp Electronics Corporation Excellence Award, SmartWay Transport Program Environmental Protection Agency (US) (US) Grand Prize, 11th Green Purchasing Awards Sharp Corporation, Green Purchasing Network (Japan) (for elementary school environmental education) Weathercaster Network 2009 Outstanding Company Award (3rd place overall), Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers Sharp Corporation 5th Quality Management Ranking Survey Distinguished Organization of Merit in Promoting the Creation of Ministry of the Environment (Japan) Makuhari Site a Sustainable Society – Minister’s Award 10 Sharp Electronics Sales 2009 China Best CSR Award 21st Century Business Herald (China) (China) Co., Ltd. Shanghai Sharp Electronics Shanghai Exemplary Clean Manufacturer Shanghai City (China) Co., Ltd. (China) Osaka Prefectural Association of Employment Company That Contributed to the Employment of Persons with Disabilities Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Development (Japan) 110 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Honors from Third Parties ■ Efforts 001 Contents Year Month Award Sponsor Winner Silver Certificate, 1st GreenPlan Award LeasePlan (Belgium) Sharp Electronics Benelux B.V. 002 Compiling This Report Belgium Branch Wastewi$e Label (Class of Excellence), Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Hong Kong Council of Social Service, Sharp-Roxy (Hong Kong) Ltd. 003 Top Message Excellence (for waste reduction) Environmental Campaign Committee (China) (China) 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 9 Award for Relationship Between Employer & Employee About Right & Duty Thai national government Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. 007 Corporate Vision Sharp-Engineering Corporation, Environment Bureau Director General’s Prize, Sharp Document Systems Corporation, 008 Special Feature Beautification Campaign Contributor Award Osaka City Environment Bureau (Japan) Sharp Tokusen Industry Co., One Stop Support Corporation 012 Special Focus No. 1 in four categories of the After-Sales Service Satisfaction Ranking 8 Nikkei BP Marketing, Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 017 Management (flat-screen TV, BD/DVD/HDD recorder, air conditioner, washing machine/dryer) Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 029 Sharp and the Environment 7 River cleanup commendation Sharp Green Club (Mie) 2009 Chubu Regional Bureau (Japan) 080 Sharp and Society Top brand for customer satisfaction (office equipment and TVs), China National Household Electric Appliances Sharp Electronics Sales (China) 2009 survey on government organizations’ satisfaction levels of electronics Service Association Co., Ltd. 110 6 purchases and after-sales service Honors from Third Parties 111 2009 Afforestation Award (for Sharp Forest tree-planting activities) Hiroshima Prefecture Afforestation Promotion Sharp Green Club Organization (Japan) (Fukuyama, Mihara, Hiroshima) 112 Outline of the Sharp Group Shanghai Sharp Electronics 5 Water-Saving Company of Shanghai Shanghai City (China) Co., Ltd. (China) 114 Independent Assurance Report Satisfactory Brand of Flat-Screen TV, 2009 Survey on Customer Service China National Household Electric Appliances Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Satisfaction Service Association Co., Ltd. 4 Site Report Prize, 12th Green Reporting Awards Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Mie Site Sharp Green Club 2009 Cherry Blossom Contributor Award (for Sharp Forest tree-planting activities) Japan Cherry Blossom Association (Fukuyama, Mihara, Hiroshima) ■ Products Year Month Award Sponsor Winner Grand Prize (Nikkei Sangyo Shimbun Award), 2009 Nikkei Outstanding Products 2 Nikkei Inc. (Japan) LED AQUOS LCD TV and Services Awards 2010 Chairman’s Prize, the Energy Conservation Center, Japan; 2009 Grand Prize for 9 LED lamp models Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (Japan) Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation (machinery and systems category) (DL-L601N, etc.) 1 Japan Brand Award, 52nd 10 Best New Products Awards Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, Ltd. (Japan) UV²A LCD technology Plasmacluster air conditioner with Japan Society of Refrigerating and Air Conditioning 5 36th Technology Award airflow control technology using Engineers tilt-down/tilt-up long diffuser panel 2009 Practical application of new air The New Technology Development Foundation conditioner airflow technology that 4 Contribution Award, 41st Ichimura Industrial Award (Japan) controls excessive cooling and minimizes fatigue 111 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp’s business activities comprise “Consumer/Information Products” that are actual consumer electronics and information products, and “Electronic Components” that provide the key components of electronic products. By undertaking the development of both key devices based on proprietary technologies and their application products, Sharp aims to inspire and impress customers by bringing forth never-before-seen, one-of-a-kind products and devices, and by pioneering new markets. 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message Corporate Profile Name Sharp Corporation Operations*1 Manufacture and sales of audio-visual and communication equipment, health and 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Head Office 22-22, Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, environmental equipment, information equipment, LCDs, solar cells, and other electronic 007 Corporate Vision Osaka, Japan devices Representatives Katsuhiko Machida, Chairman Capital Stock*1 204,675 million yen (rounded down to the nearest million) 008 Special Feature Mikio Katayama, President Number of Employees*1 Consolidated: 53,999 Founded September 15, 1912 Entire Sharp Group: 61,734 (31,696 in Japan; 30,038 overseas) 012 Special Focus *1 As of March 31, 2010 017 Management Main Products 029 Sharp and the Environment 080 Sharp and Society Audio-Visual and 110 Honors from Third Parties LCDs Communication 112 Equipment Outline of the Sharp Group 113 AQUOS Quattron 3D Mobile phones Four-primary-color*2 LCD panel using UV2A technology Memory LCD 114 Independent Assurance Report LCD TVs, color TVs, projectors, DVD recorders, Blu-ray Disc recorders, Blu-ray Disc players, TFT LCD modules, duty LCD modules, System LCD modules mobile phones, PHS (personal handy-phone system) terminals, mobile communications handsets, *2 The use of four primary colors is a concept designed for LCDs, and differs from the conventional personal computers, electronic dictionaries, calculators, facsimiles, telephones three-primary-color concept of light and color. Health and Environmental Solar Cells Equipment Residential solar power generation system Plasmacluster Ion generators LED lamps (compatible with “Roofit” design) Industrial-use thin-film solar module Refrigerators, superheated steam ovens, microwave ovens, air conditioners, washing machines, Crystalline solar cells, thin-film solar cells vacuum cleaners, air purifiers, dehumidifiers, humidifiers, electric heaters, small cooking appliances, Plasmacluster Ion generators, LED lights, solar-powered LED lights Other Information Electronic Equipment Devices 1/4-type 5-megapixel LCD monitor (information display) Digital full-color MFP CMOS camera module LED lighting device POS systems, handy data terminals, electronic cash registers, LCD color monitors, information CCD/CMOS imagers, LSIs for LCDs, microcomputers, flash memories, analog ICs, components displays, digital MFPs (multifunction printers), options and consumables, software, FA equipment, for satellite broadcasting, terrestrial digital broadcast tuners, RF modules, network components, ultrasonic cleaners laser diodes, LEDs, optical pickups, optical sensors, components for optical communications, regulators, switching power supplies 112 Corporate information Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Outline of the Sharp Group 001 Contents ■ Net Sales, Operating Income, and Net Income (Consolidated) ■ The Sharp Group at a Glance (as of March 31, 2010) 002 Compiling This Report Net sales (billions of yen) Operating income, net income (billions of yen) 3,600 3,417.7 240 • Consolidated subsidiaries: 57 (13 in Japan, 44 overseas) 003 Top Message 3,127.7 3,000 200 2,797.1 186.5 183.6 2,847.2 2,755.9 • Overseas structure 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 2,400 163.7 160 1,800 120 007 Corporate Vision 88.6 101.7 101.9 Sales subsidiaries 30 companies in 25 countries/regions 1,200 80 51.9 008 Special Feature 600 40 Manufacturing bases 23 companies in 14 countries/regions 0 4.3 0 012 Special Focus -40 R&D bases 4 companies in 3 countries/regions 017 Management -55.4 -80 -120 R&D company and parts supplier 1 company in 1 country/region 029 Sharp and the Environment -125.8 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Finance company 1 company in 1 country/region 080 Sharp and Society Net sales Operating income Net income Representative offices 2 offices in 1 country/region 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Total 61 companies/offices in 26 countries/regions Outline of the Sharp Group 113 ■ Fiscal 2009 Consolidated Net Sales ■ Fiscal 2009 Consolidated Net Sales by Product Group (Component Ratio) by Region (Component Ratio) 114 Independent Assurance Report Electronic Consumer/information Overseas Domestic ■ Number of Sharp Group Employees components 33.1% products 66.9% 48.1% 51.9% Other 8.2% (Persons) 61,734 Other electronic 60,000 59,639 58,912 319 Solar cells devices 7.0% 7.6% 55,731 331 318 China 55,000 54,755 13.2% 305 307 LCDs Audio-visual and 50,000 18.5% communication Europe Japan equipment 14.3% 51.9% 45,000 17,922 17,878 19,167 18,556 21,071 48.3% Information 40,000 Americas equipment 12.4% 4,687 4,226 4,177 9.7% 35,000 Health and environmental 2,707 3,744 equipment 8.9% 2,670 2,818 4,730 4,795 4,471 30,000 25,000 20,000 ■ Principal Financial Performance ■ R&D Expenditures (Consolidated) Indicators (Consolidated) 15,000 31,151 30,984 30,724 31,017 31,696 (%) (Billions of yen) 12 200 189.8 196.1 195.5 10,000 8.9 8.4 8.4 166.5 6 150 154.3 5,000 6.9 0.4 6.1 5.7 6.0 0 0 3.6 3.7 3.4 100 5.5 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) -4.4 0.2 -6 50 Japan Americas Europe Asia Others -12 -11.1 0 Note: Sharp Group comprises Sharp Corporation, its consolidated subsidiaries, affiliated 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 companies accounted for by the equity method, and other affiliated companies. Figures as of the (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) end of each fiscal year (March 31). ROE (return on equity) R&D expenditures 113 ROA (return on assets) Ratio to net sales Corporate information Investor relations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 Independent Assurance Report 001 Contents 002 Compiling This Report 003 Top Message 005 Concept of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 007 Corporate Vision 008 Special Feature 012 Special Focus 017 Management 029 Sharp and the Environment 080 Sharp and Society 110 Honors from Third Parties 112 Outline of the Sharp Group 114 Independent Assurance Report 114 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2010 22-22 Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8522, Japan Phone: +81-6-6621-1221 http://www.sharp.co.jp/
