Responsibility Report kk-electronic a/s ● GLOBAL COMPACT ● COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 Content Supporting the Global Compact ● 3 Company profile ● 4 The Ten Principles ● 6 Worldwide responsibility ● 7 Status on Present Business Practices ● 8 kk-electronic efforts ● 11 World focus ● 14 Our green efforts ● 15 2 ●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●● Supporting the Global Compact kk-electronic is committed to take on the responsibility of being a worldwide company and live up to the social obligations of that role. WITH kk-electronic’s position as a world leaOur mission, our strong tradition and position in ding supplier of control systems for wind turbines wind energy markets, coupled with a highly enwe see ourselves as being responsible of upholgaged workforce and a deep desire to do the ding a balance in Corporate Social Responsibiliright thing for our world, puts us in an excellent ties. position to take on responsibility. By supporting the Global Compact program we Responsibility for our employees. Responsibility see the opportunity to make proactive efforts in for the value chain that we are part of. And in the the ten principles, and our aim is to make the end responsibility for a better global work enviGlobal Compact and its principles part of the ronment. strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Tommy G. Jespersen CEO 3 Company profile kk-electronic a/s is an international provider of wind turbine control system solutions. kkelectronic a/s is a leading interkknational provider of control system solutions for The production takes place in Szczecin, Poland wind turbines. The company was founded in and in our joint-venture company in Chongqing, 1981 and has since the origin worked with and China, kk-Qianwei, with more than 400 emdeveloped the capabilities of control systems. ployees. Our merits include the delivery of the first control kk-electronic is part of the kk-group, which also system enabling the wind turbine to be gridcomprises ELOGIC a/s, a manufacturer of districonnected, the first electronic control system and bution and control switchboards for industry and the first control and monitoring systems for wind domestic housing. farms. Over the years, kk-electronic has been selected for the most tough and difficult development jobs, and today offshore wind turbines is one of the areas where kk-electronic’s control system comInnovation petences is recognised; more than 40% of the For more than 3 decades, kk-electronic has been global offshore wind turbine population relies on in the forefront of wind energy developments. kk-electronic’s control system to generate wind The company was the first to develop a control energy. system which allowed a modern wind turbine to be connected to the electrical grid. Through conThe headquarter in Ikast, Denmark has extensitinuous developments the company’s control ve research and development competences and system has been able to ensure superior perforprototype and test facilities, supplemented by mance and reliability of the steady larger and sales & marketing, quality and procurement larger wind turbines; from the 22 kW wind turbidisciplines, and employs more than 200 specianes to the 5000 MW wind power plants in 2010. lists. 4 This has enabled us to stay in the front (still to...has been in day) with respect to control systems for offshore wind and to make control solutions for the largest wind turbines being developed. the forefront of wind energy kk-electronic’s more than 600 dedicated and ingenuous employees are adapting consumer and developments customer demands into practical solutions and innovations, often in co-operations with partnefor more than ring companies. three decades… We recognize that control systems are one essential answer to energy efficiency and to reduce climate changes, and we are obliged to make a serious commitment to develop, promote and market more energy-efficient solutions for people in all markets. ...developed the capabilities of control systems… ...has been selected for the most tough and difficult development jobs… ●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●● 5 The Ten Principles ● Human Rights Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ● Environment Principle 2 Principle 7 make sure that they are not complicit Businesses should support a in human rights abuses. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ● Labour Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 9 of association and the effective encourage the development and diffusion recognition of the right to collective of environmentally friendly technologies. bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and ● AntiCorruption Anticompulsory labour; Principle 10 Principle 5 Businesses should work against corruption the effective abolition of child labour; and in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●● 6 Worldwide responsibility IN 2010 kk-electronic conducted a SWOTanalysis in each of the company’s three locations Denmark, Poland and China. The purpose of the investigation was to clarify the status of ongoing activities and to identify weaknesses in our procedures and activities in relation to the Global Compact’s 10 principles. In this first Communication on Progress kk-electronic will focus on key areas that were encountered during the analysis in the three locations respectively. We will identify the targets and define our goals for implementation in 2011. With different bases of experience we operate from different angles, and we have treated each location separately in order to give an impression of our different starting points. 7 Status on Present Business Practices Internal score 5 = performs in line with principles; 1 = misses initiatives to support principles Comments If country not stated = valid for all locations. DK = Valid for Denmark, PL = Valid for Poland, CH = Valid for China Internally, kk-electronic operates with an employee program, where the employee in the first days after employment is informed about human rights, health & safety and duties. This introduction is applicable to local labour laws Score Principle 1 and regulations. DK + PL: Additionally, regular employee opinion surveys 1 2 3 4 5 are conducted to measure work satisfaction and register improvement ideas. DK: Health & Safety is managed by a Committee of both management and employee representatives PL: A Health, Safety & Fire specialist is hired. Score Principle 2 The company is obliged to comply with local legislation to safeguard the human rights, and these are fulfilled in relation to our employees. 1 2 3 4 5 2010: Throughout our supply chain kk-electronic doesn’t have any policies or a monitoring system to ensure, that human rights are protected amongst our suppliers. DK: kk-electronic has a system with shop stewards, who Score Principle 3 according to agreements between employersand employees associations has a special protection in their employment and the right to collective bargaining. 1 2 3 4 5 PL + CH: The company consults with employees on important issues (problem-solving or other needs of interest) regularly through employees’ representatives. 8 The company uses contracts for all employees, which defiScore Principle 4 nes job descriptions and duties, as well as stating the procedures for leaving the job. 1 2 3 4 5 However, throughout our supply chain kk-electronic doesn’t have any activities to ensure, that human rights are protected amongst our suppliers. The company always uses employee’s identity card to Score Principle 5 verify age before an recruitment process is concluded, and therefore the company will as such never employ underage persons (as defined by local laws). 1 2 3 4 5 However, throughout our supply chain kk-electronic doesn’t have any activities to ensure, that child labour isn’t used amongst our suppliers. In our recruitment policy and our employee policy we try to ensure that discrimination neither in time of recruitment or Score Principle 6 during the employment will take place. Managers will as part of their responsibilities conduct per1 2 3 4 5 sonal development talks and key performance indicators to motivate and encourage our employees to develop skills and competences to be able to address a long-term career path. The company also offer in-house & external training to those who are seeking developing skills to comply with the company needs. As a supplier to the wind energy industry, kk-electronic is contributing to an environmental friendly trend. Wind energy is the utilization of natural and renewable resources, and as such it has a positive impact on global health. DK+PL: The company obtained its ISO 14001-certification Score Principle 7 in 2009, and it is a management tool to focus on environment conditions and our ability to take care of environment, nature and our resources in our manufacturing pro1 2 3 4 5 cesses. We are consciously working to reduce consumption of electricity, water and heat. Environmental audits and evaluation of the results obtained are important to clarify where kk-electronic should concentrate its effort in order to minimize the unintentional environmental impacts. CH: The company doesn’t have a practice for its operations and products that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment. 9 DK+PL: Through our work with ISO 14001 we are Score Principle 8 consciously working to reduce consumption of electricity, water and heat. 1 2 3 4 5 CH: The company has developed KPI's to reduce the environmental impact through an energy conservation programme. kk-electronic develops and manufactures wind turbine control systems, which is an essential tool to optimize productivity, and minimize downtime and stand-stills. Inputs Score Principle 9 from sensors and transducers throughout the wind turbine are collected and analysed in the control system to monitor, if the best possible performance is met. As such 1 2 3 4 5 control systems are key components in industrial societies to ensure that resources are used efficiently. Additionally, kk-electronic is marketing its products outside the wind energy sector, and our control systems are sold to wave energy installations and municipal wastewater treatment plants. Up until recently, the Company only had internal values against the use of corruptions, extortion and bribery. With the entry into the Global Compact program it became clear that policies regarding anti-corruption should be developed Score Principle 10 and implemented. This work is ongoing. Meanwhile, we have joined with Royal Danish Embassy Anti Corruption Partnership. It is both a strategic and a 1 2 3 4 5 practical oriented partnership created to advance commitment and implementation of anti corruption practices. The aim is to secure an ongoing update on trends and best practices and committing members to continuously evaluate and improve their anti corruption tools and activities in order to contribute actively to prevent corruption. 10 Efforts in Ikast, DK kk-electronic’s headquarter is situated in Ikast, Denmark. kkkkelectronic’s headquarter in Ikast In the Ikast location we do not have activities will make a Code of Conduct applicable for all throughout our supply chain, with the purpose of three locations. The conclusion of the eliminating forced labour. headquarter’s SWOT analysis pointed at the following improvements: 2011 Scope kk-electronic in Ikast will make a collection of Principle 2 information at existing suppliers giving kkelectronic a guarantee of elimination of forced Make sure that the business is not complicit in and compulsory labour. human rights abuses In Danish legislation there are several rules that Principle 5 protect human rights, and in kk-electronic we have an employment policy that contains the saThe effective abolition of child labour me protection area. However, throughout our supply chain we do not have any policies ensuAgain, kk-electronic in Ikast does not have any ring the protection of human rights. activities in the supply chain that protects against child labour. 2011 Scope kk-electronic in Ikast will make a policy of human 2011 Scope rights at the location as well as a policy of human kk-electronic in Ikast will make a policy of the rights for our auditted suppliers. non-use of child labour in our supply chain. Furthermore, we will collect information at Principle 4 existing suppliers giving kk a guarantee of abolition of child labour. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 11 Efforts in Szczecin, PL The main part of kk-electronic’s production is located in Szczecin in Poland. IN kk-electronic’s location in Szczecin the The Internal Employment Regulation protects conclusion of the SWOT analysis pointed toagainst forced labour. However, we do not have wards improvements in the following areas: activities throughout our supply chain, with the purpose of eliminating forced labour. Principle 2 2011 Scope Make sure that the business is not complicit in In Szczecin kk-electronic will make a collection of human rights abuses information at existing suppliers giving kkelectronic a guarantee of elimination of forced There are several rules in Polish legislation that and compulsory labour. protects human rights, and in the company we have an Internal Employment Regulation protecPrinciple 5 ting human rights in our direct employment. In our supply chain we do not have policies protecThe effective abolition of child labour ting the human rights, but when possible we are using services of companies that employ diIn the Internal Employment Regulation there is sabled workers in order to support them. regulation against child labour, but there is no activities in the supply chain that protects against 2011 Scope child labour. In addition to the existing material kk-electronic in Szczecin will make a policy of human rights at 2011 Scope the location as well as a policy of human rights In the Szczecin location we will make a policy of for our auditted suppliers. the non-use of child labour in our supply chain. Furthermore, we will collect information at Principle 4 existing suppliers giving kk a guarantee of aboliThe elimination of all forms of forced and comtion of child labour. pulsory labour 12 Efforts in Chongqing, CH In Chongqing in China kk-electronic has a joint-venture with Qianwei, a part of the CSIC group. IN kk-electronic’s location in Chongqing the ’The Constitution of the People’s Republic of conclusion of the SWOT analysis pointed toChina’ protects against forced and compulsory wards improvements in the following areas: labour, and we only work with suppliers that support the Global Compact. Principle 2 2011 Scope Make sure that the business is not complicit in In addition to this effort kk-electronic in Chonghuman rights abuses qing will collect information at existing suppliers in order to give the company a guarantee that The company is obliged to comply with ’The forced labour is eliminated. Constitution of the People’s Republic of China’ in which it explicitly states that the State respects Principle 5 and safeguards the human rights. The company only works with suppliers that support the Global The effective abolition of child labour Compact. ’The Constitution of the People’s Republic of 2011 Scope China’ protects against child labour, and the In addition to the current efforts kk-electronic in company only works with suppliers that support Chongqing will make a policy of human rights at the Global Compact. our location as well as a policy of human rights for our auditted suppliers. 2011 Scope In addition we will make a policy of the non-use Principle 4 of child labour in our supply chain. Furthermore, we will collect information at existing suppliers The elimination of all forms of forced and comgiving kk a guarantee of abolition of child labour. pulsory labour 13 ●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●● World focus IN our business we have the world in focus and Children’s Villages’. For more than 15 years we we are driven by the core issues of the renehave supported ’SOS-Children’s Villages’ with wable industry. At the same time our holistic foeconomical support. Instead of sending Christcus stretches to other areas that make the world mas presents to our collaborating partners we spin around. This is also the reason why we are give our adopted children in foreign countries the supporting Global Compact’s ten principles, and funds, and the same goes for the funds collected already before our commitment in the program at corporate activities, such as Christmas gathewe engaged in other issues. rings. We are member of an anti-corruption organisatikk-electronic also donates funds for Denmark’s on, created by The Danish Embassy. The aim of Collection, who in 2011 raised funds for Africa’s The Royal Danish Embassy Anti Corruption Partyouth and thereby met some of United Nation’s nership is to counter corruption and demonstrate goals for 2015; The African youth must have commitment. education, get out of poverty and into the labour Companies with a global reach get to achieve market, have access to health care and know knowledge sharing across branches of how to their rights as well as participate in the democraavoid or handle corruptive activities, in order to tic proces. continuously evaluate and improve their anticorruption tools and activities. Furthermore kk-electronic donates funds to areas experiencing nature catastrophes, such as Furthermore we support projects of ’SOSthe earthquakes in Haiti, Pakistan and Japan. 14 Our green efforts Being a world leading supplier in the greentech industry kk-electronic live the values around the green mind set. AS a participant in the green renewable inessential that major emissions reductions in the dustry, we do not only deliver green technology power sector are introduced. solutions, we live the values around the green mind set to create a society where the environWind power consumes no fuel and no water for ment must be protected. Therefore, we are ISO continuing operation, and has no emissions di14001 certified and our efforts stretch to personal rectly related to electricity production. Wind turbisafety; Avoiding any danger to persons or equipnes produce no carbon dioxide, nor other air polment, and to unnecessary burden on the envilutant (as do fossil fuel power sources) which are ronment; Reducing waste and energy consumppolluting the major cities of the world and costing tion and prevent contamination. Additionally, we billions in additional health costs and infrastructuare continually launching preventive activities to re damage. Within three to six months of operatiavoid any potential deficiencies in our processes on, a wind turbine has offset all emissions caused and products. by its construction, to run virtually carbon free for the remainder of its 20 year life. Further, in an Climate change is now generally accepted to be increasingly carbon-constrained world, wind pothe greatest environmental threat facing the wer is risk-free insurance against the long term world, and keeping our planet’s temperature at downside of carbon intense investments. sustainable levels has become one of the major concerns of policy makers. The UN’s IntergoGiven the crucial timeframe up to 2020 during vernmental Panel on Climate Change projects which global emission must start to decline, the that average temperatures around the world will speed of deployment of wind farms is of key imincrease by up to 5.8°C over the coming century. portance. Building a conventional power plant can take 10 or 12 years or more, and until it is compIn order to avoid the worst ravages of climate leted, no power is being generated. Wind power change, global greenhouse gas emissions must deployment is measured in months, and will start peak and begin to decline before 2020. Since the generating power and income as soon as the first power sector is a major source of emissions, it is turbines are connected to the grid. 15 kk-electronic a/s ● Boegildvej 3 ● DK-7430 Ikast, Denmark ● +45 9722 1033 kk-electronic Polska Sp.Z.O.O ● UI. Goleniowska 62 ● PL-70-847 Szczecin, Poland Chongqing kk-QW Windpower Equipment Co. Ltd ● B-2-1 Jupiter building 9th Huangshan Ave., High-Tech Park ● New North Zone ● 401121 Chongqing, P.R. China www.kk-electronic.com 16
