Allianz Group Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 1 Our commitment 5 2 Strategy 6 3 Governance framework 8 3.1 Corporate governance: pursuing the highest standards 8 3.2 Sustainability management: embedded for good 10 3.3 Compliance management: striving for a culture of integrity 12 3.4 Risk management: risks and opportunities – our core business 14 4 Strategic targets 16 GLOBAL ISSUES 1 Access to finance 20 1.1 Microinsurance: the business with the double bottom line 20 1.2 Developing markets: expanding microinsurance in emerging markets 22 2 Climate change 24 2.1 Combining words with action 24 2.2 Managing the impact of natural disasters 26 3 Demographic change 28 3.1 Tackling the challenges of demographic change 28 3.2 Product innovation: innovative responses to aging societies 30 4 Digitalization 32 4.1 At home in a mobile, online world 32 4.2 Serving customers better in a more competitive climate 34 5 Stability of financial markets 36 5.1 Building a new financial architecture 36 5.2 Reducing complexity: adjusting to the new normal 39 PERFORMANCE 2010 1 Business ethics 42 1.1 Our approach: transparency and integrity in business conduct 42 1.2 Compliance: enhancing compliance effectiveness 43 1.3 Government relations: intensifying political relationships 45 1.4 Procurement: sustainability standards in the supply chain 47 2 Customers 49 2.1 Our approach: building lifelong customer relationships 49 2.2 Customer focus: responding to evolving markets 50 2.3 Customer loyalty: prioritizing customer satisfaction and loyalty 52 2.4 Brand management: building trust through investing in the brand 54 2 3 Employees 56 3.1 Our approach: safeguarding our human resources – now and in the future 56 3.2 Talent management: farsighted and focused on skills 58 3.3 Diversity: why diversity is good for business 60 3.4 Engagement: fostering a performance culture 62 4 Environment 63 4.1 Our approach: improving the environmental footprint 63 4.2 Environmental footprint: reducing consumption of natural resources 65 5 Investment community 69 5.1 Our approach: an active player in the growing ESG market 69 5.2 Own investments: investing in renewables and clean technology 71 5.3 Third party asset management: investing sustainably and responsibly 72 5.4 Sustainability ratings: rated among the top rankings 75 6 Society 77 6.1 Our approach: a committed corporate citizien 77 6.2 Lighthouse projects: Corporate Citizienship in action – to society's benefit 79 7 Key figures 82 7.1 Economy 82 7.2 Environment 83 7.3 Social 87 7.4 Governance 91 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 1 Stakeholder relationship management 93 1.1 Our approach: strengthening stakeholder relationships 93 1.2 Dialogues: listen, discuss, understand 95 1.3 External commitments: promoting the sustainability agenda 97 2 Reporting 99 2.1 Our approach: geared to stakeholders' needs 99 2.2 Materiality process: survey identifies focus topics 101 3 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 1 Our commitment 5 2 Strategy 6 3 Governance framework 8 3.1 Corporate governance: pursuing the highest standards 8 3.2 Sustainability management: embedded for good 10 3.3 Compliance management: striving for a culture of integrity 12 3.4 Risk management: risks and opportunities – our core business 14 4 Strategic targets 16 4 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 1 Our commitment Sustainability calls for a responsible approach to progress The financial crisis is not yet over. We still have to Demographic Change, Digitalization and the Stability come to terms with its financial consequences and of Financial Markets. cannot rule out a scenario in which such an upset is repeated. Nevertheless, it has largely disappeared These issues do not only affect Allianz, its 151,000 from the headlines, making way for new once-inemployees and 76 million customers in 70 countries. a-century events that nobody could possibly have Through analysis, dialog with our stakeholders and foreseen in terms of their scale and frequency. with the right financial solutions, we want to find a holistic approach to address these challenges that Who would have imagined that several North African benefits society as a whole. nations would revolt against their leaders within the space of a few weeks? And who, in the wake of Our approach to sustainable development combines the floods that hit Australia and the earthquake in long-term economic value creation with a holistic New Zealand, could have foreseen the catastrophe approach to environmental stewardship, social in Japan? How do we, as citizens, as politicians and responsibility and corporate governance. 2010 was as entrepreneurs, want to make a contribution to a good year for our Group – both in terms of our fostering stability, progress and prosperity in a world financial performance as well as our sustainability where natural forces, the political landscape and performance: the capital markets seem to have gone off the rails? And is it even legitimate to strive for progress at all  Economic: 2010 was one of the most successful when we consider the worst-case nuclear scenario years in our 120 year history, with net income confronting Japan? exceeding €100bn and operating profit €8bn.  Environmental: Our target to reduce our CO2 I believe that it is. The sort of progress we should be emissions by at least 20 percent compared to 2006 striving for, however, takes the concept of “progress” we have achieved two years ahead of schedule seriously and literally. Progress that, even when and now have to set ourselves new targets. faced with intense competition, deals with human  Social: The fact that our lighthouse financial literacy and natural resources in a manner that is not program, My Finance Coach, was named official focused on the short term or on the benefits for the project of the United Nations Decade of Education select few that manage to get ahead of the game, for Sustainable Development gave special but rather looks at the long-term well-being of the recognition to our social commitment. people and the surrounding environment.  Governance: Our Group-wide Anti-Corruption Program also includes interactions with our This is nothing new to an insurer and asset manager business partners. that has been guaranteeing its customers decadelong security for more than 120 years. But, given As an insurer, sustainability is part of Allianz’ DNA. the recent events to have hit the headlines, it is a We have been supporting the ten Principles of the new challenge for us, too. A challenge that we will United Nations Global Compact since 2002. Our have to tackle with new approaches and financial achievements have been recognized by the leading solutions for our customers. All of these innovative sustainability rating agencies. The real benchmark, solutions, however, are based on a principle that has however, lies in continuing to meet the changing long been known, but also has to be taken seriously needs of our customers. These needs, the way in and literally: sustainability. which they change in response to the five global issues, and our business success form the points of Our Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 a triangle, the balancing of which acts as the guiding shows how Allianz management, employees and sustainability force for Allianz and its management. agents together with our customers address the challenges we jointly face. We have identified five global issues on which we focus, namely providing Michael Diekmann Access to Financial Services, Climate and Chairman of the Board of Management of Allianz SE 5 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 2 Strategy Committed to Sustainable Development Since Sustainable Development (SD) is inherent to Allianz’ business and impacts on it in many ways, the Group cultivates a culture of corporate responsibility. In 2010, Allianz focused on reviewing and strengthening its SD processes and intensifying relationships with employees and external stakeholders. How Sustainable Development is • Offers low-premium insurance to poor people lived out and thus supports rural communities in developing countries Allianz has not just discovered SD in the past decade, • Combats the global challenge of climate change, but is building on foundations developed over the as natural disasters account for 40% of industrial last 120 years. Hence, the Allianz Code of Conduct insurance claims both expresses and further shapes this corporate • Offers retirement planning solutions in response culture of responsibility by upholding the everyday to demographic change across the globe business principles we have developed over time. • Engages in efforts to create a sustainable financial The Group’s strategy in this field is based on four system based on stable financial markets SD Principles: At Allianz, SD means combining long-term economic • Striving to safeguard natural resources in all value creation with a holistic approach to corporate internal operations governance, environmental stewardship and social • Incorporating sustainable business practices into responsibility. Allianz nurtures a corporate culture Allianz products and services in which these challenges are managed effectively – • Developing long-term and mutually beneficial not only for the risks they present, but also for the partnerships with stakeholders opportunities that can be seized to achieve sustainable • Aiming to be fully transparent about Allianz’ success. In practical terms, this translates into focusing sustainability performance on the following: These SD Principles are complemented by global • Achieving long-term economic growth and good Group-wide guidelines, such as the Allianz Principles corporate governance of Social Engagement. • Finding innovative solutions that address local and global challenges • Building long-lasting customer relationships Where sustainability is taken • Engaging employees in SD activities that are seriously aligned with corporate core competencies and leadership skills, for example through Social OPEX SD is in the very nature of Allianz’ business. and My Finance Coach Consequently, Allianz • Making a positive contribution to the environment and communities in which the Group operates • Shapes developments towards a sustainable • Sharing knowledge, for example through trend future by operating as a manager of risks and and market research, financial literacy programs opportunities or the Allianz Knowledge website 6 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT Allianz4Good is the Group’s central SD unit responsible for promoting and further integrating sustainability into all areas of the Allianz business by working in close cooperation with both central functions and subsidiaries. What was achieved in 2010 The priorities in 2010 were to strengthen existing SD processes, for instance in SD reporting and ratings, and intensify relationships with employees and external stakeholders. In September 2010, Allianz4Good started a project to refine their value proposition in the Group. Its main aims are to review and further align the SD strategy with the business strategy; define the strategic objectives and how to better support business operations; make SD more tangible to all employees; and transparently communicate Allianz’ strategic SD objectives to all stakeholders. By the end of the year, the external benchmarking and internal stocktaking processes had been concluded. This project will continue in 2011 and be manifested in different channels and projects, such as a corporate responsibility Annual Report: governance framework that better integrates Sustainable the perspectives of local Allianz entities into SD Development developments. Allianz Knowledge Site 7 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 3 Governance framework 3.1 Corporate governance: pursuing the highest standards Since responsible and transparent leadership is critically important to the long-term success of a company, Allianz pursues the highest standards in corporate governance. The company’s holistic approach was underlined by the appointment of a Chief Governance Officer in 2010. A pioneering tradition Prudence in risk management In striving for excellence in corporate governance, The framework developed by European regulatory Allianz has implemented a holistic approach, of bodies for the prudent supervision of insurance which pioneering achievements in the past provide companies, Solvency II, will be implemented in ample evidence. Allianz was one of the first national legislation by the end of 2012. Allianz has companies to implement Germany’s Corporate not only been proactively supporting the ongoing Governance Code and started publishing details of Solvency II discussions but also ensures adherence its Board of Management’s remuneration before to the requirements laid down in Solvency II and this was required by law. Corporate governance by the Minimum Risk Management Requirements at Allianz involves managing and supervising the for Insurance Companies (MaRisk VA), which company according to commonly accepted business were published by the German Federal Financial principles, procedures and responsibilities to ensure Supervisory Authority (BaFin) in spring 2009. an effective corporate governance system, which Specifically, this involves the implementation of is essential for sustainable business performance. comprehensive and integrated risk governance Transparent remuneration and long-term risk rules, an articulation of Allianz’risk tolerance, a management are key characteristics of corporate clear focus on undertaking specific risk governance governance at Allianz along with the Allianz Code processes to increase Group-wide risk awareness as of Conduct that lays down rules for acceptable well as the definition of a Group Risk Strategy and an behavior and corporate responsibility. As a overall risk framework. mandatory document for all employees, the Code of Conduct shapes corporate culture throughout the Group. Holistic approach to corporate governance Transparency in executive Allianz believes that corporate governance can only remuneration be practiced responsibly and efficiently through a dedicated comprehensive approach. To this end, the For years, Allianz has practiced a policy of absolute new function of Chief Governance Officer (CGO) transparency in executive remuneration. Details was established for the Allianz Group in September of the sums re­munerated in 2010 are contained 2010. The CGO reports directly to the Chief Executive in the current Annual Report. Processes are now in Officer, Michael Diekmann, who explains the place to evaluate the Board of Management’s own rationale behind the new function: “In the general sustainability performance with target assessment public, the call for transparency and clearly defined carried out by the Supervisory Board. rules in corporate governance is getting louder and 8 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT louder … So far we’ve been addressing this issue on the basis of individual functions, such as compliance, audit, legal and finance. With the Chief Governance Officer we are now creating a function that provides an all-encompassing view.” The CGO’s responsibilities include: • Conveying a holistic picture to both internal and external addressees of what constitutes good corporate governance • Coordinating all corporate governance activities and implementing any necessary measures • Ensuring that best practices are introduced in the company • Keeping the Board updated on the latest Annual Report: developments in corporate governance Corporate Governance Report and Statement on Corporate Management Remuneration Report 9 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 3.2 Sustainability management: embedded for good The principles of Sustainable Development (SD) are embedded into the Allianz Group’s core business. The task of managing the Group’s SD agenda is in the hands of Allianz4Good. The three Cs Putting principles into practice The catalyst, coordinator and central hub of the Allianz4Good is responsible for managing a wide Group’s Sustainable Development activities is the range of SD activities that are grouped into three Allianz4Good department, which was established organizational units: Allianz4Good as the central in 2008 with a wide variety of responsibilities. unit with coordinating and collaborating functions; As a catalyst, Allianz4Good identifies the relevant Allianz Climate Solutions; and the My Finance Coach SD issues, creates the strategic framework for Foundation. Group-wide SD, initiates pilot projects, sets up SD-related processes and ensures their integration In its coordinating and collaborating function, into Group-wide business processes and operations. Allianz4Good is directly responsible for four areas: In its coordinating role Allianz4Good is responsible • Corporate Citizenship: Supervising the practical for controlling the main SD activities between side of the Group’s role as a global corporate subsidiaries, strategic functions and the Allianz citizen, for example donations, disaster response Board of Management. and Corporate Volunteering aligned with core competencies and leadership skills, for instance in As the central hub of SD activities, Allianz4Good shapes the Social OPEX program. and supervises the introduction of relevant policies, • Environmental Management: Further developing supports subsidiaries in integrating and implementing the Group’s carbon reduction strategy, steering the Group’s strategic approach to the SD issue, and the Allianz companies’ carbon reduction activities, acts as a knowledge hub to consolidate SD activities monitoring the Group-wide Environmental in internal and external communications. Management System to reduce the carbon footprint and educating and enhancing awareness on environmental behavior. Close proximity to the Board • SD-related Ratings and Reporting: Communicating progress, aiming for full transparency through SD Just how seriously sustainable development is reporting and ratings, addressing stakeholders’ taken at Allianz is shown by the close proximity issues and concerns (for example in the Annual of Allianz4Good to the Board of Management. Report), and managing participation in global The head of Allianz4Good reports directly to sustainability ratings. Paul Achleitner, the Board Member responsible for • Microinsurance & Partnerships: As a center of Finance. Allianz4Good keeps the Board informed competence, coordinating microinsurance about the progress of SD issues and performance, activities throughout the Group, further developing and supports the Board with respect to its strategic financial literacy programs in emerging countries, decisions on SD-related topics. and maintaining strategic partnerships of direct relevance to the Allianz microinsurance business. 10 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT Allianz Climate Solutions (ACS), the Group’s center The My Finance Coach Foundation, an initiative of competence for climate change issues, advises set up by Allianz and external partners to promote customers and the Allianz Group on the opportunities financial literacy among 11to 15-year-olds, aims arising from a low-carbon economy. In addition, to better prepare young people to take responsible ACS helps Allianz companies to share their expertise financial decisions. In 2010, My Finance Coach and supports the development and expansion of was turned into a charity foundation to enhance insurance projects and other financial solutions for its transparency, neutrality and opportunities for related new technologies and renewable energy expansion. ACS projects. My Finance Coach 11 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 3.3 Compliance management: striving for a culture of integrity Allianz’ compliance management system aims to ensure compliance with internationally recognized laws, rules and regulations to promote a culture of integrity and safeguard the company’s reputation. Roles and responsibilities worldwide, provides clear guidance by laying down principles for topics such as non-discrimination and Group Compliance observes and assesses regulatory harassment, dealing with confidential information, standards as well as ensuring the effective insider trading, external communications, conflicts implementation of compliance and anti-money of interest, gifts and entertainment, and protection laundering programs. What’s more, it cooperates of Group property and natural resources. Interactive closely with a network of local compliance officers training programs are staged throughout the to prevent and detect corruption and internal fraud. world to effectively communicate the compliance Throughout the Allianz Group, compliance officers principles and guidelines, and supervise their advise employees on compliance-related topics, implementation. work to detect non-compliant behavior and advocate compliance positions in discussions with regulatory bodies. Strategic compliance initiatives, Combating corruption projects and policies are developed and implemented by Group Compliance in conjunction with the As part of the compliance management system, Compliance Standards Committee, which is made Allianz established a global Anti-Corruption up of representatives of Allianz’ regions, flagship Program in 2009 to ensure the ongoing monitoring companies and business divisions. and improvement of internal anti-corruption controls. One component of this Program, the Anti‑Corruption Policy, sets out the Group’s Guidelines and standards minimum anti-corruption and anti-bribery standards, specific parts of which also apply to Compliance management at Allianz involves representatives, joint ventures and outsourcing supporting and following internationally and partners. This Policy addresses all dealings with nationally recognized guidelines and standards – government officials and business courtesies, and in particular the United Nations (UN) Global the hiring of representatives (e.g. tied agents), Compact, the Organization for Economic Copolitical contributions on Allianz’ behalf and operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines the handling of vendor integrity, joint ventures, for Multinational Enterprises, the Financial Action outsourcing agreements and facilitation payments. Task Force on Money Laundering and applicable Anti-corruption tools and controls support the embargo and sanction regulations. Policy’s incorporation into everyday business Allianz has implemented an internal Code of operations. Other measures include the intro­duction Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance, of a Gifts & Entertainment Policy, a Group-wide which sets the standards for business conduct online anti-corruption training scheme and a throughout the Group and also forms the basis vendor integrity screening process that ensures a for other guidelines and principles. The Code, proper integrity due diligence before any vendor which is obligatory for all Allianz employees is engaged. 12 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT Whistle-blowing Another key component of the Allianz compliance program is a whistle-blowing system that allows employees to confidentially alert the relevant compliance department about any irregularities. All subsidiaries are covered by either proprietary or Group Compliance whistle-blowing channels. Group Compliance department offers employees from anywhere in the world the option of directly reporting irregularities to Allianz headquarters by e-mail. Integrity Committees installed at a Group and local level deal with any issues raised. Employees who voice concerns about irregularities in good faith need not fear any retribution, even if their charge turns out to be unfounded – a crucial factor in ensuring whistle blowing works effectively. 13 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 3.4 Risk management: risks and opportunities – our core business Risk management is not only a core competence but also an integral part of our business processes. A Group-wide Risk Management System set up to protect our capital includes an extensive, Group-wide calculation of economic risk capital, which allows us to integrate risk considerations and capital requirements into decision-making and management processes at a high level of quality. This is founded on a strong risk management culture supported by a robust risk organization and effective risk processes. Risk organization based on sector standards and regulatory frameworks and together form a reference system. Allianz The Board of Management, which has overall companies must adhere to this reference system responsibility for risk management, determines to ensure effective and consistent risk management the Allianz Group’s risk strategy and approves the for the Group, but are allowed to develop their own overarching Group Risk Policy document as well as policies within this framework. All Risk Policy allocating capital resources and risk limits. In 2010, documents are reviewed regularly to ensure a Allianz established a Group Capital Committee, timely response to new business requirements and which is primarily responsible for drawing up implementation of best practices. proposals for Board decisions on risk strategy, capital and strategic asset allocation and solvency targets. The Group Risk Committee monitors risk-related New risks and early warning developments and the Group’s risk profile, defines systems risk standards and limits both for the Group and its subsidiaries Our business success is vitally dependent on detecting (within the framework set by the Board) and also risks early and enhancing our understanding of new re­commends and coordinates risk mitigation and previously unknown risks. Since 2001, Allianz has measures. The Group Finance Committee is had a working group focusing on these two factors. responsible for risk mitigation in investment The Global Issues Forum (GIF) is made up of senior decisions. These three Committees are chaired managers and invites external experts to attend by Board Members. The Group Risk department, some meetings, if required. The Forum ensures that which acts as an intermediary between the different Allianz can access information from a body of experts companies and the Group Risk Committee, who systematically monitor mediumto long-term optimizes the dialogue between the Group and its risk developments and carry out regular risk and subsidiaries, reports on risks relevant to the Group opportunity analyses of factors that may become and implements the internal risk capital model. relevant to the development of our business. The following topics of relevance to our business have been identified through a wide-ranging analysis of Risk Policy and minimum mediumand long-term trends: standards in the Allianz Group • Economics and finance The core elements of the Risk Management System • Legislation, regulation and reputation at Allianz are the Group Risk Policy and a set of • Geopolitics and globalization minimum standards and guidelines, which are • Society and consumer behavior 14 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT • Demographic change • Environment and climate change • Technologies and medicine The GIF endeavors to provide early indication and evaluation of risks, and reports regularly to the Allianz Board of Management as part of this early warning system function. It also coordinates its activities with the Group Risk Department, the Group Risk Committee and the Global Issues Working Group – a subset of the GIF focusing on selected issues. As a member of the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Forum, an industry initiative, Allianz was involved in developing best practice standards to better manage risks in the ethical field during 2010. These standards focus on the sustainability impact of business transactions and provide best-practice guidance on how to integrate these considerations into pre-emptive Annual Report 2010 and holistic risk management processes. – Risk Report 15 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 4 Strategic targets Strategic targets Time frame Achievements in 2010 Economic Achieve profitable and sustainable growth Five goals of our Group Strategy: Top line lifted well above the €100 billion mark; 1. Profitable and sustainable growth revenues up by over 9.0% compared to 2009; 2. Well-balanced and synergetic net income from continuing operations up by business portfolio Ongoing 12.0% to over €5 billion; operating profit rose even 3. Strong capitalization higher to over €8 billion. 4. World-class investment management 5. State-of-the-art risk framework Environmental Enable a low carbon economy Reduce our own carbon footprint by 20% Target achieved: Allianz’ carbon footprint 2012 compared to 2006. reduced by 27% of its 2006 levels. Invest up to €1.5 billion in renewable energy Since 2005, €1 billion invested in 30 wind and 2012 projects, specifically in new wind and solar parks. solar parks. Develop new products and services to help our Over 70 “green” products and services offered by customers mitigate the effects of climate change Ongoing Allianz (2009: 50). or manage their own environmental impact. Contribute to public awareness and understanding Projects initiated in 2010 through our partnership of climate change and mitigation through research Ongoing with the WWF: heavy precipitation study and and advocacy. internal climate change awareness campaign. 16 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT Social Promote diversity across the Group Increase the number of women in leadership 15% of management positions directly below positions; our global target is to have at least Board level held by women; 20% women in middle 2015 30% women in our Group-wide talent pool for management; 32% of overall management management positions. positions in the Allianz Group held by women. Adapt to the challenges of demographic change Launch of SWFP in 2009 and further roll-out in 2010 at several major subsidiaries in core markets. Launch the Strategic Workforce Planning (SWFP) The first global SWFP Conference held in internationally to address the shortage of skilled Ongoing November 2010 brought together 18 workforce personnel. planners to exchange ideas and foster the development of innovative ideas. Strengthen social engagement in the Group My Finance Coach: Pilot program deployed in seven German states; target of 300 volunteers reached by May; 674 volunteers by the end of December; visits to 7,700 pupils in 90 schools. Promote employee engagement formats that are Ongoing aligned with core business competencies. Social OPEX Projects conducted in Germany, France, UK, Singapore, Italy and the Netherlands; 21 Allianz employees from ten subsidiaries and eleven social entrepreneurs involved. Develop and roll out a Group Disaster Response Allianz Group Disaster Response Guideline approved 2011 Framework. for a rollout at the start of 2011. Improve access to financial services Public-private-partnership with the German development organization GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit) to explore potential for innovations in microinsurance Enhance financial literacy in emerging markets. Ongoing portfolio, drive knowledge and quality and enhance access to sustainable microinsurance solutions for low-income populations in India, Indonesia and some African countries. 17 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT Governance Promote a culture of integrity and safeguard the company’s reputation Balance short-, midand long-term elements of New remuneration system for the Board of variable remuneration to support and encourage 2010 Management effective from beginning of year; sustained value-oriented management. specific consideration given to sustainability. Global Anti-Corruption Program, a core initiative with major developments in 2010: Rollout of Allianz Anti-Corruption Program and development and Further strengthen compliance management. Ongoing implementation of further program components (Gifts & Entertainment Policy and Anti-Corruption Training Courses). Strengthen sustainability in the Allianz supply chain Ensure vendor integrity with Allianz’ environmental, 2010 Vendor Integrity Screening Process implemented social and governance standards. at a global level. 18 GLOBAL ISSUES 1 Access to finance 20 1.1 Microinsurance: the business with the double bottom line 20 1.2 Developing markets: expanding microinsurance in emerging markets 22 2 Climate change 24 2.1 Combining words with action 24 2.2 Managing the impact of natural disasters 26 3 Demographic change 28 3.1 Tackling the challenges of demographic change 28 3.2 Product innovation: innovative responses to aging societies 30 4 Digitalization 32 4.1 At home in a mobile, online world 32 4.2 Serving customers better in a more competitive climate 34 5 Stability of financial markets 36 5.1 Buliding a new financial architecture 36 5.2 Reducing complexity: adjusting to the new normal 39 19 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 1 Access to finance 1.1 Microinsurance: the business with the double bottom line Allianz has more than 4 million microinsurance customers and concrete plans for further expansion of microinsurance – a business with the double bottom line of both financial and social returns. Bright future for microinsurance market growth. However, this growth potential can only be exploited fully if we overcome the challenges An estimated 2.6 billion people live on a daily of the microinsurance market: income between U.S.$1.25 and U.S.$4 a day. Poor people are more severely affected by natural • In countries such as India illiteracy is high and disasters, accidents and illness, as they usually have financial literacy low. no bank account and no access to modern financial • More market research is required to better services. They also lack the opportunity to save or to understand the market and people’s needs and take out insurance to hedge against these shocks. thus improve the quality of risk assessment. Only 3% of them have access to stateor private• Infrastructures in these emerging markets are sector insurance schemes, which leaves the other weak and hence distribution difficult. 97% very vulnerable. This is where microinsurance • Since margins per policy are tiny, microinsurance can make a big difference. Microinsurance provides can only be profitable if large numbers of essential coverage to families and individuals who standardized products are sold through have no access to basic social protection. standardized processes. Micro­insurance products provide people living on or below the poverty line with a health and financial Though the microfinance industry has suffered safety net that enables them to survive risks that severe setbacks in India in the recent past as would otherwise shatter their lives. microcredits led to much-publicized cases of over-indebtedness, microinsurance has not been affected by this crisis. For low-income households microinsurance remains a suitable means of More than 4 million managing risks at premiums typically ranging from Allianz microinsurance €1-10 a year. customers in eight emerging countries Allianz’ double bottom line strategy While profit expectations are much lower than in the traditional insurance business, there is a strong Microinsurance has big potential in many regions notion that making low-income customers familiar of the world. Experts estimate the market size to with the concept of insurance in general and the be around one billion people, mostly in India and Allianz brand in particular will pay off over the years Indonesia but increasingly in Latin America. Growing as these customers move up the economic ladder. product diversity, knowledge of the market and But the double bottom line in this business is that customer needs and enhancing financial literacy microinsurance must deliver financial and social among low-income groups are expected to drive returns. Allianz aims to achieve an adequate 20 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES financial return by taking microinsurance to markets where an Allianz subsidiary operates and sufficient demand exists. The social returns are generated through a strong focus on portfolio quality. Here, Allianz aims to ensure its products deliver genuine client value by conducting focus group demand surveys and constantly challenging the value of the products offered. The Allianz microinsurance business is run locally by its subsidiaries and coordinated centrally by Allianz4Good. Allianz works closely with NGO networks such as CARE International, PlaNet Finance and World Vision to assess client demand, develop products and design education material. In 2010, Allianz entered into a public-private partnership agreement with the German development organization GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit) to improve the quality of its microinsurance offerings. Developing the business As the microinsurance business expands, Allianz is developing its future markets by helping to set industry standards, diversifying its own portfolio, enhancing the degree of professionalism and carefully balancing profitability and social impact. 21 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 1.2 Developing markets: expanding microinsurance in emerging markets Microinsurance can offer existential help to millions of poor people in emerging economies. Allianz is not only a leading provider in this segment but also works to raise financial literacy levels. Meeting existential needs Strong in emerging markets In emerging economies, microinsurance helps poor Allianz believes that the economic development families maintain a minimum standard of living and of emerging economies is not just an imperative recover from shocks such as accidents or illness. of global justice but, above all, an engine for global There is, however, little understanding of the basic growth. By investing strongly in emerging markets, concept of insurance or what benefits it brings as Allianz is acting on its convictions and has now literacy in general and financial literacy in particular become a leading provider of microinsurance in is low. In India, for example, around a third of all Asia and Africa. adults are illiterate and the figure for rural women is even higher. Teaching poor people to plan for the future can help them to manage unexpected shocks more easily. Microinsurance products of Allianz and global representation Egypt Death & Disability India • Since February 2008 Endowment • Credit-liked • Savings-life product • with PlaNet Guarantee • With SKS Microfinance and other MFIs or cooperatives Life & Property • Benefits-package incl. hospital cash, property, education grants ... • Distribution through CARE Health Mutual • Distribution through CARE Ivory Coast Funeral Insurance • Start in 2010 • Distribution through cooperative UNACOOPEC Cameroon, Burkina Faso, Indonesia Senegal, Madagascar Credit-Life Death & Disability • Since September 2006 • Since March 2008 • Loan-linked • Loan-linked • Distribution through • With PlaNet Guarantee local MFIs Source: Allianz4Good, March 2011 22 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES In dealing with low-income customers, Allianz Outlook for 2020 knows how important it is to explain the benefits insurance can bring and develop bottom-up Allianz’ microinsurance customer base now innovations. Hence, Allianz is working to increase encompasses more than 4 million people literacy and financial understanding in order to worldwide. By 2020, Allianz predicts that 20% of better protect vulnerable communities, live out Allianz’ global customer base may well come from social responsibility, create sound foundations for low-income groups. Therefore, Allianz is further insurance business and enhance product knowledge expanding and developing its microinsurance to grow the customer base. portfolio through simple, standardized products and efficient handling: Ensuring high quality standards • Analyzing customer needs and creating different in microinsurance client profiles to better adapt the product portfolio • Developing savings-linked life insurance to In 2010, Allianz formed a public-private partnership safeguard income when a breadwinner dies and with the German development organization GIZ to save for the children’s future, e.g. SSS in India (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale • Evaluating the initial experience in mutual health Zusammen­arbeit) acting on behalf of the German microinsurance, where smaller claims are managed Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and independently by a local self-help group and larger Development (BMZ), to explore the potential for claims, for example for surgeries and hospital innovations in the microinsurance portfolio, drive stays, are taken on by Allianz. knowledge and quality and enhance access to Allianz Knowledge sustainable micro­insurance solutions for the At the same time, Allianz and GIZ aim to better low-income population of India, Indonesia and measure and control the financial and social African countries. Both partners have developed performance of microinsurance by applying “Microcredit Crisis: the following principles to guide Allianz’ microinsurance key performance indicators (KPIs): What Is Allianz Doing?” microinsurance business: • Financial KPIs, such as growth of gross written premiums and claims ratio • Product quality KPIs, such as coverage, promptness of settlement, renewal rate and demand analysis In the future, Allianz plans to conduct social impact reviews of microinsurance in emerging markets and hopes that measuring the social performance of products will become industry practice. 23 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 2 Climate change 2.1 Combining words with action Global warming threatens to radically change our climate. Since it also poses a serious risk to the insurance industry, Allianz has a Group-wide strategy covering related risks and opportunities. Reality of climate change pricing and mitigation of the risks involved. For example, Group Economic Research and Corporate Scientists may disagree about the extent of climate Development (ERCD) identifies climate changechange, but nobody of repute seriously disputes its related trends, risks and opportunities, focusing on existence. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate midto long-term time horizons and their impact on Change (IPCC) estimates that average temperatures the insurance business; the Cat Management Unit at are very likely to rise by at least 2°C by the end of Allianz SE Reinsurance tracks scientific publications the century unless emissions are radically reduced, for relevant topics and plays an active role in the allowing atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations climate change working groups of the German to peak in the next five to ten years. Since global Insurance Association; and Allianz collaborates with warming is most probably causing more frequent the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) to conduct heatwaves, droughts and floods as well as more relevant studies and internal projects. severe tropical storms, it is already having a material impact on the insurance industry, for example on health, life, property, liability and business insurance. Responding strategically In 2010, the total worldwide losses from weatherrelated natural disasters amounted to approximately As long ago as 2005, Allianz adopted a comprehensive U.S.$99 billion. Payments on claims for damage and Climate Change Strategy aimed at reducing the loss caused by extremes of weather have increased Group’s carbon footprint by 20% of the 2006 significantly in the past 30 years and totaled figure by 2012, dealing with the impact of climate approxi­mately U.S.$24 billion in 20101. Allianz change on both customers and its own business estimates this sum may rise to around U.S.$40 and contributing to a low-carbon economy by billion a year by 2019. developing relevant products and services. As the Group-wide center of competence on climate change, Allianz Climate Solutions (ACS) serves other Need for reliable climate data Allianz entities as well as customers with its risk analysis, investment and insurance expertise – with Financial service providers face the global challenge a clear focus on renewable energy, clean technology of generating and interpreting climate data to and the carbon market. Allianz’ focus in its strategic further enhance climate-related risk management. response has been on four core areas: A recently published United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) study on • Insurance solutions: Allianz companies have the financial sector’s information requirements developed a wide range of solutions to meet local underlined the need for enhanced availability of market needs. For example, Allianz Global Corporate reliable climate data to improve risk-assessment and & Specialty (AGCS) has been developing new decision-making processes. Consequently, Allianz is insurance solutions for offshore wind parks and working to improve the identification, quantification, investigating the insurability of new technologies, such as carbon capture and storage facilities. 24 1) Munich Re, TOPICS GEO, Natural catastrophes 2010, Analyses, assessments, positions Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES • Asset management: Environmental and climate issues are taken into consideration in the Allianz Global Investors portfolio, for example through RCM, a subsidiary that manages the Global Water, the Global EcoTrends and the Global Sustainability Funds. • Direct investments: Allianz Capital Partners (ACP) and its subsidiary Allianz Specialized Investments Limited (ASIL) have built up a portfolio in wind energy and solar power that was worth over €1 billion at the end of 2010. • Internal activities: Besides initiatives to reduce the company’s environmental and carbon footprint, Allianz has implemented an Environmental Management System to ease the collection and control of environmental data and bring the company into line with the ISO 14001 standard and the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). Moving forward By the end of 2010, Allianz had developed more than 70 green products and services ranging from asset management to new kinds of insurance and assistance services. In early 2011 a WWF-supported employee information campaign on climate change was rolled out in several Group companies. As a founding signatory of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and through membership of the UNEP FI Climate Change Working Group, Allianz is playing a proactive role on the global stage. Moreover, by implementing a sustainable, long-term carbon neutralization strategy alongside its internal carbon emission reduction measures, Allianz is combining words with action to combat climate change. 25 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 2.2 Managing the impact of natural disasters Though many of the effects of climate change are not readily apparent, natural disasters are – and they are happening more frequently. Allianz is confronting this challenge by analyzing the risks involved and developing effective countermeasures. Growing threat Severe impact Scientific studies have shown that climate change The increasing frequency of natural disasters is will most probably lead to more natural disasters. directly affecting financial service providers. A sea A study published in November 2009 (Climate level rise of 0.65 meters on the northeast coast of Change Tipping Points) by Allianz and the World the U.S.A. is estimated to increase asset exposure Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) identified four major from a current U.S.$1.4 trillion to U.S.$7.4 trillion. tipping points in the Earth’s climate system – small A hurricane hitting the New York region would cost changes that can make a big systemic difference the insurance industry around U.S.$1 trillion right and potentially affect numerous people and assets: now, and over U.S.$5 trillion by mid-century. Insurers would be heavily exposed – through hurricane and • A global sea level rise of up to two meters by the flood policies and as investors in real estate and end of this century, combined with a localized rise public sector securities. Natural disasters imply an on North America’s Eastern Seaboard extreme volatility risk for the insurance industry with • Shifts in hydrological systems in Asia resulting a special demand for capitalization and a specific from disturbances of the monsoon regimes and risk management approach. Moreover, the financial fluvial systems fed from the Hindu Kush-Himalayaservices sector plays a crucial role in underpinning Tibetan glaciers the entire economy – by supporting, protecting and • A die-back of the Amazon rainforest and more investing in other businesses, including those most frequent drought in the western and southern vulnerable to the catastrophic effects of climate parts of the Amazon Basin change. The need for action is apparent. • A shift to a very arid climate in southwestern North America Bonds against catastrophes Natural catastrophe (NatCat) bonds are issued as an More than €1 billion alternative and supplement to traditional catastrophe invested in renewable reinsurance policies. During the past five years, Allianz SE Reinsurance has successfully issued five energy projects NatCat bonds as an integral part of Allianz’ risk management approach. If an event triggers the bond, Allianz is entitled to use the bond capital for claims payments to policyholders. If the bond The failure to effectively combat climate change expires without a trigger event, investors will be increases the probability of more tipping points paid back their capital plus a fixed coupon above developing – with even greater effects on the a reference rate. insurance industry. 26 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES Investing in research Through its subsidiaries Allianz accumulates significant amounts of risk in peak perils such as hurricanes and earthquakes in the U.S.A. and windstorms in Europe. The WWF-Allianz study on major tipping points is a good example of how Allianz is investing in a better understanding of the potential risks of climate change by analyzing concrete insurance portfolios in specific locations. A project entitled “Extreme precipitation in Northern Italy” which is currently being conducted by Allianz SE Reinsurance’s Cat Management unit in collaboration with external experts and the WWF, is investigating surface water flooding resulting from extreme rainfall in the Venice region of Italy. Historical, current and future scenarios are being developed with the help of global and regional climate models and a high-resolution flood model. This ongoing project aims to show how climate and flood modeling can be combined to generate outputs of ACS practical use for Allianz’ insurance business. AGCS Allianz Knowledge Allianz SE Reinsurance 27 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 3 Demographic change 3.1 Tackling the challenges of demographic change Aging populations, shrinking workforces, social security systems under pressure: demographic change is creating new challenges for financial service providers. Allianz is tackling them with a broad range of strategic, business-integrated solutions. Decisive demographic trends Implications for financial service providers Aging populations are a global phenomenon caused These demographic trends are impacting heavily on by decreasing birth rates and increasing life the financial services sector. The threat of poverty in expectan­cies. The only differentiating factor is the old age has increased the demand for clear advice pace of change. Japan is already one of the world’s and new solutions. The market for private-sector oldest societies, Germany’s population has been healthcare and retirement solutions is growing shrinking for several years and China will age strongly worldwide. Two trends are apparent. First, significantly within a generation. Countries such as additional pension assets are being built up to avoid India still have a young demographic profile, but the poverty in old age caused by less generous within a few decades even Asia’s “demographic state pension systems. As a result, more emphasis tigers” will face the same challenges. is being placed on an accumulation phase with greater individual responsibility. Second, as a higher The pace of aging also defines the differing percentage of people in mature societies reach consequences. In western industrialized economies, retirement age, more importance is being attached pay-as-you-go social security systems are coming to managing the de-saving process, where pension under pressure, forcing individuals to take on greater assets accumulated during an employee’s working responsibility for their future. In emerging economies, life are converted into pension income spent during by contrast, the weakening of family ties requires retirement. Consequently, there is now a growing comprehensive social security systems to be set emphasis on the management of longevity risks. up. Although declining workforces in the West are This implicates the need for a suitable solvency and leading to shortages of the skilled labor needed for regulatory framework and capital-market solutions ongoing growth, migration will help alleviate these to manage these risks. gaps – and is already doing so in some countries where farsighted immigration policies are in place. In aging societies demand patterns are changing, since both aging and migration are having a long-term Aging populations are having a significant impact impact on the demand for financial products and on healthcare and pensions systems. Age-specific services in industrialized countries. The populations expenditure profiles are increasing while at the in the countries we are operating in, and hence our same time, industrialized societies in particular are customer base, are becoming more diverse. This is moving away from an implied “pensions contract” also reflected in the broad spectrum of people we between senior citizens and younger generations employ, because that enables us to best represent to more individualized pension provision. Though our customers’ interests. awareness is growing of the need for supplementary pension provisions, many still feel unprepared when it comes to retirement planning. Allianz is committed to raising awareness in this field. 28 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES Allianz’ strategic response As an integrated financial services provider, Allianz is ideally positioned to offer holistic pension solutions by combining asset management and insurance expertise. To this end, Allianz is devoting considerable resources to strengthening its pension expertise in research and product development. Through Group-wide synergies between asset management and insurance experts, Allianz has been developing a range of tailored pension and healthcare products to meet its customers’ current and future needs. Extensive research and trend studies are influencing strategic decisions throughout the Group, driving product innovation and raising awareness of the demographic challenges within the business community and society as a whole. Group Economic Research and Corporate Development (ERCD) plans, directs and conducts macroeconomic and financial market research. Through a global Allianz task force convened in 2010, ERCD is specifically involved in strengthening Allianz’ position in the pensions segment. In addition, Allianz business lines and subsidiaries have their own research capabilities that are contributing to the development of products and services to meet local needs, for example, at Allianz Global Life, Allianz Global Investors’ (AllianzGI) International Pensions department and the newly established Center for Behavioral Finance by AllianzGI in the U.S.A. Last but not least, Allianz is also responding to the demographic challenge of an aging workforce by developing solutions to bring the long-term demand for and supply of people and skills into line through AllianzGI its Strategic Workforce Planning. Allianz Knowledge Center for Behavioral Finance ERCD Project M 29 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 3.2 Product innovation: innovative responses to aging societies Though the demographic challenges vary around the world, the global pension market is growing fast. Allianz is seizing the opportunities this offers to develop innovative solutions based on a comprehensive pension provision strategy. Regional diversity in a growing retired, boosting the demand for decumulation pension market strategies. Moreover, the impact of the financial crisis on housing prices and asset-related retirement The challenges of aging differ from region to region. schemes has had a negative effect on the baby In Asia’s emerging economies, comprehensive social boomers’ accumulated wealth. Demographically security systems are still the exception and there is a speaking, the pensions situation in South America clear trend to strongly funded pension pillars rather is very different. Brazil, for example, is a country than Europe’s traditional pay-as-you-go systems. In of rising life expectancy, increasing prosperity, a Europe, shrinking populations, decreasing workforces growing middle class and declining fertility. While and high government deficits are putting pressure Brazil has to prepare for the so-called retirement gap on pay-as-you-go systems and increasing the need in its still developing social security system, some of for supplementary pension provision. Here, the its neighbors are more mature. Chile, for example, trend is to gradual reforms of state pension schemes already has an advanced social security system. with a shift towards greater individual responsibility. According to a 2010 Allianz study, the global pension In the U.S.A., the world’s largest and most mature market is expected to grow by 80% to 2020 with pension market, occupational and private pension total pension assets rising from a current €20 trillion schemes are needed to finance retirement as to €36 trillion. And the nature of the market is social security payments are comparatively low. In changing. The financial crisis, for example, the course of the next two decades, the uniquely highlighted the need for outcome-oriented solutions populous baby-boomer generation will have featuring guarantee concepts and inflation hedging. 30 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES Seizing the opportunities At the same time, Allianz is developing new products to broaden the range of guarantee concepts from Allianz is developing private and occupational traditional life insurance to hybrid products combining pensions, health insurance and assistance services asset management and insurance expertise: to meet the needs of aging customers. By covering the whole value chain from research and product • China: Launch in another five cities of the Allianz develop­ment to customer service and combining Super Fit insurance program offering flexible, asset management and insurance expertise, Allianz customized insurance solutions is capable of managing its customers’ entire lifecycle. • Germany: Recognition of Allianz PZTBest, a By communicating its research findings, Allianz recently introduced supplementary insurance helps to raise awareness and improve understanding for long-term care, for its value for money and of the issues involved. This strategy is consistently customer-friendly conditions integrated into Allianz’ business, as these examples • U.S.A.: PIMCO Real Income Mutual Fund offering prove: sustainable, inflation-adjusted income for a specific term; can be coupled with longevity insurance to • Allianz Corporate Pension Advisors (ACPA), a deliver liquidity and guaranteed income for life joint venture set up in January 2011, will serve the • U.S.A.: Allianz Life Pro V1 Annuity, a fixed index Group’s 200 largest corporate clients in Germany annuity providing guaranteed retirement savings, by offering customized solutions from Allianz’ full protection against market volatility and a bond product and service spectrum. index allocation strategy • Allianz Retirement Partners was launched in the U.S.A. in 2010 to capture synergies between Allianz Life of North America and Allianz Global Allianz Knowledge Investors on key topics. • The Center for Behavioral Finance aims to turn research insights into actionable ideas and practical Center for Behavioral tools for financial advisors, plan sponsors and Finance investors. Through Group-wide synergies Allianz is developing a range of tailored pension products 31 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 4 Digitalization 4.1 At home in a mobile, online world At Allianz we are responding to an increasingly mobile, online world by developing a strategic approach to digitalization that exploits the opportunities of the digital economy and enhances customer convenience. The digitalization trend Convenience comes first The world is going online and mobile. People Our goal in harnessing digitalization is to ensure are becoming more connected. Transparency is our customers enjoy even greater convenience growing in all areas of life. Increasing internet in their dealings with Allianz. To this end, we are usage is revolutionizing the way people interact. striving to optimize and seamlessly interconnect E-mail and mobile communications have become our multi-access purchasing processes. Allianz indispensable in our work and private lives. sees digitalization as a strategic field in which the Smartphones have mobilized the online world. trends, risks and opportunities need to be identified Social networking usage has now surpassed promptly to pave the way for an appropriate e-mail traffic. By changing consumer behavior and response. This task is undertaken by Group Economic heightening customer expectations, digitalization is Research and Corporate Development (ERCD) in having far-reaching effects on the world of business. collaboration with internal and external experts. Allianz’ strategic approach is reflected in the local Challenges and opportunities digital strategies pursued by Allianz companies and supported by the Group. The Digital Taskforce, In many industries the Internet has brought greater for example, incorporates experts from across the product transparency and thus comparability, raised Group, leveraging local expertise and best practices expectations, for example for greater convenience through a global network, and has also developed a and speed of response, and fueled fears over data framework detailing the minimum requirements for security. This is also true of the financial services implementing digital strategies locally. sector. The impact of digitalization on our business model, processes and operations is significant. But Business operations and processes have been besides giving rise to many challenges, digitalization improved by systematically measuring customer also presents us with numerous opportunities. We satisfaction levels at various touchpoints through can more easily gain customer insights as customers Net Promoter Score (NPS). This enables us to find it easier to contact us and share their opinions accommodate our customers’ needs faster. with us. We can more effectively reach people Digitalized tools have been integrated into all areas with a high degree of web affinity. Online channels of our business to enhance not just customer have low administration and distribution costs. convenience but also the efficiency and effectiveness Automation and centralized data-storage facilities of our processes. Our digital program engages with have made our business processes more efficient. customers through online visibility and routing, We enjoy better access to developing countries offers consumers their preferred contact medium, through mobile finance solutions. And customers enables our sales force to sell and service online can get in touch with us through many more access and delivers digitally on claims. All in all, Allianz has routes. turned itself into a more accessible company to 32 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES meet our customers’ expectations of enhanced ease of interaction. Our goal here is to give customers a choice between different access channels and ensure they encounter no difficulties when switching from one to another – through seamless interaction within the company. Last but not least, we are making increasing use of social media to interact with customers. In 2010 we published Social Media Guidelines, defined online social media spokespeople, clearly emphasized online media in our international “One” campaign and on the Allianz Knowledge website encouraged Allianz Knowledge communication via Twitter and Facebook. Allianz protect Allianz “One” campaign ERCD 33 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 4.2 Serving customers better in a more competitive climate Allianz is responding to the challenges and opportunities of the digital age by enhancing product transparency, improving customer interaction through online and offline channels, developing multi-access strategies and guaranteeing data security. Stronger competition and greater customers through a wide range of measures. expectations An example of this is Allianz Australia’s “My Allianz” portal, where customers and nonThe Internet has had a significant impact on the customers alike can manage their insurance insurance industry. Greater product transparency is portfolio, including policies from other insurers, heightening competition, while comparison as well as getting quotes and purchasing or web­sites (e.g. aggregators) make it easier for renewing policies online. Allianz policy holders customers to find the relevant product at the right can also submit their motor or property claims price and swap from one insurance provider to online. another. As customer loyalty generally decreases, service expectations are rising, for example for • Complementary online and direct access routes: faster, more convenient and more individual service. An Allianz Germany study has shown that 40% of Allianz has risen to the challenge of stronger new customers with Internet access now research competition and increasingly demanding customers the insurance market on the web but most of by ensuring its interaction with them is targeted, them (75%) sign their new policy at an insurance timely and engaging. agent, a phenomenon known as “research online – purchase offline” (ROPO). Online communication and offline distribution complement each other Digitalized tools have been at Allianz, as Allianz Spain's online IT platform E-Pac proves; agents use it to handle almost every integrated into all business aspect of the insurance business online. Moreover, areas to enhance customer a speedy handover of customer data ensures convenience and improve high-speed processing and no data loss. process efficiency • 24/7 information availability and product accessibility: Allianz ACCESS was launched locally to provide existing and potential customers with Responding effectively and convenient and flexible 24/7 access to information efficiently and services at home or on the move, online or by phone, and of course via any local agent. As a globally operating company, Allianz can only secure its market-leading position by responding • Guaranteed data security: Customers who already effectively and efficiently to the challenges of the have the new German ID Card now enjoy digital age: enhanced security and convenience when using the protected Allianz Online Service portal. Other • Efficient website usability: Allianz has enhanced key features include a highly customized service information access for existing and potential center that brings customers benefits such as 34 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES personalized recommendations, quick quote lists, correspondence visibility and a secure iPhone claims app. Another innovation in 2010 was the launch by Air France, Allianz France and Mondial Assistance of Allianz Protect, the first-ever digital safe for travelers. Developing multi-channel strategies Digitalization offers us the chance to obtain a holistic view of our customers and understand their needs better, while at the same time enhancing our own process efficiency. By developing multi-channel strategies, we can interact with customers across all channels and touchpoints, effectively manage customer lifecycles, integrate customer data from online and offline channels and reduce wastage by offering customers the chance to receive marketing material online. Allianz is also expanding its multi-local direct insurance offers by establishing new direct insurance brands, such as AllSecur in Germany. By proactively responding to the challenges and seizing the opportunities of digitalization, Allianz is Allianz Kunden well equipped to strengthen its market position in an Service Center era of greater demandand supply-side transparency. AllSecur Allianz Australia, My Allianz (English) Allianz Protect 35 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 5 Stability of financial markets 5.1 Buliding a new financial architecture The recent financial crisis highlighted the need to reorganize financial markets. Although Allianz weathered the storm successfully, it fully supports efforts to enhance the stability of financial markets and is contributing to defining and developing a new financial architecture. Far-reaching consequences Emerging markets on the up The financial crisis that triggered the deepest recession The recent recession also accelerated the shift of since the 1930s has led to strong political pressure economic power to emerging markets with China, for tougher regulation of the financial services India and other Asian economies currently the industry. Although a report published by The Geneva drivers of global economic growth. By 2020, the Association concludes that there never has been emerging markets’ share of the global insurance a systemic risk from insurance core activities and business is expected to almost double to around a insurers generally got through the financial crisis third in premium terms. Global efforts to harmonize well, even playing a stabilizing role, regulations are the regulatory landscape, for example by G20, will set to become much more demanding for insurers, push ongoing regulatory reform. too. Since some non-core insurance activities may well be systemically relevant, comprehensive supervision is bound to take all core and non-core Opportunities and challenges activities into account. for insurers However, the regulatory and legal trends mentioned European harmonization above will open up major opportunities for the insurance industry – but at a very significant cost: A new financial architecture is on the cards at a European Union level, where there is a clear trend • Greater capital needs and regulation will lead to towards harmonization of national regulations sector consolidation, where only financially sound and increased consumer protection. In line with insurance companies will survive. the whole industry, Allianz believes that Solvency • Growing liability will emphasize the even greater II, the regulatory insurance regime intended to importance of risk management; this will prove replace Solvency I at the end of 2012, is based on advantageous to companies with a diversified the right principles for a better risk assessment, but approach to risk management. requests several improvements to make Solvency II • Increasing international harmonization will also workable and comparable. Specifically, the industry create a level playing field in less developed asks for appropriate measures to reflect the longmarkets; this will facilitate access to new markets term perspective of insurance business activities and business segments even though the generous and to reduce both excessive volatility and capital transition period of up to ten years means the requirements. impact will only be in the long term. • The decreasing generosity of social security systems will boost the demand for private sector products and services. 36 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES At the same time, the insurance industry will face on a global basis on the Group’s behalf and is also significant challenges: involved in political risk management, for example at a geopolitical and regulatory level. • Increased regulation in developed markets will lead to greater control and less entrepreneurial freedom. Strong market and customer • Stricter risk-management requirements will result orientation in rising capital needs and increasing administrative costs. The common denominator in all Allianz’ efforts to • New accounting rules will make investments in help build a new financial architecture is a strong higher yielding asset classes, such as equity, less market and customer orientation. To this end, the attractive; this will undermine the insurers’ role Group Market Management department pursues a as a capital provider and lead to lower investment multi-faceted approach. returns. How Group Market Management works to increase market and customer orientation: Allianz’ long-term business • Monitoring consumer trends and anticipating future consumer needs to develop future-oriented strategy is based on an products and services in-depth understanding of • Using customer feedback, complaints and mystery risks and opportunities shopping to systematically improve customer interactions and key business processes • Promoting financial literacy of customers and non-customers alike • Strengthening the brand to provide orientation Responding to legal and regulatory and build trust by sharing knowledge (for example trends through the One campaign) Since these legal and regulatory trends are material to Allianz’ business, the Group is committed to engaging Working for greater stability in important economic, environmental, societal and governance issues. After all, anticipating, monitoring Ultimately, the global financial crisis was caused by and evaluating global issues is an essential aspect of short-term thinking and unsustainable practices. comprehensive risk management. Group Economic Moreover, complex and non-transparent financial Research and Corporate Development (ERCD) products with short-term incentives contributed analyzes the implications at a macro level of to the partial failure of the capital market. Financial economic and financial developments, such as the markets can only serve the cause of stability and financial crisis or the European debt crisis, and the sustainable growth if a long-term view prevails. risk-opportunity potential in insurance and financial After all, a long-term perspective is the crucial market segments worldwide. Group Regulatory link between the market players’ own interests, Policy (GRP) is responsible for developing and responsible behavior and social benefits. Insurers securing a common Allianz Group opinion (“one by nature pursue long-term investment strategies voice”) in important financial issues (especially so that well into the future, they can uphold the accounting, regulation and tax) and promotes promises made to customers today. Allianz firmly the company’s interests in German and European believes that long-term investing is a precondition politics, relevant associations and standard-setting for functioning capital markets and that the best institutions. Group Government Relations and Public possible contribution is to ensure that the money Policy (GPP) has overall responsibility in dealing with entrusted to the company is invested responsibly, political institutions, public policy and lobbying issues as indeed it always has been. Allianz is continuing to 37 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES invest in low-risk and less volatile asset classes with attractive returns, as illustrated by the company’s real estate portfolio and its investments in wind and solar parks. Since stable financial markets are a prerequisite for our business, Allianz is working in many ways to support the strengthening of the new financial architecture. Its long-term business strategy is based on an in-depth understanding of risks and opportunities. Its comprehensive worldwide corporate governance structure fulfills the highest standards and ensures compliance with all market regulations. And its robust risk management framework tackles this high-profile issue with typical Allianz thoroughness. Key elements of Allianz’ risk management framework: • Promotion of a strong risk management culture supported by the Group Risk department’s robust risk governance structure • Consistent application of an integrated risk capital framework across the Group to protect the capital base • Integration of risk considerations and capital requirements into decision-making processes • Regular Top Risk Assessments conducted to ensure risks are properly identified, analyzed and assessed across the Group 38 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES 5.2 Reducing complexity: adjusting to the new normal With private investors facing a more challenging financial climate than at any time in a generation, Allianz is not only preparing for the “new normal” of higher risk aversion, more regulation and stronger consumer protection but also working to raise financial literacy. Understanding the financial crisis Reducing complexity Experts agree that excessive risk-taking based on Complexity has emerged as one of the main topics a lack of understanding of the complexity of the Allianz’ stakeholders are concerned about. According financial system triggered off the financial crisis. to the findings of a recent KPMG survey, reducing Globalization had significantly increased the number complexity is at the top of the business agenda of participants in the risk economy, where a systemic globally. 94% of the executives interviewed say that under-appreciation of risks was rife. As the World complexity has increased over the past two years Economic Forum’s Global Risk Report 2008 concluded, and believe that managing complexity is important the world’s financial markets had been revolutionized to the success of their company. Moreover, regulation in the preceding 20 years – a revolution driven by and government oversight are seen as the leading deregulation, financial innovations such as derivatives cause of complexity while global inconsistency in and the rise of alternative capital pools, for example this field is considered to be the driving issue. hedge funds, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds. The need for effective risk management Since these legal and regulatory trends are and transparency had thus become much greater. material to Allianz’ business, the Group is committed to engaging with policy makers, regulators, relevant associations and standard-setting institutions in The “new normal” order to help shape the future regulatory environment. Today’s “new normal” in the financial markets is characterized by higher risk aversion, more regulation Managing complexity has also been core to Allianz’ and greater consumer protection. Having successbusiness strategy and was addressed as long ago as fully steered through the financial crisis, Allianz is 2003, when the 3+One program was implemented. ready for this “new normal”: Its principles have guided the Group’s activities ever since: • Sound and stable “AA” rating • Strong solvency (173%) • Protect and enhance the capital base • Growing capital base of more than €44 billion • Substantially strengthen operating profitability • Further strengthening of the risk management • Reduce complexity function • Increase sustainable competitiveness and value In the “new normal” Allianz has continued to The way Allianz weathered the financial crisis proves protect its net asset value and carefully balance that the principles of 3+One are more valid than cash genera­tion and investment opportunities. ever. Since it is Allianz’ declared goal to build the In managing the transition to the Solvency II strongest financial community and become the framework, Allianz has given its business leaders most trusted international financial services state-of-the-art risk management technology to provider, the company is continuing to adapt its ensure even better day-to-day decision-making. 39 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 GLOBAL ISSUES business models and accelerating its efforts to drive efficiencies and reduce complexity. One aspect of this complexity is a lack of in-depth financial understanding among the general public. Financial services and products are a complex business and can only be simplified to a certain degree. Thus, it is particularly important in this context to reduce perceived complexity through greater transparency, responsible sales practices and financial education. Promoting financial literacy Having learned the lessons of the global financial crisis, customers are keen to be better informed about their financial planning. Allianz is therefore taking a pro-active role in promoting financial literacy. More­over, customers now want to see verifiable facts to justify confidence in a financial services provider, financial products that deliver results based on quality and stability, and greater transparency in financial services. International market surveys Allianz has conducted indicate that the need for transparency can be translated into comprehensibility of both products and advice. As a result, Allianz is adjusting its service portfolio to this demand through explaining finances and advising customers. As the financial crisis progressed, Allianz worked to intensify its dialogue with the public, for example through providing financial know-how on its website, self-learning packages and a program that helps put an individual’s personal finances in order. In an analysis of DAX 30 companies’ websites in 2009 Allianz came top for “Readiness to engage in dialogue at times of crisis” and “Transparency.” At the same Group Economic time, Allianz is helping to enhance the financial Research education of school children through My Finance Coach, a financial literacy program. Finance from A to Z In the past few years, Allianz has invested in its sales channels worldwide and expanded its global network of representatives to improve customer advice. My Finance Coach Moreover, investment in training continued to be a high priority in 2010, with over 3,000 seminars on training and career development held in Germany Annual Report 2010 alone. 40 PERFORMANCE 2010 1 Business ethics 42 1.1 Our approach: transparency and integrity in business conduct 42 1.2 Compliance: enhancing compliance effectiveness 43 1.3 Government relations: intensifying political relationships 45 1.4 Procurement: sustainability standards in the supply chain 47 2 Customers 49 2.1 Our approach: building lifelong customer relationships 49 2.2 Customer focus: responding to evolving markets 50 2.3 Customer loyalty: prioritizing customer satisfaction and loyalty 52 2.4 Brand management: building trust through investing in the brand 54 3 Employees 56 3.1 Our approach: safeguarding our human resources – now and in the future 56 3.2 Talent management: farsighted and focused on skills 58 3.3 Diversity: why diversity is good for business 60 3.4 Engagement: fostering a performance culture 62 4 Environment 63 4.1 Our approach: improving the environmental footprint 63 4.2 Environmental footprint: reducing consumption of natural resources 65 5 Investment community 69 5.1 Our approach: an active player in the growing ESG market 69 5.2 Own investments: investing in renewables and clean technology 71 5.3 Third party asset management: investing sustainably and responsibly 72 5.4 Sustainability ratings: rated among the top rankings 75 6 Society 77 6.1 Our approach: a committed corporate citizien 77 6.2 Lighthouse projects: Corporate Citizienship in action – to society's benefit 79 7 Key figures 82 7.1 Economy 82 7.2 Environment 83 7.3 Social 87 7.4 Governance 91 41 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 1 Business ethics 1.1 Our approach: transparency and integrity in business conduct More than ever before, the general public is demanding transparency and integrity in financial services. Allianz has been committed to these goals for years and prioritizes ethical behavior in its corporate governance. Of course the financial crisis brought a more urgent Corporate governance in practice and intense tone to the call for transparency, integrity and clearly defined corporate governance rules in Group Compliance is responsible for ensuring the financial services industry. But well before the the effective implementation and monitoring of crisis, Allianz had recognized this trend and taken compliance and anti-money laundering programs appropriate action. As good corporate governance is within the Allianz Group. essential to our business, ethical behavior has always been a key corporate responsibility at Allianz. The Group Government Relations and Public Policy (GPP) department provides the Allianz Group with the expertise it needs to manage dialogues on Strict standards in business ethics sociopolitical issues and also coordinates all Allianz’ and compliance political activities. An important organizational change took place The Allianz Group is firmly committed to transparency in 2010 with the creation of a global sourcing and integrity. Ethical behavior at Allianz translates and procurement unit. A new Group-wide shared into fair wages, anti-bribery measures, fiduciary services center, Allianz Managed Operations and responsibility, strict controls on payments to Services SE (AMOS) was set up to cover the three governments and activities in politically sensitive main areas of Operations, IT and Services, also regions and sustainable standards implemented bringing IT and non-IT purchasing activities under throughout the Allianz value chain. a single umbrella. This newly formed unit manages the implementation of supply chain standards. The Allianz Group has adopted demanding standards for its international business activities, laying down The various governance bodies work together to policies and rules in order to achieve the highest ensure that the twin goals of transparency and possible ethical and compliance standards. The integrity are lived out in Allianz’ business conduct standards for business conduct set by the Allianz and corporate governance. Code of Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance form the basis for a wide variety of Group-wide Annual Report 2010 – guidelines and principles. Moreover, this Code of Corporate Governance Conduct is obligatory for all Allianz employees. 42 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 1.2 Compliance: enhancing compliance effectiveness In 2010 Allianz undertook numerous measures to further strengthen the effectiveness of compliance management. One core initiative was the Anti-Corruption Program. Striving to ensure compliance Advancing the anti-corruption campaign Allianz’ Compliance organization is divided up into Group Compliance and local compliance As a member of Transparency International since departments in Allianz companies around the 2002, Allianz takes a global stand against corruption. world. In 2010, the Group Compliance function was Internally, Allianz’ aim is to guarantee continuous significantly strengthened by recruiting 15% more monitoring and improvement of its anti-corruption compliance specialists. During the year, Group controls and increase the level of controls embedded Compliance conducted on-site reviews to assess the in routine processes. effectiveness of local implementation. 2010 also saw the continuation of the biennial meetings of the The global Anti-Corruption Program was a core Compliance Standards Committee. initiative in 2010. Two major outcomes were the Gifts & Entertainment Policy, a new global guideline The increasing demand for audit services in the which was developed and rolled out in the course of area of compliance prompted the German Public the year, and the anti-corruption training courses. Auditors’ Institute to develop a standard for auditing The Anti-Corruption Program has been expanded in compliance management systems. Allianz has 2011. Group Compliance closely observes regulatory proactively supported the Institute in developing developments across the globe and stays in this standard, which will be published in the course close touch with Group Regulatory Policy, Group of 2011. Government Relations and Public Policy and Group Legal Services. In 2010, the annual corruption risk assessment was successfully conducted across all regions and lines of business. In 2010 a Group-wide online anti-corruption training was introduced Raising awareness through training and communication and will be further rolled-out in 2011 Allianz aims to raise awareness for internal compliance policies and sensitize employees to the rationale behind training and communication measures. To Allianz also continued to strengthen its tools in the achieve this aim, training courses present employees battle against money laundering and the financing with practical examples of how the principles set out of terrorism through IT solutions that screen in the Anti-Corruption and Gifts & Entertainment financial transactions in order to identify critical Policies should be implemented in everyday business. ones. Nevertheless, the existing manual checks on transactions potentially related to embargoes In 2010, local compliance departments offered or sanctions will continue. employees a wide range of training measures. The 43 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 rollout of a Group-wide online anti-corruption training program began at the end of 2010 and training courses will continue during 2011. The aim of this program, which is compulsory for all employees and offered in 25 languages, is to inform employees about the main anti-corruption and anti-bribery rules, the essentials of the Anti-Corruption and Gifts & Entertainment Policies, and Allianz’ anti-fraud principles. In 2010, more than 15 training courses and online sessions were held at Allianz SE on what compliance means in practice, reaching more than 40% of employees locally. In the course of the year, Allianz undertook a benchmarking process with peers and presented its Compliance program to external audiences at various conferences to help boost general levels of compliance awareness. Moreover, increasing use was made of external media to promote the Allianz Compliance principles. An interview with the Head of Group Compliance not only appeared on the Allianz intranet and website but was also distributed via Facebook and Twitter. Changes in remuneration scheme A new remuneration system for the Board of Manage­ment has been in place since January 1, 2010. Performance-related remuneration was adjusted to give specific consideration to compliance and sustainability. Although the key components of per­formance-related remuneration have been retained, its composition has been amended in the interests of a stronger alignment with the company’s long-term success. A new remuneration policy was also implemented for the Supervisory Board and executive staff. More details can be found in the Remuneration Report. 44 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 1.3 Government relations: intensifying political relationships With the effects of the financial crisis still being felt, the debate continues on the consequences for the global financial architecture. Lawmakers and regulators, for their part, are working to develop mechanisms to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. In the meantime, Allianz is maintaining a constant dialogue with regulatory and political bodies. In 2010, the main regulatory issues of importance which is based on a strict set of values to ensure to the financial sector were: integrity in all the Group’s interaction with political organizations and parties • Efforts of the G20 leaders to enhance the stability • Membership of the European Insurance and of the global financial system Reinsurance Federation (CEA), the European Fund • Identifying systemic risks within financial services’ and Asset Management Association (EFAMA), the providers, and possibly also within insurance Geneva Association, the International Insurance companies Society (IIS) and several national associations in • Future regulations under the European countries where Allianz operates Commission’s Solvency II framework • Donations to political parties from Allianz • Finding the correct framework for International companies (with policies differing from country Financial Reporting Standards to country) Early warning and analysis of political issues: Experts in government relations • Monitoring of regulatory developments at a and public policy global, European and national level • Engaging on key economic, governmental and Group Government Relations and Public Policy (GPP), societal issues at an early stage to promote an the specialist department coordinating Allianz’ enabling political environment for the company’s political activities, is a globally acting holding function development based in Munich and with offices in Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, Rome and Washington D.C. Allianz Political Contacts comprises liaison points in some 35 countries Promoting sustainable dialogues and GPP also has various internal governance bodies, e.g. the GPP Steering Committee. The goal in 2010 was to increase contacts and interaction in order to conduct sustainable GPP is responsible for a wide range of tasks: dialogues on relevant issues and fundamental societal challenges. The key discussion topics Political issue management: impacting on activities in 2010 were the regulatory • Managing political issues and government and supervisory issues established by Solvency II, relations’ expertise for the Group and its units systemic risk, accounting standards, consumer • Developing company positions vis-à-vis political empowerment and demo­graphic change. partners In 2010, GPP undertook an ongoing assessment of Lobbying and political networking: the application of the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) • Coordinating all of Allianz’ lobbying activities in proposal on systemic risk to insurance and developed line with the Allianz Lobbying Code of Conduct, recommendations to address current regulatory 45 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 gaps. Two publications are worthy of mention: The Geneva Association Report on Systemic Risk in Insurance, including recommendations for five measures to strengthen financial stability; and a draft position paper entitled Resolution of International Insurance Groups. In addition, GPP participated at several international conferences, e.g. the World Risk and Insurance Economics Congress in Singapore in July 2010. The dialogues initiated in 2010 included a conference organized in February by Allianz SE, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and Stiftung Marktwirtschaft entitled Financial Market and Tax Policies: The Perspectives for 2020. The German Minister of Finance, Wolfgang Schäuble, and the Allianz CEO, Michael Diekmann, were among the participants from the worlds of politics, industry and science. A series of dialogues also took place under the auspices of the Allianz Political Forum at Allianz headquarters in Munich. Their aim was to improve mutual understanding among high-level political, academic and economic decision-makers, and thus promote a constructive dialogue for sharing experience and proposing solutions. Looking ahead GPP’s activities in 2011 will include intensifying lobbying activities within the European Union; empowering EU-wide facilities; and strengthening the new dialogue platform in Brussels to bring together politicians, regulators, business experts and academia. 46 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 1.4 Procurement: sustainability standards in the supply chain Allianz is committed to promoting sustainability standards in its supply chain management. In 2010, a global sourcing and procurement unit was set up and measures were taken to enhance supervision of social, environmental and governance standards in our supply chain. The Procurement Department plays a key role in Ensuring high supplier standards promoting sustainability standards in the supply chain, even though the risks associated with the Allianz’ goals in procurement activities are to environmental and social impact of Allianz’ suppliers ensure the continuous promotion of sustainability are limited. Moreover, Procurement is making a standards with current and potential suppliers, and significant contribution to Allianz’ CO2 reduction to make sure that all Allianz suppliers abide by the targets. company’s environmental, social and governance standards as outlined in its Code of Conduct and set of purchasing principles. They are all in line with the Global sourcing and procurement International Labour Organization (ILO) standards set-up and the principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact – in particular Human Rights, An important organizational change took place Labour Environment and Anti-Corruption. in 2010 with the creation of a global sourcing and procurement unit. A new Group-wide shared A two-tier process is in operation to ensure suppliers services center, Allianz Managed Operations and comply with these sustainability standards: Services SE (AMOS), was set up and covers the three main areas of Operations, IT and Services, bringing • The supplier selection process, which is run by IT and non-IT purchasing activities under a single AMOS, controls the environmental and social umbrella. AMOS was launched with the aim of standards of potential suppliers, who are increasing process efficiency, improving the quality sent a questionnaire tailored to the potential of services for both customers and employees, and sustainability risks arising from their respective specifically enhancing the alignment of supply lines of business. chain management issues between IT and • The vendor integrity screening process, which non-IT purchasing activities. AMOS will enable was introduced into the general supplier selection Allianz to broaden the impact of sustainability process at a global level in 2010, controls the policies within the Group and make sure all suppliers governance and compliance performance of abide by Allianz’ sustainability standards. Allianz is vendors. In this way it ensures a proper integrity in the process of developing a framework for global due diligence before vendors are engaged. sustainable supply chain management. However, the current global operational purchasing policies for both IT and non-IT suppliers define cooperation between Allianz companies and headquarters. Local implementation is in the hands of Allianz subsidiaries, who can also share best practices via a Global Purchasing intranet portal. 47 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Contributing to CO2 reduction Purchasing Policy, which reflects the company’s targets commitment to reducing energy consumption, encouraging recycling and promoting sustain­ability among IT suppliers. The Policy, which came into Significant progress was made in 2010 in the ongoing force in 2011, requires all IT hardware purchasing reduction of CO2 emissions through Allianz’ global requests for proposals to include a Green IT section, procurement activities. For example, a contract which is a factor in the sustain­ability performance management tool was developed to facilitate in the vendor selection score. Moreover, Energy the harmonization and monitoring of supplier Star and EPEAT have been adopted as Group-wide contracts throughout the Group. This tool, which standards for all IT product purchases to reduce will be implemented in 2011, also includes a digital energy consumption and IT waste on an ongoing signature functionality that will reduce paper basis. Other CO2 reduction milestones passed consumption and postage. in 2010 include a Print Policy implemented by IT departments Group-wide and a Global Travel Since 98% of Allianz’ CO2 emissions are accounted Regulation that sets minimum sustainability for by energy consumption, business travel and standards for business travel in all Allianz companies. printing, there is huge CO2 leverage potential in this Environment field. 2010 saw the definition of a Green IT Hardware A Group-wide Green IT Hardware Purchasing Policy was introduced in 2010 48 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 2 Customers 2.1 Our approach: building lifelong customer relationships As customer habits change and markets evolve, lifelong customer relationships are more important than ever. Allianz thus invests considerable resources in identifying changing needs, adapting to them and building up lasting relationships based on trust. Changing needs • Enabling subsidiaries to gain in-depth market and customer insights through tools such as Consumer habits, such as the way we work, gather market research and Net Promoter Score (NPS) information, spend our leisure time or plan our lives, • Defining customer product and service are in a state of flux. Societal developments such as requirements demographic change, increasing digitalization or • Steering the development of a holistic unstable financial markets are influencing consumer go-to-market strategy needs and their access and attitudes to markets • Building and protecting the Allianz brand such as insurance. Thus, it is crucial for Allianz, whose business is essentially about people, to identify changing needs and adapt accordingly. Only by Strategic moves proactively engaging with customers is it possible to gain a deeper understanding of their needs and Allianz further operationalized Market Management requirements, their wishes and desires – as the basis in 2010. This involved measures such as identifying for building lifelong customer relationships. best practices, sharing them throughout the Group and encouraging their implementation. In response to the increasing pace of digitalization, Market Putting a principle into practice Management promoted the integration of digital trends into business processes and operations at A strong customer focus is at the heart of the overall a Group and local level. Other important moves strategy Allianz pursues – and this is reflected in the included building up a holistic customer contact organizational set-up. Group Market Management management approach and the launch of a new, (GMM) was established to enhance customer focus Group-wide brand strategy. at a Group and local level. GMM works to ensure that the entire Group is continually improving its customer and market orientation, and that local Looking ahead best practices are shared around the Group. GMM also supports all Allianz subsidiaries in setting up a Allianz’ ultimate objective is to achieve customer so-called Market Management function, whose key loyalty leadership in all its key markets. Ambitious role is to champion customer centricity. though this may seem, it is vital to the overriding In practice, Market Management’s responsibility goal of building long-lasting and profitable customer Customer solutions involves: relationships – the only foundation for sound business, now and in the future. Allianz “One” campaign 49 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 2.2 Customer focus: responding to evolving markets In a world that is increasingly online and mobile, changing information-gathering and decision-making habits present Allianz with both challenges and opportunities. Allianz is responding to evolving markets by enhancing its customer orientation. Challenges and opportunities digital practices from Allianz companies were collected and actively shared across the Group. A revolution in customer behavior has taken place in recent years. Growing Internet usage is • Allianz ACCESS: Customers now expect speedier revolution­izing the interaction between companies interaction, greater availability of services and and consumers. Consumers increasingly expect more flexible accessibility, and have a clear information and service wherever and whenever preference for individualized services and products. they want. An adequate response to these Allianz ACCESS was launched to counteract the challenges is critical to the Allianz business. threat of losing touch with the 25to 45-year-olds, At the same time, digitalization is opening up a customer group of great relevance to Allianz the opportunity for even greater customer because of their web affinity and importance for orientation at Allianz. future business. This project aims to bring Allianz closer to existing and potential customers by making interaction with the company as easy, Adapting to digitalization convenient and flexible as possible. Since no one-size-fits-all strategy can be developed for all In adapting business processes to the digitalization subsidiaries, a framework to help implement a local trend, Allianz has been focusing on increasing service accessibility strategy has been developed and is quality and modernizing customer communications being regularly updated to meet future needs. to further improve its customer orientation. During 2010, the activities in this field were mainly focused • Financial literacy: Online tools such as on the following areas: www.financefroma-z.com are helping to improve the financial literacy of existing and potential • Digital Taskforce: 40 CEOs from Allianz companies customers, while a new Financial Toolbox makes along with their local experts joined this Taskforce mortgage, debt or retirement calculations possible. with the aim of collecting best practice examples and communicating them throughout the • Global social media guidelines: In 2010, Allianz Group; developing a framework to exploit the published its corporate guidelines for the use of opportunities of digitalization; finalizing a digital online social media by everyone associated with strategy; and enhancing the digital road map kit, Allianz worldwide. which supports the design and implementation of customized local strategies. In the course of the year, an online Digital Workspace was set up to encourage targeted collaboration and further the exchange of expertise and experience. Over 20 webinars were held on selected hot topics such as social media, and more than 190 examples of 50 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Encouraging innovation Innovation is essential in meeting evolving expectations and anticipating the future requirements of customers and markets. In 2010, around 60 Allianz companies were actively involved in innovation activities steered by the local innovation managers. An Innovation Summit held in Germany in November 2010 attracted participants from throughout the Group and proved extremely useful in strengthening the innovation management process at Allianz through sharing best practices and providing new perspectives on innovation and hot topics such as digitalization. This trend will be taken into account at the annual Allianz Global Innovation Awards when, for the first time, a new award will be presented for the “best digital innovation” – in the context of the Customer solutions overriding goal of improving customer orientation. Finance from A-Z 51 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 2.3 Customer loyalty: prioritizing customer satisfaction and loyalty In 2010, Allianz again implemented numerous measures to enhance customer satisfaction and loyalty. Back in 2005, Allianz launched its global Customer The customer contact management framework Focus Program to achieve and maintain high levels was further developed in 2010 and implementation of customer satisfaction and loyalty. On that note, initiated in six Allianz flagship companies: Austria, the processes introduced to gather feedback from France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Switzerland. customers, employees and agents were further improved in 2010. Avoiding customer attrition Allianz devotes considerable resources to In 2010, feedback from maintaining the loyalty of its customers, detecting those with a high probability of attrition and acting almost one million anticipatorily. The six flagship companies paid customers was collected particular attention to the issue of customer attrition in 2010. All the local good practices, for example customer loyalty rewards programs, were documented and shared as orientation models with other Allianz companies, as were key learnings Promoting holistic customer and tools. Fid’Allianz in France is a good example contact management of a successful loyalty rewards program, with over 200,000 customers enrolled and a significant impact Customer contact management at Allianz involves on attrition (-50%) and cross-selling (+73%). Global the pursuit of four objectives: monitoring of local attrition measures has been set up to provide a clearer overview of how they are • Integrate customer needs into the entire value impacting. chain from customer service centers to claims management and sales • Build a holistic, customer-desired experience Encouraging customer feedback along a customer’s life-time journey • Maximize the value for customers via systematic Since Allianz aims to be customer loyalty leader in and quantifiable management of touchpoint all the countries it operates in, customer feedback interaction quality is highly valued as a vital customer loyalty tool. • Better connect and align customer interaction Net Promoter Score (NPS), a measurement of points customers’ willingness to recommend Allianz and hence the key global metric for customer loyalty, is regularly measured in about 40 Allianz companies representing around 90% of gross written premiums (GWP). 52 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 NPS is applied in two ways: Proficiently handling complaints • Top-down NPS, a mandatory Group Key Complaints are bound to happen in an organization Performance Indicator for customer loyalty that is with more than 76 million customers worldwide. measured annually by local companies according The vital factor is how they are managed. Allianz to global standards, allows benchmarking to therefore conducted an internal certification process competitors in the respective local markets. of its companies to ensure Group-wide quality standards are met in handling complaints with the • Bottom-up NPS, a mandatory and certified proficiency they deserve. Moreover, Allianz change-management tool, is measured directly syste­matically gathers and analyzes complaints so after customer interaction at critical touchpoints as to learn as much from this negative feedback as (for example advice & quotations and claims) and from the positive feedback mentioned above. also includes customer feedback calls via frontline staff and agents. This allowed feedback on key interactions to be collected from almost one Engaging in mystery shopping million customers in 2010. In 2010, Allianz increased its mystery shopping The focal points of NPS activities in 2010 included activities to further improve the quality of advice at activation of local customer feedback for key business sales touchpoints. Mystery shopping involves trained objectives such as improving the claims and advice test shoppers acting as customers and reporting process as a moment of truth for customers. Between back on what they have experienced. A global 2007 and 2010, Top-down NPS results show that the experts’ group focusing on flagship companies proportion of Allianz companies rated less favorably was set up to develop and share mystery shopping than their competitors fell from 20 to 14 percent. At expertise, and Allianz companies are now starting the same time, the proportion of companies with to implement the best practice approach developed more loyal and more satisfied customers rose from in this way. In Germany, for example, the lessons 41 to 46 percent. In addition, Bottom-up NPS results learned from mystery shopping reports have been at key customer touchpoints have significantly integrated into the agent training program, and improved. mystery shopping activities have been extended to call centers in order to further improve the quality In 2011 we will further strengthen the use of customer of their service. feedback to derive insights on key customer require­ments and translate them into concrete service levels. Our goal is to holistically manage all customer touchpoints through systematic Customer solutions monitoring of customer satisfaction levels. 53 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 2.4 Brand management: building trust through investing in the brand In the present financial climate Allianz knows how important it is to invest in brand management in order to build trust and transparency and stay connected with existing and potential customers. The Allianz business is influenced not only by changing customers – in the form of one global concept with customer behavior and needs but also by the perceived numerous local interpretations. lack of transparency of financial institutions and processes. One outcome of the global financial crisis In order to really share knowledge and expertise, has been increasing distrust in the financial sector. the “One” campaign makes broad use of the digital To counteract the potentially negative impact on space and encourages dialogue, engagement and business such a development may have, Allianz has participation through online and interactive media, adapted a new brand communication strategy and for instance by incorporating user-generated embedded brand management in its digitalization content. Other delivery channels include the press, programs. TV, billboards and a global airport campaign. The impact of the “One” campaign has been remarkable and website traffic has increased remarkably since Strengthening brand its launch. management In view of the fact that Allianz operates in around Gaining international recognition 70 countries with 79% of revenues currently branded as Allianz, the company’s long-term brand strategy Evidence that Allianz is moving in the right and brand architecture follow a one-brand vision direction with its brand management activities and are brought to life by brand communication comes from the 2010 awards and rankings. In and campaigns. Guided by this strategy, Allianz has September, the Allianz brand strategy was placed transformed the existing organizational structure 67th in the Interbrand 2010 ranking of the most into more customerand market-oriented entities in important global brands, an improvement of 14 recent years. Allianz’ goal in brand management is positions on 2009. This placed Allianz among the to find new ways of interacting and dialoguing with top financial services providers and top risers. The customers and prospects. 2010 Interbrand ranking also showed that the value of the Allianz brand had increased by 28% on 2009. One important move was the launch of the Moreover, the Booz & Company’s Chief Marketing international “One” campaign in 2010. Its main Officers (CMO) Award went to Allianz in 2010 as an focus is on sharing the knowledge and experience to acknowledgment of the “outstanding and consistent help customers and non-customers move on and up implementation of a clear global Allianz Brand in life. By dealing with real people and sharing real Architecture.” experiences, advice and knowledge, Allianz has thus placed customers at the heart of its communication Monitoring the brand – especially in the light of the measures. Moreover, the “One” campaign has enabled new brand strategy – is important to understand the Allianz to globally demonstrate a single strong and key drivers in local markets. To this end, customer consistent position to its current and prospective insights are being gathered and integrated into 54 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 processes on a regular basis. What’s more, the Brand Value Program Agreement ensures that the brand management principles and standards are embedded in the business processes of all major Allianz companies. The Allianz brand is now valued at some EUR 4.9bn, an increase of 28 percent compared to 2009 (Interbrand ranking) Conducting responsible marketing and communications One important means of overcoming any distrust of the financial sector is to make sure customers understand products and services, prices and conditions. To this end, Allianz aims to be transparent and use appropriate, easily intelligible language in all its marketing and communication activities. The commitment to communicate prices and conditions in a clear and transparent way is reflected in strict regulation of the entire sales process, for example by testing whether marketing material fulfills these above-mentioned criteria. Last but not least, Allianz is committed to adapting its marketing material to significant ethnic groups within a country. In Germany, for example, where 4% of the customers are Turkish, Turkish customers were invited to a Family Day hosted by our Turkish-speaking agents to mark the end of Ramadan in mid-September 2010. Ethnic marketing at its best is a good example of consistently applied customer orientation, and our employees and agents reflect the diversity of our Allianz “One” campaign customer base. Customer solutions Sponsoring Paralympics 55 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 3 Employees 3.1 Our approach: safeguarding our human resources – now and in the future Allianz is determinedly tackling the opportunities and challenges of demographic change. Besides forecasting its implications for business, Allianz is enhancing the attractiveness of its work environment and developing long-term solutions to match the future supply and demand of people and skills. Group-wide HR management to retain the expertise of senior management and retirees in order to strengthen knowledge transfer. Human Resources (HR) was reorganized in 2010 to The SWFP approach has been rolled out at several further strengthen talent development and expand other major subsidiaries in core markets, for example HR’s strategic advisory role. All the central HR activities France and Italy, and at Allianz Global Corporate & were merged under new responsibility at Board level Specialty, as well as being extended to tied-agent and the position of a Group-wide Chief HR Officer distribution networks in Germany and France. The was created. Globally, Allianz employs more than first global SWFP Conference held in November 151,000 people who work in over 70 countries. The 2010 brought together 18 workforce planners to aim of global HR management is to ensure a globally exchange ideas and foster the development of consistent HR strategy, e.g. providing all Allianz innovative ideas. companies with a strategic HR framework, such as Global Talent Management. However, each subsidiary has differing needs so HR policies do vary to some Furthering Group talents degree and each subsidiary has retained responsibility for its own operational implementation. In addition to securing a good position in the market for recruiting future high-performers, Allianz focuses on retaining and developing skilled employees Transparency in workforce planning in the long term. Global Talent Management, a global HR process, aims to maximize the quality Significant progress was made in Strategic Workforce and performance of highly talented staff within the Planning (SWFP) in 2010. Launched in 2009 to Group through a common and systematic approach identify and address future workforce opportunities implemented across all Allianz companies. Moreover, and challenges at a global and local level, SWFP a Group Executive Pool has been introduced to supplies up to 10-year forecasts of Allianz employees’ actively manage succession planning and use and age structures, productivity, attrition, recruitments, develop the Group’s talent pool to the full. payrolls and turnover-related costs. This high degree of transparency is vital in ensuring Allianz always has sufficiently skilled staff available at the right place Health and well-being at work and the right time. Moreover, SWFP enables HR to guide and pro-actively support strategic decision2010 saw much progress in providing work making processes in this field. In Germany, for environments that promote employees’ health example, Allianz has collaborated with the University and well-being. These measures were steered and of Mannheim on a comprehensive three-year study implemented at a local level. In Germany, for example, to examine the relationship between age and an overarching health management system was productivity among Allianz employees, and has also introduced at all Allianz companies and special launched a pilot project of the Silver Liner Program training or incentives provided for employees in stress 56 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 management, fitness and relaxation, ergonomic workplace design, health and nutrition. Free flu vaccination and bowel cancer screening programs were among the preventive health measures taken at the headquarters in Munich. The Group's European SE Works Council has been particularly focusing on employee health, and a pan-European agreement on guidelines for work-related stress was signed in the first half of 2011. A similar agreement on life-long learning is under discussion. Fortunately, there are not many work-related accidents at Allianz since the majority of staff have desk jobs. Hence, the few accidents there are occur in the employees’ private lives or on their way to and from work. Employees who have been struck down by a long-term illness are helped in their gradual return to work by a recently introduced reintegration program. This is just one indication of the high priority Allianz assigns to the health and well-being of its employees. Looking ahead To improve employee engagement and the performance culture, Allianz plans to further promote meritocracy by closely linking performance and remuneration and to generate a stronger buy-in by ensuring that findings from the Global Engagement Survey are consistently acted upon. At the same time, Allianz aims to enhance HR process quality and the degree of standardization in order to enhance Allianz employees efficiency and effectiveness in this field. Careers@Allianz 57 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 3.2 Talent management: farsighted and focused on skills Having the right people in the right place at the right time is crucial to Allianz’ long-term business success. To this end, Allianz strives to recruit and develop top talents, promote high-performers and retain skilled employees. Meeting future staffing needs specific functional pipeline, skills and competency gaps across different Group companies. In its recruitment activities Allianz aims to ensure a sufficient supply of well-qualified management and • Geared to leadership specialist personnel as well as countering demographic By greatly increasing the scale and scope of the developments. In 2010 Allianz Germany increased Allianz Management Institute (AMI), Allianz is its personnel marketing activities and the development creating a corporate university network dedicated of its own vocational trainees, of which 81% were to the development of Allianz managers worldwide. taken on after successfully completing vocational The ten franchisees now include AMI Americas, training courses. Moreover, a higher percentage AMI France, AMI Italy, AMI Mondial Assistance and of women were employed in sales functions in AMI Online Academy, and the number of training anticipation of the increasing importance of female programs and participants at the central academy, customers and to benefit more from the performance AMI Group, increased by over 15% on 2009. of mixed teams. What’s more, the development and use of AMI Program Boxes – a tool kit offering comprehensive information and materials for organizing local Systematic talent and career AMI programs – has enhanced the consistency management of leadership training in Allianz subsidiaries. A significant focus within the leadership development Allianz places great emphasis on preparing itself program was on increasing the proportion of for current and future workforce opportunities and women in senior management. In 2010, the challenges. It therefore aims to identify and close number of women participating in leadership talent gaps by optimizing employees’ performance, training programs was three times as high as the filling management positions internally and attracting year before. To further promote leadership skills external top talents. Allianz again encouraged employees to engage in relevant corporate volunteering schemes such as • Managing talents and careers Social OPEX and My Finance Coach. The crucial process of developing talents within Allianz continued with Career Development Conferences (CDC) held worldwide. In 2010, this Focus on functions process based on a cascade of CDCs around the world included around 3,000 senior managers and There was a broad range of functional training high-potentials from 70 subsidiaries. Moreover, and development activities in 2010. Development eight key functions – Audit, Human Resources (HR), targets and individual development plans ensured Operations, Finance, Market Management, Claims, the ongoing development of employees. In all, 55% Pricing & Underwriting and Communications – of the Allianz workforce and 81% of managerial staff staged functional CDCs to discuss and address attended at least one training program in 2010 and 58 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 the Group invested a total of €130 million in staff training. One of the focal points was on the further training of specialists in critical functions that are in short supply and great demand throughout the industry. This took place, for example, through the Global Actuarial and Risk Development Program and the Audit Talent Development Program. Moreover, the Silver Liner Program was developed to retain the expertise of senior employees or retirees and support the process of knowledge transfer within the Group. In a pilot project, senior high-performers will be selected from throughout the Group to provide subsidiaries with additional technical, business and personnel skills. A Communication Staff Exchange Program has enabled more than 60 employees from global communication departments to work in 19 Allianz companies in eight different countries. This staff rotation is beneficial not just to those Allianz employees involved but also to the company as a whole. Careers@Allianz 59 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 3.3 Diversity: why diversity is good for business Greater diversity in the workforce, a higher proportion of women in senior management and a healthier work-life balance: Allianz believes these factors are vital to the Group’s success. Strategically important Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS), Allianz Global Investors (AllianzGI), Euler Hermes and Allianz Promoting diversity is not just a political issue, it is France. There has also been a significant increase also an increasingly important competitive factor in in the number of women attending the Allianz the insurance business – because the more diverse Management Institute. Networking among female Allianz is, the more accurately it represents society. employees has also been promoted by activities By leveraging differences and combining strengths, such as the Allianz Women in Dialog, AllianzGI New Allianz achieves a stronger customer focus and York’s Network of Women, Euler Hermes Women’s improves productivity. Allianz focuses on two main Network and the Allianz Italy Women’s Committee. issues in nurturing diversity: women in leadership In Germany, Allianz fully supports the initiative of the roles and the integration of employees with disabilities. Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women Set up in 2007 to boost diversity in the Group, the and Youth to bring more women into leadership Allianz Global Diversity Council is chaired by a Board positions by developing measures to improve the Member and develops strategies and guidelines balance between work and private life. for the entire Group, decides on diversity goals, and monitors the progress of women with leadership potential through the Global Gender Scorecard. Integrating employees with disabilities Increasing the female quota In the year under review, Allianz continued to facilitate the integration of employees with disabilities. By Allianz aims to increase the share of women in the the end of 2010 ten Allianz companies had fulfilled talent pool for all levels of management to 30%. government-regulated quotes, up from seven in Currently, there are 15% women in the first layer of 2009. In February 2010 a start was made with the management below the Board and 20% in middle implementation of Group-wide guidelines to ensure management. Worldwide, 32% of the managerial buildings, workstations and websites are accessible to positions are held by women. Although the female wheelchair users and the blind and visually impaired. quota for the entire workforce is much higher at Allianz Italy actively recruits disabled graduates for 48%, there are encouraging signs of progress in underwriter positions, and at Mondial Assistance raising the percentage of women in managerial Brazil visually impaired call center operators have posts. In 2010 43% of participants in a development been shown to perform 11% better than non-disabled program for departmental managers were women employees and provide an excellent, highly focused (up from 24% in 2009) and mentoring programs for service to customers. women are in place at companies such as Allianz SE, 60 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Improving tolerance and acceptance As a globally operating company with a strong customer focus Allianz believes it makes sound business sense to hire employees with a wide variety of backgrounds, languages, abilities and customs. But it is just as important to encourage workplaces that value such diversity. Two examples in 2010 point to significant progress in this field: At Allianz companies in Munich an informal network known as AllDive has been set up to promote a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender dialogue and gain clearer insights into the needs of such customers; and AGCS launched a three-block session for all employees on cross-cultural communication, negotiation and working styles to accommodate the truly global nature of Allianz’ business. In similar fashion Allianz aims to ensure as much national diversity as possible in management. Currently, 43% of Allianz’ senior management worldwide are non-Germans with a total of 39 nationalities represented. Worldwide, 33% of managerial positions are held by women 61 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 3.4 Engagement: fostering a performance culture Since sustainable success in the insurance industry is dependent to a high degree on the commitment and performance of highly skilled staff, Allianz attaches great importance to maintaining and fostering employee engagement and a healthy work-life balance. The competitive advantage Balancing work and private life of engagement Allianz firmly believes that work-life balance is a key Employee engagement is a key competitive advantage factor in ensuring long-term employee motivation in a people-oriented business such as financial and health, as well as in attracting new recruits. In services. Allianz therefore aims to encourage and 2010, significant progress was made in creating enhance employee engagement as a factor that a balance between work and private life. Allianz’ contributes to a culture of high performance and overriding goal is to offer its employees a working customer orientation. An important milestone was environment that furthers productive work. In this passed in 2010 with the first Group-wide Allianz context, flexible working hours are generally seen Engagement Survey unifying local surveys. Some as an important factor. Guidelines to promote a 106,000 employees from 66 Allianz companies were Flexible Working Model were introduced by Allianz invited to take part. This was the first comprehensive UK and an agreement on flexible working hours was attempt to gather feedback on leadership qualities reached with the Works Council at Allianz Spain. from Allianz employees on a global scale, and the Another key factor in balancing work and private results from the many Allianz companies were fully life is how family-friendly a firm is. In recent years, comparable. A participation rate of 69% shows a high Allianz has received a number of awards for its degree of acceptance for the Survey – and is itself a family-oriented approach, as exemplified by its daycare striking engagement figure. In 31 of the Allianz facilities, a child-care subsidy, and health and fitness companies surveyed, the Employee Engagement Index campaigns. In 2010, a Parents’ Forum was set up to was over 70%. This Index is a significant indicator of discuss how to better balance the demands of family people’s attitudes and perceptions that, in turn, drive and work in day-to-day life. The Global Diversity behavior – and as such is a valuable parameter in Office also kicked off a pilot New Dads @ Work quantifying engagement. platform for young fathers to discuss crucial issues relating to family life and work. Allianz Life of North The measurement of employee engagement is now America took a practical step towards balancing as relevant for executive remuneration as the opinions work and family life by setting up an early learning of customers and shareholders have been. From center for 73 children. And in a similar vein, three 2010 onwards, the results of the Allianz Engagement new on-site crèches will open at Allianz entities in Survey will influence the variable component in the Munich in 2011. Allianz employees remuneration of top management. Careers@Allianz: 62 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 4 Environment 4.1 Our approach: improving the environmental footprint Allianz’ commitment to improving its environmental footprint was underlined in 2010 by measures to enhance the management of environmental issues and further reduce carbon emissions. Urgent and essential action The three levers of Allianz’ carbon reduction strategy are: One of the greatest threats facing humankind today is climate change. Its implications for the insurance • Reducing emissions, for example through energy, sector are huge; 40% of industrial insurance claims paper and water consumption paid out in recent years resulted from natural disasters. • Avoiding emissions, for example through As long ago as 2005, Allianz adopted a Climate video-conferencing Change Strategy covering both its activities as a • Substituting fossil-fuel energy with renewable provider of financial services – insurance solutions, sources asset management and investments – and internal business operations. Achievements in 2010 Environmental responsibilities In the course of the year, Allianz took some decisive steps to strengthen the management of environmental Overall responsibility for operational carbon reduction issues. An environmental data collection concept at Allianz lies with Allianz4Good, Board-level was developed in line with well-established financial responsibility for environmental management with reporting procedures to integrate the collection of Paul Achleitner and operational responsibility with environmental data into the financial data stream. the Group Environmental Officer, a post created in The latter ensures data accuracy and availability, January 2010. His brief includes steering the Group’s significantly cuts collection time and effort and carbon reduction activities, further developing the reduces complexity through highly automated Group’s carbon reduction strategy, sharing best processes. The 2010 environmental data collection practices across the Group, managing environmental was done using this new process. data collection and monitoring processes within the Group’s Environmental Management System (EMS). To support the Group-wide carbon reduction strategy, Allianz introduced a Global Print Policy to cut paper consumption, a Global Travel Regulation Reducing the carbon footprint to avoid unnecessary business travel and a Green IT Hardware Purchasing Policy to reduce energy In 2008, the Allianz Board of Management set the consumption. Though undoubtedly good for the Group the target of reducing its CO2 emissions by environment, these measures were primarily 20% of the 2006 levels by 2012. As part of this cost-driven and thus contributed to the company’s strategy to combat climate change, Allianz introduced bottom line. During the year, Allianz heightened an EMS to ensure transparency in environmental awareness of the importance of environmental performance and support the systematic gathering considerations and Group-wide measures to reduce and controlling of environmental data. By December the carbon footprint through presentations to key IT 31, 2010, this EMS covered 82% of Allianz’ global and non-IT functions, such as Purchasing, and to the employee base, up from 81% at the end of 2009. environmental managers of Allianz companies. 63 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Significant progress was also made in auditing the energy performance of Allianz buildings. Allianz Real Estate, for example, piloted a Sustainable Buildings project to determine the energy efficiency and thus the carbon reduction potential of relevant parts of Allianz’ real-estate investment portfolio, also including buildings which are occupied by Allianz. One of the key findings was that savings of up to 23% in energy consumption and related carbon emissions can be achieved with relatively small investments. Based on the results of this project, Allianz Real Estate initiated a comprehensive sustainability program for Allianz’ real estate investments. This includes, for example, the integration of sustainability criteria into the investment process and an ongoing assessment of the environmental performance of the existing portfolio. Looking ahead A corporate climate change awareness campaign, which kicked off in March 2011, will be rolled out to Allianz companies across the Group in the course of the year. The campaign aims to raise awareness of climate change as a critical issue for Allianz’ business by providing employees with background information on climate change and stimulating discussion on what can be done to tackle the problem. Since Allianz has already achieved its 20% carbon reduction target set for 2012, new strategies and targets are to be developed to further improve the Group’s carbon and environmental footprint. Last but not least, action will be taken to further embed environmental considerations into core business operating and decision-making processes. 64 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 4.2 Environmental footprint: reducing consumption of natural resources Allianz takes a wide range of measures to reduce its consumption of natural resources and improve its environmental and carbon footprint. The two levers most affecting CO2 reduction are energy consumption and business travel. Drastic reduction in CO2 emissions Since 99% of our emissions come from energy, travel, and paper, the focus of our carbon-reduction Back in 2008, Allianz set itself the ambitious target strategy is on these three areas. The remaining of reducing the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions 1% originates from water and waste. (CO2e1) by 20% of the 2006 total by 2012. This target was achieved in 2010 with an overall Three significant Group-wide trends were observed Group-wide reduction of 27%2. The following graph during 20103: shows the breakdown of Allianz’ CO2e emissions by five indicators: • Reduction in energy consumption (-5%) and a switch to green electricity (+25%pp) • Increase in business kilometers traveled (+5%) • Reduction in paper use (-23%) and a switch to recycled paper (+8%pp) 1) CO2 equivalent: The universal unit of measurement to indicate the global warming potential of each of the six greenhouse gases, expressed in terms of the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide. It is used to evaluate the release (or avoided release) of different greenhouse gases against a common basis. The emissions of each greenhouse gas (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) are calculated separately and then converted to CO2 equivalents on the basis of their global warming potential. (Definition taken from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) 2) Our CO2 figures are based on net carbon accounting; in other words, we use the contractual emission factors provided by our suppliers. 65 3) The figures show the changes over and against the 2009 figures. Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Fall in GHG emissions since 2006 Energy consumption down There has been a significant fall in Allianz’ greenhouse Allianz uses energy to power IT hardware, lighting gas (GHG) emissions in the past five years, as the and other electrical appliances, as well as for heating following graph shows: and cooling offices. As energy is our main CO2 driver, our focus is on reducing the energy consumed. The benefits are not just reduced CO2 emissions but also lower energy costs. In 2010 Allianz reduced its Group-wide energy consumption by 5%. Allianz France, for example, achieved a reduction of 29% and Fireman’s Fund, an Allianz company in the U.S.A., installed fuel cells and cut its consumption by 15%. Although overall electricity consumption remained stable, there were several significant developments during 2010. The share of electricity generated from renewable sources rose from 15% to 40%, with two companies setting the pace: Allianz Elementar in Austria switched to 100% green electricity and In line with the GHG Protocol, Allianz has developed Allianz Italy increased the share from 55% to 90%. methods to measure and analyze CO2 emissions, Within the energy mix, Allianz moved away from differentiating between the three Scopes defined in fossil fuels to electricity for heating and cooling. the Protocol: A reorganization of the server infrastructure, the use of more energy-efficient IT equipment and a move • Scope 1 – direct GHG emissions: emissions sources to more energy-efficient buildings with associated that are self-owned or self-controlled by Allianz improvements in building technology all helped to • Scope 2 – indirect GHG emissions: emissions from reduce energy consumption. the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam A Green IT Hardware Purchasing Policy, which was • Scope 3 – other indirect GHG emissions: defined in 2010 and came into force in 2011, requires emissions from other sources, including travel, all IT hardware purchasing requests for proposals to water, waste and paper include a Green IT section. Energy Star and EPEAT have been adopted as Group-wide standards for all For details on the GHG emissions allocated to the IT product purchases. Last but not least, the waste three different scopes, please see our Key Figures heat captured from IT hardware in Germany saved section. 43,040 gigajoules in 2010. 66 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Measures to reduce business travel Sharp fall in paper consumption Allianz aims to reduce CO2 emissions by cutting Besides aiming to reduce overall paper consumption, down on business travel and promoting video­ Allianz is working to increase the use of recycled conferences. Although the overall business kilometers paper, totally chlorine-free paper and FSC-labeled traveled in 2010 were 5% higher than in 2009, 2010 paper. The 23% reduction in overall paper saw a 3% reduction compared to 2008. This is a consumption in 2010 was mainly achieved through more significant comparison than 2009, which was the implementation of a Global Print Policy in January an exceptional year as travel was much lower than 2010. Its aim is to encourage employees to reduce normal due to the financial crisis. In 2010, Allianz the amount of internal printing. In addition, Allianz continued to implement its Global Travel Regulation made increasing use of e-mails and web-based (GTR), which sets minimum standards for employee correspondence in its communications with customers, travel practices globally. By the end of the year, the GTR agents and other stakeholders. Allianz Brazil reduced applied to approximately 85% of Allianz employees its paper consumption by 43% in 2010 – the best worldwide. In 2010, air travel rose by 27% and rail performance of any Allianz company. As for the kind travel by 2% whereas car travel fell by around 7%. of paper used, 2010 saw an 8 percentage point The rise in air travel can be attributed to the recovery increase in the share of recycled paper to now from the recession in many countries, and particularly almost 18% with Allianz’ German operations in the U.S.A. China, however, set a shining example doing particularly well – up from 15% to 60% in by reducing its business travel by 30%. In another communications with customers. The consumption pleasing development, company-owned fleet vehicles of chlorine-bleached paper fell by around 91% in Germany have run on a climate-neutral basis to a mere 1%, and over 20% of Allianz’ total paper since 2008 thanks to a special Allianz car insurance consumption is now FSC-labeled paper. tariff that offsets all emissions. Overall CO2 reduction by 2010: 27 % less than 2006 67 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 More waste recycled Allianz strives to reduce the amount of waste it generates and increase the proportion it recycles by encouraging employees to separate the different kinds of waste. In 2010, the Allianz Group produced 28,533 metric tons of waste, of which 55% was recycled. This was 1,713 metric tons less than in 2009. The improvement in the Group’s waste footprint was due to reduced paper use, waste separation and awareness campaigns such as the one that delivered a 20% reduction at Allianz Life of North America. Reduced water consumption Although Allianz reduced its water consumption by some 6% in 2010, this was caused by natural fluctuations rather than specific measures to save water. 2009 had seen water consumption rise due to heightened hygiene awareness during the influenza pandemic. Water consumption at Allianz is mainly impacted by ongoing measures to generally increase the energy efficiency of the buildings through refurbishments and moves to newer and more modern buildings. 68 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 5 Investment Community 5.1 Our approach: an active player in the growing ESG market As environmental, social and governance factors have become increasingly significant in recent years, Allianz has demonstrated its commitment to their application through sustainability-oriented developments in its investment strategies and management. Growing ESG market the investments of Allianz insurance companies worldwide, for developing and implementing the Insurance companies are not only risk managers and Group’s strategic asset allocation, and for driving risk carriers, but also large-scale institutional investors. tactical investment decision-making. AIM implements Investment management is thus an integral part investment decisions into asset management of their business. Hence, integrating sustainability mandates and, as such, instructs and controls asset into investment strategies is not only important for managers. Allianz’ third-party investment management, but also influences decisions on proprietary business, Third-party business is managed by Allianz Global i.e. investing the income from insurance premiums. Investors (AllianzGI). As one of the world’s five largest asset managers, AllianzGI can point to a Sustainable and Responsible Investment (SRI) can be significant volume of business involving asset described as an investment style that incorporates management products and services both for a wide environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues range of retail and institutional asset management into investment analysis and asset management. clients and for the Group’s insurance operations. In the past two years, the growth in SRI investments AllianzGI pursues a multi-boutique approach with worldwide has accelerated significantly and in specialist asset managers for different investment September 2010, the global SRI market was estimated strategies and asset classes as well as several at around €6.9 trillion (Eurosif, European SRI Study competence centers for ESG expertise and investing. 2010). Various factors have fueled this growth: increasing demand from institutional investors, By the end of 2010, AlllianzGI had more than growing interest on the part of private investors, €3.1 billion in SRI assets under management. legislative changes and initiatives such as the United In addition, AllianzGI provides ESG advisory services Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI), to large institutional clients. Some AllianzGI a voluntary framework by which investors incorporate subsidiaries – AllianzGI Investments Europe, ESG issues into their decision-making and ownership AllianzGI Korea and RCM – are already signatories practices. to the UN PRI. Allianz’ investment management Recognized sustainable company structures Allianz is recognized in a variety of ratings as a As an investor, Allianz distinguishes between sustainable company and maintains strong proprietary and third-party asset management: relationships with sustainability-focused rating The Group’s proprietary business is steered by Allianz agencies and investors. Two Allianz Group centers Investment Management SE (AIM). Established in are of particular interest from an investor 2007, AIM is responsible for the decisions taken on perspective: Group Investor 69 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Relations (IR), as the direct contact point for Two other developments in 2010 were of particular sustainability-focused rating agencies, investors and importance: AllianzGI Europe, the registered holding analysts; and Allianz4Good, which cooperates closely company, created a special Fiduciary Management with IR and serves as an internal cooperation partner unit, which also offers ESG advisory services to for sustainability-focused rating agencies and institutional clients; and RCM launched Sustainability investors. Allianz’ priorities in 2010 were on fulfilling Step Change, a global sustainability (ESG) strategy the requirements laid down by investors and rating that will further push the incorporation of ESG issues agencies and strengthening the dialogue with into the organization’s investment analysis and ESG-oriented ones through a variety of interactions. decision-making process. This enhanced sustainability strategy redefines sustainability investing to include a broader approach to ESG and reclassifies products to create a clear distinction between sustainability Allianz Global Investors (for example Allianz RCM Global Sustainability) and thematic funds/clean technology (for example manages €3.1 bn in Allianz RCM EcoTrends and Allianz RCM Water Sustainable and Fund). It also established a framework for the global Responsible Investments expansion of sustainability (ESG) research processes and structures. Strategic steps in 2010 Looking ahead A significant step was taken at the end of 2010 when One thing is certain: ESG issues will become more AllianzGI Investments Europe signed the UN PRI. The and more significant in years to come, and Allianz former was set up in early 2010 and also assumed will continue to prioritize sustainability and SRI in its the PRI signatory role from AllianzGI France. Building investment strategies and management – as an on the significant progress made by AllianzGI France investor, in its third-party asset management business since 2007, this ESG-oriented approach applies to all and as an investee. investment analyses and decision-making processes as well as to ownership policies and practices. 70 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 5.2 Own investments: investing in renewables and clean technology The impact of climate change is driving the market for renewable energy and clean technology. Allianz not only insures such facilities against a variety of risks but is also expanding its portfolio in renewable energy and clean technology. Fast-growing markets and within the Allianz Group, is one of the leading portfolios European alternative asset investors with its subsidiary Allianz Specialized Investments (ASI) focusing on The renewable energy segment has grown renewable energy investments. The total sum of tremendously in recent years. This is hardly surprising direct investments made by Allianz Capital Partners in view of the role it can play in reducing CO2 emissions. (ACP) in renewable energy projects topped the According to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, €1 billion mark during 2010. By the end of 2012, new investments in clean energy, which includes Allianz plans to further increase the portfolio by up renewable energy, biofuels, energy efficiency, to €500 million to €1.5 billion. ACP, which is already infrastructure and other clean technologies, totaled one of the world’s largest investors in this field, is U.S.$243 billion in 2010. building up a long-term portfolio in wind energy and solar power. The wind parks ACP acquired during In many of its markets Allianz is insuring renewable 2010 include Langres Sud (52 MW), Achet le Grand energy facilities against technical, electronic, business and Roye (20 MW) and Cambon (12 MW) in France interruption or liability risks. In addition, Allianz and Kesfeld and Kirf (40.5 MW) in Germany. By continues to investigate the insurability, technical the end of 2010, ACP’s renewable energy portfolio feasibility and risk profile of upcoming renewable or included some 30 wind and solar parks in Germany, clean energy projects that are not yet on the market. France and Italy. After investing in its first-ever solar Carbon capture and storage technology is a good park (a 6-MW facility in Brindisi) in 2010, ACP went on example. At the same time, Allianz is expanding its to acquire two more PV (photovoltaic) assets in Italy. investments in renewable energies. ESG in proprietary investments Promoting wind energy and solar power Allianz is analyzing the available options and scope of application of environmental, social and As large institutional investors, insurance companies governance (ESG) criteria in its proprietary investments are important players in the financing of a low-carbon and considering possible ways of implementing economy. Allianz sees renewable energies as an them in various asset classes, regions and subsidiaries. attractive growth market – for two reasons: first, for the sake of portfolio diversification; and second, because sound returns are expected in the long run. Allianz Capital Partners (ACP), which is responsible for direct investments in the area of private equity 71 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 5.3 Third party asset management: investing sustainably and responsibly In third-party asset management Allianz applies environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria to identify long-term risks and opportunities. In 2010, Allianz started working to extend ESG analysis to mainstream investments. Multi-boutique approach to asset AllianzGI Investments Europe plays a leading role management across the entire SRI value chain: There are various good reasons why analyzing • Upstream: Participating in corporate or ESG factors in an investment arena makes sound multi-stakeholder initiatives and investor business sense: customer demand, the growing networks to bring about more sustainable materiality of ESG risks, better risk-adjusted returns government policies, financial markets and and portfolio diversification. By applying ESG criteria corporate practices (for example Extractive to its investments, Allianz can identify long-term Industries Transparency Initiative, Global risks and opportunities that are not correctly reflected Reporting Initiative working groups and the by the market price. Allianz Global Investors (AllianzGI), European Fund and Asset Management the Group’s third-party asset management unit, Association’s Responsible Investment Working takes a multi-boutique approach involving a wide Group). range of specialists with different investment • Investing: Systematic research into and specific strategies for different asset classes and several adaptation of ESG criteria for both mainstream ESG centers of competence: and ESG portfolios; “best in class” and “best effort” approach for ESG portfolios across all main asset AllianzGI Investments Europe classes. AllianzGI Investments Europe believes that • Downstream: Universal proxy voting policy, active Sustainable and Responsible Investment (SRI) share ownership (>300 annual meetings), and provides added value for clients in two ways: engagement to protect long-term investor interests and improve market practices; unique proxy • Sustainable investment performance for all voting policy for all equity investments, integrating AllianzGI Investments Europe funds: Including ESG environmental and social criteria as well as factors in the tool kit used by all fund managers traditional corporate governance criteria. helps to improve security analysis and ultimately contributes to better security selection; ESG AllianzGI Korea factors may also help to improve the risk-return AllianzGI Korea applies ESG criteria to equity profile of investments. investments, for example Corporate Governance • Responsible investment for all dedicated SRI Strategy, and focuses on investing in companies investments: Minimum ESG ratings and a focus that have high growth potential but are undervalued on additional criteria, such as human rights, are due to weak corporate governance. Support is required of all eligible issuers; this sustainable and given to such companies to improve their corporate responsible approach not only helps add financial governance and unlock potential value. Improving value but also contributes to building a more corporate governance is seen as the main engine of sustainable economy, society and environment. excess return. 72 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 PIMCO Activities in 2010 PIMCO, a leading bonds specialist, applies ESG criteria to fixed income products, for example offering AllianzGI global: “sin-free” investments where a negative screening • Initiation and sponsorship of innovative research process is applied. on “ESG Risk Factors in a Portfolio Context” with modeling by risklab, the specialist investment and RCM risk advisory subsidiary. RCM believes that sustainability investing, which is • Launch of Allianz Sustainable Assets for Pensions, broader than ethical or socially responsible strategies, an initiative to create a network for the exchange provides an additional information advantage and, of best practices among asset owners, consultants when exploited correctly, can lead to enhanced and other ESG experts. stock selection. At RCM, material ESG factors are • Signatory to the Global Investor Statement on considered alongside financial factors, identifying Climate Change presented at the Cancun Climate risks and opportunities that, as yet, have not been Summit in October 2010. fully priced by the markets. • Signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is supported by more than 550 investors globally • Fundamental research: RCM focuses on materiality representing U.S.$71 trillion assets under in ESG analysis with the aim of identifying management. companies offering the “best-in-class” response to ESG risks and opportunities on a sector-by-sector AllianzGI Investments Europe: basis. • Signing of the UN Principles for Responsible • Grassroots: A unique, proprietary research tool Investment (UN PRI), thereby taking over the that complements fundamental and sustainability signatory role of AllianzGI France, which signed research. in 2007. • Integrated ESG proprietary research: Introduction • Launch of the Allianz Euroland Equity SRI: Building of global sustainability sector framework papers, on the success of Allianz France’s Valeurs Durables which on a sector-by-sector basis identify the fund, one of Europe’s largest equity SRI funds, this most material ESG factors and provide RCM new Luxembourg-based fund is being distributed investors with insights into the key ESG issues that in Europe and Asia and has been included in a can impact the sectors and the companies they unit-linked Allianz Life Germany product launched are investing in. at the beginning of 2011. • Contribution to sustainability thought leadership • Launch of Allianz PEE Actions ISR Solidaire, which in the investment industry: RCM is helping to has been made available to all Allianz France shape the debate and future direction of employees via their employer savings plan: sustainability investing as a founding member of 5–10% of assets under management are invested or participant in industry initiatives, for example in two French social business organizations, ADIE Carbon Disclosure Project (2000), Extractive (microfinance) and Habitat et Humanisme (social Industries Transparency Initiative (2003) and housing); the remaining assets are invested in UNEP FI Asset Management Working Group equity in accordance with the SRI equity investment (2004), and as a signatory to the Global Investor process. Statement on Climate Change (2010). • Acquisition of €3.4 billion fiduciary mandate • Global Proxy Voting Policy and Guidelines that for dutch pension fund, including comprehensive bring together all of RCM’s regional proxy voting advice and services on ESG policy, engagement policies and practices whilst being sensitive to and proxy voting. regional rules and regulations as well as reflecting • Newly created position of Head of Sustainable & material sustainability (ESG) issues in active share Responsible Investments, including responsibility ownership. for ESG research, and reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Investment Officer of AllianzGI Investments Europe. 73 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 • Regular updating of mainstream equity portfolio Looking ahead: ongoing managers on ESG sector reviews, including relative prioritization of SRI company positioning on key ESG factors and alerts on problematic issues. AllianzGI Investments Europe: • Participation in the launch of the food production • Extending ESG analysis into mainstream fixed sector supplement at the GRI annual conference income now that it has been embedded into in Amsterdam and thus representing investors in mainstream equity investments. the Global Reporting Initiative’s two-year working • Continuing to promote and expand SRI through a group dedicated to that sector. pan-European roll-out. • Maintaining a proactive leadership role across PIMCO: the full SRI value chain, as recognized by superior • Two mutual funds focusing on “sin-free” rankings in the annual UN PRI evaluation . investments: Total Return III and Low Duration III. • Launch of a Socially Responsible Emerging RCM: Markets Bond Fund. • Establishing a global sustainability research • Management of several separate accounts for framework and team structure (to include North clients in the U.S.A. and Europe. America and Asia). • Publishing Sustainability Sector Framework Papers RCM: in collaboration with RCM sector analysts to facilitate • Launch of Sustainability Step Change strategy: the expansion of ESG analysis to mainstream Refocusing and embedding sustainability investments. research at a global level; crystallizing the definition • Providing thought leadership in sustainability of sustainability, SRI and ethical investing as investing by forging partnerships with academic well as themed funds; and establishing a global institutions and think-tanks as well as conducting sustainability research framework. research into key sustainability topics. • Public launch of Sustainability Step Change on RCM Day in Frankfurt in September 2010: Industry leaders and practitioners were invited to debate on how to navigate through the maze of definitions (e.g. ESG, SRI, RI) and distinguish between them, and to talk about ESG risks, challenges and opportunities in sustainable investing. • Responsibilities of Team Head of Sustainability Research extended to become Global Head of Sustainability Research with direct accountability to Co-Heads of Global Research and the RCM Chief Investment Officer. • Signing of the Global Investor Statement on Climate Change at the Cancun World Climate Summit: Part of RCM’s ongoing commitment to demonstrating thought leadership, meeting objectives as a signatory to the UN PRI and maintaining an active voice in the sustainable investment arena. • Renewed support for the Carbon Disclosure Project. • Signatory to the CDP Water Disclosure Project. 74 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 5.4 Sustainability ratings: rated among the top rankings The Allianz Group again achieved top sustainability rankings in 2010 and the ongoing, in-depth dialogue with ESG-oriented investors and rating agencies continued unabated. In 2010, rating agencies once again assessed Allianz’ • FTSE4Good Index: sustainability performance and gave the Group Assessment: Ethical Investment Research top rankings. Moreover, Allianz was included in the Services (EIRIS), UK main international sustainability indices and ratings: Rated in both the European 50 and the Global Carbon Disclosure Project, Dow Jones Sustainability 100 ranking since 2001 Index, FTSE4Good, Goldman Sachs GS Sustain, oekom research, Sustainalytics and Vigeo. • oekom: As communication with ESG-oriented investors and Assessment: oekom research, Germany rating agencies grows in importance, Allianz’ main C+ rating: prime status, i.e. ranking among the aims are to strengthen these relationships, engage world’s best companies in an industry and with mainstream investors on environmental, social fulfilling the sector-specific minimum and governance (ESG) issues and uphold the requirements as defined by oekom research excellent rating positions. (“best in class”) Excellent rating for environmental management and also recognized for corporate governance, Excellent ratings business ethics and eco-efficiency Since Allianz is committed to increased transparency • Goldman Sachs GS Sustain: and accountability on sustainable development Assessment: Goldman Sachs, U.S.A. issues, performance data are submitted to a wide Once again one of three Sustainability Leaders variety of rating agencies and indices. As in previous in the industry in 2010 years, the top scores achieved in 2010 represent GS Sustain: A unique framework that looks an objective recognition of the high sustainability beyond traditional investment methods, helps to standards Allianz sets for its business. identify companies that can sustain leadership in their industry and fuses quantifiable ESG metrics • Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI): with industry positions and long-run financial Assessment: Sustainable Asset Management forecasts Group (SAM), Switzerland Once again a Gold Class member in 2010, with • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): a score of 79 (same as the Super Sector Leader) Allianz Group a founding signatory Especially recognized for: Human Capital Listed in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Development, Stakeholder Engagement, Brand Index Germany in 2010 Management and Business Risks and Opportunities 75 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 2010: a pro-active year In 2010, a number of meetings and conference calls were arranged to engage with investors and rating agencies. We see increasing interest from investors and asset managers in integrating ESG criteria into their investment process and building up ESG research capabilities. However, some methodologies to analyze companies’ sustainability performance are still in their infancy. Given their importance to investors and hence their impact on guiding as well as steering markets, rating agencies at large need to focus on developing further to fulfill their own aspiration of setting leading standards. We invest considerable resources in supporting the further development of rating approaches and methodologies. The way ahead in 2011 involves further strengthening stakeholder relations and enhancing dialogues, for example through specific AllianzGI ESG road shows.  llianz Global A Investors Europe PIMCO RCM 76 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 6 Society 6.1 Our approach: a committed corporate citizien As a financial services provider operating in over 70 countries across the globe, Allianz takes its role as a corporate citizen seriously. Through structured community involvement with strategic partners Allianz leverages its core corporate competencies whilst engaging volunteer employees in these activities. Applying financial expertise to the long-term benefit Allianz4Good has established a Group-wide CC of the communities it operates in is an integral network that includes CC managers from Allianz component of Allianz’ Corporate Citizenship. Allianz’ companies around the world. Their role is to manage focus here is to find innovative solutions that address and implement CC activities at a local level on the the local and global challenges these communities basis of the Group-wide framework and to exchange face – challenges such as climate change, poverty or know-how and best practice across the Group. an aging population. In all its corporate citizenship Topic-related working groups advance Group-wide activities Allianz aims to bring in its core competencies, knowledge and support the Allianz4Good team in involve the know-how and skills of its employees developing topics of relevance to the entire Group. and share the company’s knowledge to the benefit In 2010 this work included, for example, the of society. development of a new disaster response framework. Corporate Citizenship set-up Allianz’ corporate foundations Within Allianz4Good, the central department Although operating independently of the company, responsible for sustainable development in the Allianz’ network of corporate foundations is a vital Allianz Group, there is a Corporate Citizenship (CC) component of the Group’s social engagement. What team that has strategic and executive responsibility all these corporate foundations have in common is for the activities in this field. Its work involves: that they address basic social, environmental and cultural issues of relevance to Allianz and the societies • Setting the CC framework for the Group it operates in. The four Allianz SE foundations illustrate • Managing and coordinating CC activities at a the breadth of issues covered: Group level • Developing and implementing global programs • The Allianz Cultural Foundation initiated a Debate that draw on Allianz’ core competencies to build on Europe 2010 series. solutions that meet critical community needs • The Allianz Direct Help Foundation offers effective • Providing effective tools and guidance for local and sustainable help in response to catastrophes Allianz companies and natural disasters. • Providing a forum for the exchange of ideas and • The Allianz Foundation for North America empowers best practices across the Group young people to shape a secure future, for instance • Entering into partnerships across sectors and with with a project entitled Engaging Workplace other businesses to complement Allianz’ own Diversity. expertise. 77 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 • The Allianz Foundation for Sustainability (Allianz Umweltstiftung) runs the Deutscher Klimapreis, an award that honors the engagement of German schools in the field of climate protection. Besides these Allianz SE foundations, Allianz subsidiaries also have many foundations of their own. Corporate Citizenship principles and tools In recent years, Allianz4Good has developed core principles for Corporate Citizenship in the Allianz Group and supported their local implementation with various tools: • Allianz4Good Principles for Social Engagement: Define the strategic approach to social engagement within the Group Ensure that social engagement is aligned with both the Group strategy and local business objectives Generate a long-term win-win situation for society and the company worldwide. • A llianz4Good Scorecard, made available to all Allianz companies in 2010: Enables Allianz to assess in strategic terms the impact of the various activities in the social engagement field, for example donations, partnerships and corporate volunteering. Enhances the development of a strategically aligned, consistent and effective portfolio of Allianz Cultural societal engagements, for instance the selection Foundation of organizations Allianz wishes to support or partner with and regular assessment of both new and existing engagements, in order to Allianz Direct Help ensure that Allianz’ commitment leads to the Foundation expected social impact and gains. Allianz Foundation for North America Allianz Umweltstiftung 78 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 6.2 Lighthouse projects: Corporate Citizienship in action – to society's benefit Allianz addresses its social responsibility through integrated formats that include employee engagement, knowledge transfer and corporate giving. The projects detailed below exemplify the principles and practice of Allianz’ Corporate Citizenship. Three overriding goals shape Allianz’ Corporate is valid until 2014 to ensure consistency in program Citizenship activities: management. The pilot program, which began in seven German states, had a successful 2010. The • Supporting the development of effective solutions target of 300 volunteers was reached by May and to critical social issues in the communities Allianz by the end of December, the figure was up to 674. operates in In all, 301 classes with 8,000 pupils in 90 schools • Drawing on the company’s core competencies were visited in the course of 2010. A pilot • Engaging Allianz’ employees in order to interdisciplinary e-learning teacher-training strengthen their identification with the company, course in economics and finance, developed enhance their skills and develop team spirit in collaboration with Bavaria’s Teacher Training Academy, was also introduced in Bavaria and will be offered to teachers all over Germany in 2011. My Finance Coach: fostering financial literacy In 2011, My Finance Coach will be rolled out across the remaining nine German states, aiming to reach Through the My Finance Coach program Allianz and 50,000 pupils out of a total target pool of some four its partners aim to foster financial literacy among million, for example through innovative extracurricular 11to 15-year-olds. Familiarizing these young formats. All learning modules have been translated people with financial issues will help them to make into English to provide volunteering opportunities educated financial decisions now and in the future. for non-German speakers among Allianz’ diverse Allianz intends to expand the pilot program in employee base. Preparations are under way to Germany through 2011 by training an additional extend My Finance Coach to non-German-speaking 800 volunteers from among its own staff, tied countries. agents and partners’ employees. The German UNESCO Committee has declared the Originally set up in 2009 by Allianz, My Finance Foundation to be an official project of the United Coach was turned into a charitable foundation in Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable October 2010 with an advisory committee of Development. This seal of quality recognizes renowned educational experts. The cooperation innovative educational initiatives that help embed agreement between the Foundation’s three founding the principles of sustainable development in partners – Allianz, the communications agency Grey education. and the business consultants McKinsey & Company – 79 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Social OPEX: Disaster response: assisting social entrepreneurs helping in times of need Social OPEX aims to share Allianz’ know-how Disaster response is another cornerstone of Allianz’ and business skills with socially committed Corporate Citizenship. The objective here is to organizations. It combines OPEX (OPerational alleviate the suffering of communities hit by a EXcellence) – an internal quality management natural or man-made disaster, mainly through approach based on internationally acclaimed monetary donations. standards such as Six Sigma and Total Quality Management and used to implement change in The Allianz Direct Help Foundation was founded the organization – with employee engagement in in the wake of 9/11 to organize the response of the social sector. The main goal is to support talent Allianz and its employees to catastrophes or natural development at Allianz through a unique format disasters. The common goal of all projects is to that allows employees to gain valuable out-ofoffer effective and sustainable help. Employees’ company experience. donations are generally used for direct aid, whereas the company’s donations are directed towards longer-term, sustainable solutions to the respective problems. My Finance Coach Foundation is an official project of the In 2010, humanitarian aid was provided for the United Nations Decade of victims of three major disasters: Education for Sustainable • Haiti earthquake Development -A  llianz employees and companies worldwide donated a total of €450,000 to assist the victims of the earthquake that hit the island of Haiti on In 2010, Social OPEX projects were conducted in January 12, 2010; the money was mainly channeled Germany, France, the UK, Singapore, Italy and the through the humanitarian organizations CARE Netherlands, involving a total of 21 Allianz employees and Red Cross. from ten subsidiaries and eleven social entrepreneurs. Throughout the year, regular feedback was obtained The disaster triggered the development of a through tracking the Net Promoter Scores, new strategic framework within the Allianz monitoring projects in progress, collecting postGroup for responding to disasters. The overall project reviews and conducting in-depth interviews goal was to define when Allianz should become with social entrepreneurs and project participants. active in the aftermath of a disaster, and how a Several projects are worth particular mention: Social disaster response program should be organized OPEX teams provided organizational support for to ensure that donations made by the company the Homeless World Cup in Edinburgh; MyBnk in and/or employees are relevant, timely and London received an £80,000 grant to implement effective. The new disaster response framework an extension plan developed with the Social OPEX was approved by the Allianz SE Management team; and support was provided for Aflatoun (Child Board in November 2010 and will be realized in Savings International), headquartered in Amsterdam, 2011. and Le Chênelet, a French social housing enterprise. • Floods in Pakistan In 2011 a pilot Social OPEX program will be conducted In July-August 2010, Pakistan was hit by the in the U.S.A. The target for the year is that 40 Allianz worst floods in its history. In close cooperation employees in Europe and the U.S.A. will support and consultation with its country subsidiary, social entrepreneurs in their projects. Ultimately, Allianz SE donated EUR 150,000, of which half Allianz aims to integrate Social OPEX into its core HR was used as emergency aid for health care and processes. half to support the building of a healthcare facility in one of the worst hit areas. 80 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Funds were provided to the Mahvash & Jahangir Siddiqui Foundation in Karachi, a non-profit organization that supports relief efforts in Pakistan during national emergencies. Allianz SE’s initiative was supported by the individual donations of Allianz employees and subsidiaries; for example, Allianz Global Investors companies in Germany decided to make donations for the flood victims instead of giving Christmas presents to business partners. • West Sumatra Earthquake In September 2010, less than a year after an earthquake destroyed the Simpang Anduring school buildings in the port of Padang, Indonesia, 800 children and their teachers moved into the newly completed complex, which Allianz companies in Indonesia had helped to finance. In November 2010, disaster coaches from Allianz started preparing the pupils for any future emergency. The children learn how to protect themselves during an earthquake, how to evacuate a building and where to run to. The disaster risk reduction program is scheduled to be expanded to other risk-prone areas in My Finance Coach Indonesia in 2011. Allianz Direct Help Foundation 81 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 7 Key figures 7.1 Economy Allianz at a glance As of December 31 2010 2009 2008 Total revenues, [€m] 4 106,451 97,385 92,568 Operating profit, [€m] 5 8,243 7,044 7,455 Net income from continuing operations, [€m] 6 5,209 4,650 4,268 Return on equity after income taxes, [%] 7,8,9 11.9 12.50 9.90 Basic earnings per share, [€] 4 11.2 9.33 (5.25) Dividend per share, [€] 4.50 10 4.10 3.50 Allianz delivered strong results in 2010: For more details revenues grew by 9.3% and the operating profit increased by 17.0% to €8,243 million – please see the its highest level since 2007. Annual Report 2010 Sustainability performance As of December 31 2010 2009 2008 Assets under Management in SRI funds [€bn] 3.1 4.8 4.2 Share of SRI funds from total AuM [%] 0.2 0.4 0.5 Investments in renewable energy projects [€mn] 1,000 760 500 Microinsurance customers (rounded) 4.0 3.8 1.9 Allianz manages a number of Sustainable and Responsible Investments (SRI) across the major asset classes through its third-party asset manager Allianz Global Investors. SRI assets under management amounted to For more details please €3.1 billion at the end of 2010, down from €4.8 billion in 2009. This fall was driven by outflows in retail fixed see the Investment income, especially money market funds, due to the low interest rate environment; a trend experienced by community chapter the market as a whole. Allianz's investments in renewable energy have surpassed the €1 billion mark in 2010. Since 2005, Allianz has invested in 30 wind farms and solar parks in Germany, France and Italy. For more details please see the Access Allianz now offers a variety of microfinance products to more than 4 million customers (2009: 3.8 million) to finance chapter in eight countries of Asia, Africa and South America. 4) Total revenues comprise statutory gross written premiums in Property-Casualty and Life/Health, operating revenues in Asset Management and total revenues in Corporate and Other (Banking). 5) The Allianz Group uses operating profit as a key financial indicator to assess the performance of its business segments and the Group as a whole. 6) Following the announcement of the sale on August 31, 2008, Dresdner Bank was classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. Therefore, all revenue and profit figures presented for the continuing business do not include the parts of Dresdner Bank sold to Commerzbank on January 12, 2009. Starting as of 2006 the results from these operations are presented in a separate net income line Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes . 7) Figures prior to 2008 have not been restated to reflect the change in the Allianz Group’s accounting policy, effective July 1, 2010. For further information please refer to note 4 of the consolidated financial statements. 8) Based on average shareholders‘ equity. Average shareholders‘ equity has been calculated based upon the average of the current and the preceding year’s shareholders’ equity as of December 31. 9) Based on net income from continuing operations after non-controlling interests 82 10) Proposal Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 7.2 Environment Total greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e) 2010 2009 2008 Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions, 41,496 53,205 53,900 total [metric tons] Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions, 197,207 256,347 282,345 total [metric tons] Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions, 179,098 185,407 220,386 total [metric tons] Scope 1-3 GHG emissions, 417,801 494,959 556,631 total [metric tons] Scope 1-3 GHG emissions, 2.76 3.23 3.59 per employee [metric tons] Allianz has developed methods to measure and analyze CO2 emissions and differentiates between the For more details three Scopes defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A major achievement in 2010 was the reduction of please see the greenhouse gas emissions per employee by 27% of their 2006 levels. The drivers were reduced energy and Environment chapter paper consumption and a higher percentage of green electricity sourced. 83 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Allocation of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e), 2010 [%] Allianz monitors its environmental impact and calculates its greenhouse gas emissions using energy, business For more details travel, paper and water consumption, and waste generation as indicators. The percentage share of energy fell please see the in 2010 and though business travel was higher than in 2009, when it was unduly affected by the recession, it Environment chapter was lower than 2008, a more suitable year for comparison purposes. Energy consumption 2010 2009 2008 Energy consumption, total [GJ] 3,554,430 3,724,624 3,824,832 Energy consumption per employee [GJ] 23.5 24.3 24.6 Electricity [%] 66.9 63.8 64.0 Fossil fuels [%] 20.6 24.2 24.8 Long-distance heating [%] 11.3 11.1 10.1 Internal waste heat [%] 1.2 1.0 1.0 For more details Allianz uses energy to power IT hardware, lighting and other electrical appliances, as well as for heating and please see the cooling offices. As energy is the company’s main CO2 driver, the focus is on reducing the energy consumed. Environment chapter In 2010, Allianz reduced its Group-wide energy consumption by 5%. 84 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Share of renewable energy 2010 2009 2008 Green electricity as a share of 27 10 9 total energy sourced [%] Green electricity as a share of 40 15 13 total electricity sources [%] 2010 saw the share of electricity generated from renewable sources rise from 15% to 40%. Two companies in particular set the pace: Allianz Elementar (Austria) switched to 100% green electricity and Allianz Italy increased the share from 55% to 90%. Business travel 2010 2009 2008 Total traveled (in thousand km) 997,440 947,647 1,023,346 – Road travel [%] 50.7 57.5 55.7 – Air travel [%] 41.7 34.6 38.5 – Rail travel [%] 7.6 7.9 5.8 Although the total distance traveled in 2010 was 4.3% higher than in 2009, this was mainly due to 2009 being an exceptional year as a result of the financial crisis and limitations on travel. A comparison with 2008 gives a more accurate assessment of how Allianz’ Global Travel Policy impacted to reduce business travel by 3% from 2008 to 2010. In absolute and relative terms, the greatest reduction was in road travel. Another trend which materialized over the past few years was a steady increase, in absolute terms, in travel by rail. 85 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Paper and water consumption, waste generation 2010 2009 2008 Paper consumption per employee [kg] 152 195 231 Water consumption per employee [liter] 13,571 14,482 13,995 Waste per employee [kg] 189 197 214 Paper The implementation of Allianz’ Global Print Policy was the main reason for a 23% fall in paper consumption in 2010. Another contributing factor was the increased use of digital technologies in stakeholder communications. Besides this sharp fall in overall paper consumption, the share of FSC-labeled paper rose to around 20% and recycled paper to around 18%. Water Water consumption fell by 6.3%, though 2009 was an exception year because of temporary factors such as hygiene measures during the swine flu epidemic. Waste The amount of waste generated fell slightly; 55% was recycled, 24% incinerated and 21% went to landfills. 86 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 7.3 Social Employees by region, 2010 For more details please see the Annual Report 2010 At the end of 2010, Allianz employed 151,338 employees worldwide. Employee turnover 2010 2009 2008 External recruitment 21,660 17,409 n.a. External leavers 1 20,701 21,558 n.a. In previous years, moves within the Allianz Group were included in the employee turnover figures. Thus, the total numbers of recruits and leavers were reported in a way that overstated the actual fluctuation. In 2010, for the first time, intra-Group movements were removed from these figures to reflect true employee fluctuation. The figures for 2009 are provided retrospectively. The economic slowdown during the financial crisis had an impact on Allianz’ recruiting activity in 2009 but as economic recovery continued during 2010, recruiting activities also increased. Employment relationship 2010 2009 2008 Permanent employees [%] 93.6 94.5 94.6 Temporary employees [%] 6.4 5.5 5.4 Full-time employees [%] 88.4 89.4 91.2 Part-time employees [%] 11.6 10.6 8.8 Trainee ratio [%] 2 2.2 1.8 1.8 The increasing share of part-time employees over the years is due to the attractive range of flexible work arrangements Allianz offers. 1) Number of employees who left the Allianz Group during the reporting period. 2009: including trainees, 2010: excluding trainees – for 2010 the calculation has been adjusted and is now in line with common industry practice. 2) Trainees: Employees at the beginning of their career participating in a trainee program, i.e. who are undergoing practical training designed to facilitate their development of knowledge and skills, e.g. apprentices, trainees, interns and working students, and with a formal arrangement 87 (e.g. employment contract or third party agreement with a school or university) Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Age structure [%] Age groups 2010 2009 2008 25 or under 7.8 8.1 9.6 26-34 27.6 28.1 25.2 35-44 30.0 30.1 28.4 45-54 24.9 24.5 22.5 55-64 9.5 8.9 9.5 65 or over 0.3 0.2 0.2 The aging populations of industrialized economies are also reflected in the Allianz workforce where a trend towards a slightly older average workforce is apparent. Diversity 2010 2009 2008 Women in management positions 3 [%] 32.8 31.5 31.6 Share of women in overall workforce [%]4 47.9 47.3 49.0 In 2010, women accounted for 15% of management positions directly below Board level, 20% of middle management and 32.8% of all management positions in the Group. Although women make up 47.9% of the workforce, the growing percentage of women in managerial positions is an encouraging sign. Promoting women, however, is only one aspect of Allianz’ efforts to increase diversity. Allianz’ international workforce and cross-border co-operation are also a reflection of the Group’s diversity. 43% of managers at the For more details top two levels are non-Germans and 39 different nationalities are represented in top management. In 2010, please see the there were 531 long-term employee assignments within the Allianz Group and over 60 nationalities worked at Employees chapter headquarters. 3) Including women in positions at Board level as well as three levels below Board level (division, department and team managers) 4) Change in methodology: Up to 2009, the overall share of women in the workforce reported was calculated from non-executive staff; in 2010 the 88 share was calculated from the total headcount. Figures for 2009 and 2008 were adjusted accordingly and reflect the change in methodology. Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Talent management 2010 2009 2008 Total expenses for employees in training, (€m) 130 147 147 Employees undergoing at Staff [%] 55.4 60.6 59.9 least one training session Managers [%] 81.1 81.1 70.1 The Allianz Group invested €130 million in training and further education measures in 2010 – a global average of €980 per employee (2009: €1,100). The fall in overall spending on training and further education measures was due to the increased use of e-learning and more in-house training measures. Tenure [years] 2010 2009 2008 Managers 12.7 12.3 12.4 Staff 10.8 10.4 9.6 Tenure by region, 2010 [years] There was very little change in employee tenure with fluctuation remaining within the normal limits. On average, both managerial and non-managerial staff stay with the company for more than ten years. Employees work for the company for an average of 11 years, with Germany having the longest tenure figures of any country within the Group. 89 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 Absenteeism 2010 2009 2008 Sick days per employee 5 5.9 5.8 7.2 A global absenteeism figure was included for the first time in 2010, whereas only the absenteeism rate for Germany was reported up to 2009. The average number of sick days rose slightly from 2010 to 2009. No differentiation is made between absences caused by sickness or stress since this is not permitted in many countries. Accident data are not reported centrally, but as most of the Allianz business is conducted in offices, work-related accidents are not a major issue. Innovation management 2010 2009 2008 Implemented ideas per 100 employees 17.9 10.5 5.4 Participation rate [%] 29.3 29.0 24.0 Allianz promotes a culture of innovation and provides a framework for generating, managing and implementing ideas. The “implemented ideas per 100 employees” figure used to compare the Group’s ideas performance over the years reveals a significant increase in recent years. Community engagement – Group level lighthouse projects 2010 2009 2008 Social OPEX volunteers 21 8 n.a. No. of social organizations supported 11 3 n.a. My Finance Coach volunteers 670 n.a. n.a. My Finance Coach pupils reached 7,770 n.a. n.a. Through initiatives such as Social OPEX Allianz also supports and encourages volunteering projects in which corporate expertise and competencies are employed for a community’s benefit. In 2010, Allianz employees supported 11 social organizations. For more details Since these initiatives were piloted in 2009, figures are only available for 2009 and 2010. In 2010, Allianz please see the teamed up with partners to launch an independent initiative to take finance into schools: My Finance Coach Society > Lighthouse (MFC). 670 employees volunteered for this initiative, which was piloted in Germany, and 7,770 pupils in projects 90 schools were reached. 90 5) Number of working days missed per active employee due to sickness during the reporting period Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 PERFORMANCE 2010 7.4 Governance Donations to political parties in Germany As a corporate citizen of significant size and headquartered in Germany, Allianz SE is committed to the country’s vibrant democracy, which for over 60 years has brought prosperity, freedom and justice to the German people. Over the years, Allianz has therefore contributed to political parties that are represented as parliamentary groups in the German Parliament, support the social market economy and acknowledge the important role labor and industry have played in the creation of the modern German state. In 2010, Allianz contributed equal amounts to political parties representing a variety of views within the German political spectrum: the Greens (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen), Christian Democrats (CDU), Christian Social Union (CSU), Liberals (FDP) and Social Democrats (SPD). €50,001 went to each party and €10,000 to their youth organization. The donated amount is specifically chosen to ensure the figure is officially published by the German Parliament, which guarantees complete transparency. All contributions are effective as of July 1st to ensure that they are in no manner connected, or perceived to be connected, to any legislative initiatives or elections. Allianz companies in other countries comply with local legal requirements and conventions. 91 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 1 Stakeholder relationship management 93 1.1 Our approach: strengthening stakeholder relationships 93 1.2 Dialogues: listen, discuss, understand 95 1.3 External commitments: promoting the sustainability agenda 97 2 Reporting 99 2.1 Our approach: geared to stakeholders' needs 99 2.2 Materiality process: survey identifies focus topics 101 92 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 1 Stakeholder relationship management 1.1 Our approach: strengthening stakeholder relationships Since stakeholder trust is essential for successful business, Allianz is committed to engaging its stakeholders in a variety of ways at both a Group and local level. In 2010, Allianz focused on strengthening its stakeholder dialogue on issues such as climate change and microinsurance. Systematic approach example Group Government Relations and Public Policy for government issues and Allianz4Good Allianz employs a systematic approach to for Sustainable Development issues; the Group understand the demands of its various stakeholder has also appointed spokespeople with specific groups: customers, employees, the investment topic responsibilities to interact with media community, non-governmental organizations representatives. (NGOs), governments, suppliers and society in • Local-level approach: Each Allianz company general. The overriding goal is to intensify the manages its own stakeholder interactions. various types of dialogue between Allianz and its stakeholder groups by discussing current and future global issues with the aim of: Gathering stakeholder opinions • Determining how Allianz can effectively help in At a Group level Allianz sees stakeholder surveys as managing these issues a crucial tool in finding out the most relevant topics • Gathering specific opinions, expectations and for key stakeholder groups. The biennial global ideas from stakeholders and considering those in Stakeholder Expectations Survey targets politicians, the light of business operations the media, NGOs, scientists, other companies and • Cooperating with stakeholders to find effective Allianz’ own management staff. The most significant solutions findings of the latest Survey in 2009 were as follows: • New focal points: Whereas demographic change Two levels of dialogue was again seen as the top issue, there was also a shift of focus towards education, stability of Allianz builds stakeholder relationships through financial markets and dealing with technological regular and systematically planned stakeholder and social risks. dialogues in a variety of forms, for example • Changed expectations: Stakeholders placed conferences, workshops, road shows, surveys and greater emphasis on “social commitment” interviews, and at both a Group and local level. In all and “cooperation with NGOs” while naming these dialogues Allianz follows the following basic “customer satisfaction” as the main indicator principles: first, listen to what stakeholders say and of success ahead of “profitability” or “employee avoid one-way communication; second, put yourself satisfaction.” in the stakeholders’ position and analyze what drives • Interest in involvement: Stakeholder groups them. Allianz strives to reach these diverse groups expressed an interest in engaging with Allianz and discuss topics of relevance to the company at on new issues and commitments, and attached two levels: particular importance to dialogue events and online information. • Group-level dialogue: The relevant departments are responsible for topic-related interaction, for 93 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION At the twice-yearly Global Issues Forum a body of experts analyzes long-term developments to ensure that Allianz systematically monitors risk and opportunities along with any other factors that may become relevant to the business. The 2010/2011 Materiality Survey has involved a broad consultation of internal and external experts and sources, with input also coming from the Global Issues Forum and the Stakeholder Expectations Survey. In this way, Allianz has been able to identify the business-related sustainability topics of most relevance to stakeholders and identify what its role should be in addressing them. Intensifying dialogue In 2010, Allianz emphasized specific initiatives in the field of climate change and microinsurance, for example, while making knowledge on major global issues easily accessible to stakeholders via its Allianz Knowledge website. Available in several languages, the website regularly provides news and articles on topics such as climate change, energy and demographics while also making use of social media to give stakeholders the chance, among other things, to evaluate and rank articles. Looking ahead, Allianz plans to further expand its platforms for interacting with stakeholders on crucial topics. 94 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 1.2 Dialogues: listen, discuss, understand Stakeholder dialogue is part of Allianz’ everyday business. Though conducted at many different levels and in diverse forms, Allianz always strives to listen, discuss and understand what its stakeholders have to say. Allianz takes up the issues raised and discusses them with representatives from the worlds of politics and business. A selection of the numerous global and local dialogues conducted in 2010 is listed below. Customers • AllDive lesbian, gay, bisexual & transgender network: Set up at Allianz entities in Munich to Multi-local: promote dialogue and gain clearer insights into • Customer feedback: systematic collection of the needs of these groups. customer feedback at identified multiple • Dialogues on work-life balance: Work-family life touchpoints with NPS. issues discussed at the Parents’ Forum and New • Allianz “One” campaign: Places the customer at Dads @ Work platform. the center of our communication by sharing the knowledge, experiences and advice of our customers, employees and key stakeholders to Government relations help people understand what we do and offer. Global: • Ongoing dialogue with regulatory and political Employees bodies: Coordinated by Group Government Relations and Public Policy, the globally acting Global: holding function based in Munich. • Allianz Engagement Survey: First global initiative • Climate Change Workshop: Staged in São Paulo to gather feedback on leadership qualities and in 2010 by Allianz Climate Solutions in conjunction corporate culture – some 106,000 employees with the Geneva Association to discuss climate from 66 Allianz companies were invited to take change from an insurance, health and poverty part in this first-ever Group-wide survey. perspective. • Digital Task Force: Set up in 2010 as a knowledge exchange platform for sharing and Local: communicating best practices, furthering the • Allianz Political Forum: Series of dialogues staged exchange of expertise and experience and at Allianz headquarters in Munich to promote encouraging targeted collaboration. a constructive dialogue between high-level • Global Strategic Workforce Planning: The first decision-makers in politics, academia and Conference held in November 2010 brought business. together workforce planners to foster the • Financial Market and Tax Policies Conference: development of innovative ideas in the field of Politicians, industry leaders and scientists future-oriented workforce planning. discussed the perspectives for 2020. • Ongoing dialogue on climate change with the Local: German Ministry for the Environment. • Female networks: Promoted by activities such as Allianz Women in Dialog, AllianzGI New York’s Network of Women, Euler Hermes Women’s Network and Allianz Italy Women’s Committee. 95 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION Investment community Society Global: Global: • Shareholder dialogues: Various forms of dialogues • 2010/2011 Materiality Survey: The results of this such as quarterly analyst conferences, regular broadly based consultation with selected investor conferences, an annual Capital Markets stakeholders helped Allianz to understand which Day and an annual shareholders’ meeting. Sustainable Development-related topics are most relevant to its stakeholders in its business context; Local: the results are communicated in this SD Report. • Engagement with portfolio companies: Numerous • “Debate on Europe” panel discussions: meetings with representatives of large companies Contribution to the creation of a public forum were organized by brokers to discuss a broad where topics of material importance to European range of environmental, social and governance unity can be discussed. (ESG) issues and also cover major controversies. • Partnership since 2007 with World Wide Fund • RCM Investor Day in Frankfurt, September 2010: for Nature: Relevant projects such as “Extreme Industry leaders and practitioners were invited precipitation in Northern Italy”; to debate on how to navigate through the maze this partnership has generated a number of key of definitions (ESG, SRI, RI), distinguish between results of benefit to society in general. them and talk about ESG risks, challenges and • Microinsurance Roundtable: The most prominent opportunities in sustainable investing. Microinsurance Roundtable was held in New • Leadership of a working group on governance: York City in September 2010 in conjunction In volvement of AllianzGI France in CorDial, with the Financial Access Initiative and attracted a dialogue interface with issuers created by the 40 representatives from the United Nations French Forum pour l‘Investissement Responsable. Development Programme, the World Bank and other leading microfinance institutes and NGOs. Local: • My Finance Coach: Collaboration with Grey and McKinsey & Company to promote financial literacy among 11to 15-year-old school pupils in Germany. 96 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 1.3 External commitments: promoting the sustainability agenda Allianz plays a pro-active role in sustainability-related associations, initiatives and alliances at a national and international level. The most important external commitments are listed below. International commitments and • United Nations Environment Programme Finance memberships: Initiative (UNEP FI) In this global partnership between the United Nations Environment Programme and the • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) financial sector, Allianz co-chaired the Climate Since 2002, Allianz has been a founding supporter Change Working Group from 2005 to 2009 and and signatory to the CDP, an initiative intended is still member of that and other working groups. to provide investors with information on Signatory to the Global Investor Statement on greenhouse gas emissions and the climate Climate Change 2010. strategy of the world’s largest corporations. Signatory to Investor Statement on Catalyzing In 2010 Allianz was included in the German Investment in a Low-Carbon Economy 2010. Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. Signatory to Water CDP 2010 and 2011. • United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. • European Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA). • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Signatory in 2002. • European Insurance and Reinsurance Federation. Publication of an annual Progress Report. • Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative • World Business Council for Sustainable RCM, Allianz’ global equity specialist, is a Development (WBCSD). supporting signatory. • The Geneva Association National commitments and The Geneva Association was founded to identify memberships: and analyze issues of specific relevance to the insurance industry. Allianz has been a member • Centrum für Corporate Citizenship Deutschland for many years and also contributes to the GmbH Association’s climate change discussions. • ClimateWise • Transparency International In 2007, Allianz UK co-founded ClimateWise, Member since 2002. an initiative now including more than 40 British insurance companies. • United National Principles for Responsible Andrew Torrance, Chief Executive Officer, Investment (UN PRI) Allianz UK, chairs ClimateWise UK. Signatory to the UN PRI through our specialist investment units. 97 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION • Rat für nachhaltige Entwicklung (German Govern• Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) ment’s Council for Sustainable Development) The MCII was formed by insurers, climate This Council contributes to Germany’s change and adaptation experts, NGOs and policy sustainable development strategy and researchers intent on finding solutions to the designates specific areas of action and projects. risks posed by climate change. Angela Merkel appointed Joachim Faber, a Allianz has been a member since 2009. member of the Allianz SE Board, to the Council in May 2010. • Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ): a public private • Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen partnership (PPP) with this German development Wirtschaft (econsense). organization This PPP was initiated in 2010 to explore the • UK Stewardship Code potential for innovations in the microinsurance RCM is a supporting signatory to the UK Financial portfolio, drive knowledge and quality and Reporting Council (FRC) list of organizations enhance access to sustainable microinsurance who pub lished a statement of commitment to solutions for low-income populations in India, the UK Stewardship Code in July 2010. Indonesia and African countries. • 2° – German CEOs for Climate Protection • World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Co-founder and member of an independent Global partnership with WWF in communication, German organization aiming to tackle various projects and research topics since 2007. climate change by promoting technological Analysis of the risks and opportunities for the developments since March 2007. financial sector brought about by climate Participant in the 2010 2° Forum on Research change; for example “Extreme precipitation and Innovation for Climate Protection in Berlin. in Northern Italy”, a project aiming to evaluate future annual expected losses from the riskiest parts of Northern Italy to ensure sustainable Partnerships insurance cover against losses from heavy precipitations. • Volans: Cooperation with an external consultancy Report on Energy and Climate Policy in Europe in the Social OPEX program (RECIPE), a study jointly launched in November In 2009, Allianz and Volans, an external 2009 and showing that ambitious climate consultancy, created a unique global leadership change mitigations are feasible at low cost if development program, Social OPEX. Social decisive political and economic action is taken OPEX allows specially trained experts from within the next years. Allianz to assist social enterprises in coping with Relevant studies and internal projects relating to their business challenges, improving business climate change. operations and increasing their overall social impact. • International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement: joining forces in disaster response Global partnership with the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement to facilitate global fundraising and ensure the efficient use of funds since 2010: besides existing partnerships with relief organizations at a local level, employee donations by Allianz Group will be solely directed to this global partner. 98 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 2 Reporting 2.1 Our approach: geared to stakeholders' needs To drive a company’s sustainability agenda, you need to report about it effectively. That is why Allianz is determined to make its Sustainable Development (SD) Report 2010/11 as transparent, user-friendly and target-group-oriented as possible. Targeted information and insights Other changes have been made to take advantage of the interactive nature of the web. For example, The Allianz SD Report is targeted at analysts, ranking we are moving towards a more dynamic form of and rating agencies and NGOs on the one hand, and SD communication by featuring regularly updated the general public, customers and employees on the best practice stories from around the world. Last other. It has two main aims: but not least, a subtle change in the designation of the SD Report (2010/11) reflects Allianz’ efforts • First, to inform these target groups as to further align the SD Report with the company’s comprehensively and transparently as possible financial reporting. The fact that this year’s report about the progress made in sustainability was launched six weeks earlier than last year is and corporate responsibility – as expressed in evidence of our improved reporting procedures. the company’s relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, the investment community and indeed society as a whole – in environmental Enhanced reporting process matters, and in sustainable development management; Each year since Allianz began reporting on • Second, to provide insights into global issues sustainable development in 2002, every effort has material to the business namely access to been made to improve the quality of the reporting finance, climate change, demographic change, process, which takes in a great many internal digitalization and the stability of financial markets. stakeholders. The driving force and central hub of this process is Allianz4Good, the department whose job is to identify relevant topics, coordinate Revised reporting concept workflows and communicate with numerous departments and employees in the content The structure of this year’s SD Report has been collection process. In-depth discussions with revised to increase its user-friendliness and content managers and several internal approval topicality. Moreover, it is now more clearly oriented cycles ensure a correct focus in all the topics dealt to the needs of the various Allianz stakeholders with. This year’s Report reflects the great diversity thanks to a number of new features: of a business conducted in more 70 countries of the world and is thus on its way to becoming a truly • Inclusion of focus topics based on the findings of global report. Every effort will be made to further the Materiality Survey 2010/2011 intensify this global focus in the future. • Informative and short reports in the Global Issues and Sustainability in Practice sections • Descriptive, fact-based, progress-oriented reports in the Strategy & Management and Performance 2010 sections. 99 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION International guidelines fulfilled The SD Report relates to the entire Allianz Group and is geared to the G3 Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Financial Services Sector Supplement, which are displayed this year in an index. Additional information has been included in the Report to document progress on the implementation of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. All the measures, activities and key figures presented in this Report refer to the 2010 financial year. However, any information of relevance to the sustainability agenda that became available before the editorial deadline of February 28, 2011 has also been included to make the Report as up-to-date as possible. 100 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION 2.2 Materiality process: survey identifies focus topics What are the economic, environmental, societal and governance (EESG) topics that are material to Allianz’ sustainable business strategy? To find the answer, Allianz conducted a Materiality Survey among selected stakeholders. The results are reflected in the Sustainable Development (SD) Report 2010/11 and helping to shape Allianz’ SD strategy. Targeted information and insights and consulted various external sources, for example research publications from industry think-tanks, Sustainability is a vast subject covering a broad international sustainability associations and NGOs. spectrum of issues. Not all of them, however, In the questionnaire selected stakeholders were asked impact on Allianz’ business to the same extent. to determine how relevant these subtopics are to The challenge is to identify the issues of material Allianz’ business and share their thoughts on what importance. To this end, Allianz engaged with a wide Allianz’ role should be in addressing these emerging range of external and internal stakeholders – media issues. The stakeholders were naturally free to express representatives, academics, rating agencies, NGOs, any diverging opinions and mention any topics they auditors, government representatives and senior felt were missing. executives from across the Group – to discover which sustainability challenges they believe are material to Allianz’ business. Material results Early in 2011, the Materiality Survey results were Materiality process 2010/11 subjected to quantitative and qualitative analysis in order to identify the issues with the greatest impact The aims of the materiality process, which began on Allianz’ sustainable business process. The most in November 2010, were threefold: important findings are detailed here: • Ensure an ongoing stakeholder dialogue. • Access to finance: The provision of insurance in • Identify the most important challenges and developing countries is regarded as a precursor opportunities relating to global issues now and for economic development and a future business in the future. opportunity for Allianz; however, profitability is a • Enhance the tangibility and substance of the prerequisite for the microinsurance business. global issues thus identified. • Climate change: The accumulation of natural disasters and the resulting economic losses are The questionnaire Allianz used to interview the considered to be the most critical issue for selected stakeholders was developed by Allianz’ SD Allianz’ future success. team with the support and verification of external • Demographic change: Innovations in products market research experts. A major source of input and services for aging populations and in to the questionnaire were the issues presented at healthcare are believed to be most important issues. Allianz’ twice-yearly Global Issues Forum and the • Digitalization: Stronger competition resulting findings of the Stakeholder Expectations Survey 2009. from the high transparency is viewed as the most To select specific subtopics within the global issues relevant issue. of access to finance, climate change, demographic • Stability of financial markets: Reducing complexity change, digitalization and stability of financial markets, is seen as the most important factor that impacts on Allianz engaged in discussions with internal experts the industry and forms the basis for rebuilding trust. 101 Sustainable Development Report 2010/11 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION The key findings of this materiality survey have been integrated into the SD Report 2010/11 as focus topics. Allianz is responding transparently to these stakeholder demands by showing how the issues impact on financial service providers and outlining what its strategic approach is. 102 Allianz SE Koeniginstr. 28 80802 Munich www.allianz.com/responsibility
