We are built on the principles of Responsible Finance and we strive to Ensure Access for All. By Valuing Our People and being efficient in our Operations, we demonstrate our commitment to corporate citizenship. Global Citizenship Report 2010 Introduction Introduction Last year, when I signed our commitment Vikram Pandit Chief Executive Officer to the UN Global Compact — a set of ten » Letter from CEO Citigroup Inc. About Citi & Highlights of 2010 Citi Citizenship Approach principles on environment, labor, human Responsible Finance rights and anti-corruption — I did it Citizenship in Latin America primarily to support our cause: promoting Ensuring Access for All Responsible Finance. Citizenship in Asia Pacific Valuing Our People Citizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East We are a truly global bank and the Compact brings together signatories — From innovative programs that have helped more than one million AmeriOperations large and small companies — from all over the world, all willing to be bound cans in their efforts to avoid potential foreclosure (see page 10) to a new, by the same inclusive principles of responsibility. disciplined approach to risk management, Responsible Finance is being Contact & Feedback ingrained throughout Citi’s practices and culture, globally. Banks are an integral part of every economy and every society. Our role is GRI Index not merely to further people’s material well-being — though that is vitally Responsible Finance is partly about the bottom line. No one wants to see important. The value of banks runs deeper. Human rights and democracy another crisis. Also, our shareholders expect — and have every right to reach their full potential only where there is economic inclusion for all. expect the company to be profitable and well-managed. That in turn requires financial inclusion — access to basic financial prodBut it’s also about our responsibilities to the communities we serve. It’s a ucts and services. natural fit for us to put our money, talent, experience and products to work We approach financial inclusion through what we call Responsible Finance. in communities where access to financial services is limited, and to strive to This is the unifying idea on which we have rebuilt and reorganized our bank include more people in the financial system. in the wake of the financial crisis. It has three key pillars of responsibility: An inclusive society depends on disclosure, one of the conditions of the to customers, the financial system, and to the broader community. Global Compact to which we recommit. This, our 11th annual Global CitiBefore we enter into any transaction, we ask ourselves three questions: zenship Report provides the evidence that we are not only fulfilling our Is it in the best interest of our customer? Is it systemically responsible? commitments but willing to talk about the considerable challenges we face And does this create economic value? The answer to each must be an in promoting Responsible Finance. overwhelming “yes.” I look forward to your comments and feedback. « page 1 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Introduction Introduction About Citi • At the end of 2010, Citi was assisting more than 1.5 million credit card holders manage their card debt through a variety of Letter from CEO Citi works tirelessly to serve individuals, communities, institutions and modification programs. » About Citi & Highlights of 2010 nations. With 200 years of experience meeting the world’s toughest chal• From January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010, Citi helped more Citi Citizenship Approach lenges and seizing its greatest opportunities, we strive to create the best than 1.1 million homeowners in their efforts to avoid potential foreclooutcomes for our clients and customers with financial solutions that are sure on mortgages totaling more than $135 billion. Responsible Finance simple, creative and responsible. An institution connecting over 1,000 cities, Citizenship in Latin America 160 countries and millions of people, we are your global bank; we are Citi. Microfinance Ensuring Access for All 2010 was a turning point for Citigroup. We achieved our primary goal of Challenges returning to profitability, posting positive net income in each quarter, a Citizenship in Asia Pacific full-year profit of $10.6 billion and a $14.9 billion profit in the core busi• Expand commercial support for the microfinance industry to bring Valuing Our People nesses that will determine our company’s future. The U.S. government sold financial inclusion to scale its shares of common stock in our company — in the process earning the • Encourage transparency and risk management to foster responsible  itizenship in Europe, C Africa & the Middle East taxpayers a $12.2 billion profit on their investment. We made more progress growth within the sector in reducing assets in Citi Holdings than anyone expected and ended the Achievements Operations year with Holdings constituting less than 20% of our balance sheet. We attracted top talent, including new executives to run our U.S. Consumer • Expanded Grameen America partnership in New York City, providing Contact & Feedback Bank and Cards businesses. Most importantly, we continue to execute on more than 3,000 microentrepreneurs with savings accounts GRI Index our strategy that we believe will enable us not only to grow but to regain • Produced the third Microfinance Banana Skins Report, which looks at our company’s place as the world’s premier international bank. risks to the microfinance industry In 2010, we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI • Continued support for the Client Protection Principles in Microfinance, World and DJSI North America) and the FTSE4Good Index for the ninth Microfinance Information eXchange (MIX) and the World Bank’s Consulconsecutive year. Our continued inclusion reflects our leadership in setting tative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) standards in sustainable growth and in achieving exceptional environ• Partnership with OPIC has provided $246 million in funding to 29 MFIs mental, social and economic performance. across 16 countries by the end of 2010. These have created microloans for more than 900,000 borrowers, 92% of whom are women. Citizenship Challenges and Achievements in 2010 Environmental Sustainability Consumer protection and support Challenges Challenges • Energy Efficiency — Develop scalable financing solutions for energy • Rebuild public trust following the financial and economic crisis efficiency retrofits and distributed generation in the built environment • Continue to offer practical support to customers in financial distress • Employee Engagement — Create a green employee engagement Achievements program that effectively links Citi’s environmental sustainability • Citi Community Capital provided over $2.94 billion in financing for initiatives with our 260,000 employees in over 100 countries. affordable housing in the U.S., making Citi the top lender according to Affordable Housing Finance. « page 2 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Introduction Introduction Achievements Achievements Letter from CEO • $50 Billion Climate Initiative — Committed $5.67 billion in 2010 and • Reduced our GHG emissions by 6.4% from 2009 level About Citi & Highlights of 2010 a cumulative $30 billion towards Citi’s $50B Climate Initiative, over • Increased paperless statement adoption by 25 percent since 2009 half way to our goal. 2010 financing included a $1.4 billion structured Citi Citizenship Approach • Increased the number of LEED-certified projects around the world finance deal for Shepherds Flat, which will be the largest wind farm in to 185 in 9 countries Responsible Finance the world. • Adopted water-cooled mainframe technology in our data centers Citizenship in Latin America • Started more than 15 local Green Teams to work on sustainability Environmental and Social Risk Management Ensuring Access for All efforts across the globe Challenges • Communicated our Supplier Principles to over 3,000 Citi Citizenship in Asia Pacific • Balancing energy needs with good environmental risk management preferred suppliers Valuing Our People • Identifying all new bankers across Citi’s numerous global offices and Our People C  itizenship in Europe, product groups in need of ESRM training Africa & the Middle East Achievements Challenge Operations • Elected to Chair the Equator Principles Steering Committee and • Continue to keep employees motivated and engaged, while attracting Contact & Feedback instrumental in proposing and managing the first-ever Strategic top talent as we come out of the economic downturn Review of the Principles Achievements GRI Index • Provided ESRM review on 536 transactions across the company • Supported 53 employee-led networks with 13,000 members, promoting and the world diversity within our business • 85% participation in staff survey with a 67% satisfaction score Environmental footprint & suppliers • 36.2 training hours on average per employee Challenge • 608,953 volunteer hours In 2010, we established a new set of environmental goals to ensure we run our operations as efficiently as possible. By 2015 (2005 base) we aim to: Citi Foundation • Reduce absolute GHG emissions 25 percent Challenge • Reduce waste to landfill by 40 percent • While total giving increased from 2009, limited resources restricted • Reduce water use by 20 percent our ability to seize additional opportunities • Increase the percentage of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Achievements Design (LEED) certified space to 15 percent • Rolled out new impact measurement system • Improve the energy efficiency of our property portfolio by 20 percent • Rolled out new investment planning approach designed to support • Distribute newly created Supplier Principles to Citi vendors our “more than philanthropy” objectives • Received US CRA Innovation award for Self-Employment Tax Initiative « page 3 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citi Citizenship Approach Introduction Our approach to Citizenship is part of the unifying idea on which we have structured Citi Citizenship Approach »M  anagement Approach & Material Impacts our bank in the wake of the financial crisis. Governance We call this Responsible Finance. The Stakeholders & Engagement Ethics & Human Rights purpose is to make sure our actions are in Responsible Finance the interests of our clients, create economic Citizenship in Latin America value and are systemically responsible. Ensuring Access for All Citizenship in Asia Pacific Valuing Our People  itizenship in Europe, C Citi focuses on putting the full force of our businesses, resources, products, Management Approach & Materials impact philanthropy and people to work to improve the communities in which we Africa & the Middle East do business and to protect the natural environment on which we all depend. The Board of Directors’ Public Affairs Committee oversees our Citizenship Operations priorities and performance. Our businesses implement Citi’s Citizenship Contact & Feedback “At Citi we have a unique opportunity to make a commitments in their daily activities, with support from specialized teams for community development, human rights, diversity, the environment, GRI Index positive impact in the more than 1,000 communities financial education and government relations. we serve around the globe. Our commitment to Citi’s business practices committees, at the corporate level and in each Responsible Finance is embedded throughout the of its business units, review business activities, sales practices, products, company. We put the strength of our business, potential conflicts of interest, complex transactions, suitability and other products and people to work to help improve reputational concerns providing guidance to ensure that Citi’s business communities and the environment around the world.” practices meet the highest standards of ethics, integrity and professional behavior. These committees, comprised of our most senior executives, focus on reputational risk while our businesses ensure that our policies are – Pamela Flaherty adhered to and emphasize our commitment to the principles of Responsible Director of Corporate Citizenship; President and CEO of the Citi Foundation Finance and protecting the franchise. Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Review Committee (ESPRC), which includes senior managers and subject experts from across the organization, provides guidance on environmental and social sustainability. « page 4 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citi Citizenship Approach Introduction Citizenship Priorities Governance Citi Citizenship Approach Our priorities reflect the views of our stakeholders and the risks and Board of Directors M  anagement Approach opportunities of our business. We keep a constant watch on economic & Material Impacts conditions and local and global concerns, largely by engaging with our As required by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), at least two-thirds of » Governance stakeholders. At the same time, we maintain an unwavering commitment the members of Citi’s Board of Directors are independent directors. Stakeholders & Engagement to these priorities: At the end of 2010: Ethics & Human Rights • Treat customers fairly and support them in times of financial difficulty. • 13 of 15 directors were independent This is embodied in our commitment to Responsible Finance. Responsible Finance • Two directors were female, 13 male • Provide access to financial services — and the necessary, related knowlCitizenship in Latin America • Five directors — including the Chairman and the Chief Executive edge and support — for those who would otherwise be excluded from the economic mainstream. We are committed to financial inclusion. Officer — were Asian, Black or Hispanic. Ensuring Access for All • Lead the industry in developing and using standards to manage the Citizenship in Asia Pacific At the end of 2010, there were six standing board committees: Audit; Risk environmental and social risks of our activities; and mitigate climate Management and Finance; Citi Holdings Oversight; Personnel and CompenValuing Our People change — we are directing $50 billion over 10 years to renewable sation; Nomination and Governance; and Public Affairs. energy and energy efficiency projects. C  itizenship in Europe, A written charter for each committee outlines the mission, membership Africa & the Middle East • Provide opportunity for our global and diverse talent base to succeed; qualifications and duties for committee members. and strive to recruit and retain diverse and engaged teams around Operations the world. The Public Affairs committee is responsible for assessing our policies and Contact & Feedback programs on significant public issues, and reviewing stakeholder relationWe support our Citizenship priorities with our products and services, ships and issues that impact Citi’s reputation. It also reviews political GRI Index through lending and investing, and through philanthropic investments by and charitable contributions, Citi’s business practices (particularly as the Citi Foundation. they relate to reputation), our environmental sustainability policies and programs, and our human rights policies. Measuring Performance See more at: Corporate Governance. We measure our performance in each of our social and environmental priority areas and, as in previous years, continue to report data to provide Anti-money laundering comparisons and show trends over time. In 2010, we reviewed the way we Money laundering undermines confidence in the international financial report. Our analysis and stakeholder feedback showed that our current system. Because of our size and geographical complexity, Citi has develformat is informative and helps stakeholders understand our performance. oped detailed anti-money laundering and Know Your Client (KYC) policies and programs for its businesses globally. « page 5 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citi Citizenship Approach Introduction Executive Compensation Stakeholders and Engagement Citi Citizenship Approach Talent is the bedrock of our strategy, and we believe it is important to  anagement Approach M have the right people and management in place to execute our plans in “Citi should describe its process to identify and & Material Impacts our highly competitive industry. Citi is committed to responsible compensamanage emerging issues, as well as identify some Governance tion practices that compensate employees fairly and competitively in line with long-term performance metrics while upholding the principles of of the issues that are under consideration. This will » Stakeholders & Engagement Ethics & Human Rights risk management. demonstrate to stakeholders that their concerns are We strive to be at the forefront of best practices and have made a number being heard by the company.” Responsible Finance of changes to our compensation policies to align compensation with the Citizenship in Latin America company’s long-term performance. – Ceres Stakeholder Panel Ensuring Access for All Our approach to executive compensation is based on the following principles: Stakeholder Groups Citizenship in Asia Pacific • Encourage long-term profitability through the principles of Responsible Finance. The structure of compensation should reduce risks to the Our key stakeholders are investors, employees, customers, suppliers, reguValuing Our People franchise, meet regulatory requirements, and be aligned with compalators, community leaders, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), elected  itizenship in Europe, C nywide goals and the furtherance of risk-adjusted stockholder returns. officials, other financial institutions and the media. Africa & the Middle East • Enhance Citi franchise value. Compensation should align the long-term interests of management with stockholders by having management Engagement Operations share both the upside opportunities and downside risk. Contact & Feedback We engage regularly with both individual stakeholders and institutions to • Facilitate competitiveness. Compensation structure and amounts, share information, listen to ideas and concerns, conduct open and transGRI Index including fixed compensation, should be competitive within the global parent communication, and, where possible, refine our policies and practices. financial services market. We conduct regular town hall meetings and annual surveys of employees, • Reward performance over an appropriate period. Incentives should and hold frequent meetings and discussions with our external stakeholders. reward sustainable individual, business unit, and company perforIn 2010, we held a climate policy briefing for 60 bankers, clients, and mance as well as behavior that is consistent with Citi’s culture and external stakeholders in London to discuss the outcome of the COP15 effective risk management practices. Copenhagen climate negotiations. The theme was climate policy impacts • Promote meritocracy by recognizing employee contributions. Indiand opportunities for key industries. vidual compensation decisions should be differentiated considerably We also had numerous meetings with various investors and NGOs to based on financial and non-financial performance and reflect current discuss environmental and human rights topics such as conflict minerals, or prospective contributions to the value of Citi. labor practices in agricultural industries, biodiversity conservation, and ecosystem services. « page 6 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citi Citizenship Approach Introduction Also in 2010, we conducted ten “Citi Dialogues” in U.S. cities with nonprofit CERES REVIEW leaders and community advocates. Through these frank and open sessions, Citi Citizenship Approach we learned that neighborhood revitalization, financial education and asset Stakeholder feedback Citi’s response  anagement Approach M building remain the priority needs in local communities, while small busiCiti should clarify that Responsible Vikram Pandit’s letter on pg. 1 states the three & Material Impacts Finance is the lens by which every Responsible Finance questions that must be ness and microfinance issues have gained in importance. Governance deal is evaluated. answered before entering into any transaction. In addition, Citi and the Citi Foundation host forums where solutions to » Stakeholders & Engagement Discuss the links that Citi is forging On pg. 20, we discuss a partnership with Grameen financial inclusion and capability building are discussed (see case study between U.S. and global microfiAmerica to develop savings products for underEthics & Human Rights page 23). nance markets. served communities in the United States. Responsible Finance While developing this report we sought feedback from Ceres, the network Provide more details on Citi’s Page 23 describes the Citi Network Strengthening efforts to strengthen local Program, a partnership aimed at building resilCitizenship in Latin America of investors, environmental organizations and other public interest groups institutions. ience in local microfinance communities. working with companies and investors to address sustainability challenges. Describe process to identify and Citi meets with a variety of external stakeholders, Ensuring Access for All Ceres convened an independent group of experts on environmental, social manage emerging issues. including investors and NGOs, and these engageCitizenship in Asia Pacific ments are detailed on pg. 6. Management of these and governance issues representing a global range of stakeholders and issues is described in several parts of the Responconstituencies. This group reviewed Citi’s 2009 Citizenship Report and sible Finance section starting on pg. 9. Valuing Our People considered whether we were reporting on our most material citizenship Contribute to the methodology Citi will engage in 2011 with human rights C  itizenship in Europe, issues. Their feedback was used in developing the complete report and needed at the sectoral level to stakeholders and our peers to understand how Africa & the Middle East enable banks to understand and banks can operationalize the “Protect, Respect continues to influence our thinking on citizenship strategy and disclosure respond to human rights issues. and Remedy” framework and Guiding Principles Operations in general. Some of the issues raised in the discussion, and Citi’s response, put forward by the UN Special Representative on are outlined in the table below. Business and Human Rights. Contact & Feedback Citi’s enhanced due diligence for Citi adopted an environmental diligence process for GRI Index Mountaintop Removal (MTR) mining clients engaged in MTR in 2009, and we report on clients is not sufficient, and Citi our implementation of this policy annually in the should consider a policy that Citizenship Report. Regarding a ban on financing to prohibits financing to this sector. the sector, we believe that an approach of engagement versus divestment is the best way to promote good practices across industries. Citi should expand Scope 3 carbon Citi reports on Scope 3 CO2 emissions from power emissions to cover all sectors. plants that we project finance, based on GHG Protocol methodology. Power plant emissions can be calculated with a small number of inputs: MW, heat rate, and fuel type. Other sectors, however, require significantly more data and inputs to estimate the CO2 emissions, and thus at this time are not practical for Citi to cover. « page 7 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citi Citizenship Approach Introduction Ethics and Human Rights Our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy states that ESRM-covered transactions in emerging markets should comply with Citi Citizenship Approach the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards on Social Ethics  anagement Approach M and Environmental Sustainability, covering issues such as the involuntary & Material Impacts The Citi Code of Conduct, updated in 2009, outlines the laws, rules, regularesettlement of affected people, harmful child labor and forced labor, and Governance tions and Citi policies that govern our activities. It sets company-wide public consultation with affected communities. Stakeholders & Engagement standards of ethics and business behavior. The Citi Board of Directors reviews We participated in several consultations hosted by the UN Special Represen» Ethics & Human Rights and approves the Code each year. It is available in 25 languages here. tative on Business and Human Rights, John Ruggie. We support the “Protect, Responsible Finance Respect and Remedy” framework that he developed and the U.N. Human Employees attest to the Citi Code of Conduct on joining the company and Rights Council welcomed in 2008. This framework is based on countries Citizenship in Latin America periodically complete Code of Conduct training. We introduced new training having a duty to protect human rights, companies having a responsibility to for all employees in February 2010. Ensuring Access for All respect human rights, and access to remedy for people whose human rights A Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals supplements the Code of have been violated. We continue to follow Ruggie’s work and participate in it Citizenship in Asia Pacific Conduct. It applies to all Finance Professionals and Administrative Staff in a through our leadership of the Equator Principles Association. Valuing Our People finance role, including Controllers, Financial Planning & Analysis, Treasury, Public policy Tax, Strategy and M&A, Investor Relations and the Regional/Product teams.  itizenship in Europe, C Africa & the Middle East Citi encourages employees to communicate their concerns openly, and Citi advocates public policies that value our customers and employees while we prohibit retaliatory actions against anyone who, in good faith, raises furthering Citi’s efforts to benefit society and the environment through Operations concerns or questions about ethics, discrimination or harassment, or Responsible Finance. We believe these policies help everyone operate as Contact & Feedback reports suspected violations of laws, regulations or policies. We operate responsible members of society and benefit the communities we serve. a toll-free global hotline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week in For example, in 2010 Citi: GRI Index multiple languages for employees to raise ethical concerns. Information on • Supported efforts to reform the financial system, strengthen regulahow to raise a concern can be found here. tions, and better protect consumers. Complaints can be made anonymously to the extent permitted by appli• Launched a series of initiatives designed to relieve some of the prescable laws and regulations, and all contacts and investigations are treated sure homeowners and credit card customers are experiencing. From as confidentially as possible. January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010, Citi has helped more than 1.1 million homeowners in their efforts to avoid potential foreclosure on Human Rights mortgages totaling more than $135 billion. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010, Citi was assisting more than 1.5 million credit card holders to We support the preservation of human rights around the world and are manage their card debt through a variety of modification programs. guided by fundamental principles such as those described in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor • Increased our commitment to small businesses, expanding our resources Organization (ILO) Core Conventions. We reflect these principles in our and ability to serve this crucial market. In 2010 Citi provided $6 billion in policies and our conduct toward employees, suppliers, customers and credit to smalland mid-sized businesses, up significantly from 2009. the countries where we do business. Citi’s Statement on Human Rights is • Invested $200 million in the Communities at Work Fund to help fuel available here. small business lending in low-wealth and low-income U.S. communities. « page 8 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Before we enter into any transaction, we ask ourselves three questions: Is it in the best Citi Citizenship Approach Responsible Finance »S  erving & Supporting interest of our customer? Is it systemically Consumers & Communities responsible? And does this create economic  nvironmental & E Social Risk Management value? In every instance, the answer to all Tackling Climate Change three must be yes. Citizenship in Latin America Ensuring Access for All Citizenship in Asia Pacific Valuing Our People This is the basis of what we call Responsible Finance — the unifying idea on Community Development at Citi C  itizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East which we have rebuilt and reorganized our bank in the wake of the financial crisis. It has three key pillars of responsibility: to our customers, the finanCiti maintains dedicated business units to invest in and support communiOperations ties. In the U.S., Citi Community Development works in partnership with cial system and the broader community. Contact & Feedback Citi Microfinance, Citi Community Capital, Citi Foundation, Citi’s retail In this section we focus on our customers, their communities and the businesses and many national and local community nonprofit partners to GRI Index natural environment we all share. coordinate delivery of innovative products and services, targeted programs, and philanthropic funding. These collaborative efforts support financial Serving and supporting consumers and communities inclusion and economic empowerment of lowand moderate-income (LMI) individuals, families and communities. Embedded across the U.S., the “Citi has always been a market leader in responsible Community Development group also works with Citi’s businesses to provide practices on debit cards. Rather than charge customers assistance to distressed borrowers. a large fee for every debit card transaction that overdraws the account, Citi simply declines transactions Thought Leadership in Financial Inclusion at no charge when the customer lacks sufficient funds, Recent research indicates that approximately 25% of all U.S. households or enrolls them in a lower cost overdraft option. We live in asset poverty without adequate financial resources to cover even three months of living expenses. This number rises to 35% for minority have long applauded Citi for this practice and have households. A lack of assets is of increasing concern because asset called on all banks to follow Citi’s lead.”* poverty not only contributes to economic instability, but can also hinder future aspirations, promote negative financial behaviors, and reinforce – Michael D. Calhoun the ongoing cycle of poverty. President, Center for Responsible Lending *In July 2010, changes to Regulation E required all banks to follow Citi’s lead and decline ATM and debit point-of-sale transactions if the customer had insufficient funds. « page 9 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction In September 2010, Citi and the Corporation for Enterprise DevelopPromoting affordable homeownership in the U.S. ment (CFED) convened a group of civil rights organizations, including Citi Citizenship Approach the National Urban League and National Council of La Raza, for a policy Since 2007, the financial crisis has affected hard-working Americans, Responsible Finance roundtable on bringing savings and other asset-building opportunities plunging many homeowners into default and foreclosure. Losing homes to LMI communities around the U.S. There was unanimous agreement in this way affects entire communities, not only the individuals involved. »S  erving & Supporting about the need for an ongoing forum to build knowledge and work Consumers & Communities We work to prevent foreclosure by intervening early, providing support collectively to promote and amplify solutions. and advice and implementing programs to help homeowners in distress. In E  nvironmental & Social Risk Management 2010, Citi Community Capital provided $2.94 billion in financing for affordable housing in the U.S., making Citi the top lender according to Affordable Tackling Climate Change Small businesses get $100 million of Loans Housing Finance. Citizenship in Latin America Citi Community Capital provided $199 million of capital through a Preserving homeownership Ensuring Access for All combination of equity and loans to the Communities at Work Fund in 2010. By the end of 2010, the Fund had approved $100 million in Citizenship in Asia Pacific Citi is committed to keeping individuals and families in their homes. The Citi lending to small businesses in low-income U.S. communities. Office of Homeownership Preservation (OHP) works with CitiMortgage to Valuing Our People The Fund provides financing through Community Development Finanpromote and preserve affordable homeownership in the U.S. In addition to cial Institutions (CDFIs) that lend to nonprofit and for-profit businesses providing sustainable, affordable mortgage loans, we work with Citi’s loss  itizenship in Europe, C underserved by traditional banks. The extra finance has benefitted Africa & the Middle East mitigation units to alleviate the effects of the mortgage crisis on U.S. homeCDFIs working in 39 states and Washington, D.C., helping them to owners. The OHP works closely with community and nonprofit organizations Operations advance sustainable economic development, stabilize and drive job in assisting Citi borrowers in distress to find appropriate long-term solutions. creation and contribute to the economic recovery of community Contact & Feedback groups. CDFIs that have received loans include ACCION Texas, CoopGRI Index erative Business Assistance Corporation, Self-Help Ventures Fund and In 2010, the Citi OHP team participated in 142 direct borrower New Mexico Community Loan Fund. outreach events in over 80 cities in 29 states and met with more One borrower, Inspiration Corporation, is using the loan to develop a than 8,400 borrowers. The team conducted 29 capacity building new 60-seat restaurant, catering, and job training facility in Chicago’s train-the-trainer workshops for 827 housing counselors. East Garfield Park neighborhood. Inspiration Corporation has recruited 12 full-time employees to expand its services in addition to the 49 already on the payroll. From January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010, Citi helped more than 1.1 million homeowners in their efforts to avoid potential foreclosure on mortgages totaling more than $135 billion. « page 10 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Affordable mortgages Loss Mitigation Actions – Total Citi Serviced Loans Citi Citizenship Approach 160,000 CitiMortgage (CMI) closed $334.8 billion in affordable mortgages by the Responsible Finance end of 2010, over $134 billion in excess of its goal for the three-year period 140,000 from 2007. 120,000 »S  erving & Supporting Consumers & Communities Citi has designed a variety of outreach programs and services that help 100,000  nvironmental & E borrowers at risk of default obtain guidance and assistance before they 80,000 Social Risk Management become delinquent. We provide modifications and work-out arrangements 60,000 Tackling Climate Change and offer the services of our expert staff to borrowers and nonprofit coun40,000 seling organizations. Citizenship in Latin America 20,000 Ensuring Access for All 0 Specific initiatives implemented in 2010 include: Q4 2009 Q1 2010 Q2 2010 Q3 2010 Q4 2010 Citizenship in Asia Pacific The Citi Foreclosure Alternatives Program, a pilot initiative in six states that allows distressed CMI borrowers to avoid foreclosure and remain in their homes for up to six Foreclosures Reinstatements Trial Plans Deeds in Lieu Repayment Plans Extensions Valuing Our People months by agreeing to sign over their property deeds to CMI at the end of that period. Short Sales HSAs Modifications During the program, Citi provides relocation counseling by trained professionals and will Citizenship in Europe, cover certain monthly property expenses if the borrower can no longer afford them. Africa & the Middle East A three-month foreclosure suspension for eligible mortgage within 25 miles of the areas Regulatory responsibilities most seriously affected by the Gulf oil spill. Operations Citi Community Development devotes considerable resources to meeting Participation in 2MP, the second-lien program which is part of the U.S. government’s Home Affordable Modification (HAM) Program. and exceeding Citi’s regulatory responsibilities. Citi has received the highest Contact & Feedback possible Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating for each of our five Participation in the Administration’s Home Affordable Foreclosure Alternatives GRI Index registered banks in the U.S. Citi’s fair lending policy and standards comply (HAFA) program. with the both letter and the spirit of fair lending laws. We have received the Citi has consistently been ranked as a top performer with respect to its highest ratings on all fair lending regulator exams and reviews since 2007. Home Affordable Modification (HAM) program implementation, process Supporting credit card holders execution, and efficacy of modification as measured by success rates in public Treasury reports. Citi has instituted a variety of long-term and short-term modification programs to assist card holders with financial difficulties. These programs include modifying the original loan terms, reducing interest rates, extending the remaining loan duration and/or waiving a portion of the remaining principal balance. As of December 31, 2010, Citi was assisting more than 1.5 million credit card holders to manage their card debt through a variety of such modification programs. We prefer to help people avoid delinquency and provide support, such as financial calculators and money management advice available on www.usecreditwisely.com. « page 11 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Our Citi Forward® credit card rewards responsible cardholders by shifting to Environmental and social risk management a lower interest rate if borrowers stay within credit and payment limits for Citi Citizenship Approach three consecutive months. We use our comprehensive Environmental and Social Risk Management Responsible Finance (ESRM) Policy to screen transactions, help our bankers advise clients, and Overdrafts promote environmentally and socially sound ways of doing business.  erving & Supporting S Consumers & Communities Citibank accounts for debit card and ATM transactions in real time, and we ESRM Policy »E  nvironmental & only authorize those transactions if there are funds available. As a result, Social Risk Management Citibank does not, and has never, authorized overdrafts at ATMs or through Established in 2003 and updated periodically, Citi’s ESRM Policy is built on Tackling Climate Change debit point-of-sale transactions if the customer has insufficient funds. the framework of managing risk first and foremost on the ground at the Citizenship in Latin America project level. The Policy applies to a broad range of financial products in This empowers our customers to make informed decisions about when and various sectors that meet certain financial thresholds1 and have a known what they can spend. Citibank also provides numerous ways for customers to Ensuring Access for All use of proceeds tied to a specific physical project or asset. keep track of their balances, with e-mail alerts and mobile access to balances. Citizenship in Asia Pacific For transactions in emerging markets, the Policy requires adherence to the Measuring customer satisfaction International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards and IFC Valuing Our People Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) guidelines, which provide pollution We use “Net Promoter Scores” (NPS) as our global metric to measure C  itizenship in Europe, prevention, safety and best-practice guidance to 63 specific sectors. Africa & the Middle East customer loyalty. NPS measures satisfaction and “advocacy” — willingness to recommend us to others. Citi’s North America Retail Banking improved Incorporated into the ESRM Policy are a number of Citi-specific sector Operations its NPS by 11 percentage points in 2010. standards, including: Contact & Feedback • Sustainable Forestry Sector Standard Measuring satisfaction in China • Nuclear-Related Transactions Sector Standard GRI Index In China, we measure customer satisfaction and loyalty each year. • Mountaintop Removal Mining Environmental Diligence Process We use this data to track our progress and work to enhance our • Carbon Principles (for US coal-fired power plants) client-centric philosophy. In 2010, we registered record-high customer satisfaction scores. 89% customers are satisfied or very satisfied The ESRM Policy also gives guidance on additional assessment and mitigawith our service and product, and 88% customers are willing to tion requirements for transactions in “Areas of High Caution and Special continue and recommend Citibank to their friends and relatives. Focus” which include critical habitat and areas of high conservation value, 2010 results indicate a substantial improvement compared to 2009 significant cultural and heritage value, indigenous peoples, and largescores in the following areas: scale resettlement. • Customer loyalty metric improved by 7% Citi’s ESRM Policy prohibits financing of transactions involving forced labor, • Overall satisfaction improved by 5% harmful child labor and illegal logging. • Likelihood to continue as a customer improved by 2% • Problem incidence rate reduced by 3% 1 The threshold is $5 million for a Citi equity investment, $10 million for project finance transactions, and $50 million for corporate loans, acquisition finance, and debt and equity placements or underwritings. « page 12 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction ESRM Policy Responsibility Transactions Receiving ESRM Review Citi Citizenship Approach 2010 2009 The ESRM Unit is responsible for review, advice and consultation on new by Product Type Total A Total A Responsible Finance transactions, as well as internal training, communications, policy implemenProject Finance 33 15 17 4 tation, tracking and reporting. Supporting the unit are “ESRM Champions”  erving & Supporting S located in each region. Project Finance Advisories 14 9 34 11 Consumers & Communities Corporate or Govt Loan 276 28 192 19 »E  nvironmental & Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Review Committee (ESPRC) provides Social Risk Management guidance on ESRM issues. The Director of Corporate Citizenship and the Debt & Equity Underwriting 69 16 43 14 Tackling Climate Change Vice Chairman of Global Banking co-chair the committee. Members are Private Bank Transactions 36 0 n/a * 0 senior managers from Citi business units. Forestry Annual Review 22 0 20 0 Citizenship in Latin America Equity 17 0 6 2 Ensuring Access for All Ensuring compliance with the ESRM Policy Acquisition Finance 14 1 5 1 Citizenship in Asia Pacific We have developed a thorough, multi-step process for ensuring compliOther (e.g. letters of credit, derivatives, etc.) 55 5 70 11 ance with our ESRM policy. First, Citi bankers and risk managers around Valuing Our People Total 536 74 387 62 the world identify transactions subject to the ESRM Policy, via appropriate * not previously tracked as a separate product type  itizenship in Europe, C trigger points found in Citi’s credit risk policies and procedures. Once the Africa & the Middle East 2010 transaction is identified, the ESRM team reviews it and determines which by Sector Total A Operations risk category it falls into, using these criteria (as defined by the IFC): Infrastructure & Transportation 100 8 Contact & Feedback • A — expected to have significant adverse social and/or environmental Metals & Mining 96 29 impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented GRI Index Oil, Gas & Petrochem 86 16 • B — expected to have limited adverse environmental and/or social Power (including 32 renewables projects) 80 16 impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures Manufacturing and Industrials 47 2 • C — expected to have minimal or no adverse impacts Other 47 1 Forestry, Pulp and Paper 34 1 The ESRM team then advises what the ESRM process requirements would Agribusiness (including palm oil) 24 1 be if the transaction were to proceed. If Citi is mandated on the transaction, Telecom 22 0 the team works closely with relevant bankers and our clients to properly Total 536 74 identify risks, and mitigate and manage impacts. After the transaction closes, the portfolio banker is responsible for monitoring compliance with the ESRM Policy over the life of the loan, working with the ESRM unit. « page 13 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Transactions Receiving ESRM Review BY REGION Improving standards through client engagement Citi Citizenship Approach Following several years of engagement with a mining client in an emerging market facing challenging environmental and social issues, Responsible Finance 200 Citi participated in a due diligence tour of several of the company’s S  erving & Supporting operational sites in August 2010, along with other lenders. Following Consumers & Communities 150 157 161 this site visit, Citi worked with the company to develop an Action Plan Number of Transactions 150 to address their challenges and conform to internationally accepted »E  nvironmental & 129 Social Risk Management social and environmental standards and management practices. This 100 111 included an assessment of the impacts of the company’s operations on Tackling Climate Change 91 indigenous peoples. 68 Citizenship in Latin America 50 56 The ESRM Unit also established the conditions for Citi’s continued Ensuring Access for All 23 26 24 21 18 support, to which the company agreed. These included: 18 4 2 0 • A comprehensive review and update of its Environmental Citizenship in Asia Pacific 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Asia and Europe, Middle Latin America and U.S. & Canada Health Safety and Social (EHSS) policies, procedures and the Pacific East & Africa the Carribean practices, to conform with IFC Performance Standards Valuing Our People Total Category A • Independent, expert advice on EHSS policies and Standard C  itizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East Operating Procedures • Appointment of globally-recognized EHSS staff and increase Operations Training in staff capacity to handle these issues at the corporate level Contact & Feedback With Citi’s global presence, ESRM Policy training is an important part of • Auditing of policy implementation with annual reporting to GRI Index preparing our bankers and risk managers around the world to take the first the board. steps in implementing our policy. We use both online and in-person training methods to fully familiarize employees with the ESRM policy and procedures. More than 4,000 employees have received this training since the Advising an energy company on how to work in sensitive areas ESRM policy was developed in 2003, including approximately 242 trained Citi employees in 2010. As part of Citi’s equity investment in an oil and gas exploration company with assets in the Amazon, we required the company to hire an independent consultant to advise on the risks specific to the region, particularly the potential impact on indigenous people and biodiversity. The consultant helped develop an environmental and social management system to mitigate and manage risks in line with international standards and national laws. Citi later advised the company on a capital markets transaction. ESRM advised them on disclosure language, describing how the company had established internationally acceptable environmental and social policies and practices. « page 14 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Good practice and market leadership 2010 EP-covered Project Finance Deals Citi Citizenship Approach In 2010, Citi was elected Chair of the Equator Principles Financial InstituTotal Project Costs of Responsible Finance tions Steering Committee. The Equator Principles (EPs) now comprise more Category Reviewed Funded Funded Projects ($bns) than 70 global financial institutions from all regions of the world, and have A 15 2 $14.0  erving & Supporting S Consumers & Communities become the gold standard for managing the environmental and social risks B 17 5 $4.4 in project finance. Citi was among the founders of the Principles in 2003. C 1 0 $0.0 »E  nvironmental & Social Risk Management Citi has led the Equator Principles Association’s participation in the InterTotal 33 7 $18.4 Tackling Climate Change national Finance Corporation Performance Standards update. In addition, Citi was instrumental in proposing and managing the first-ever Strategic Citizenship in Latin America Review of the Principles, designed to produce a multi-year strategic vision 2010 EP-Covered Project Finance Advisories Ensuring Access for All to ensure the EPs continue to be viewed as the gold standard. 10 Citizenship in Asia Pacific 9 8 Number of Advisories Valuing Our People “In 2010, Citi has been pleased to work with our 6 Citizenship in Europe, Equator Principles Association peers, as Chair 5 4 Africa & the Middle East of the Steering Committee. Over the past seven 2 Operations years, the financial sector’s landscape has changed 1 Contact & Feedback considerably, while society’s attention and focus on 0 Category A Category B environmental and social issues has increased. The Reviewed Mandated GRI Index EP Strategic Review process will help set the stage for positive evolution of the EPs moving forward.” 2010 Funded Project Finance Deals by Sector A B Total — Shawn Miller Power 1 1 2 Citi’s Managing Director of Environmental and Social Risk Oil and gas 1 1 2 Mining and metals 1 0 1 Infrastructure 0 2 2 Total 3 4 7 « page 15 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Managing risks in oil sands Human Rights Reproting Citi Citizenship Approach Canada’s oil sands contain one of the largest known reserves of recoverable oil in the world, but exploration and production bring significant In 2010, Citi closed 13 transactions where our Human Rights Statement was Responsible Finance environmental and social risks. relevant or invoked. Many human rights issues are incorporated into our existing ESRM Policy, via the IFC Performance Standards and the Equator S  erving & Supporting Extraction of oil from the sandy mix is energyand water-intensive. Consumers & Communities Principles. The IFC Performance Standards invoke, and are consistent with, Furthermore, it is challenging to manage the waste generated as well as the potentially harmful impacts on forests and indigenous people. relevant International Labour Organization Core Labor Standards and »E  nvironmental & Social Risk Management Conventions. The ESRM team identified these transactions with human Working with other banks and key stakeholders, Citi is exploring Tackling Climate Change rights risks during the initial due diligence phase and ensured, prior to how to manage the sector’s risks. In 2010, we took part in an informaclose, that these risks were being properly mitigated and managed by our tion session in Toronto that brought together representatives from Citizenship in Latin America Clients. Of the 13 transactions, the following table represents the number banks, energy companies, regulators, NGOs and First Nations. The Ensuring Access for All topic was also discussed at the Equator Principles Annual Meeting of times a specific human rights issue was identified and managed — the in Washington D.C. total adds up to more than 13 because one transaction may have more than Citizenship in Asia Pacific one human right risk. Citi has hired a specialist consultant to help assess risks, analyze Valuing Our People the regulatory framework and identify concerns that could bring Number of Closed Labor Security Indigenous Resettlement about changes in the law. This will help us in our review of future oil Transactions where Citi’s risks Risks Peoples Citizenship in Europe, sands transactions. Human Rights Statement Africa & the Middle East was invoked or relevant Operations Total 1 3 7 5 2010 Carbon Emissions from Project Financings in the Power Sector Contact & Feedback Transactions Subject to the Mountaintop Removal (MTR) Mining GRI Index Citi reports annually on the aggregate lifetime carbon dioxide emission Environmental Due Diligence Process from thermal power plants (new builds and expansions) that it finances through project finance. Project-specific emissions are calculated for both a In 2009, Citi implemented a robust MTR Environmental Due Diligence 30and 60-year plant lifetime and are derived from the plant’s capacity and Process that has been fully incorporated into our credit risk policies and heat rate, the carbon content of the fuel and projected capacity utilization. procedures. The Diligence Process is triggered when engaging any client We report the percent of lifetime emissions equivalent to the percent of that uses MTR as an extraction method. To read more about Citi’s MTR total project costs financed by Citi. In 2010, Citi funded two project finance Environmental Due Diligence Process, see here. deals in the power sector, which were both wind deals. 2010 Transactions Subject to the MTR Process 4 30 year plant life 60 year plant life Transactions approved and closed 3 2010 0 0 Transactions that did not proceed 1 2009 8.7 mmtCO2 17.4 mmtCO2 « page 16 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Tackling climate change In 2010, we created an internal Climate Council, which is comprised of senior bankers and line managers and chaired by Alberto Verme, the Citi Citizenship Approach Tackling climate change requires coordinated action by government, busiregional CEO for our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. Responsible Finance ness and the public. We support the regulation of carbon emissions. One The purpose of the EMEA Climate Council is to build Citi’s climate important element is creating a low-carbon economy and seeking opportuchange strategy across the EMEA region, assess government policies S  erving & Supporting nities to finance low-carbon investments. on climate change, and identify related business opportunities at the Consumers & Communities regional level. The Council has engaged with external thought leaders  nvironmental & E Our role in mitigating climate change starts with reductions in direct on steps we can take internally and with our clients to establish best Social Risk Management greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our own operations. We also support practices in the climate change space. » Tackling Climate Change initiatives and standards that promote a lower-carbon economy. Citizenship in Latin America We collaborate with NGOs and research organizations such as the Pew $50 billion climate change initiative Center on Global Climate Change, Natural Resources Defense Council Ensuring Access for All (NRDC), Ceres, Renewable Energy and International Law (REIL) policy We are confident that we will achieve our goal, announced in 2007, to Citizenship in Asia Pacific network and the Clinton Climate Initiative. direct $50 billion over 10 years to activities that mitigate climate change. Valuing Our People We support our clients in their efforts to mitigate greenhouse gases. These activities include internal projects such as retrofitting existing or For example: constructing new Citi facilities, and business initiatives such as financing C  itizenship in Europe, alternative energy, investing in clean technology and researching carbon Africa & the Middle East • We provide financing and investments that help our clients to develop reduction strategies on behalf of our clients. We have directed $29.96 projects, technologies and services to reduce emissions. Operations billion so far. • We develop innovative clean energy financing structures to help clients Contact & Feedback access new sources of capital. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) GRI Index • We conduct research on climate change and convey the findings to our clients. Citi has responded to the CDP since it began in 2003. Our response is available here. We pursue climate change activities through teams in Citi’s business units. For example, we have a global alternative energy finance group and a Tracking our contribution municipal securities renewable energy team. An energy-efficiency group, established in July 2009, is working to understand and unlock the market Cumulative total directed to $50 billion targets for energy-efficiency and building retrofits. May 2007 base 2007 2008 2009 2010 To date Total (billions) $9.40 $5.49 $4.29 $5.11 $5.67 $29.96 The Banker magazine named Citi ‘Most Innovative Bank in Climate Change’ for the second successive year, in 2010. « page 17 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Responsible Finance Introduction Examples of funded projects Citi acted as joint lead book-runner and joint lead arranger on the $1.4 billion package, which financed the Shepherds Flat Wind Project in Oregon, Citi Citizenship Approach Bringing solar power to California campuses U.S. When completed in 2012, the project is expected to produce enough Responsible Finance renewable energy to power more than 200,000 California households, In 2010, Citi helped finance five photovoltaic systems across four campuses S  erving & Supporting in the Los Angeles Community College District (LACCD), reducing the cost avoiding over 1 million tons of carbon dioxide, and creating hundreds of jobs Consumers & Communities of electricity by up to 15%. in the community. E  nvironmental & Supporting China’s wind energy industry The financing was made possible by an innovative leasing structure using Social Risk Management federal tax incentives designed to support the building of solar power In 2010, Citi was a joint arranger for the initial public offering on the Hong » Tackling Climate Change systems. Continued savings will enable the LACCD to buy more solar Kong Stock Exchange of China’s second biggest maker of wind turbines, Citizenship in Latin America systems in the future. Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. Ensuring Access for All Innovative financing boosts renewables Before the offering, Citi confirmed $1.2 billion in anchor orders, creating While U.S. government tax breaks for renewables help drive the market, strong early momentum for the company. The top 15 orders were either Citizenship in Asia Pacific innovative financing arrangements based on those incentives provide an solely or jointly generated by Citi, contributing to 72% of the total demand. Valuing Our People additional and essential boost. Carbon Principles C  itizenship in Europe, In late 2010, Citigroup completed the funding of the largest wind-energy Africa & the Middle East The Carbon Principles provide a consistent approach for banks and their project in the world, tailoring a guarantee provided by the U.S. DepartOperations ment of Energy to make the investment more attractive to a wider variety U.S. power clients to evaluate and address carbon risks in the financing of of investors. electric power projects. In 2010, Citi participated in one bond transaction Contact & Feedback subject to the Carbon Principles GRI Index 1 transaction, bond deal, Cat B « page 18 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citizenship in Latin America Introduction Context Citi Citizenship Approach With more than 70,000 employees, Citi Latin America has advanced to a Responsible Finance prominent position in the region since we launched operations in Panama in » Citizenship in Latin America 1904. Citi now has the broadest presence of any financial institution in Latin America, with operations in 23 countries, serving more than 26 million Ensuring Access for All retail accounts. Over the past three years, Citi has made investments to Citizenship in Asia Pacific reach more than 625,000 unbanked and underserved people in the region and to encourage economic growth through microfinance and financial Valuing Our People capabiliy. In addition to these efforts, we also support community developCitizenship in Europe, ment and environmental sustainability initiatives. Africa & the Middle East Operations Actions 2010 Contact & Feedback microfinance industry in Haiti, working with Fonkoze, FINCA Haiti and Microfinance and Financial Capability SOGESOL. Citi also partnered with Soros Economic Development Fund GRI Index to launch a professional training program to create 1,400 new full time Citi Foundation was a master sponsor and helped define the agenda of the jobs for Haitians with apparel company CODEVI. first Latin American Financial Education Congress organized by Federación Latinoamericana de Bancos (FELABAN) and Federação Brasileira de Bancos (FEBRABAN). The congress, held in Sao Paulo, Brazil, provided an inclusive Environmental sustainability forum to share best practices among public, private and civil society to establish priorities for the advancement of financial education in Latin America. In April 2009, Citi Brazil signed onto the Ministry of Environment’s Green In addition, we partner with organizations such as Acción International and Protocol, a set of principles created to help guide sustainable developits ‘Diálogo de Gestiones’ program developed to supply business management in the country. In order to meet the demands of the Green Protocol, ment information to micro-entrepreneurs; and Microfinance Opportunities, we launched a Sustainable Leaders Program in 2010. We have seven a group that provides financial education trainings for microfinance instituemployee leaders with the following working groups: social and environtions in Nicaragua, Paraguay and Uruguay. mental risk, client relations, communications, eco-efficiency, training and diversity, financial education and supply chain. The Sustainability Leaders are responsible for defining their priority areas, structuring an action plan, Disaster Relief implementing programs, and raising awareness. Citi has had a presence in Haiti since 1971 and is the only bank Citi’s Santa Fe Building in Mexico City is the most energy efficient of Citi’s providing its clients with an electronic banking platform. When an earthquake struck Haiti in January 2010, Citi and the Citi Foundation 12,500 facilities worldwide according to the building’s ENERGY STAR responded. Working with the American Red Cross, we set up a site rating. It is one of nine facilities in Latin America to score highly in the where Citi employees could donate to the general relief effort, raising U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY STAR energy efficiency more than $280,000 in addition to the $2 million that Citi and the Citi rating for buildings. Foundation donated. Of that amount, $1 million went to recapitalize the « page 19 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction Access to savings, loans and other financial services — and a good understanding Citi Citizenship Approach Responsible Finance Citizenship in Latin America of how they work — enables economic Ensuring Access for All empowerment which helps create vibrant » Citi Microfinance communities. We promote greater access The Citi Foundation and financial capability building through Citizenship in Asia Pacific our work at Citi Microfinance and the Valuing Our People Citi Foundation. Citizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East Operations Citi Microfinance Thought leadership Contact & Feedback Until now, most microfinance industry dialogue has been focused on Established in 2005, Citi Microfinance works across Citi’s businesses and GRI Index regions to provide products and services for microfinance institutions expansion and growth, but recent events have demonstrated that more (MFIs), networks and investors that lend to the underserved. The program effort must be put toward ensuring the quality of financial products – not serves more than 100 MFIs in more than 40 countries around the world and just loan volume. has helped make microfinance an integral part of the financial infrastrucCiti, in collaboration with our partners, is working with microfinance orgature. We support the commercial development of MFIs through: nizations including India’s national microfinance networks, the Alliance for • Innovation, financing and product development with partners Financial Inclusion and the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP), to advance dialogue between stakeholders, expand credit bureaus and • Local currency funding and transaction services promote transparency. • Corporate finance and capital markets solutions • Credit, savings, insurance and remittance products Citi supports microfinance industry initiatives that spread knowledge and expertise. For the third year, we worked closely with the Center for the • Encouraging transparency and proper risk management within Study of Financial Innovation (CSFI) on its 2010 Banana Skins study of the the industry. risks facing the microfinance industry. The main lessons to emerge from the study were the need to develop and institutionalize risk management skills Under a successful partnership launched in 2006, Citi and the Overin MFIs and to defend the reputation of microfinance in response to critics. seas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) have provided more than $246 million in funding to 29 MFIs across 16 countries. The MFIs have We sponsored the 5th annual MicroRate survey of Microfinance Investment created microloans for more than 900,000 borrowers, 92% of whom Vehicles (MIVs), specialized funds that invest in, or lend to, microfinance are women. « page 20 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction institutions. It found that MIV assets grew by 22% in 2009 to reach more Expanding lending in Latin America than $6 billion, but demand for funds had been depressed by the availIn April of 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama announced the creation Citi Citizenship Approach ability of public funding. of MIGROF, a new lending facility for microfinance institutions in Responsible Finance Latin America and the Caribbean in response to the reduction in their We work to build sector standards and improve transparency through Citizenship in Latin America lending capacity due to the global credit crisis. Citi and subsidiary partnerships and initiatives such as the Client Protection Principles in Banamex were core investors in the launch of MIGROF in 2010, in Microfinance. We are a global sponsor of the Microfinance Information Ensuring Access for All partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral eXchange which provides data services, analysis, research and business Investment Fund (FOMIN), the Inter-American Investment Corporation Citi Microfinance information on MFIs. Citi also sits on the board of the Consultative Group (IIC), and the Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF), and three other » The Citi Foundation to Assist the Poor (CGAP), an independent policy and research center private investors. housed at the World Bank dedicated to advancing financial access for the Citizenship in Asia Pacific Citi’s initial investment amounted to $2 million, and Citi is playing a world’s poor. major role in the corporate governance of the new lending facility. Valuing Our People The new facility offers mediumand long-term financing both in local C  itizenship in Europe, “The microfinance sector is experiencing huge currency and in U.S. dollars, targeting 35 percent of the total financing Africa & the Middle East challenges as it achieves significant growth and to be provided in local currencies. Operations transformation. With increased financial inclusion, Contact & Feedback clients begin to have wider choices in accessing The Citi Foundation credit. Combined with increased competition, there GRI Index The Citi Foundation supports the economic empowerment and financial are greater expectations for the sector to strengthen inclusion of lowand moderate-income people in communities where Citi business practices, client protection, regulatory operates. We work collaboratively with a range of partners to design and oversight, and financial education.” test financial inclusion innovations with potential to achieve scale. We also seek to support leadership and knowledge building activities. We put — Bob Annibale the strength of our business, resources, products and people to work to Global Director, Citi Microfinance help improve communities. We describe this as a “More-than-Philanthropy approach”, which includes support for collaborative problem solving, program development and skill-based volunteering. Building Scalable Savings through Partnership In 2010, we launched a new results-oriented measurement system that Citi Microfinance and Citi’s retail banking businesses are developing improves the way we assess the impacts of the programs we fund. Every savings products for underserved communities in the U.S. investment is carefully tracked at the midand end-points to identify ways Partnering with Grameen America, which provides small loans to we can ensure success and work with our partners to understand what women micro-entrepreneurs in New York, Citibank has opened more works and why. than 3,000 new savings accounts for Grameen’s members. For many, this is their first bank account. This Citi savings account was highlighted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as a best-practice example of its type. « page 21 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction Despite using the method for less than a year, it has already helped us Foundation focus define more clearly the results we seek from our investments, and led to Citi Citizenship Approach Focus the updating of our investment guidelines, which are: Area % Responsible Finance of Total Financial Capability and Asset Building ­— Increases in the number of 2011 Focus Areas International United States Grand Total Giving Citizenship in Latin America low-to-moderate income adults and/or youth who adopt positive financial Financial Capability $9,547,000 $10,389,000 $19,936,000 29% behaviors and accumulate and preserve financial assets. Ensuring Access for All & Asset Building Microfinance — Increases in the supply of financial products that improve College Success 0 $14,639,000 $14,639,000 22% Citi Microfinance and accelerate the financial inclusion of low-to-moderate income individuals. Enterprise Development $7,891,000 $3,846,000 $11,737,000 17% » The Citi Foundation Enterprise Development — Increases in the number of micro or small Neighborhood 0 $8,863,000 $8,863,000 13% Citizenship in Asia Pacific enterprises that provide new income generation and/or employment Revitalization opportunities for low-to-moderate income individuals. Valuing Our People Youth Education $5,018,000 0 $5,018,000 7% College Success (in the U.S.) — Increases in the number of low-to-moderate & Livelihoods Citizenship in Europe, income secondary school students who are meeting the academic, financial Microfinance* $3,599,000 $615,000 $4,214,000 6% Africa & the Middle East and social milestones to enroll in and complete postsecondary education. Other $1,912,000 $1,632,000 $3,544,000 5% Operations Youth Education and Livelihoods (outside the U.S.) — Increases in the Grand Total $27,967,000 $39,984,000 $67,951,000 0 Contact & Feedback number of low-income youth, ages 13-25, who demonstrate the skills 41% 59% 100% 100% needed to complete secondary school, become employed in a living wage GRI Index * From 2009 to 2010, we changed the way we coded grants in our microfinance portfolio job, start their own income-generating business or obtain postsecondary so that we are tracking activities that relate solely to the supply of financial services, education or training. and support for microenterprise-related training and technical assistance programs are now reported as Enterprise Development. As a result, the percentage of giving reported Neighborhood Revitalization (in the U.S.) — Increases in the number of in the enterprise development category reflects a significant increase. small businesses, affordable housing units or community facilities that contribute to the economic and/or environmental sustainability of low-toFinancial Capability and Asset Building moderate income communities. In 2004, Citi was the first global bank to announce a 10-year commitment to In each of our core priorities we strive to partner with organizations that meet the growing financial education needs of the communities we serve. demonstrate a commitment to sustainability and incorporate sound enviAlthough we completed our $200 million commitment in 2010, well ahead ronmental practices in their programs. of schedule, our work is not done. We learned that the most effective financial capability programs not only build financial knowledge and skills, but also provide ongoing coaching and access to appropriate financial products and services to motivate positive changes in financial behaviors that help low-to-moderate income individuals better manage their resources and build and preserve financial assets. As a result we are continuing our commitment to programs that go beyond only teaching consumers what they should do, and actively work with them to put their knowledge into action. « page 22 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction Supporting low-income families in the developing world Expanding financial capability of the underserved in the U.S. Citi Citizenship Approach Since 2002, the Citi Foundation has been the primary funder of The Financial Capability Innovation Fund is managed by the Center for Microfinance Opportunities’ Global Financial Education Program, the Financial Services Innovation with lead funding from the Citi FoundaResponsible Finance first-large-scale program aimed at building the financial management tion. It supports new strategies for building the financial capability of Citizenship in Latin America skills of families living just above or below the poverty line. low-income and underserved consumers throughout the U.S. The program consists of a nine-module financial education curriculum The fund is providing financial and technical assistance to five innovative Ensuring Access for All and training for organizations to deliver it. To date, the Global Financial nonprofits to develop cutting-edge solutions that increase the financial Citi Microfinance Education Program has provided training to 21,000 trainers reaching stability of low-income consumers by leveraging technology, applying more than 547,000 individuals in 59 countries. behavioral economics concepts and more closely linking education to » The Citi Foundation access to financial products. It will also help catalyze change across In 2010, with Citi Foundation’s support, Microfinance OpportuniCitizenship in Asia Pacific the financial capability field by directing practitioners toward resources ties formed a strategic alliance with REDCAMIF, a Central American and methods that achieve improved financial outcomes for low-income network of microfinance networks comprised of nearly 100 financial Valuing Our People consumers.The following organizations were selected from among 250 institutions. Microfinance Opportunities helped REDCAMIF develop applicants through a highly competitive process: Citizenship in Europe, a strategic plan and conducted workshops to build the capacity of Africa & the Middle East REDCAMIF networks in six countries to deliver financial education so • Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Delaware Valley that the more than 400,000 clients they serve make informed finan(Philadelphia, PA) will test whether social commitments and Operations cial decisions and adopt financial practices that will lead to improved text alerts can help consumers reduce debt. Contact & Feedback financial outcomes. • Co-opportunity (Hartford, CT) will leverage technology via a GRI Index new online platform to enhance the effectiveness and scale of its volunteer budget coaching program. Improving understanding of Chinese consumers • Filene Research Institute (Madison, WI) will test whether Despite a rise in income and assets, 43% of Chinese urban families are rewarding consistent timely loan payments with interest rate without long-term wealth planning strategies. reductions leads to better payment behavior. This was the main finding of the first survey of the Tsinghua-Citi Finan• Mission Asset Fund (San Francisco, CA) will franchise its cial Education Hub. Established in 2008 with a $1.2 million grant from Cestas Populares program, a peer loan coupled with productthe Citi Foundation, the Hub’s mission is to improve the understanding specific peer-led education, to help immigrants build credit and of financial behavior among Chinese consumers. manage credit wisely. The Hub’s first survey covered 5,000 middle and low-income urban • Grow Brooklyn and Piggymojo (Brooklyn, NY) will leverage households and looked at their financial behavior, planning and educatechnology, peer support and automation to help low-income savtion needs. The results were presented at a series of meetings with ers turn virtual ‘impulse saving’ into real cash in their accounts. officials and opinion formers. With continued funding from Citi Foundation the Hub’s second survey of urban households, started in 2010, will focus on the current knowledge, use and understanding of the risks and opportunities of financial products, how the households acquire financial information and what they need to manage their assets. « page 23 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction Microfinance Enterprise Development Citi Citizenship Approach People need safe and reliable ways to engage in the local economy and Micro and small enterprises are powerful engines of economic growth Responsible Finance conduct basic financial transactions. Research has shown that households and jobs. The Citi Foundation supports these enterprises by investing in with access to fairly priced and appropriate financial products are more organizations to build their institutional capacity and increase their access Citizenship in Latin America likely to save on a regular basis and use credit products to accelerate to capital. Ensuring Access for All asset building. The enterprises must also tackle issues such as environmental sustainCiti Microfinance This is why the Citi Foundation refocused its efforts this year to support ability, changing standards, and shifting regulatory environments. We are microfinance institutions and other nonprofit organizations that are particularly interested in activities that support green enterprise develop» The Citi Foundation expanding the supply of new asset building financial products and services. ment generating economic, environmental and social benefits. Citizenship in Asia Pacific Our investments also aim to identify innovations that help microfinance Valuing Our People institutions to achieve scale and financial sustainability, and provide Building the Sector Infrastructure to Support Small products that allow consumers to strengthen their financial standing while and Growing Businesses Citizenship in Europe, increasing environmental sustainability. Africa & the Middle East Small businesses are an important contributor to economic development worldwide. Through job creation and income enhancement, small Operations Increasing microfinance capacity through collaboration businesses play a catalytic role in helping communities lift themselves out of poverty. Contact & Feedback 2010 was the final year of a three-year, $11 million grant to the Small Enterprise Education and Promotion (SEEP) network to build the The Citi Foundation is a founding member and funder of the Aspen GRI Index infrastructure critical to increasing the capacity and scale of microfiNetwork of Development Entrepreneurs (ANDE). ANDE was formed nance globally. through a collaboration of leading companies to support and build the infrastructure necessary to attract investment capital while providing The Citi Network Strengthening Program (NSP), a collaboration among the SEEP Network, 12 regional and national microfinance networks and valuable technical assistance services to small businesses. Citi employees throughout Asia Pacific, EMEA and the Americas, has To date, ANDE has 103 members operating in 150 developing countries helped build resilience within the microfinance community that has and has provided services including investment manager training, allowed the sector to weather rapidly changing economic conditions impact evaluation design, and capacity development funding. and enable growth. During this three-year program, participating networks have worked to College Success (in the U.S.) create thriving microfinance industries in key countries by promoting the adoption of product innovations, introducing new management A college degree is critical to breaking inter-generational cycles of poverty, and organizational development processes and fostering dialogue with increasing young people’s earning power and helping them contribute to key stakeholders. These efforts have led to an eight percent increase the economy. But in the United States, less than 10% of students from lowin network membership and helped to contribute to members’ ability to expand their client base by 19 percent (growing to approximately 53 income families graduate from college by their mid-20s. million microfinance clients worldwide) and increase loan portfolios by We aim to dramatically increase the number of first-generation students — more than $3.8 billion. and those from low-to moderate-income families — who obtain a degree. « page 24 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction Building College Aspirations by removing financial barriers Youth Education and Livelihoods (outside the U.S.) Citi Citizenship Approach In 2010, the Citi Foundation, the Corporation for Enterprise Development (CFED), the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) and Knowledge We support educational and training opportunities that lead to improved Responsible Finance is Power (KIPP) collaborated to develop the Partnership for College employment prospects, increasing young people’s ability to contribute to Completion (PCC), a path-breaking investment to link savings, financial the economy. Citizenship in Latin America education, scholarships and academic counseling to reinvent college In countries where completing secondary school is the critical milestone, Ensuring Access for All success while bringing countless families into the financial mainstream. we focus on efforts to help students develop the knowledge, skills and Citi Microfinance The pilot program will serve an estimated 2,500 low-income and attitudes to earn a living wage, start their own business or pursue further minority students in Chicago, New York City, Houston, Washington, D.C. education and training. In countries where obtaining a degree is critical, we » The Citi Foundation and the San Francisco Bay Area. focus on increasing the number of low-income students who enroll in and Citizenship in Asia Pacific To help PCC raise college aspirations and remove the financial barriers complete post-secondary education. to college completion, Citi Microfinance has designed a savings Valuing Our People product and platform that will deliver banking access to students, with Investing in Young Entrepreneurs in Africa C  itizenship in Europe, the potential to bring this collaborative initiative to a level of scale Africa & the Middle East and sustainability that could not be realized through philanthropic The Citi Foundation has partnered with Junior Achievement Worldsupport alone. wide (JA) — a partnership between the business community, educators Operations and volunteers — for more than three decades to build young people’s In addition, with the support of Citi Community Development in the U.S., Contact & Feedback entrepreneurial skills through real-world business experience. Citi employees volunteer by providing financial education and mentoring GRI Index to students, parents and KIPP school leaders in the pilot markets. In 2010, we invested in JA to build its capacity to hone young Africans’ entrepreneurial skills through business experiences. This grant funds the redesign of JA’s Company Program, which reached almost 30,000 African youth in 2009. The program provides some of the 54 million young people in sub-Saharan Africa with training, skills and access to opportunities to get jobs or start their own businesses. Over the next five years, the modified program will be offered to 1.5 million out-of-school youth, providing them with training, skills and access to opportunities to get jobs or start their own businesses. With additional support from Citi volunteers, JA will create and strengthen partnerships with organizations serving young people. It will address real market opportunities and broker relationships with microfinance organizations to help young people achieve business success. « page 25 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Ensuring access for all Introduction Neighborhood Revitalization (in the U.S.) Creating a shared vision for neighborhood revitalization Citi Citizenship Approach Citi Foundation and Habitat for Humanity International (Habitat) The Citi Foundation is committed to maintaining economically vibrant have collaborated since 2000 to support the development of affordResponsible Finance communities in the U.S. We do this by increasing the flow of capital to able homes for low-income families across the U.S. But communities lowand moderate-income communities in order to develop or preserve need more than homes. In 2010, we provided seed funding to Habitat Citizenship in Latin America affordable housing, small businesses and community facilities. to pilot the Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (NRI), a model of Ensuring Access for All comprehensive neighborhood reform being applied in low-income To achieve our results in this area we seek to build the capacity of neighborhoods in major U.S. cities. Habitat affiliates identify local Citi Microfinance community development organizations and financial institutions. community needs and convene community residents, nonprofits, » The Citi Foundation businesses and local governments to create and implement a shared vision of neighborhood revitalization. Citizenship in Asia Pacific Valuing Our People Citizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East Operations Contact & Feedback GRI Index « page 26 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citizenship in asia Asia pacific Pacific Introduction Context Citi Citizenship Approach Citi has been in Asia Pacific for over a century and has 50,000 employees Responsible Finance across 19 markets. We opened our first Asian office in 1902 in Shanghai, Citizenship in Latin America earlier than any other western bank. Today, we provide more services in more markets for more clients than any other financial institution in the Ensuring Access for All region. Citi Asia Pacific’s citizenship strategy supports Citi’s commitment » Citizenship in Asia Pacific to Responsible Finance and focuses on promoting financial inclusion, economic empowerment and environmental sustainability. Valuing Our People Citizenship in Europe, Actions in 2010 Africa & the Middle East Financial Inclusion practitioners, policymakers, investors, academics and advocates from 50 Operations countries. The Forum was organized by the Banking With The Poor Network Contact & Feedback The Citi At-Risk Women Financial Literacy Program trained nearly 500 and the Foundation for Development Cooperation, and focused on the women in Bangkok, Thailand who are either low-wage earners or in high central role of microfinance in achieving financial inclusion in Asia. In addiGRI Index risk/high pay occupations such as nightlife workers. The program is run tion to funding and logistical support, Citi executives contributed to the in partnership with the Kenan Institute Asia, the Bureau of Women and discussions as speakers and moderators. Child Welfare Protection under Thailand’s Ministry of Social Development and Human Security, and the Social Service and Community Development Environmental Sustainability Centre. Post-program surveys indicate that 97% are still saving after one In China, the Sichuan Sustainable Bamboo Enterprise Program was set year, and 79% continue to use household budgets. up by Citi China and INBAR (the International Network for Bamboo and In Hong Kong, Citi Hong Kong and the Tung Wah Group of Hospitals have Rattan) following the 2008 Sichuan earthquake to help rebuild livelihoods. developed the first asset-building program to help alleviate poverty in some The program is the first of its kind and is designed to create employment of the city’s poorest districts. The Hope Development Accounts program opportunities for rural communities in Sichuan Province in China through provides low-income families with specially designed Citibank savings the development and growth of the local bamboo industry. Fast-growing accounts (no minimum deposit or service charges), a two-year matched bamboo is used in a range of products from flooring to clothing. Moreover, savings program, financial education, occupational skills training, and bamboo construction materials are more environmentally sustainable and mentoring. Over 70 Citi employees have volunteered their time as trainers earthquake resistant. and mentors, and Citi is represented on the Steering Committee. In 2010, In the past two years, the program has trained over 1,300 bamboo farmers the program was expanded to reach 130 individuals, mainly disadvantaged in sustainable management practices, helped establish two bamboo women and youth. Research has shown that 95% of the participants have processing centers, and built a bamboo training center. The success of the developed a regular savings habit, and 50% have secured employment. Citi-funded program attracted co-funding by the European Commission, and In Sri Lanka, the Citi Foundation was the lead sponsor of the third Asia an additional two-year grant was awarded by the Citi Foundation in 2010 to Microfinance Forum in Colombo, which brought together 450 microfinance expand the program. « page 27 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Valuing our people Introduction We value our people. We provide a safe and stimulating workplace while offering Citi Citizenship Approach Responsible Finance Citizenship in Latin America our employees opportunities to learn and Ensuring Access for All improve their personal and professional Citizenship in Asia Pacific skills. We know that a diverse workforce Valuing Our People that reflects our global client base will » Diversity contribute to our success. Engagement & Training Flexible Working H  ealth, Safety & Wellness & Citi Volunteers  itizenship in Europe, C Diversity women connect with mentors and career opportunities across our businesses, and fosters the ongoing development of women leaders from Africa & the Middle East Citi promotes a work environment where diversity is embraced, where recruitment to senior management. Operations people are promoted on their merits, and where colleagues treat each In 2009 we launched the Women Leading Citi Program, it is designed to other with respect and dignity. Around the world we are committed to being Contact & Feedback promote and accelerate the advancement of women in senior management a company where the best people want to work, where opportunities to positions. Through the program, women broaden and enhance leadership GRI Index develop are widely available, and where employees are encouraged to fulfill skills, support individual development and identify networking opportunities their professional and personal goals. with the guidance and support, among others, of a senior advocate. Our diversity strategy focuses on four areas: management accountability, attracting talent, workforce development and work environment. “Diversity is a business imperative for Citi. We We develop diversity plans across our businesses, and our board of direcrecognize the extraordinary opportunity we tors reviews progress against these plans annually. The Human Resources have around the world to be a leader in fostering Diversity Operating Committee, composed of senior Diversity and Human Resources leaders from core businesses, functions, operations and Diversity policy and practices and making a technology and regions, implements the strategy and aligns policy and difference for our employees, clients, business practices. Diversity Councils for the products, functions and regions are an partners and communities.” important vehicle for driving diversity objectives. Several core programs support and foster Citi’s diversity strategy — Ana Duarte McCarthy and progress against its overall goals. Women4citi is a corporate-wide Chief Diversity Officer diversity effort to attract and develop top talent at Citi; it helps Citi « page 28 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Valuing our people Introduction In 2010 Diversity Week was celebrated in Europe, Middle East, Africa Engagement and training and in Latin America and Mexico with a total of 63 countries participating. Citi Citizenship Approach The strong set of programs, across compelling themes and innovative Listening to our employees Responsible Finance presentations contributed to the overwhelming participation by employees. Citizenship in Latin America Citi’s employee network program provides members with an opportunity We gather employee feedback in many ways, including periodic “pulse to share common experiences and build awareness of diverse cultures and surveys” and our annual employee opinion survey, the Voice of the Ensuring Access for All Employee (VOE). The web-based VOE survey is confidential and available communities. The program supports our goal of becoming an employer of Citizenship in Asia Pacific choice. Employee networks are employee-initiated and –led groups, orgain 30 different languages in over 100 countries. The survey is comprised of nized according to affinity and open to all employees. These networks focus 37 items that span many topic areas including, but not limited to: rewards/ Valuing Our People on cross-business networking opportunities and support employee growth recognition, work-life balance, innovation, partnership and client focus. Diversity and development. Employee survey feedback helps us to measure the most important » Engagement & Training In 2010, we celebrated Diversity Week in Europe, the Middle East, Africa elements of the work environment and key management practices predictive Flexible Working and Latin America with a total of in 63 countries participating and hosting of high performance and employee engagement. It also provides a clear and 275 different events, including structured debates, training workshops, focused basis for action planning and the ability to monitor trends over time.  ealth, Safety & Wellness H & Citi Volunteers and cultural presentations on art, dress, and food. We carried out the most recent VOE survey in September 2010, and 85 C  itizenship in Europe, To learn more about Diversity at Citi, please read our Diversity Annual percent of employees responded. Citi continues to make progress as Africa & the Middle East evidenced by the increased number of employees reporting satisfaction Report 2010. and willingness to recommend Citi as a great place to work. The results also Operations confirmed our strong commitment to integrity, teamwork and diversity, Contact & Feedback with questions on these topics receiving high scores on our survey. GRI Index Index 2010 2009 2008 Response Rate 85% 85% 84% Satisfied 67% 64% 63% Neutral 20% 20% 22% Dissatisfied 13% 16% 15% Training Training our employees is an investment in our future. Programs are tailored to meet the specific needs of each business unit and offered as in-person and virtual venue options. Leadership, management and professional development programs give employees the skills they need to succeed in their roles, grow with the company, and reach their potential as leaders. « page 29 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Valuing our people Introduction In 2010, we remained focused on developing leaders at Citi. We launched Unions and Collective Bargaining a new global leadership core curriculum for our employees to develop key Citi Citizenship Approach skills, values and behaviors needed to succeed at critical times in their Citi’s Statement on Human Rights supports the freedom of association for Responsible Finance careers. The training is adapted for different levels of experience, from employees and the right to organize and bargain collectively, as expressed first-time managers to strategic leaders. In 2010, approximately 7,000 in the International Labor Organization’s Core Conventions. Employees Citizenship in Latin America employees participated in Citi’s leadership programs. have formed or joined trade unions and work councils in some of Citi’s Ensuring Access for All operations around the world. Global Training Stats for 2010 Citizenship in Asia Pacific Flexible working Valuing Our People InstructorTotal Total # of Web Based Led Trainings Hours Avg Hours Region Population Trainings Trainings Completed Delivered / Employee Through our flexible work programs, all employees may request a flexible Diversity work schedule, such as remote work, compressed work week or flexible Asia/ 72,384 368,825 392,909 761,734 3,991,247 55.1 Engagement & Training Pacific start and stop times, via our online system, for consideration by their » Flexible Working EMEA 42,985 408,977 112,730 521,707 1,054,886 24.5 manager and HR representative. H  ealth, Safety & Wellness LATAM 85,173 716,602 313,665 1,030,267 2,901,644 34.1 Our web portal provides managers and employees with information about & Citi Volunteers North 125,282 1,633,749 462,516 2,096,265 3,840,476 30.7 their options and gives managers the tools they need to implement the C  itizenship in Europe, America program. The web portal hosts online training courses, designed to assist Africa & the Middle East Total 325,824 3,128,153 1,281,820 4,409,973 11,788,252 36.2 employees and managers operate in a flexible work environment, and Operations supports our continued commitment to transforming our corporate culture. Performance evaluation The information is available in 16 languages, with 12,000 employees formally Contact & Feedback registered with flexible work schedules. Strong employee management is a critical component of our overall GRI Index employment strategy. All employees are required to have annual perforSupporting employees responsibilities outside of work is also important. mance evaluations. Our helpline for employees in Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. provides information, resources and customized referrals on parenting and child In measuring employee performance, managers provide comprehensive care, adoption, education, care for the elderly, wellness and the law. We feedback to clarify employee expectations, facilitate growth, and inform pay offer child care and elderly care services to more than 81,000 employees in and promotion decisions. Our performance management guiding principles Europe and the U.S. are to: • Drive a culture of meritocracy, differentiating on performance Our strong support for flexible work strategies has earned us recognition from Working Mother Magazine as one of the 100 Best Companies for • Manage performance against challenging business goals the past 19 years. As the demand for greater work flexibility increases, • Evaluate employees on how business goals were achieved, not just Citi is able to attract talent with a broad range of opportunities. end results • Promote a culture of strong risk management • Provide balanced feedback and direction regarding strengths and areas for development. « page 30 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Valuing our people Introduction Health, safety and wellness as employees have consistently shown enthusiasm for getting involved in various volunteer opportunities. Citi Citizenship Approach Our employees are mainly office-based and face relatively few direct Other volunteer opportunities for employees include: Responsible Finance occupational health and safety risks. Our focus is to support our employees to lead healthier, more productive lives. • Volunteer Day. We encourage employees to take a paid day off work each Citizenship in Latin America calendar year to volunteer for an eligible organization of their choice. Each region develops programs that meet the specific needs of their Ensuring Access for All • Volunteer Management System. Employees can find and register online employees, including on-site medical and fitness facilities. We provide Citizenship in Asia Pacific for volunteer opportunities in their area and track their volunteer hours. business travel health assistance for employees globally. Valuing Our People Our health promotion and wellness programs encourage employees to live In 2010, our employees gave 608,953 volunteer hours. This number healthy lives. In some regions, incentives are provided for employees who represents a significant increase over 2009 and reflects enhanced efforts Diversity follow healthy behaviors, such as working with a health coach, quitting to capture this data. Engagement & Training smoking or taking an online health risk assessment. Additionally, we offer Flexible Working a wide range of health risk reduction programs including flu shots, smoking Citi Recognized for Employee Engagement »H  ealth, Safety & Wellness cessation, nutrition counseling, mammography, cholesterol screenings Citi Handlowy in Poland won the “Large Company” category and will & Citi Volunteers and oral and skin cancer screenings. be the Polish national entry in the European Commission’s 2011: Year of Citizenship in Europe, Volunteering awards. Citi Handlowy is being recognized for employee Africa & the Middle East Citi Volunteers engagement in financial education programs, for which Citi employees Operations have volunteered a total of 9,000 times, clocking in over 54,800 hours An important part of our Citizenship strategy is volunteering in in 720 projects over the past five years. Contact & Feedback communities where Citi has a presence. Citi employees actively leverage their professional skills and experience by donating their time directly GRI Index to nonprofits and non-governmental organizations supported by the Citi Employees Support U.S Veterans Citi Foundation. Citi’s Veterans Initiative is designed for Citi employees to support Supporting employees as they volunteer to make a difference in their military veterans and their families in communities across the U.S. communities builds stronger teams, fosters company loyalty and has a More than 440 Citi employees in over 12 cities engaged in volunteer positive impact on the communities in which we work. We offer traditional and fundraising activities in 2010 to help veterans transition into the and skill-based volunteering opportunities that exercise the enthusiasm workforce. Volunteers assisted with résumé writing and networking and professional expertise of our employees. techniques and participated in mentoring programs. Volunteerism at Citi gets its strength from many employee-led organizaCiti has also worked with Wall Street Warfighters Foundation, Intrepid tions within the company. These groups, which include Employee Networks, Fallen Heroes Fund, Fisher House Foundation, Iraq and Afghanistan business-specific outreach committees and Volunteer Councils, assume Veterans of America, Wounded Warrior Project, and the U.S. Department leadership for implementing volunteer engagement in the local community. of Veteran Affairs to support their programs and initiatives. In addition, employees organize volunteer events at local VA Medical Volunteer Councils are designed to supplement the well-established Centers and hold fundraisers to benefit veterans’ organizations across Community Development and Public Affairs teams. Our 25 global Volunteer the country. Councils are key partners in driving employee volunteer participation. Since its inception in late 2009, the council model has seen great success « page 31 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Valuing our people Introduction Global Community Day Mexico More than 2,000 volunteers at Banamex joined together to collect mobile Citi Citizenship Approach Citi’s Global Community Day (GCD) took place on October 23, 2010. More phones, batteries and plastic bottles for recycling. Banamex employees also Responsible Finance than 45,000 Citi Volunteers and their families, in more than 1,000 cities collected provisions for food banks and beautified city parks. across more than 80 countries, gave their time to help their local Citizenship in Latin America Singapore communities. Citi Volunteers worked on a variety of projects, including More than 5,000 Citi employees, family members and friends volunteered Ensuring Access for All literacy, financial education, housing, environmental protection, nutrition in various activities to benefit 17 voluntary welfare organizations, including and healthcare. Citizenship in Asia Pacific a 2-kilometer “Walk for Rice” campaign that raised 70,000 bowls of rice for Our strong spirit of volunteerism was reflected in Asia Pacific having the needy families. Valuing Our People highest participation rate of any region during Citi’s fifth Global Community South Africa Diversity Day on October 23. A total of 21,648 employees, family members, friends Volunteers painted and built houses for the Habitat for Humanity/Citi Build Engagement & Training and clients took part in over 300 activities. project. Others donated food, computers and school supplies, and fixed Flexible Working Global Community Day saw: up school. »H  ealth, Safety & Wellness • 453,328 lives impacted Venezuela & Citi Volunteers • 20,632 meals served Volunteers provided a full day of educational and environmental awareness C  itizenship in Europe, activities, as well as games and recreation, for at-risk children and teens at • 63,262 pounds of food donated Africa & the Middle East Rincon Infantil San Edmundo. • 32,763 plants and trees planted Operations United States • 12,394 people receive financial education. Contact & Feedback California Here are some examples: GRI Index 890 volunteers participated in 25 events including a Habitat for Humanity Brazil revitalization project to build two homes. In addition, employees cleaned More than 1,200 volunteers renovated child care centers, collected trash up a zoo, ran financial education seminars, organized various walks to raise along lakes and rivers, landscaped public areas and organized a dance party funds, and packed food at a food bank. at a home for the elderly. New York City Czech Republic CEO Vikram Pandit launched a new skill-based volunteer initiative that Citi volunteers dedicated 1,200 hours to various nonprofit organizations. partners Citibank employees with the New York City Small Business Solutions Volunteers lectured on financial education at a Junior Achievement Center aimed at strengthening the capacity of small business owners. seminar for high school students in Prague, while colleagues and their families visited a special needs school and a home for senior citizens. Korea Over 2,800 Citi employees and family members volunteered for 63 activities under the theme “Green Citi, Clean City” to support environmental conservation and clean-up initiatives. « page 32 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Citizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East Introduction Context Citi Citizenship Approach In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Citi has more than Responsible Finance 38,000 employees, does business in 61 countries and has a presence Citizenship in Latin America in 55. Individual, corporate and government clients throughout EMEA use Citi’s global network, local relationships and full range of solutions, Ensuring Access for All products and services. Community and business needs differ, someCitizenship in Asia Pacific times dramatically, according to locality. This is why we supplement our regional citizenship approach with country-specific activities. We focus Valuing Our People on promoting financial inclusion and building capability, and working with » C  itizenship in Europe, young people, the disadvantaged and unbanked communities. Africa & the Middle East Operations Actions in 2010 In the U.K., we work with Fair Finance, a social enterprise supporting fair lending and financial services for disadvantaged communities in east London. Contact & Feedback Microfinance and enterprise development Environmental Sustainability GRI Index In 2010, Citi sponsored the Middle East and Africa Microcredit Summit in Citi and the Citi Foundation’s partnership with WWF in Russia supports Kenya. Attended by delegates from 85 African and Middle Eastern counmicroenterprises and helps preserve the unique biodiversity of the Altai tries, the summit served as a platform to share best practices and extend Mountains in Siberia — home to endangered species such as the snow the impacts of microfinance to new countries in Africa. leopard. The program provides microgrants to local people to start their Citi sponsored the Sukuma Afrika competition for young entrepreneurs own businesses in tourism and improve livestock quality. Also in the UK, The aged 18-35 years, recognizing outstanding commercial initiatives and projLondon Borough of Lewisham won the ‘Innovation in social enterprise and ects that support the U.N. Millennium Development Goals in Africa. inclusion’ award at the 2010 Financial World Innovation Awards for the Citi Prepaid cards solution for disadvantaged young people leaving their care. Financial Capability and Asset Building Partnerships In addition, Citi won a U.K. Government Business Award – Local Government Supplier of the Year Award for this solution. We work with Junior Achievement (JA) — the world’s largest organization dedicated to educating students about work readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy — in 34 countries across the region. In 2010 we extended our Disaster Relief work to Turkey and Northern Ireland. Citi focuses on key JA programs such Following the devastating floods in Pakistan late last year, Citi mobias Banks in Action and Company Program that serve deserving young people. lized its employees, friends and alumni to raise money and volunteer. We raised more than $425,000 which was used to deliver immediate Citi together with the U.S. Department of State led a Mobile Money Policy humanitarian relief as well as long-term rehabilitation programs to conference in Nairobi that brought together regulators, mobile network restart local economies by assisting flood affected micro-entrepreneurs. operators and NGOs from 10 key countries in Africa to discuss initiatives to promote financial inclusion in Africa. « page 33 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction We are committed to improving the environmental efficiency of Citi Citizenship Approach Responsible Finance Citizenship in Latin America our operations. Ensuring Access for All Citizenship in Asia Pacific Environmental Performance Valuing Our People We measure our total environmental footprint — energy use, fuel consumpC  itizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East tion, water use and waste (generated, recycled and electronic) — and analyze the data to optimize performance. Operations Our reporting includes over 12,000 facilities globally, from skyscrapers » Environmental Performance to data centers to ATM kiosks. Almost all of Citi’s greenhouse gas (GHG) In 2010, we purchased a total of 223 GWH of green electricity in seven S  upplier Management emissions are indirect (Scope 2), from electricity we purchase and use in countries. In the U.S. we are ranked 21st in the EPA ’s Green Power Partner& Diversity our facilities. ship among Fortune 500 companies for 2010, reporting 5 percent of our U.S. Contact & Feedback In 2010, we achieved energy efficiency improvements resulting in a 6.4 electricity coming from renewable energy. percent reduction from 2009 levels. We are on track to achieve our 2011 GRI Index Green buildings emissions reduction goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions by 10 percent from 2005 levels. We remain committed to the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED standards • Reduce absolute GHG emissions by 25 percent for all new facilities and renovation projects, and to benchmark energy • Reduce waste to landfill by 40 percent performance in all possible facilities using U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager. • Reduce water use by 20 percent • Increase percentage of Leadership in Energy and Environmental In addition to LEED certification for 185 projects across nine countries, more Design (LEED) certified space to 15 percent than 60 Citi-managed buildings in the U.S. have earned the ENERGY STAR • Improve portfolio energy efficiency by 20 percent label. We extended these performance benchmarking tools to an additional 4,500+ facilities globally. Many facilities outside the U.S. (where certification We will do this primarily by continuing our progress towards improving our is not available) demonstrated similar superior energy performance. operational and energy efficiency, investing in energy efficient projects, Working with the Clinton Climate Initiative (CCI) and energy services compaconstructing green buildings, and optimizing our technology. nies, we have launched a program to reduce energy use in our facilities. Citi’s approach to reducing GHG emissions We focus our efforts to reduce our GHG emissions by minimizing the amount of energy we consume. For the remainder, Citi purchases a portion from renewable resources. « page 34 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency named The One Megawatt Challenge Citi Citizenship Approach Citigroup a 2011 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year In 2010, Citi launched the One Megawatt Challenge. By changing the traditional server access connectivity to the network switches, we Responsible Finance for its efforts in 2010, honoring our contribution to reduced the need for copper wiring by as much as 80 percent. Fewer Citizenship in Latin America protecting the environment through energy efficiency. cables running under the raised floor allows air used to cool the equipment to flow more freely, further reducing energy consumption and Ensuring Access for All costs. As Citi data centers use tens of megawatts of power for servers, Data centers mainframes, storage and network, this approach will save at least one Citizenship in Asia Pacific megawatt of power by the third quarter of 2011. Our data centers — buildings that house computer servers, data storage Valuing Our People and network infrastructure — are our factory floor. They account for less  itizenship in Europe, C than two percent of our real estate but more than 20 percent of our energy Sustainable technology Africa & the Middle East consumption. Energy is primarily used to power and cool the IT equipment. Operations Technology Infrastructure is fundamental to the delivery of products and Citi’s Sustainable IT program addresses opportunities in power reduction, services to Citi’s customers globally. paper and travel substitution, sustainable supply chain, employee education » Environmental Performance and engagement. We work to reduce the amount of energy our equipment uses, as well as  upplier Management S to design buildings that cool more efficiently. In 2010, we reduced our data Established in 2008, our Desktop Standardization Initiative (DSI) has success& Diversity center footprint from 27 facilities to 22 by continuing to consolidate legacy fully upgraded 95 percent of targeted desktops to a standardized, energy Contact & Feedback sites into newer, more energy efficient buildings. efficient desktop. The DSI program is conservatively forecast to reduce Citi’s global carbon footprint by three percent once fully completed. This GRI Index In 2010, Citi became the first company in the world to re-introduce water reduction will be achieved through policies requiring ENERGY STAR complirather than air-cooled mainframe computers. Water is more effective ance for all hardware and the global deployment of PC power management. than air as a coolant, resulting in water-cooled mainframes using 14% less DSI also includes optimization of the back-end infrastructure, resulting in energy than their air-cooled counterparts. increased energy efficiencies and a less complex technical environment. A highly efficient data storage system called “thin provisioning” was Citi continues aggressive technology virtualization efforts across all platimplemented in 2010, in both new and retro-fitted environments. This has forms, in addition to standardizing processes and hardware and removing improved the net efficiency of the affected storage space while saving inefficient servers and equipment. Today, approximately 30 percent of our energy and using less floor space. Thin provisioning has helped us improve distributed server environment is virtualized. the efficiency of all of our data storage combined from 39% in early 2009 to 61% in the third quarter of 2010. Citi launched eDelivery worldwide in 2010, a paperless communication platform which delivers traditional paper and phone communications to customers through low-cost, interactive, digital channels. Customers can now receive secure electronic statements, confirmations, disclosures, applications via email, Short Message Service (SMS) on their mobile phones or on the internet. eDelivery offers 24-hour access to banking without the carbon footprint of a brick and mortar branch. Across all lines of business at Citi, paperless statement adoption has increased by 25 percent since 2009. « page 35 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction Citi ranked #2 in Computerworld ’s Top Green IT Engaging employees Citi Citizenship Approach Organizations 2010 Citi employees have formed local Green Teams in many markets to work Responsible Finance together on sustainability efforts for our businesses and our communities. Currently, there are more than 15 local Green Teams across the globe. In Citizenship in Latin America Project Green featured in environmental best practice study 2011, we will develop a program for Green Team development and expansion. Ensuring Access for All Citi Cards’ Project Green initiative was a featured as a best pracOur “Lighten Your Load” campaign, launched in 2009, continues to educate tice in the National Environmental Education Foundation’s February Citizenship in Asia Pacific employees on the carbon cost of data storage. Maintaining electronic 2010 study, “The Business Case for Environmental and Sustainability Employee Education.” The study focused on our successes in educating storage boxes for unnecessary duplicate electronic files consumes elecValuing Our People employees and customers on the value of environmentally sustaintricity. The campaign offers simple steps, in 11 languages, to reduce the  itizenship in Europe, C need for storage. able practices and highlighted our efforts to penetrate e-statements Africa & the Middle East globally. The case study featured Citi alongside a number of global We celebrated the fourth year of our global “Wireless Drop-Off” in 2010. Operations companies, and noted our goal of reducing absolute emissions by 10 The campaign allows employees to donate old cell phones and mobile percent by 2011. devices for recycling and raises awareness about the correct disposal of » Environmental Performance electronic waste. S  upplier Management & Diversity In 2010, employees in 539 Citi buildings in 65 countries and 233 cities joined Bank Technology News named Citi “Earth Hour,” a campaign to turn off the lights for one hour. The effort raises Contact & Feedback “America’s Greenest Bank” employee consciousness regarding energy usage and increases Citi’s particiGRI Index pation in global efforts to reduce electricity dependence. Citi’s dining programs source food locally for staff dining, whenever possible, resulting in less packaging, fewer days of refrigeration and transportation reductions. Local sites pursue additional sustainability initiatives and customize their contributions. For instance, the dining program in New York recycled 8,000 gallons of cooking oil to be used in the production of biodiesel fuel. Our “Sustainability Expos” bring together thousands of employees with operations staff, business sustainability specialists, vendors, local government and NGOs. The expos feature displays on sustainable building materials and products, and are intended to educate employees about their facility, how they can contribute, and what they can do in their personal lives to minimize their environmental impact. In 2010, expos were held in facilities in Asia, Europe, Latin America and North America. « page 36 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction Citi’s Environmental Footprint Citi Citizenship Approach PORTFOLIO Responsible Finance 2005 Full Year 2006 Full Year 2007 Full Year 2008 Full Year 2009 Full Year 2010 Full Year RSF1 85,696,202 86,525,074 91,137,792 89,225,487 82,624,644 78,774,467 Citizenship in Latin America Seats 391,601 398,349 441,710 447,658 413,411 391,576 Ensuring Access for All ABSOLUTE INDICATORS 2 Citizenship in Asia Pacific Electricity (GwH) 2,153 2,311 2,466 2,472 2,271 2,107 Valuing Our People District Heating (Steam & Chilled Water) 87 86 91 66 77 77  itizenship in Europe, C Energy Purchased (GwH) — Scope 2 2,240 2,398 2,557 2,538 2,348 2,184 Africa & the Middle East Natural Gas (GwH) 179 164 170 157 168 162 Operations Fuel Oil (GwH) 53 56 55 52 70 51 Energy Consumed (GwH) — Scope 1 232 220 225 208 238 213 » Environmental Performance Total Energy (GwH) 2,472 2,618 2,782 2,746 2,586 2,397  upplier Management S Recycled Office Paper (Metric Tons ) 18,987 21,733 21,569 23,341 22,798 23,173 & Diversity Refuse and Other (Metric Tons) 72,235 73,391 75,378 68,768 58,471 51,565 Contact & Feedback Total Waste (Metric Tons ) 91,222 95,125 96,947 92,108 81,268 74,738 GRI Index Total Water Consumption (m ) 3 7,416,846 7,628,728 7,638,217 8,321,962 7,091,790 6,404,675 CO2e Emissions Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) 46,182 44,215 44,922 41,696 48,374 42,451 Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) 1,157,965 1,239,574 1,325,926 1,329,268 1,217,713 1,140,896 Total CO2e (Metric Tons) 1,204,148 1,283,789 1,370,848 1,370,964 1,266,087 1,183,347 Green Power Offsets (CO2e) 5,953 25,904 30,223 57,084 47,309 42,084 Net CO2e (Metric Tons) 1,198,195 1,257,884 1,340,625 1,313,880 1,218,778 1,141,263 RELATIVE INDICATORS Total Energy Consumed KwH / RSF 28.85 30.26 30.53 30.78 31.30 30.43 KwH / Seat 6,313 6,572 6,299 6,135 6,255 6,122 Net CO2e Metric Tons / RSF 0.0140 0.0145 0.0147 0.0147 0.0148 0.0145 Metric Tons / Seat 3.06 3.16 3.04 2.94 2.95 2.91 1 “RSF” is rentable square footage. This value is a 12-month average of the total owned/leased portfolio, excluding sublet space in which utilities are consumed by non-Citi tenants. 2 All absolute indicators and CO2e emissions are rounded to whole number values. 3 Data in this table will differ from prior years’ reports due to accuracy improvements in historical consumption data, as well as the recalculation of all emissions using the most up-to-date eGRID (United States) and WRI (non-US) GHG conversion factors for purchased electricity. « page 37 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction Citi Realty Services LEED Accreditation Citi Citizenship Approach Number of staff accredited by end of year Responsible Finance 2008 2009 2010 Citizenship in Latin America LEED Commercial Interiors 25 41 42 LEED Existing Buildings 9 7 6 Ensuring Access for All LEED New Construction 4 4 5 Citizenship in Asia Pacific Total 38 52 53 Valuing Our People Citizenship in Europe, LEED PROJECTS BY BUILDING TYPE Africa & the Middle East Projected Operations LEED Projects 2007 2008 2009 2010 for 2011 Data Centers 0 3 3 0 0 » Environmental Performance Office Buildings 1 8 11 3 21  upplier Management S Operations Centers 2 0 3 2 7 & Diversity Branches 0 64 75 10 21 Contact & Feedback Total 3 75 92 15 49 GRI Index Cumulative Total 3 78 170 185 234 LEED Certification by Region and Level Achieved Region Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total Asia pacific 3 1 6 0 10 EMEA 0 0 2 1 3 North America 151 9 12 0 172 Total 154 10 20 1 185 « page 38 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction Operational Environmental Goals and Results Citi Citizenship Approach Indicator 2005 (baseline) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 goal 2010 actual 2011 goal Responsible Finance Absolute CO2e emissions (metric tons) 1,198,195 5.0% 11.9% 9.7% 1.7% -5% -4.8% -10% Green energy procurement* 9,704 MWh 40,988 MWh 60,154 MWh 132,175 MWh 125,899 MWh 125,000 MWh 233,357 MWh 250,000 MWh Citizenship in Latin America 2 countries 3 countries 5 countries 6 countries 7 countries 7 countries 7 countries 7 countries Ensuring Access for All Data center consolidation 51 42 37 32 27 24 22 *Citi does not count 100% of green energy purchases towards carbon offsets. Only certified energy purchases meeting strict standards based upon GHG Protocol are calculated Citizenship in Asia Pacific as an emissions offset Valuing Our People Operational Environmental goals and performance C  itizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East 2009 Goals 2009 Actuals Complete ENERGY STAR benchmarking of 1,500 branches and expand major buildings portfolio to over 100 sites 1,600 branches benchmarked in ENERGY STAR, over 100 major buildings benchmarked Operations Achieve ENERGY STAR Certification in at least 20 new sites and re-certify all 2008 recipient facilities All eleven 2008 ENERGY STAR facilities recertified and 43 new facilities certified in 2009, totaling 54 certified » Environmental Performance facilities Expand LEED training program to assist employees in earning LEED Accreditation LEED training organized and available in all regions — resulting in 35% increase in number of LEED Accredited S  upplier Management staff members & Diversity 2010 Goals 2010 Performance against goals Contact & Feedback Expand ENERGY STAR benchmarking to over 6,000 facilities globally Completed benchmarking of over 4,500 facilities globally, earned energy star label for 64 US facilities to date, achieving a 7.3% reduction in energy consumption across entire portfolio GRI Index 2011 Goals Achieve 10% reduction in absolute levels of GHG emissions globally from 2005 base year 2015 Goals Achieve a 25% reduction in absolute GHG emissions from 2005 base year (building upon current 2011 goal of 10%) Achieve a 40% reduction in waste stream to landfill from a 2005 base year Achieve a 20% reduction in water usage from a 2005 base year 15% of global real estate portfolio will be LEED certified Improve portfolio energy efficiency 20% from 2005 base year as measured in ENERGY STAR's Portfolio Manager « page 39 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 Operations Introduction Supplier Management and Diversity Supplier diversity Citi Citizenship Approach It is important to work with a wide range of professional, diverse suppliers In 2010, we had more than 14,000 approved suppliers globally, in more than Responsible Finance and consultants in the communities we serve. In 2010, we increased our 100 countries. We purchase a wide variety of technology, workforce and efforts to improve supplier diversity. Procurement Services works with Citizenship in Latin America business services, as well as office and facilities services. internal stakeholders and external partners to create mutually beneficial Ensuring Access for All relationships. Our strategy is to build capacity within our diverse Promoting sustainable supply chains supplier base. Citizenship in Asia Pacific We continue to integrate ethical, social and environmental factors into our Spending with diverse suppliers is tracked and reported quarterly global procurement practices, and promote them among our suppliers. In Valuing Our People by category. early 2010, we released our Statement of Supplier Principles. We circulated Citizenship in Europe, the Principles to approximately 3,000 of our core, approved suppliers We are developing ways to increase the number of diverse suppliers and Africa & the Middle East and to all new suppliers to develop codes of best practice to improve their ensure that each continues to build capacity and maintain a competitive Operations performance. advantage as a small business. Environmental Performance Sustainable purchasing Citi Australia is committed to supporting supplier diversity and is »S upplier Management Citi has developed a supplier rating system to assess our global facilities a member of the Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier Council & Diversity (AIMSC). AIMSC provides a direct business-to-business purchasing link supplier base of nearly 18,000 vendors to track the materials, recycled content, reusability and recyclability of the products we purchase, along with between corporate Australia and Indigenous-owned businesses. As a Contact & Feedback founding member of AIMSC, Citi Australia has signed a charter and the overall sustainability of our vendors’ business models. This system will GRI Index committed to a minimum spend. be used to select products based on environmental performance, leading to reduced energy use and landfill waste, while providing incentive for our In 2010, this target was exceeded and Citi Australia is committed to vendors to make sustainable improvements to their products and operations. continuous improvement in 2011 to increase our spend with indigenous owned suppliers. In recognition of Citi Australia’s efforts in supporting indigenous suppliers, our Head of Operations and Technology and Head of Procurement were presented with Supplier Diversity Champion accolades at the inaugural AIMSC conference in 2010. « page 40 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 contact & feedback Introduction We appreciate your interest in Citi and hope that this report has provided you with Citi Citizenship Approach Responsible Finance relevant and useful information about our Citizenship in Latin America Ensuring Access for All strategy, programs and initiatives. As we work Citizenship in Asia Pacific to improve both our Citizenship performance Valuing Our People and communications, we invite you to contact Citizenship in Europe, us with any comments or questions. Africa & the Middle East Operations » Contact & Feedback GRI Index About this report Contact Information This report covers the reporting period January 2010 to December 2010. We For more information on the Citizenship initiatives described in this report, report on an annual basis and our last report was published in April 2010. please visit Citi’s website or contact: Tyler Daluz Forward looking statements Corporate and Sustainability Communications, at: Certain statements in this documents are “forward-looking statements” citizenship@citi.com within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Citigroup Inc. Exchange Commission. These statements are based on management’s 399 Park Avenue current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumNew York, NY 10022 stances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to precautionary statements included in this document. More information about these factors and other factors that may affect Citigroup’s future results is contained in Citigroup’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission including, without limitation, the “Risk Factors” section of Citigroup’s 2010 Form 10-K. Precautionary statements included in such filings should be read in conjunction with this document. « page 41 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction U.N. Global Compact Table Citi Citizenship Approach Principle Information in report Responsible Finance Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Ethics and Human Rights (p8) Citizenship in Latin America Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics and Human Rights (p8) Ensuring Access for All Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) Citizenship in Asia Pacific Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Unions and Collective Bargaining (p30) Valuing Our People Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Ethics and Human Rights (p8) C  itizenship in Europe, Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Ethics and Human Rights (p8) Africa & the Middle East Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity (p28) Operations Environment Contact & Feedback Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) Tackling Climate Change (p17) » GRI Index Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) Tackling Climate Change (p17) Operations (p34) Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Tackling Climate Change (p17) Operations (p34) Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Governance (p5) Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Strategy and analysis 1.1 Core Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to Yes CEO Statement (p1) the organization and its strategy. Our Approach (p4) 1.2 Core Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Yes Our Approach (p4) Profile 2.1 Core Name of reporting organization. Yes Introduction (p2) 2.2 Core Primary brands, products and or services. Yes 2010 Annual Report 2.3 Core Operational structure of the organization including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and Yes 2010 Annual Report joint ventures. 2.4 Core Location of organization’s headquarters. Yes 2010 Annual Report « page 42 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach 2.5 Core Number of countries where organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or Yes About Citi (p2) that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Responsible Finance 2.6 Core Nature of ownership and legal form. Yes 2010 Annual Report Citizenship in Latin America 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries). Yes 2010 Annual Report Ensuring Access for All 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization including: Yes 2010 Annual Report • Number of employees Citizenship in Asia Pacific • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms or debt and equity; and Valuing Our People • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership, including: Yes 2010 Annual Report  itizenship in Europe, C • Location of, or changes in operations, including facility operations, closings, and expansions; and About Citi (p2) Africa & the Middle East • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations. Operations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Yes Global Diversity Report 2009 Operations (p34) Contact & Feedback Report Parameters » GRI Index 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Yes About This Report (p41) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Yes About This Report (p41) 3.3 Reporting cycle. Yes About This Report (p41) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Yes Contact (p 41) Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Yes Our Approach (p4) • Determining materiality. Stakeholders and • Prioritising topics within the report; and Engagement (p6) • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. Yes About This Report (p41) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Not applicable 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Yes 2010 Annual Report entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Yes Operations (p34) underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Performance (p34) 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Yes Performance (p34) for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods Not applied in the report. applicable « page 43 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard disclosures in the report. Yes GRI Index (p42) Responsible Finance Assurance Citizenship in Latin America 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the Yes Stakeholders and Ensuring Access for All assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurEngagement (p6) ance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider. Citizenship in Asia Pacific Governance, Commitments and Engagement Valuing Our People Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Yes Our Approach (p4) C  itizenship in Europe, responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Governance (p5) Africa & the Middle East 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and if so, their Yes 2010 Annual Report Operations function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Contact & Feedback 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest Yes Governance (p5) governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. » GRI Index 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Yes 2010 Annual Report governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Yes 2010 Annual Report executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social & environmental performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Yes 2010 Annual Report 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance Yes 2010 Annual Report body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Yes Ethics and Human Rights environmental and social performance, and the status of their implementation. (p8) 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and manageYes Our Approach (p4) ment of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to Yes Corporate Governance economic, environmental, and social performance. Guidelines Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Yes Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) Tackling Climate Change (p17) « page 44 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which Yes Various, including CEO letter the organization subscribes or endorses. (p1) Human Rights (p8) and Responsible Finance Environment & Social Risk Management (p12) Citizenship in Latin America 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Yes Various including Global Ensuring Access for All • Has positions in governance bodies Diversity Annual Report • Participates in projects or committees 2009 and Environment & Citizenship in Asia Pacific • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Social Risk Management • Views membership as strategic (p12) Valuing Our People Stakeholder engagement Citizenship in Europe, 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Yes Stakeholders and Africa & the Middle East E.g. communities, civil society, customers, shareholders and providers op capital, suppliers and employees, Engagement (p6) other workers and their trade unions. Operations 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Yes Stakeholders and Contact & Feedback Includes process for defining stakeholder groups and for determining the groups with which to engage. Engagement (p6) » GRI Index 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Yes Stakeholders and E.g. surveys, focus groups, community panels, corporate advisory panels, written communication, manageEngagement (p6) ment/union structures and other vehicles. Say whether any engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization Yes Stakeholders and has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Engagement (p6) Performance: Economic Disclosure on Management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the Management Approach items outlined below with reference to the Yes Governance (p5) following economic aspects; economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impacts Economic Performance indicators Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Core Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensaYes Governance (p5) and tion, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Ensuring Access for All governments. (p20) EC2 Core Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organizations activities due to climate change. Yes Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) Tackling Climate Change (p17) EC3 Core Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Yes 2010 Annual Report, page 9 EC4 Core Significant financial assistance received from government. Not applicable « page 45 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Aspect: Market presence EC5 Additional Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations Not Responsible Finance of operation. reported Citizenship in Latin America EC6 Core Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Not reported Ensuring Access for All EC7 Core Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Not Citizenship in Asia Pacific locations of significant operation. reported Aspect: Indirect economic impacts Valuing Our People EC8 Core Yes Ensuring Access for All (p20) C  itizenship in Europe, Financial Capability and Africa & the Middle East Asset Building (p22) Operations EC9 Additional Yes Ensuring Access for All (p20) Financial Capability and Contact & Feedback Asset Building (p22) Performance: Environmental » GRI Index Disclosure on Management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Yes Operations (p34) following environmental aspects: materials, energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, effluents and waste, products and services, compliance, transport and overall…? Environmental Performance indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Core Materials used by weight or volume. Yes Performance (p34) EN2 Core Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Yes Performance (p34) Aspect: Energy EN3 Core Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Yes Performance (p34) EN4 Core Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Yes Performance (p34) EN5 Additional Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Yes Performance (p34) EN6 Additional Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions Yes Operations (p34) in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Additional Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Yes Operations (p34) Aspect: Water EN8 Core Total water withdrawal by source. Yes Performance (p34) EN9 Additional Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not applicable « page 46 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach EN10 Additional Percentage and total water volume of water recycled and reused. Not reported Responsible Finance Aspect: Biodiversity Citizenship in Latin America EN11 Core Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Not high biodiversity outside protected areas. reported Ensuring Access for All EN12 Core Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas Not Citizenship in Asia Pacific and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. reported EN13 Additional Habitats protected or restored. Not Valuing Our People applicable Citizenship in Europe, EN14 Additional Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not Africa & the Middle East applicable Operations EN15 Additional Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Not operations, by level of extinction risk. applicable Contact & Feedback Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waste » GRI Index EN16 Core Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Yes Performance (p34) EN17 Core Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Yes Performance (p34) EN18 Additional Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Yes Operations (p34) EN19 Core Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not applicable EN20 Core NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Not reported EN21 Core Total water discharged by quality and destination. Not reported EN22 Core Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Yes Performance (p34) EN23 Core Total number and volume of significant spills. Not reported EN24 Additional Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Not Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. applicable EN25 Additional Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly Not affected but the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. applicable Aspect: Products and services EN26 Core Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Yes Operations (p34) Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) EN27 Core Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not applicable « page 47 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Aspect: Compliance EN28 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Not Responsible Finance with environmental laws and regulations. reported Citizenship in Latin America EN29 Additional Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for Yes Operations (p34) the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Ensuring Access for All Aspect: Overall Citizenship in Asia Pacific EN30 Additional Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Yes Operations (p34) and Tackling Change Solutions Valuing Our People (p17) Citizenship in Europe, Performance: Labour Practices and Decent work Africa & the Middle East Disclosure on management approach Operations Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Yes Valuing Our People (p28) following labour aspects; employment, labour/management relations, occupational health and safety, Contact & Feedback training and education and diversity and equal opportunity. » GRI Index Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employment LA1 Core Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. Not reported LA2 Core Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. Not reported LA3 Additional Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, Not by major operations. reported Aspect: Labour/management relations LA4 Core Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Not reported LA5 Core Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective Not agreements. reported Aspect: Occupational health and safety LA6 Additional Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Not committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. applicable LA7 Core Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities Not by region. reported LA8 Core Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce Not members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. reported LA9 Additional Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not applicable « page 48 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Aspect: Training and education LA10 Core Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Yes Performance (p34) Responsible Finance LA11 Additional Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Yes Valuing Our People (p28) Citizenship in Latin America of employees and assist them in managing their careers. Ensuring Access for All LA12 Additional Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Yes Valuing Our People (p28) Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Citizenship in Asia Pacific LA13 Core Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, Yes Global Diversity Report 2010 Valuing Our People age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. and Governance (p5) LA14 Core Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Not  itizenship in Europe, C reported Africa & the Middle East Performance: Human rights Operations Disclosure on management approach Contact & Feedback Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Yes Ethics and Human rights following human rights; investment and procurement practices, non-discrimination, freedom of association (p8) » GRI Index and collective bargaining, abolition of child labour, prevention of forced and compulsory labour, complaints Valuing Our People (p28) and grievance practices, security practices and indigenous rights. Human rights indicators Aspect: Investment and procurement activities HR1 Core Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses Yes Performance (p34) or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Core Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights Not and actions taken. reported HR3 Additional Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Not are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees that are trained. reported Aspect: Nondiscrimination HR4 Core Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Not reported Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective bargaining HR5 Core Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining Not may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. applicable Aspect: Child Labour HR6 Core Operations identified as having a significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken Not to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. applicable « page 49 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Aspect: Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Core Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Not Responsible Finance measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. applicable Citizenship in Latin America Aspect: Security practices Ensuring Access for All HR8 Additional Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects Not of human rights that are relevant to operations. reported Citizenship in Asia Pacific Aspect: Indigenous rights Valuing Our People HR9 Additional Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not applicable Citizenship in Europe, Performance: Society Africa & the Middle East Disclosure on management approach Operations Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Yes Various, including Ethics Contact & Feedback following society aspects; community, corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behaviour and compliance and Human Rights (p8) and Public Policy making (p8) » GRI Index Society performance indicators Aspect: Community SO1 Core Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts Yes Serving and Supporting of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. Consumers and Communities (p9) Aspect: Corruption SO2 Core Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. Yes Ethics and Human Rights (p8) SO3 Core Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Yes Ethics and Human Rights (p8) SO4 Core Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not reported Aspect: Public policy SO5 Core Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Yes Public Policy making (p8) SO6 Additional Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions Not by country. reported Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Additional Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and Not their outcomes. reported « page 50 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Aspect: Compliance SO8 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Not Responsible Finance with laws and regulations. reported Citizenship in Latin America Performance: Product responsibility Ensuring Access for All Disclosure on management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Yes Serving and Supporting Citizenship in Asia Pacific following society aspects; customer health and safety, product and service labelling, marketing communicaConsumers and tions, customer privacy and compliance Communities (p9) Valuing Our People Product responsibility Performance indicators  itizenship in Europe, C Aspect: Customer Health and safety Africa & the Middle East PR1 Core Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Not Operations and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. applicable Contact & Feedback PR1 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Not safety impacts of products and service during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. applicable » GRI Index PR3 Core Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and Not service subject to such information requirements. reported PR4 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Not service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. reported PR5 Additional Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Yes Measuring Customer Satisfaction (p12) Aspect: Marketing communications PR6 Core Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, Not including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. reported PR7 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes of concerning marketing Not communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. reported Aspect: Customer privacy PR8 Additional Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Not reported Aspect: Compliance PR9 Core Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision Not and use of products and services. reported « page 51 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Financial Services Sector Financial Services Sector: Specific Disclosure on Management Approach Responsible Finance FS1 Core Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines Yes Serving and Supporting Citizenship in Latin America Consumers and Communities (p9) and Ensuring Access for All Microfinance (p20) Citizenship in Asia Pacific FS2 Core Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines Yes Environmental and Social Risk Management (p12) Valuing Our People FS3 Core Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social Yes Environmental and Social requirements included in agreements or transactions Risk Management (p12) Citizenship in Europe, Africa & the Middle East FS4 Core Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and Yes Environmental and Social procedures as applied to business lines Risk Management (p12) Operations FS5 Core Interactions with clients/investors/business partners regarding environmental and social risks Yes Environmental and Social Contact & Feedback and opportunities Risk Management (p12) Tackling Climate Change » GRI Index (p17) Stakeholders and Engagement (p6) Financial Services Sector: Product and Service Impact Indicators Aspect: Product Portfolio FS6 Core Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by sector Not reported FS7 Core Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business Not line broken down by purpose reported FS8 Core Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each Yes Tackling Climate Change business line broken down by purpose (p17) and Performance (p34) Aspect: Audit FS9 Core Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and Yes Environmental and Social risk assessment procedures Risk Management (p12) Aspect: Active Ownership FS10 Core Percentage and number of companies held in the institutions portfolio with which the reporting Not organization has interacted on environmental or social issues applicable FS11 Core Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative social and environmental screening Not applicable FS12 Core Voting policies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization Not hols the right to vote shares or advises on voting applicable « page 52 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010 GRI INDEX Introduction Type GRI guideline Inclusion Location Citi Citizenship Approach Aspect: Community FS13 Core Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas Yes Serving and Supporting Responsible Finance Consumers and Communities (p9) Citizenship in Latin America FS14 Core Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Yes Serving and Supporting Ensuring Access for All Consumers and Communities (p9) Citizenship in Asia Pacific and Microfinance (p18) Valuing Our People Aspect: Product and Service Labeling FS15 Core Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Yes Serving and Supporting  itizenship in Europe, C Consumers and Africa & the Middle East Communities (p9) Operations FS16 Core Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type and beneficiary Yes Citizenship in Asia Pacific (p27) and Citizenship in Contact & Feedback Europe, Africa and the Middle East (p33) » GRI Index « page 53 » Citi Citizenship Report 2010
