Home Press Careers About us FAQ OSRAM global websites Search About Us About Us / Soc iety and the Environment ­ Global Care / Sustainability / Quick Links Sustainability Report 2010 Society and the Environm ent Global Care The Company Product Training Programme Sustainability Dow nloads Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Tools & Services Strategy and Profile System+ Guarantee Actions speak louder than w ords – follow ing this motto, OSRAM reports on its sustainability FAQ Economic Performance efforts on a yearly basis. In fiscal year 2008, OSRAM has started to base this sustainability Encyclopedia of Light Environmental Performance report on the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The sustainability report also serves as a Communication on Progress (CoP) for the UN Global Compact. Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance CO2 -Ticker CO2 ­Ticker Human Rights Performance Product Responsibility Report Application Level Performance The sustainability report consists of three important sets of Off Grid Project Society Performance 'disclosures', covering the strategy and profile of OSRAM, its management approach to certain issues, and indicators that show information on the performance regarding these issues. Indicators marked w ith an asterisk are part of the 'additional' indicator set. The GRI­Application Level of this report is B ­ self­declared. open in browser customize free license pdfcrowd.com Read more on the GRI Guidelines OSRAM Case Studies Outstanding reference installations w orldw ide. Strategy and Profile Case Study Tool Disclosures that set the overall context for understanding organizational performance such as its strategy, profile, and governance. Read More Econom ic Perform ance Indicators An organization’s economic performance is fundamental to understanding the organization and its basis for sustainability. These disclosures include the organization’s contribution to the sustainability of the economic systems in w hich the organization operates. Read More Environm ental Perform ance Indicators The Aspects in the Environment Indicator set are structured to reflect the inputs, outputs, and modes of impact an organization has on the environment. It includes inputs of energy and w ater, and outputs of environmental significance, w hich such as emissions and w aste. Biodiversity is also related to these indicators. Read More Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicators Disclosures on Labor Indicators reflect the concept of decent w ork. It includes disclosures on the scope and diversity of the reporting organization’s w orkforce, and emphasizes the physical protection and w ell­being of people at w ork. Also covered are efforts to enhance personal skills and potential of employees. Read More Hum an Rights Indicators Human Rights Performance Indicators are based on internationally recognized standards, primarily the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 (in particular the eight Core Conventions of the ILO). The Performance Indicators seek to provide comparable measures of results or outcomes, and therefore focus primarily on incidents relating to core human rights. Read More open in browser customize free license pdfcrowd.com Product Responsibility Indicators The Product Responsibility Indicator set addresses the effects of products and services management on customers and users. Read More Society Indicators Society Performance Indicators focus on the impacts organizations have on the communities in w hich they operate, and how the organization’s interactions w ith other social institutions are managed and mediated. In particular, information is given on the prevention of bribery and corruption, and involvement in public policy­making. Read More Print Share | Top © 2011, by OSRAM GmbH. All rights reserved. Imprint Terms of use Privacy Policy Sitemap Contact open in browser customize free license pdfcrowd.com
