Communication on progress 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT A Message from the CEO I am proud to present Mission Essential Personnel’s 2011 Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact. As a provider of key services to the US government, multinationals, and friendly foreign nations, MEP is dedicated to the compact’s principles. The UNGC is an invaluable resource for businesses of international scope; while laws may vary from country to country, ethics do not. Some business people think taking the higher road means lower profits. This philosophy is a fallacy: fly-by-night operations may make a quick profit and disappear, but that is no strategy for meaningful growth and long-term success. Ethical conduct is always in a company’s best interest. MEP’s 2011 Communication on Progress includes MEP’s vision, mission, and core values; a snapshot of our corporate citizenship; and brief descriptions of our commitment to the UNGC’s 10 principles. Organizations bound together by this compact are changing the world. At MEP, we will continue to look to these principles and choose what is right over what is easy. Chris Taylor CEO, Mission Essential Personnel Vision Mission To enable human freedom. To Empower People We envision a safe and And Organizations secure world in which We systematically match the global supply of talent with the demand for that talent; we recruit, vet, prepare, place, and manage the world’s foremost professionals; and we transcend language and culture to offer freedom and prosperity opportunity and create prosperity. are not just a possibility, but a certainty. core values INTEGRITY Our honor is beyond reproach, so others are confident trusting us with their reputations, or even their lives. EXCELLENCE We achieve extraordinary outcomes, delivering superior quality while seeking continual improvement. EFFICIENCY we achieve the greatest successes for our customers and ourselves when we create maximum value with minimal resources. RESPECT as a company that spans a world of cultures, it is our duty to convey the worth due all human beings, with constant regard for the challenges they face. ACCOUNTABILITY we are responsible for all we do, or fail to do; to accept praise for our accomplishments, we must also accept criticism for our mistakes. MEP collects and distributes hundreds of pounds of clothes, school supplies, and toys to Afghanistan every year. Snapshot of Corporate Citizenship MEP has grown from a handful of employees bidding for subcontracts in 2004 to a major prime contractor with more than 8,200 personnel around the world. The significance of this success is not just that we have accomplished so much so quickly, but that we have done so with our integrity intact. Winning no matter what has not been our goal – our success has been the by-product of our commitment to excellence. Our goal is to make a lasting impression on the world, enabling human freedom while expanding our business. Our greatest commitment to human freedom is our primary product to the United States and allied foreign powers: language services. As the No. 1 language provider to the US Government, we are not merely translators; we are the first line of diplomacy between disparate cultures in Afghanistan and elsewhere. We turn confusion to understanding and mistrust to friendship. The bridge to a more peaceful future is being built with words, not weapons. Measurement of Outcomes respect for human rights giving back corporate ethos MEP’s commitment to corporate responsibility is As a provider of language support, cultural training, Our commitment to human freedom We require our management and employees to more than rhetoric. We measure the outcomes of community engagement, and information-gathering extends beyond our portfolio of services, comply with both the letter and the spirit of the law, our citizenship efforts using a variety of metrics, services, MEP manifests a profound respect for as we have demonstrated and refined our providing ethics training and repeated emphasis both quantitative and qualitative, depending on human beings worldwide. Our founders made a corporate citizenship in a variety of ways. on the values, mission, and core values listed the initiative. A sample includes the following: fundamental commitment to offer their employees previously. Integral to this training is a reporting and contractors fair and equitable treatment In 2010, we recruited a Board of Advisors – mechanism that enables our employees, stationed MEP provides six full scholarships at the and benefits, and the company has maintained experts in world diplomacy and academia – throughout the world, to identify and report ethics American University of Afghanistan (including this core principle despite our rapid growth. to advise company leadership on ethics and violations or abuses to the company Ethics Officer. two specifically for women). MEP has a foreign affairs. One of the advisors, the The Ethics Officer is empowered to investigate deep relationship with the AUAF and CEO The nature of MEP’s work demands commitment Harvard Kennedy School’s Dr. Sarah Sewall, all such claims and to take any necessary Chris Taylor sits on its Board of Trustees. to preserving and maintaining local cultures and directs the school’s Mass Atrocity Response corrective actions to prevent further violations. values. We require relationships of trust with our Operations Project, which helps prepare military At MEP’s corporate headquarters in Ohio, interpreters and their communities in order to serve commanders to face the challenge of genocide. MEP defines employee responsibilities in its green efforts have resulted in 6.73 total our clients effectively and ensure future business. We have contributed to this project pro bono, Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which tons of recycled paper, saving 114 trees, Consequently, wherever we operate, we take and cosponsored a tabletop exercise at Harvard helps maintain fair dealing and moral conduct 47,110 gallons of water, 2,557 gallons of responsibility for our actions and consider how they in October 2010 with EUCOM and the US Army while serving clients worldwide, particularly in oil, and 545 cubic feet of landfill space. impact local communities directly and indirectly. Peacekeeping & Stability Operations Institute. conflict and reconstruction environments. We recently updated and publically released MEP frequently organizes drives to deliver clothes Further, as a government services contractor, MEP is a charter member of the International our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, and other goods to Afghanistan. In April 2011, we require our subcontractors to treat all people Stability Operations Association, which aims to which provides standards should an employee we delivered 21 boxes of medical textbooks and with justice and respect through flow-down raise the standards of ethical professionalism find him or herself in a questionable situation other educational materials to Kabul University clauses and other contractual obligations that and transparency in the conduct of international and – more importantly – guidelines for avoiding on behalf of the Afghan Literacy Foundation. demand adherence to international and local peacekeeping and post-conflict reconstruction such situations. The document is available at laws and regulations. We recognize that by activities. We were the headline sponsor of its http://missionep.com/company/ethics MEP has sponsored an internal maintaining the highest standards of conduct and annual summit in Washington, DC, in 2010. “Volunteer Corps” designed to assist with respectful treatment of employees throughout our We are also the leading interest in Justice Services Furthermore, we belong to a variety of professional charitable giving and humanitarian efforts that operations, we have the opportunity to influence International, which was created to provide associations designed to help companies selfexemplify the phrase “think global, act local.” our peers to maintain similar high standards. support to nation-building and peace operations regulate, such as the Professional Services In 2010, the corps volunteered more than of the US Agency for International Development, Council, which requires its members to avoid 500 man-hours in a variety of endeavors. Upholding the responsibility of developed Department of State, and Department of Justice. conflicts of interest, collusion, bribery, or fraud nations to help developing ones, MEP’s in their business with the government. MEP provided human trafficking-awareness extensive work with foreign labour markets As a company, we have also made a commitment training for 400 employees in 2010. helps spread opportunity and freedom to those to volunteerism and charity. Our character defines populations. We provide high-quality treatment, us professionally, and we follow our moral compass benefits, and compensation to all personnel. to stay on the right path, to choose the hard right over the easy wrong, and to set the example – even Because we operate in a variety of international when nobody is watching. We have conducted environs, including those where government drives to collect school supplies and clothes oversight may be lax, we adamantly reject any for people in Afghanistan, organized corporate type of human trafficking or employment of participation in cancer walks, and provided individuals against their will. Moreover, we conduct financial help to American veterans organizations. training for employees to help them recognize the Our company has a deep relationship with the signs of human trafficking, avoid unintentionally American University of Afghanistan, with CEO supporting it, and report it to authorities. Chris Taylor sitting on it’s Board of Trustees and MEP supporting six scholarships for students there (including two specifically for women). HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should Businesses should make sure support and respect the that they are not complicit protection of internationally in human rights abuses. proclaimed human rights. MEP inherently believes in MEP has no tolerance for the principles articulated in human rights abuses. MEP does the Universal Declaration on not knowingly engage in any Human Rights, because “all business activities with entities human beings are born free that have a proven disregard and equal in dignity and rights” for human rights and where it and have “the right to life, is unsafe to pursue business liberty, and security of person.” due to human rights abuses. People are the core of MEP’s We have voluntarily developed resources and the services extensive due diligence it provides. Consequently, processes to evaluate clients, we ensure the respect and governments, or civil entities. dignity of all individuals who Moreover, MEP requires and work within the company encourages its employees to and its areas of operation. disclose suspected human rights abuses in any circumstance. Labour Standards Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the elimination of all forms of effective abolition of child labour. elimination of discrimination the effective recognition of the forced and compulsory labour. in respect of employment right to collective bargaining. and occupation. Although MEP is not presently Under no circumstance does MEP refuses to engage in any MEP rejects every form of engaged in collective bargaining MEP tolerate the use of forced exploitative relationship with discrimination in its business with its employees, in large or compulsory labour, and any child. As a US federal activities. The company treats part because of its exceptional encourages its peers to take government contractor, MEP each potential employee with compensation and benefits action to eliminate it. MEP strictly adheres to the mandates the same respect given to package, MEP supports upholds the principles of US of the Fair Labor Standards Act current employees. MEP hires the International Labour laws which mandate that no (FLSA) which, among other extensively from ethnically Organization’s Declaration on company shall benefit from things, prohibits or severely diverse backgrounds, both Fundamental Principles and labour obtained by any illicit, restricts any form of child labour. within expatriate and local Rights at Work. Moreover, deceptive, threatened, or MEP stalwartly defends the FLSA national communities. MEP MEP follows the more stringent otherwise coercive means. and is committed to its tenets, upholds the greatest respect requirements under the US MEP maintains these principles both in practice and policy. for its employees, regardless National Labor Relations Act through all its operations, of geography or culture. MEP of 1935, which covers most especially in developing does not discriminate on the collective bargaining agreements. areas where indigenous basis of race, color, religion, The Act makes it illegal, among populations may be particularly sex, national origin, or disability. other things, to discriminate, spy vulnerable to mistreatment. on, harass, or terminate workers due to union membership. Environment Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Businesses should support Businesses should undertake Businesses should encourage a precautionary approach to initiatives to promote greater the development and environmental challenges. environmental responsibility. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. MEP fully supports and believes MEP recognizes the importance MEP’s core business does not in protecting natural resources, of sustainable conservation include technology development. preserving landfill space, efforts and supports international Nevertheless, it strives to conserving energy, reducing initiatives to promote greater implement more environmentally air and water pollution, and environmental responsibility. safe and efficient technologies, minimizing greenhouse gas MEP has established a USsuch as energy-efficient emissions. MEP has developed based program, Recycle, MEP!, printers, computers, appliances, a corporate process to address which invites employees to share motion-activated lighting, environmental challenges as ideas for new, environmentally and climate controls systems they surface, and observes safer operations. MEP’s whenever possible. MEP has the Rio Declaration on Recycling Working Group has also adopted a paperless Environment and Development. developed corporate-wide pay process, even in austere waste and resource reduction areas such as Afghanistan. strategies that benefit MEP operations in Ohio, Virginia, Georgia, and Germany. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. MEP is committed to the highest ethical standards in all its business activities, and denounces all forms of corruption, as described in the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC). MEP is fully compliant with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) that expressly prohibits bribing foreign government officials, and requires every subcontractor, agent, consultant, or other authorized representative to certify its compliance with the FCPA provisions. contact globalcompact@missionep.com CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS www.missionep.com 4343 Easton Commons, Suite 100 Columbus, OH 43219 + 1 614 416 2345 Phone + 1 614 416 2346 Fax + 1 888 542 3447 Toll Free CHANTILLY NATIONAL CAPITOL REGIONAL OFFICE 14901 Bogle Drive, Suite 300 Chantilly, VA 20151 + 1 571 521 7261 Phone + 1 571 521 7262 Fax
