LG Electronics 2010 Sustainability Report Commitment to oUR StakeholdeRS LG Electronics Publishes its Fifth Sustainability Report This report details our sustainability management performance in 2010, and is meant to promote meaningful communication between our company and stakeholders. Features of the Report Key Progress and Performance LG Electronics introduced a Key Progress and Performance to better communicate with the stakeholders regarding sustainability management. The Key Progress and Performance shows factors such as the background, risks and opportunities, mid/long term goals and achievements, and future directions derived from the materiality analysis. These factors will be used as performance indicators of LGE’s sustainability management activities and managed for improvements. Special Issue LG Electronics’ Union Social Responsibility(USR) is a unique initiative in Korea, acclaimed as best practice amongst its Korean peer companies. 2010 is the year during which USR activities flourished, hence declaring the social responsibility of the labor union. The special issue page outlines USR performance to help stakeholders understand. Enhanced Communication Starting this year, LG Electronics will release an e-book version of its sustainability report to enhance communication with stakeholders. The e-book report, featuring video clips, will allow stakeholders access to current issues and related sites with a simple click. Principles of the Report This report was written in accordance with the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) and Accountability Principles Standard(AA1000APS). A primary goal of this report is to communicate important information related to the sustainability of our company and stakeholders using materiality analysis. We have dealt more systematically with material issues by consistently dividing their presentation into three areas: Approach, Performance, and Future Direction. Report Preparation Process Preliminary data gathering was conducted to improve the reliability of the report’s contents and materiality analysis, targeting internal and external stakeholders. The results were reported to the management and a briefing was held for managers from related departments. The contents of the report submitted by departments were reviewed by the management and an external assurance provider. Scope and Period This report is written based on data for fiscal year 2010, which LGE defines as the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010, and also refers to significant events occurring in the first half of 2011. This report is intended to be comprehensive, and cover all LGE business sites in Korea and overseas. The currency of this report is the Korean won(KRW), which for convenience has been converted into US dollars(USD) at the 2010 average exchange rate of USD 1 = KRW 1,157. The currency rate as of December 31, 2010 was USD 1 = KRW 1,120. Assurance of the Report To improve the reliability of the report, LGE commissioned Two Tomorrows(Asia) Limited to undertake independent assurance of LG Electronics Sustainability Report. The assurance statement of Two Tomorrows is provided on pages 83-84. Where to find LG Electronics’ sustainability management activities Website: http://www.lg.com/sustainability Environmental Report CSR Group, LG Electronics Inc., LG Twin Towers, 20, Yeouido-dong, Seoul, Republic of Korea E-mail sustainability@lge.com Tel 82-2-3777-3268 Fax 82-2-780-4172 Key Progress and Performance Why is it Important? Opportunities and Risks Mid to Long Term Objectives Major Achievements in 2010 Future Direction Product safety • CEO’s unfailing and uncompromising spirit towards quality Opportunity Secure position in the global market by successfully • Achieve World Best Product Safety • Declared ‘Quality Vision’ • Develop employees’ awareness on product safety and • Product safety is the criterion on which customers and expanding the voluntary protection program(VPP) and enhancing corporate within 3 years(by 2013) • Enhanced organization: Adoption of three-stage management responsibility the community evaluate the product and decide whether or social responsibility(CSR) mechanism, autonomous management by divisions; • Establish corporate culture that considers product safety not the product is trustworthy Risk Increased risks from new technologies and reinforcement of regulations organization of product specifications committee and as the top priority related to product safety PL (Product Liability) committee • Establish internal test centers with stricter standards than P 32 • Defined the “Product Safety Spirit” in the Product Safety Regulations official regulations Developing greener products • Increasing interest and requests for green products Opportunity Lead the market and raise brand image by meeting customers’ • Won 11 Green Technology Certification from Korea Institute • Provide customers with information on product environmental • Reinforce greener products / green technologies needs for greener products for Advancement of Technology performances • Improvement of the customers’ quality of life, in such ways as reducing electricity bills and creating a healthier living environment Risk Failure to respond proactively to regulations and customers’ needs may • Achieve a yearly total of over KRW 50 trillion in low-carbon purchasing • Concluded the Green Win-Win Growth MOU with suppliers • Support suppliers’ to enhance green competence • Expansion of product environmental lead to business depression by 2020 regulations, including RoHS, REACH, WEEE and Energy Efficiency Regulations • Gradually replace PVC and BFRs with different materials • Expanded voluntary replacement of PVC and BFRs • Gradually replace non-regulated hazardous materials in accordance with the products’ characteristics by December 2014 such as PVC and BFRs • Establish a global e-waste take-back and recycling system / extend • Collected 198,984 tons of e-waste globally • Initiate R&D activities to improve product recyclability P 37 take-back volume globally • Develop technologies to improve recyclability Low-carbon green management • Increasing impact of regulations on product level greenhouse gas(GHG) Opportunity Reduce energy consumption and increase operational • In manufacturing, achieve a yearly GHG reduction of 150,000 tons • Reduction 160,000 tons of GHG emission compared to 2008 • Expand and reinforce GHG reduction activities to achieve emissions to the business productivity through voluntary GHG reduction in 2020, which is about 10% reduction compared to 2008 long-term goals even during growth of the business Risk Failure to meet regulations may affect the production and (Cumulative: 1 million tons of reduction by 2020) harm LGE’s reputation • Increasing impact of higher product energy efficiency standard and customOpportunity Enhance competence based on energy efficient products; • In product usage, achieve a yearly reduction of 30 million tons in 2020, • Contributed to the reduction of 12.75 million tons of GHG • Strengthen market competence through ongoing development ers’ increased demand of high-efficiency, low-carbon products to the business promote carbon footprint labeled products compared to 2007 emission by selling more high energy efficient products of high energy efficient products Risk Failure to meet minimum efficiency standards may affect the product sales (Cumulative: 200 million tons of reduction by 2020) compared to 2007 • Expand new green business, including solar cell and • 7 products acquired the Carbon Footprint Label from Korea LED lighting etc. • Increasing importance of the voluntary GHG reduction efforts is emphasized Opportunity Improve overall business efficiency; cost reduction • Establish a system to manage GHG emissions and reductions • Announced low-carbon purchase goal to support suppliers’ • Strengthen execution in supporting suppliers’ GHG reduction throughout the entire business processe and value chain throughout value chain, including logistics and suppliers by 2015 GHG reduction activities • Expand the scope of GHG management for logistics Risk Failure to respond to the stakeholders’ requests may damage reputation • CDM business was approved by the Indian government for sales of high energy efficient refrigerators in India • Need to strengthen LGE’s competence to carry out enterprise-wide GHG Opportunity Build reputation through CSR activities • Enhance internal participation and become the world’s best climate • Conducted campaigns for GHG reduction throughout • Actively share best practices of GHG reduction with suppliers reduction in response to increased corporate social responsibility(CSR) change leader by 2015 the employees’ daily activities and local communities Risk Failure to induce the participation of the employees may affect requests against climate change LGE’s GHG reduction capability • Participated in Korea Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and joined the Carbon Management Global Leaders Club (for two consecutive years) P 43 Reducing environmental • Responsibility towards the environment is the basis for the survival and Opportunity Improve the operational efficiency and reduce environmental risks • Establish a system to support the suppliers’ high environmental-load • Established EESH integrated certification system in Korea • Stabilize the EESH integrated management system’s operation impacts in the manufacturing prosperity of mankind. Companies must contribute to sustainable growth by reducing the use of raw materials, energy, water, etc. processes until 2013 • Established EESH audit system globally • Support overseas operations and suppliers for building process by minimizing the environmental impact caused by its business activities. in the manufacturing process • Improve overseas operations’ EESH management level to over 80% • Established EESH risk management system EESH management capacity Risk Increasing needs to manage overseas operations’ and suppliers’ of Korean operations until 2013 P 48 environmental risks and reinforcement of environmental regulations Promoting supply chain CSR • Improper management of CSR risks throughout supply chain may impact Opportunity Differentiate and improve the corporate image • Set risk management based on “Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition • Joined EICC • Expand the target for CSR risk assessment a company retroactively through proactive supports of suppliers (EICC)” criteria • Conducted pilot audits for outsourcing companies • Establish effective tracking system for conflict minerals • Rising social issues such as minerals from conflict regions and child labor Risk Failure to manage suppliers may have a negative effect Conduct regular risk assessment/ corrective actions for suppliers • Published Supplier Code of Conduct on the corporate image Conduct audit on 25% of high-risk major suppliers by 2013 • Designed CSR risk management program for suppliers P 56 Enhancing social contribution • Increasing requests from stakeholders to address social issues Opportunity Can lead to new business opportunities, not just donations • Contribute to achieve UN MDGs’ Goal 1(eliminating poverty) and • Expanded activities for social contributions globally • Utilize LGE’s technology for activities • As a global company, leadership is expected in proactive engagement Risk Failure to fulfill social responsibilities may have a negative effect Goal 7 (securing environmental sustainability) until 2015 (LG Hope Family in Cambodia and Bangladesh & • Create synergy by aligning social contribution for CSR issues on the image as a corporate citizen Life’s Green Class in India) strategies globally • Improving employees’ pride and self-esteem through contributions and • Enhanced employee participation programs • Expand employees’ contribution and volunteer opportunities volunteer activities such as “Life’s Good Volunteers” P 59 Corporate culture / • Good corporate culture constitutes the basis for a company to pursue Opportunity Can contribute to the sustainable growth of company by moti• Improve overall employees’ awareness and embodiment of • More employees’ participated in various activities • Create a working environment that fosters creativity and Work-life balance its business activities vated employees LG Way globally • Diversified support programs for the employees and autonomy • Work-life balance based on creativity and autonomy is the driving force Risk Failure may adversely affect the employees’ quality of life, resulting (in 2010, overseas awareness is 87% compared to Korea’s index) their families • Enhance activities to promote employee satisfaction towards in improving the quality of life and productivity in decreased performances work-life balance P 65 Labor rights protection • The UN and ILO encourage to respect and protect the workers’ human rights Opportunity Motivate employees which consequently lead to improved quality • Improve overseas subsidiaries’ level to over 90% of Korean operations by • Established Global Labor Policy • Improve global labor-management relationship management • LGE complies with the management principle ‘Respecting Human Dignity’ and productivity as well as talent attraction 2015(based on EICC assessment tool) • Established Supplier Code of Conduct • Improve suppliers’ labor rights protection to protect the employees’ rights and interests Risk Failure can lead to not only financial loss but also consumers’ • Self-Assessment for 20 sites and on-site audit for 4 sites confidence loss P 69 Contents Overview 02 Report Overview 03 Key Progress and Performance 06 CEO Message 08 Top Management Messages 09 Our Philosophy 10 Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 14 2010 Highlights 16 CSR Management Special Issue 20 USR(Union Social Responsibility) Stakeholder 22 Stakeholder Engagement Communication 23 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 26 Materiality Analysis Materiality Report Customer 29 Communication with Customers 32 Product Safety 34 Consumer Satisfaction and After-Sales Services Environment 37 Greener Products 43 Low-Carbon Green Management 48 EESH Management Business Partner 53 Business Partners for Win-Win Growth 56 Promoting Supply Chain CSR Community 59 Social Contribution Employee 65 Corporate Culture/Work-Life Balance 67 Talent Management 68 Fair Evaluation and Rewards 69 Labor Rights Protection Management 71 Corporate Governance Report 72 Compliance Risk Management 73 Jeong-Do Management 74 Fair Trade 75 Privacy Protection Our Data 76 Economic Data 78 Social Data 80 Environmental Data Appendix 83 Independent Assurance Statement 85 Memberships/Award & Recognition 86 GRI/UNGC Index CEO Message Back to basics to achieve sustainability management What is your opinion of sustainability management? The most important principle for a company to maintain its sustainability is essentially to secure competency in its field through sincere commitment to the basics. For manufacturers like us, the most important and basic competency is “quality”. Quality is our promise to the customer and it cannot be compromised. A company that fails to remain faithful to this promise will inevitably cease to exist. In addition to customer engagement, commitment to stakeholders is also the company’s fundamental role, a responsibility that is no less important than the company’s obligation to guarantee the quality of its products. What are the major achievements of 2010 in terms of sustainability management? To successfully achieve sustainability management, it is crucial to establish a company-wide baseline. In 2010, we introduced a “Global Labor Policy”, establishing the company’s baseline to over 120 worksites and offices worldwide. At the same time, we established a “Supplier Code of Conduct” to encourage our partners’ and suppliers’ commitment to sustainability management. In addition, we have been holding consultation meetings with our stakeholders twice a year to better understand their opinions and interests concerning our business. It is our aim to quickly grasp the market’s and the stakeholders’ sentiments and respond in a proactive manner. I believe that the Union Social Responsibility(USR) activities being led primarily by the LGE labor union since January 2010 opens a new chapter in labor’s commitment to society. What is future direction for LG Electronics’ sustainability management? It is essential for LGE to get back to the basics to achieve sustainability management. To neglect consistency and solely seek out the new and trendy is inconsistent with LGE’s culture and business philosophy. We will continue to improve upon our competitiveness and conduct our activities based on the principle of building a sustainable company and harmonized community. At the same time, we will strive to promote a climate that values and respects LG Electronics’ Jeong-Do Management philosophy. May, 2011 Bon Joon Koo, Vice Chairman and CEO 8 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Top Management Messages Woody Nam, Head of Business Innovation Office / President I believe the basis of sustainability management, and as well the fundamental purpose of the company’s sustainable growth, is to enrich our customers’ lives through our products and services. LG Electronics strives to deliver on the most demanding expectations through reinforced quality management, enhanced production process efficiency and innovative service. Based on our philosophy “Jeong-Do Management”, we will always promote mutual growth with our partners, and establish a healthy and competitive supply chain through the improvement of CSR management. Skott Ahn, Chief Technology Officer(CTO) / President Green management is not just an indispensable element of corporate sustainability management; it is the core competitive edge of LG Electronics. LG Electronics is committed to achieving green management throughout its entire product lifecycle, from developing green products to proactively responding to environment changes. We will continue to make our best efforts in developing green technologies and solutions to enrich people’s lives for a healthy and clean environment. Simon Kang, Head of Global Marketing Office / President The GMO’s role is to support the communication, sales and distribution processes that follow product development and manufacturing. We endeavor to stretch our sustainability management to encompass not only product development but also the subsequent processes. By doing this, we contribute to the long term resolution of social and environmental issues. In turn, our performance will be shared with stakeholders to further reinforce our competitiveness and leadership. Young Kee Kim, Chief Relations Officer(CRO) / Executive Vice President The key to sustainable management is open communication with stakeholders. If our communication is based on mutual trust, we can certainly find a win-win solution to satisfy both parties. To this end, we will maintain various communication channels, including the current “Stakeholder Consultation”, and intensify our efforts to convey stakeholders’ expectations and demands to LGE’s management. OVERVIEW | OUR PHILOSOPHY 9 Our Philosophy The “LG Way” is LG’s unique management philosophy. It has been with us since LG was founded, and has grown over our decades of experience. Every LG employee is guided by LG Way principles. Following these principles, we are confident that LG Electronics will continue to develop as a corporate entity that earns the respect of all stakeholders. Based on “LG Way” we established and declared a new slogan in 2011. LG Way Corporate Slogan The LG Way is our basis for attaining the vision of “No.1 LG”. We practice “Jeong-Do Management” in order to achieve our aims of “Creating Value for Customers” and “Respecting Human Dignity”. Vision no. 1 LG Jeong-Do Code of Conduct Management creating Value for respecting Management customers Human Dignity Philosophy LGE’s new slogan illustrates the strong will with which LGE will build a No.1 LG brighter future and realize LGE’s vision of becoming No.1 LG. This will “No.1 LG” is the ultimate goal that all LG businesses strive to achieve. It mean that LGE needs to approach new challenges and innovation from means that we will be the leader in the global market by providing our a different mindset. Accordingly, the slogan involves a new standard of customers with uniquely differentiated value. behavior that LGE needs to follow to achieve this goal. The corporate slogan consists of three key parts, which are interconnectCreating Value for Customers ed, and gives a direction to becoming No.1. Each of the three key parts Creating Value for Customers is the reason for our existence and our comprises of three practices, creating 9 different practices in total. core principle. The key function of our management is to constantly increase existing service levels and product value, and to find new ways to Fast Preparation create value for our customers. Fast Preparation means establishing strategy that is differentiated from our competitors and setting challenging targets. Respecting Human Dignity LG supports the personal development of each employee and uses their abilities to the fullest extent, thereby making our workers a key part of Innovation Risk Management Ownership attempt to achieve through check and prevent pothink about and carry LG’s value creation. We encourage our people to sharpen their personal innovation before others tential risk beforehand out work with a sense of competitiveness and cultivate a spirit of challenge and passion for their ownership Strong Execution work. Strong Execution means focusing individual passion on achieving our goals by any means. “Jeong-Do” Management To earn the trust of our customers and manage our business sustainably over the long term, LG is committed to “Creating Value for Customers”, Passion Teamwork Speed Finish every challenge Join efforts to take on Start faster and finish “Respecting Human Dignity” and practicing “Jeong-Do Management”. I begin bigger challenges earlier than others This does not only mean that we implement ethical management – it Smart Working also embodies LG’s unique actions to ensure fair competition and Smart Working means focusing on work that creates real value from the achieve tangible results based on ethical management. customers perspective. Selection & Customer Centric Work & Life Balance Concentration Make every decision Work with enthusiasm and Focus on core tasks from the perspective of enhance my quality of life that create value customers 10 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Corporate Overview and Economic Performance Overview of LG Electronics As of December 31, 2010 () : Change in figures compared with the previous year Unit: KRW billion Organization Name LG Electronics, Inc. Total Assets 22,975(+831.8) Location of LG Twin Towers, 20, Yeouido-dong, Total Liabilities 13,048.9(+1,793.6) Headquarters Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Industry Manufacturing 29,238.5(-1,274.9) Parent (Domestic : 6,892 / Exports : 22,346.5) Sales Television, Home Theater System, Blue Ray Player, Mobile Phone, Laptop Computer, Refrigerator, Consolidated 55,753.8( +262.6‌‌) Washing Machine, Cooking Appliance, Main Products Built-in System Kitchenware, Vacuum Cleaner, Health Care Appliance, Air Conditioner, Monitor, Parent(Loss) (1,104.6‌) (-2,517.1) Operating Security System and Commercial Display Profits Consolidated 176.5‌(-2,504.2) CEO Bon Joon Koo Credit Rating AA(Domestic), Baa3(Moody’s), BBB(S&P) Date of October 1, 1958 Establishment No. of Shareholders 141,711 No. of Employees 90,578(+8,442) [Korea : 31,840 / Overseas : 58,738] No. of Shares 161,833,806 •In 2010, LGE adopted Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) in advance and applied it to the 2010 performance. The income statement of 2009 was recreated accordingly. The income statement of 2008 is based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. LGE undertook corporate-wide organizational reform on December curement, along with the Global Marketing Office. Business Solutions 1, 2010 to reflect its division-oriented, autonomous decision-making (BS) Company was removed, and the organization was restructured structure. Focusing primarily on increased operational efficiency, fast into four business companies. To increase the synergy effect, the diviand timely decisions, and responsibility management, the reform sions under the BS Company were transferred to the related business aimed at boosting the company's readiness toward future changes. companies respectively. The Air Conditioning Company expanded its To reinforce business competency through innovative accelerated area to cover solar business, the next generation growth engine, and process, the Process Innovation Office was put directly under CEO the LED lighting system business, and was renamed Air Conditioning supervision for management of quality, six sigma, service and pro& Energy Solution(AE) Company. Organizational Chart of LG Electronics HE(Home Entertainment) MC(Mobile Communications) HA(Home Appliance) AE(Air Conditioning & Energy Solution) Company Company Company Company Company CEO Region Representatives Headquarters • North America • South & Central America • Business Innovation Office • Corporate Strategic • PC Business Unit Region Representative Region Representative • Global Marketing Office Planning Team • Data Storage • Europe Region • Middle East & Africa Region • CTO (Technology) • Corporate Business Business Unit Representative Representative • CFO (Financial) Planning Team • Car Business Unit • Southeast Asia • CIS Region Representative • CRO (Relations) • Innovation Team Region Representative • China Region Representative • CHO (Human Resources) • Corporate Audit Team • Southwest Asia • Korea Marketing Company • Corporate Design Center • Production Engineering Region Representative Research Institute OVERVIEW | CORPORATE OVERVIEW AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 11 Since its establishment in 1958 under the name Goldstar, LG Electronics has grown to become the global leader in the digital industry with its innovative technology and unique products. To become a company built to last, LG Electronics put its best effort into providing differentiated values for customers, as well as preparing for the future without wavering in times of change and crisis. BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND MAIN PRODUCTS LGE is organized into four business units: Home Entertainment, Moconsumer electronic products, mobile communication devices and bile Communications, Home Appliance, and Air Conditioning & Enhome appliance technologies. ergy Solution, each leading the global market through innovative HE Company MC Company LCD / LED TV PDP TV Mobile Phone Projector Monitor Smart Phone Audio & Video Netbook Commercial Display Network Infotainment & Security System HA Company AE Company Washing Machine Residential Air Conditioning Refrigerator Commercial Air Conditioning Kitchen Appliance Solar Energy Vacuum Cleaner Lighting Built-in Appliance Network Solution Health Care Appliance Sales By Company (2010) Unit: KRW billion 4,831.7(8.6%) At the annual shareholders’ meeting on March 21, 2011, 4,820.3(8.5%) LGE passed a bill to extend corporate business in its charter 22,082.1 to include business related to the environment, including 10,672.6 (39.3%) energy audits, energy saving, and pollution prevention. (19.0%) Total : 56,247.2* LGE will double its efforts in pioneering new environmentHE Company related business in the future. MC Company 13,840.5 HA Company (24.6%) AC Company BS Company * Sales figures by business company include the internal transactions between the companies (KRW 493.4 billion). A percentage of sales by company was calculated based on the organizational structure prior to the 2010 reform. Domestic Subsidiaries Unit: KRW billion Company Main Industries Capital (Percentage Sales Transactional of Ownership) Relationships HiPlaza Wholesale & Retail of Electronics 37.20(100.00%) 1,161.6 Product Sales HiLogistics Logistics Management / Service 3.60(100.00%) 342.6 Logistics Service Hi-M Solutek Other common machine and equipment repair 1.70(100.00%) 38.7 Service HiTeleservice Call center and telemarketing service 0.15(100.00%) 21.4 Service Innovation Investment New technology business investment 30.00(83.33%) 0.5 Investment Association KTV Tech Investment New technology business investment 5.34(99.83%) 0 Investment Association New Venture Investment New technology business investment 5.20(96.15%) 0 Investment Association 12 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report SHARED ECONOMIC GAINS(PARENT) In the second half of 2010, business growth slowed resulting from reing its economic responsibility by sharing the value created through duced global consumption, higher raw material costs, and lower sales business activities with a variety of stakeholders, such as shareholdprices due to competitors’ market expansion. Although the sales of ers, business partners, employees and local communities. LGE strives TVs and home appliances increased, the overall sales decreased by to improve its business profitability and secure new opportunities for 4.2% compared to the previous year due to the drop in the exchange growth to distribute more value to our stakeholders. rate and lower mobile device sales price and quantity, to reach a total of KRW 29,238.5 billion. LG Electronics increased financial contributions for its social activities while recording a significant decrease in corporate tax payable due to its weakened profitiability. LGE is fulfillEconomic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained Dividends Unit: KRW billion Category 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 Net Income Sales 27,638.5 30,513.4 29,238.5 482.8 2,052.8 -635.9 (KRW billion) Financial Profits 1,687.1 2,115.1 2,046.9 Earnings Per Share(KRW) 2,992 12,740 -3,929 Economic Value Generated 29,325.6 32,628.5 31,285.4 Total Dividends Paid 5.72 282.7 3.31 Operating Expenses 26,411.6 29,100.9 30,343.1 (KRW billion) Wages and Benefits 1,830.9 2,079.5 2,173.5 Dividend Payout Ratio(%) 11.85 13.77 • In 2010 LGE adopted Korean International Financial Reporting Standards(K-IFRS) in advance and Capital Costs 164.6 472.5 178.0 applied it to the 2010 performance. The data of 2008 and 2009 in this table are based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. Taxes & Dues 132.6 230.8 51.3 Social Contribution 11.9 15.6 21.4 Taxes Unit: KRW billion Economic Value Distributed 28,551.6 31,899.3 32,767.3 Economic Value Retained 774.0 729.2 -1,481.9 • Financial Profits: The 2008 financial profits represents the non-operating income. The 2009 and 2010 non-operating income are specified in the financial profits category in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). 12.8 • Operating expenses consist of cost of sales and administrative expenses. • Capital costs consist of interest expenses and dividends. 23.5 Total • Taxes & dues consist of corporate taxes, public dues, resident tax, and a special tax for rural 51.3 development. Rural Development Tax 13.6 Corporate Tax 1.4 Residence Tax Taxes and Dues LG Electronics’ Flow of Economic Value(Parent, 2010) Unit: KRW billion Community Shareholders 21.4 Social Contribution 33.1 Dividends Creditors Customers 144.9 Interest 29,238.5 Sales Government Employees 51.3 Taxes & Dues Suppliers 2,173.5 Wages & Benefits 29,800.0 Purchasing & Service Expenses GLOBAL NETWORK LG Electronics renamed its “regional companies” as “region representative”, and assigned the role of driving LGE’s priority tasks and managing the organization. LGE’s global operation consists of eight regional representatives with a total of 90,578 employees worldwide. Employees by Country As of December 31, 2010 Global Sales and Operating Profit(Consolidated) Korea China Brazil Mexico Poland Russia U.S. Others Unit: KRW trillion(USD billion) 31,840 17,234 6,406 5,173 4,100 2,529 2,085 21,211 (35.2%) (19.0%) (7.1%) (5.7%) (4.5%) (2.8%) (2.3%) (23.4%) 55.5 55.8 49.3 (usD 43.5) (usD 48.2) Sales (usD 44.7) 40.8 Current Status of Sales (Parent) Unit: KRW billion (usD 43.9) Category 2008 2009 2010 2.7 Domestic 6,445.2 6,665.0 6,892.0 Operating 2.1 (usD 2.1) Profit 1.2 (usD 1.9) 0.2 Sales Exports 21,193.3 23,848.4 22,346.5 (usD 1.3) (usD 0.15) overall 27,638.5 30,513.4 29,238.5 2007 2008 2009 2010 Income before Tax Expenses (Loss) 515.0 1,419.0 (1,077.0) USD 1 = KRW 929(2007) / KRW 1,103(2008) / KRW 1,276(2009) / KRW 1,157(2010) Headquarters( Headquarters(seoul) Global Operations pyeongtaek site chungju site ite Gumi site changwon site(i ii plant) CIS production/sales 2 Korea sales 2 production/sales 6 others 2 China r&D center 30 North r&D center 3 12 America 2 sales r&D center 6 others thers r&D Europe Japan production 2 sales 1 sales 15 r&D center 1 others 4 r&D center 3 Southeast South & Middle East Central & Africa Southwest Asia Asia production/ roduction/sales roduction/ 3 America production 2 production/sales 1 sales 4 production/sales 2 production/sales 1 sales 9 r&D center 2 sales 7 others 4 others 1 r&D center 1 r&D center 1 Global Sales by Region Unit: % 26 18 13 12 9 6 5 5 5 1 North America Europe Korea South & Central America Middle East & Africa Southeast Asia Southwest Asia CIS China Japan • Exclusion: Headquarters’ and manufacturing site’s overseas direct sales didn’t input in the overseas sales performance. 14 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report 2010 Highlights CUSTOMER Best Customer Information Protection Certification • LGE’s Greener Products and Technologies • LGE’s LED LCD Korean website and mobile phone website earned the privacy protecMonitor(2350V) awarded the world’s first Sustainable Product tion mark(e-Privacy Mark) provided by Korea Association for ICT ProCertification(SPC) from Underwriters Laboratories(UL), the stanmotion and sponsored by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and dard institute of U.S. the Korean Broadcasting Commission. • LGE’s twelve LCD TV models earned Europe’s representative environmental certification “EU Eco Label”. The respective models will bear the “Eco Flower” mark. • LGE’s Lollipop 2(LG-SU430) awarded Korea’s first certification of the ENVIRONMENT Carbon Footprint Label, certified by the Korean Environmental Industry & Technology Institute and operated by the Korean Ministry of Towards Greenhouse Gas Reduction • After announcing its anEnvironment, in the mobile phone category. nual goal to reduce a total of 6.1 million tons of greenhouse gas(GHG) • LGE earned a total of 11 Green Technology Certifications from the emissions(7% increase compared to the previous year based on volKorean government owing to its development of thin-layer(130 miuntary GHG reduction target by 2020), LGE contributed to 12.75 milcron) high-efficiency crystalline silicone solar cell and LED flat screen lion tons reduction of GHG in product usage level and 160,000 tons in backlight design technology. production level in 2010. • LGE awarded the Best of Best Grand Prix in Red Dot Award: ComIn product usage, LGE is endeavoring to further reduce 30 million tons munication Design 2010’s packaging category owing to its reusable of GHG emissions in 2020 compared to 2007(cumulative: 200 mileco-friendly packaging. lion tons of reduction by 2020). In manufacturing, LGE set a reduc• LGE introduced its smart grid technology, a next-generation powtion target of 150,000 tons of GHG emissions in 2020 compared to er grid system, and its geothermal, air-to-water, and air-to-air heat 2008(cumulative: 1 million tons of reduction by 2020). pump systems at the 2010 ASEM Forum(Seoul) under the green future technology theme. LGE also participated in the world’s biggest Join Carbon Management Global Leaders Club • LGE was solar energy exhibition, Intersolar 2010(Munich) to introduce its nextnominated by Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) Korea as a Carbon generation high-efficiency module and photovoltaic system. Management Global Leaders Club member(five companies with the • LGE developed “solar cell hybrid air conditioning” using solar cell as best Low Carbon Green Management performance among the 200 secondary power(capable of producing up to 70 Wh). largest Korean companies in terms of market capitalization). • LGE signed an agreement on Carbon Footprint Label with Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute to share low carbon products development technology and conduct a joint Green Consumption campaign. OVERVIW | 2010 Highlights 15 Business Partner Community Green Education for Suppliers • To establish a green supply Launching of “Life’s Green Class” in India • LGE launched the network management system, LGE organized a green education pro“Life’s Green Class” in India, a mobile science education program on gram with the participation of 150 partner companies to share its environment for young people, which has been operating in Korea green supply network management expertise and its low-carbon supsince 2006. ply network plan. LGE signed a sponsorship agreement with India’s University of Pune to conduct the program in order to spread the importance of the enEstablishment of Supplier Code of Conduct • LGE subscribed vironment through scientific principles to the 70 middle schools near to the global electronic companies’ social responsibility organization Pune city annually. “Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition(EICC)”, and published its Supplier Code of Conduct to lead the social responsibilities in accorLG Hope Family in Asia with UN WFP • Following a poverty dance with EICC Code for labor, ethics, environment and health & alleviation program in Africa, LGE concluded MOU with the “United safety. Nations World Food Programme(UN WFP)” for the expansion of infrastructure and poverty alleviation in Asia's least developed countries, Low-carbon Procurement • LGE launched the “Low-Carbon proCambodia and Bangladesh, for three years from 2011. curement” plan to purchase over KRW 50 trillion of components annually by the year 2020 from the companies conducting sustainable GHG reduction plans among the 1,500 partners selected based on energy consumption and purchase amount. EMPLOYEE Union Social Responsibility(USR) • For the first time among Organizational Restructuring • To strengthen competence Korean companies, LGE’s labor union announced “Union Social through fast and timely decisions and responsibility management, Responsibility(USR)” to seek a growing partnership with the company LGE’s new CEO, Bon Joon Koo conducted corporate-wide reform, reorand declared four practice guidelines. ganizing the five companies into four. Establishment of Global Labor Policy • Based on LGE’s philosophy “Respecting Human Dignity”, LGE established and published Global Labor Policy to attribute equal dignity and value to all employees with respect to their work. 16 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report CSR Management Pursuing sustainable growth through value creation for stakeholders is LG Electronics’ foremost mission. To meet this goal LG Electronics has established four strategic implementation tasks; CSR Governance, CSR Risk Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Strategic Social Contribution, and has been carrying them out to enhance its international competitiveness for Corporate Social Responsibility(CSR). CSR POLICIES company and region representative, and chaired by the CEO. SubLGE has been striving to create value for customers based on ‘Respectsequently in 2010, a strategic decision-making process was carried ing human dignity’. To conduct more systematic CSR management out for activities including membership of the Electronic Industry Cition the entire value chain, LGE has established CSR policies related to zenship Coalition(EICC) and announcement of Global Labor Policy. labor, ethics and environment, adhering to the basic principles of CSR. The corporate CSR activity plan and cooperation issues are also being In addition, LGE established the ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’ for supplishared and discussed on a regular basis through global CSR council ers to engage their participation in CSR management. which is comprised of the CSR committee members. Following the accession to the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC) in 2009, LGE joined EICC in August, 2010. LG Electronics’ CSR Policies EICC is an organization founded in 2004 by eight global electronic companies, including HP and IBM, with their declaration of the EICC Creating Value for Customers Code to lead corporate social responsibility. Currently, over 60 comRespecting Human Dignity panies worldwide including LGE have joined to share their efforts in resolving the common issues of today’s global electronic industry. As one of plans to carry out the activity, LGE reinforced its policy to respect EICC Code in all of its Korean and overseas business sites, and All LGE published the Supplier Code of Conduct in October 2010 to provide Code of Ethics Business guidelines for its suppliers to effectively fulfill their respective social Sites responsibilities. CSR Risk Management • LGE is conducting CSR risk management for its Korean and overseas business sites using five criteria: labor, ethics, environment, health & safety, and management system, Global Global Code of Labor Policy EESH Policy Conduct in accordance with the EICC Code of Conduct. To meet requirements, LGE conducted a Self-Assessment on 20 Korean and overseas business sites using the Electronics Tool for Accountable Supply Chain(E-TASC) in early 2010. E-TASC is an online self-assessment questionnaire system by the EICC designed for Information and All LGE Communications Technology(ICT) industry members to analyze Suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct their CSR risk management status. In late 2010, LGE selected four from 20 Korean and overseas business sites to conduct an on-site audit. Although no severe risks were detected, additional consulting and periodic monitoring were deemed necessary to improve such weaknesses as supply chain management. Starting in 2011, LGE will conduct periodic self-assessment, on-site audit, consulting and CSR Implementation Tasks monitoring activities every year on all of its major suppliers as well LGE aims to build long-term collaborative relationships and to proas Korean and overseas manufacturing sites. vide differentiated values for the stakeholders through not only connecting overall management system and the value chain with CSR, Stakeholder Engagement • LGE is actively responding to queries but also improving its technology and product quality. and interview requests from diverse variety of stakeholders, including customers and NGOs(38 cases in 2010). LGE is maintaining periCSR Governace • In 2009, LGE created the decision-making body, odic communications with the academy, the industry and consulting the CSR Committee, comprising of C-level officers, presidents of agencies, and participating in various conferences on CSR manageOVERVIEW | CSR MANAGEMENT 17 ment. To listen more closely to the expectations of stakeholders, LGE Strategic Social Contribution • LGE has also continued to provide is holding stakeholder consultations with the aid of experts from the diverse social contributions in 2010 focused on sustainable solutions government, NGOs, international organizations, academia and the to the environment, poverty, disease, and the United Nations Millenindustry for specific subjects semi-annually since 2010. To improve nium Development Goals (MDGs), put efforts into its poverty alleviatemployees’ CSR understanding and awareness, LGE is running a CSR ing programs to include the Asia region, and sponsoring the Business training program every month for new employees regardless of work for the Environment Global Summit(See pages 59~63). experience. LGE is planning to increase the number of employees to be trained in 2011. Since December 2010, CSR newsletters have been issued to department leaders(biweekly) in order to share the global CSR trend and LGE’s CSR activities. LG Electronics’ CSR Organization Executive Governance CSR Committee Establishment of CSR Strategy Board of Directors approval report report approval Providing Global CSR Council Coordination and Management of CSR Strategy guidelines & External Experts • Corporate-wide CSR Manager Network training • Sharing Best-Practice programs for • Corporate-wide implementation of CSR Strategy CSR project Implementation advice CSR Group • CSR Management • CSR Communication Region Company HQ Representative Feedback Reporting & Stakeholder sharing Consultation best-practices Execution of Corporate-wide CSR Projects 18 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report 2010 SELF-ASSESSMENT AND ON-SITE AUDIT Target Management education and systematic whistle-blower system. 20 Korean/overseas business sites Generally systematic and higher standardized environment How to and health & safety management system Electronics Tool for Accountable Supply Chain(E-TASC) Weaknesses Overall evaluation Need to establish a standard procedure for compliance Of the 20 business sites, the average for Korean business with global standards(EICC Code) including performance sites is relatively higher than overseas business sites’ evaluation and potential risk assessment etc. in all criteria(labor, ethics, environment, health & safety and Need to conduct CSR risk management and training program management system) for suppliers. CSR issues do not sufficiently reflect to strategic direction Strengths for each business site. Labor management system in the field of all business sites Improvement of employees’ moral awareness through Jeong-Do 2010 Major CSR Activities of LG Electronics ImplemenStrategy 1st Quarter 2010 2nd Quarter 2010 3rd Quarter 2010 tation Task CSR • Training program • Putting CSR issue on the agenda •T raining program Integration Governance for global CSR Managers of Corporate management for CSR Manager of each company • Putting CSR issue on the agenda support team leaders’ meeting •P utting CSR issues Connecting management of CSR Committee(Global (CSR risk management) on the agenda of CSR Committee systems and the social contribution program) • Participation (Joining of EICC) value chain in the UN Global Compact •J oined Electronic Industry with sustainability Leaders Summit 2010 Citizenship Coalition(EICC) •E nacted and announced Global Labor Policy •P articipation in the EICC forum(Shenzhen, China) CSR Risk • Establishment of • Self-assessment questionnaire •O n-site Audit for Innovation Management for 20 business sites 4 production sites “2010 CSR risk Providing LGEPN(China) differentiated management” plan LGEIN(Indonesia) value with LGEMA(Poland) improved LGEWR(Poland) technology and product quality Stakeholder • CSR training program • 1st Stakeholder Consultation •G lobal CSR Forum Engagement for new employees (entry-level/ (Topic: Overall CSR issues) (Topic: LGE’s CSR activities) experienced) (monthly) • Publication of 2009 Sustainability •T wo-way communication with • CSR survey with employees/ report(4th edition) the public through Social Network external experts • Launching of USR Supporters; Service(SNS) labor union presidents’ relief e.g. Blog, Twitter, Facebook activities in Cambodia Partnership Strategic Social • Site visit for alleviating poverty • MOU with International Vaccine • Employee blood donation campaign Building Contribution jointly conducted with United Institute(IVI) for cholera with the public through SNS relationships Nations World Food Programme vaccination in Ethiopia • Launching of between (UN WFP) in Africa(Kenya, Ethiopia) •S ponsorship for Business for “Life’s Green Class” in India stakeholders • Charity party for LG Group affiliates’ the Environment Global • Participation in and the global executives: Fund for alleviating Summit(B4E) and Korea Sharing Festival community poverty in Africa Champions of the Earth(COE) of United Nations Environment Programme(UNEP) • 1st Global Volunteer Day OVERVIEW | CSR Management 19 1 2011 ACTION PLAN • Establish CSR risk management system in compliance with global standards(EICC Code) Establish a standard procedure and guideline for all criteria. -C onduct self-assessment, on-site audit, consulting and monitoring the actual status of CSR risk management for all Korean and overseas production sites and major suppliers • Build a capability of working-level staff • Raise CSR awareness of employees and suppliers 2 4th Quarter 2010 • Enacted and announced 3 ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’ • Awarded the Prime Minister's Commendation of Grand Awards for Excellence in Sustainability Management(CRO) • Selected in Asia-Pacific Index of Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes(DJSI) •1 st place in Korean Sustainability index in leisure goods sector by Korean Standards Association • Awarded the best CSR company in Korea by Korea newspaper the Hankyoreh • Improvement of weak points 41. 1st place in Korean Sustainability Conference 2. Training Program for global CSR Managers for each production site 3. CSR Newsletter for department leaders • Establishment of 4. Global Labor Policy ‘2011 CSR risk management’ plan Pursuing Sustainable Growth through Stakeholder Value Creation • 2nd Stakeholder Consultation (Topic: Responding to climate change) • CSR Newsletter for department leaders (biweekly) 1. 1st place in Korean Sustainability Index in leisure goods sector 2. Training Program for global CSR Managers 3. CSR Newsletter for department leaders • MOU with UN WFP 4. Global Labor Policy for alleviating poverty in Asia (Cambodia, Bangladesh) • Kimchi sharing event • MOU with the Ministry of Employment and Labor, the Ministry of Environment, and LGE’s Labor Union for Social Enterprises 20 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport ADVANCING LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS The LGE USR mark symbolizes the Labor Union’s vision as an ecoLGE is leading the advancement of labor-management relations by friendly leader through harmony and equilibrium between humanity giving it a new definition where the workers and management do their and the environment. part based on mutual respect and trust rather than confrontation and hierarchy. The LGE Labor Union declared Union Social Responsibility(USR) on January 28, 2010, based on a value creating win-win labor relations, and pledged to comply with the provisions of the USR. This social responsibility declaration by LGE’s Labor Union signifies responsible future-oriented action to ensure ethical and transparent union activities as the labor union of a major corporation. Such activities include efforts to promote the rights and compensation of union members, and to perform its obligations throughout all areas of society including USR of LGE Labor Union the economy, the community, and the environment as a responsible Special ssue member of society. Through this unprecedented USR charter, LGE’s Labor Union has pledged to seek a sustainable partnership with management, and preRepay the customers’ love and fulfill our corporate social responsibilities LG Electronics’ Labor Union, currently making efforts to build an advanced win-win labor relations based on mutual trust between both parties, is striving to overcome the traditional labor campaign paradigm and create a new labor culture. To repay the customers’ love and to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities, LG Electronics’ Labor Union made the Union Social Responsibility charter declaration in January January, 2010. This was the first ever by any company in the world and this declaration was made to reiterate our social responsibility. sented a new paradigm of labor culture in which the Labor Union leads efforts to create value for customers. In total, the LGE Labor Union pledged to comply with four provisional guidelines as follows: Social Responsibility Guidelines of LG Electronics’ Labor Union 1. Respect the coexistence of life within communities and make efforts to protect and maintain the ecosystem 2. Protect the weak and contribute to a harmonious global community 3. Improve Labor Union and promote ethical and transparent management of the company 4. Lead initiatives for management innovation at the work site as the management transparency, and actively participate in such efforts SPECIAL ISSUE | USR(UNION SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 21 DIVERSIFIED AND SYSTEMATIC ACTIVITIES DECLARATION OF LGE LABOR UNION'S CODE OF ETHICS The LGE Labor Union has made a detailed plan to implement 7 core Following the declaration of the USR, the LGE Labor Union released areas–Organization Governance, Human Rights, Labor, Environment, the Labor Union Code of Ethics on January 20, 2011. LGE’s Labor Public Beneficial Practice, Consumer Issue, Local Community InvolveUnion Code of Ethics was established to ensure that the Labor Union ment and Development–as set forth in ISO26000, and has been takwill fulfill its social roles and responsibilities in accordance with the ing action systematically according to the plan. USR charter as the Labor Union of a major multi-national conglomerAfter the declaration of the USR charter in January 2010, LGE's Laate. All the members of the Labor Union signed LGE’s Labor Union’s bor Union held a launching event for USR TDR(Tear Down and RedeCode of Ethics, which is composed of 7 core actions: These are the sign) program in March, launched the USR Supporters, participated standard actions and values which all the Labor Union members have in international relief activities in May, and hosted a corporate-wide pledged to abide by. Global Volunteer Day event and the USR Academic Seminar, jointly held with the Labor Economy Society in June. 2010 was the founding year for the USR. It was the year for the Labor Union to strengthen its own capabilities and transform its awareness. Code of Ethics of LG Electronics’ Labor Union Accordingly, the Labor Union suppliers’ transparent management, 1. Transparent Management of the Union 2. Maintaining Respectability supported activities for the labor rights of the partners, operated ad3. Fair Work Practice and Compliance with Relevant Laws visory unions, launched low-carbon campaigns, promoted activities 4. Maintaining Confidentiality of Information for anti-corruption and observance of the law, supported multi-cul5. Not Abusing the Position to Ask Favors 6. Developing a Sustainable Society ture scholarship, and poverty alleviation programs’ and built its own 7. Protecting the Socially Vulnerable Population and Contributing capabilities and transformed its awareness. to the Global Community FUTURE-ORIENTED VISION OF THE LABOR UNION The LGE Labor Union presented a new vision for “A Labor Union that provides innovative values to fulfill its social responsibilities” and an implementation guideline to achieve this vision. In addition to the LaSang Ho Bae Chairman of LG Electronics Labor Union bor Union’s main role of improving the quality of life of the laborers and the company’s competitiveness, the LGE Labor Union included To repay customers’ loyalty and to fulfill the obligathe additional mission of contributing to the global community, and tions as a corporate citizen, the LGE Labor Union has established a future-oriented direction of “Win-Win has set a goal to achieve its new vision by implementing USR based Labor Relations” based on social responsibilities. on the mutual respect and trust between workers and management. I believe that the mutual growth of LGE and its By advancing from a “value creating win-win labor relations” which Labor Union is the starting point of sustainability simply portrays a short-term relationship between the workers and management. LGE’s Labor Union will perform its obligations based on USR and make every effort LGE management, to future-oriented “socially responsible win-win to lead advanced labor-management culture in labor relations”, the Labor Union has reached a significant turningthe industry. point for labor movement, which was previously dominated by negative viewpoints, strikes, and hostility. LG Electronics’ USR vision 2011 USR QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY For 2011 USR implementation plan, the LGE Labor Union has given A Labor Union that provides innovative the highest priority to strengthening the basic fundamental role of Vision value and fulfills its social responsibilities LGE, which is to create customer value by strengthening quality competitiveness. The Labor Union is planning to establish the “USR qualFulfilling LGE Labor Union’s ity assurance policy” for all the customers throughout the world and Implementation plan social responsibilities is continuously strengthening its efforts to acquire product leadership. In addition, USR activities will not be limited to the Labor Union members in Korea. The Labor Union is planning to spread USR to the Improving the Improving Contributing to overseas subsidiaries and establish a global network to ensure that company’s for worker’s the global Mission & Role competitive edge quality of life community USR activities are customized and implemented according to local conditions. Mutual respect and trust between the workers and management 22 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport Stakeholder Engagement LG Electronics maintains close relationships with stakeholders both in and out of Korea throughout all aspects of LG Electonics’ business. LG Electronics will actively communicate with stakeholders to improve value and develop sustainable management. Furthermore, LG Electronics will contribute to the improvement in quality of life for all humanity. Characteristics of Stakeholders Characteristics of Stakeholders LGE includes NGOs and international organizations in the planning and Based on the corporate management philosophy of ‘Creating Value for Customers’, execution of a wide range of CSR activities. LGE has made relentless efforts to satisfy all customers throughout the world. As a result, the Company was able to achieve consolidated revenue of Expectations approximately KRW 55,753.8 billion for fiscal year 2010. Revenue from •Reduce green house gas North America accounted for 26% of the total revenue, Europe 18%, Korea 13%, •Participate in tackling global social issues and support them. and Central and South America 12%. •Contribute to achieving MDGs •Contribute to labor / human rights protection in developing countries Expectations •Bridge the digital divide •Provide safe product and service •Practice fair marketing and provide accurate information Communication Channels •Privacy protection Seminar, Discussion Meeting, Community Contribution Activities, Websites •Provide customer satisfaction Communication Channels Service Center, Survey, Exhibition, Websites, Blogs, Prosumers l tiona rna Cust Inte ations om Characteristics of Stakeholders s / n iz ers Characteristics of Stakeholders LGE complies with local laws and regulations and GO ga As of December 2010, LGE had a total of meets tax obligations in all 120 countries where N Or 5,800 suppliers and spent a total of 35.9 billion the Company engages in business. USD in direct and indirect material procurement. The Company also cooperates with the governExpectations Central and ment and universities in each country to develop •Fair Trade local specialty products. Governm Local liers •Timely payment Supp Expectations •Support suppliers’ CSR activities ents •Comply to laws and regulations tax remittance Communication Channels •Cooperate with government policies Global Supplier’s Day, Supplier Portal, Communication Channels Satisfaction Surveys, Proposal System, Public Hearing, Discussion Meeting, Seminar Fund and Programs for Supporting Suppliers o rs nv e st Em /I ye Characteristics of Stakeholders plo rs s de l As of year-end 2010, there were a total of ho e e 141,725 shareholders with the holding company, ar Characteristics of Stakeholders Sh LG Corp, accounting for 34.8%, domestic As of December 2010, LGE employed a total of Co m m u n i t i e s institution and individual investors accounting 90,578 of which 31,840 work in Korea and 58,738 for 31.4%, and foreign investors accounting in overseas offices. This implies that the number of for 33.8%. Market capitalization, including employees increased by 9,442 year-on-year. preferred stock; equals KRW 17,822 billion, Approximately 64.8% of the total employees are either sojourning employees or hired locally. Characteristics of Stakeholders where common stock market capitalization is In addition to operations in Korea, KRW 17,068.4 billion). Expectations •Protect human rights and respecting diversity LGE is doing business through an overseas Expectations •Fairly evaluate and reward network. Local purchases represent •Disclose transparent management information •Provide opportunities for career development approximately 50% of the corporate’s entire •Increase investment values through efficient •Ensure safety at worksite purchase volume. management •Make efforts to improve the corporate culture Expectations •Improve corporate values through CSR activities •Minimize environmental effects near factories •Minimize Communication Channels Communication Channels •Respect • Respect the culture and tradition of local communities General Shareholders’ Meeting, Open Communication, Labor-Management Conference, In-House Newspaper, • •Promote Promote contributions to local communities Performance Presentation, Intranet, News Letter, LG Way Survey •Contribute • Contribute to the local economy by hiring local employees Investor Conference, Websites, Communication Channels Management Report, Business Report Community Care Activities, Sports Sponsorship, Discussion Meeting, Websites STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION | Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 23 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR LG Electronics held the first stakeholder consultation in April, 2010 to improve common understanding for corporate social responsibility(CSR) and to gather input from stakeholders, which will be incorporated into CSR management at LG Electronics. LG Electronics is now holding a consultation meeting semiannually to promote continuous communication. HOW TO OPERATE CONSULTATION Developing strategic promotion on greener products and activities To secure the fairness and neutrality of the Stakeholder Consultation, P roviding relevant performance based on an analysis of the the meeting is presided over by an independent expert in corporate environmental impact of products/services social responsibility and CSR management. Stakeholder Consultation consists of an internal panel of LGE management and an external panel of professionals from various fields. Opinions on General CSR Activities Members of the external panel can freely present their opinions from Setting decision making body & work group at the LG group level a global perspective as an individual, not as a representative of their Strengthening performance monitoring and advice process by the organization; and the result of the consultation is recorded and distribboard of directors uted in a form of minutes after being reviewed by the participants, and Social Impact index to gauge the influence of LGE activities then made public through the sustainability report. CSR campaign to improve consumers’ awareness of climate change and encourage behavior changes KEY INPUTS FROM STAKEHOLDERS Compliance with the international standard(AA1000SES) for consultative meetings Expanded pool of panels to include general customers in consul2nd Stakeholder Consultation(Dec. 1st, 2010) tative meetings •Topic : LGE’s Climate Change Initiative Advisory committee to convene regularly and Suggestions for Future CSR Activities Easy access to information through efficient performance indexes •Moderator : Mr. Han-kyun Roh (Prof. of Kookmin Univ.) Opinions on Climate Change Initiative 2nd Stakeholder Consultation Positioning as a leader in addressing climate change Planning to launch programs such as global carbon certificates to assess and manage social and environmental impact of products Introducing the carbon accounting and management report Providing consumers with information on how to reduce greenhouse gas(GHG) during the product use stage Providing detailed performance of GHG reduction at product levels 24 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report PaRticipants in 2nd stakeholder consultation Mr. Yul Choi Ms. Nara Luvsan Mr. Dong-soo Kim Mr. Jong-dae Kim Mr. Michael Watters Mr. Young-hoon Kim Mr. Jee-in Jang President of Korean Senior Programme Officer, Head of SustainabilProf. of Inha Univ. Head of Climate Director of Policy Chairperson of Green Foundation UNEP ity Mgmt. Center, Korea Change Section, Coordination Division, CDP Korea Productivity Center British Embassy, Seoul Ministry of Environment Paticipants in 3rd stakeholder consultation Mr. Soo Y. Chang Mr. Anthony Flynn Mr. Tae-joo Lee Ms. Sook-hee Baek Mr. Woo-sung Lee Mr. Peter Van Laere Prof. of Industrial & Deputy Director-General, President of ODA Watch Director of Public-Private Research Fellow of Director, Subregional Management IVI Partnership, KOICA Science & Technology Office for East and Engineering, POSTECH Policy Institute North-East Asia UN ESCAP Strategy in response to issue-makers, including government agenOpinions on LGE’s Future Direction cies in the public sector and NGOs Incorporating LGE’s business capability such as technology, network, Integrated reporting of financial/non financial performance to marketing and HR into activities prepare for the next generation reporting initiative(e.g. GRI G4 guiImproving the quality of life and purchasing power of people in dedeline) veloping countries using the small-scale new technology(LED, solar Green jobs for developing countries cell, etc.) and other appropriate technologies; and expanding the Social contribution programs linked to environmental training low-income market in connection with the product development Support for suppliers to establish their low-carbon management Contributing to the enhancement of local NGOs capabilities through Climate Change Award program the public-private partnership and official development assistant Setting definite goal and target at planning stage: Specify not only the background of selecting beneficiaries and benefits but also the 3rd Stakeholder Consultation(Mar. 28th, 2011) reputations expected from the activities •Topic : LGE’s Current Social Contribution Activities Considering revenue generated in the region when budgeting social and Future Direction contribution activities •Moderator : Mr. Min-gu Jun(Two Tomorrows Asia) Assessing and monitoring mid/long-term performance on a regular basis Introducing mid/long-term volunteering system utilizing employees’ Opinions on LGE’s current activities expertise for contributing to community and developing employees’ Well structured for addressing local community issues capabilities Promote beneficiary’s self-support and will to change, focusing Utilizing employees’ specialty to cooperate with NGOs and internaon the sustainability and UN Millennium Development Goals(UN tional organizations(e.g. “Global Health Fellowship” of Pfizer) MDGs) -A  ddressing the digital divide using information and communication Need to reflect LGE’s core business into programs technology STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION | Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 25 Utilizing solar energy technology and mobile communication de3rd Stakeholder vices for disaster relief Consultation Setting up a learning center for the community, or supporting the establishment of a remote training program Supporting vocational training programs to nurture local talent Supporting female training by using a radio in developing countries Securing safe potable water to prevent diseases Enforcement of Consultation Results Key suggestions from the 3 round of the consultations held from 2010 to the first half of 2011 were reflected in the 2010 materiality analysis. Some of them were also incorporated into management activities (mainly CSR activities) of LGE, and the current activities are reported in this Sustainability Report selectively. Furthermore, the items requiring more efforts will be shared in the next consultation meeting and on the sustainability report to enable continuous improvement. Activities and Plan to Enforce Consultation Results Round Ongoing / Completed Activities in 2010 Plan in / after 2011 • 1st Global Volunteer Day: • Extend “CSR risk management” for major suppliers Employees’ voluntary green activities on the “World Environment Day” • 2nd Global Volunteer Day every year • Participate in 6 work groups of EICC • Joined Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition(EICC) and participated (e.g. Extractives Work Group to address conflict minerals) 1st Consultation in the related activities • Launch “LG Hope Family” in Cambodia and Bangladesh • Established “CSR risk management” system • Enacted and announced “Global Labor Policy” • MOU with UN World Food Programme(WFP) regarding “LG Hope Family (poverty alleviating program in Asia)” • Reported on CSR agenda to “HR Executive Meeting” of LG Corp. • Consider the regular report on CSR issues to Board of Directors • MOU with Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Employment & Labor, • Launch Corporate-level CSR campaign and LGE Labor Union to support social enterprises focused on green • Introduce Key Progress and Performance in the sustainability report for growth user-friendly information • Launched “Life’s Green Class”, an environmental education program for • Support 10 social enterprises focused on green growth middle school students in India • Sponsor UNEP’s Champions of the Earth(COE) in 2011 • Started low-carbon green management activity from USR(Union Social • Launch the training program for nurturing young environmental leader Responsibility) perspective • Provide training on climate change (from March; online course avail• Sponsored the UNEP’s B4E (Business for the Environment Global Sumable), and support to strengthen the greenhouse gas management mit) and Champions of the Earth(COE) capability for suppliers in Korea 2nd Consultation • Regular announcement of the greenhouse gas reduction target and • Integrate assessment and management of the environmental impact performance(annual performance and target in March, and the semithroughout the entire product lifecycle annual performance in September) • Obtain more global carbon footprint labels including Korean carbon • Announced the greenhouse gas reduction plan for suppliers(over KRW footprint labels 50 trillion by 2020 for low-carbon procurement) • Consider introducing the carbon accounting system in link with the • Expanded disclosure of products’ carbon information by acquiring 12 carbon credit and carbon emission trading carbon footprint labels, for the largest number of models in Korea • Build the image of leadership in addressing the climate change through • Announced GHG reduction plan at the user stage by developing the proactive response to the stakeholder’s requests home appliances in link with the smart grid • Communicate the green features of the products via various media • Opened the Eco Zone in the key consumer electronics shows such as CES, • Establish corporate level stakeholder engagement process aligned with IFA, KES, and Low Carbon Green Growth EXPO the international standard(AA1000SES) 26 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis Process Employees’ CSR Awareness(83.6%) LGE conducts a materiality analysis to systematically manage comKorea 85.4% mon concerns a raised by key stakeholders as well as major issues that have significant influence on business operations. The materialOverseas 65.7% ity analysis is based on the “Five-Part Materiality Test” model by the LGE’s CSR Status by Emplyoees AA1000 Assurance Standard, taking into comprehensive account 11.6% 42.4% 40.8% 5.2% internal/external surveys, stakeholder questionnaires, and related international standards. CSR as the core philosophy Response to external pressure Once materiality issues are identified, they are prioritized accordSystematic approach Only fulfills legal obligations ing to stakeholder’s interests and their impacts on LGE, and then * Confidence level : 95%, Sampling error : ±1.02% reviewed and confirmed by have management. To provide a clearer Media Analysis view of our performance, we have detailed the related information in To learn about external stakeholders’ areas of interest, LGE analyzed the report and reflected it in the ‘Key Progress and Performance’ that related articles published in the Korean and overseas’ press during was adopted from this year. 2010. As we noted in the previous report, it is not uncommon to see a corporate press release in the newspapers; these articles were exExternal Expert Survey cluded from the materiality analysis. Also, we conducted the research In December 2010, LGE conducted a survey of our status, including towards analyzing negative articles(negative screening). The main isthe level of our CSR activities, the areas of interest, and possible imsues in the negative articles were the drum washing machine’s safety provements of the report, for 200 external CSR experts in Korea and measures(See page 33), Australia’s energy labeling(See page 31), overseas. The result is reflected in the improvement and materiality and the fear of decline in smart phone business performance. analysis of the report. External Inquiry Future Key Issues LGE received a total of 38 CSR related inquiries in 2010 from the • High-efficiency product development external stakeholders including buyers and NGOs. The inquiries are • Resource recycling and e-waste take-back • Transparent disclosure of the product related information constantly growing, and we expect to corporate business impact in • Supply chain CSR risk management accordance with the performance equally grow. • Communications with local community The main inquiries were related to LGE and supply chain’s overall • Electromagnetic wave impact management • Readiness for the new international standards CSR management policy and performance. Recently, we have had • Extraction of minerals in conflict regions increased inquiries related to the use of the minerals from conflict regions such as Congo. We provide our best efforts to respond faithfully LGE’s CSR Status by external expert(out of 5) Inquiring Organization Total 38 cases 4.1 58% 18% 11% 13% 3.9 3.7 Buyers Investors NGOs Others 2009 2010 2011 Employee Survey Major Inquiries • Occupational health & safety page 48~-51 In November 2010, LGE conducted an online survey through the cor• Environmental management system and overall environmental porate intranet aimed at our 80,000 employees worldwide. Among performance page 48~51, 80~82 • CSR management in supply chain them, 5,198 employees(Korea 4,732, overseas 466) responded. The page 56~57 • Labor rights protection and non-discrimination related status page 69 result demonstrated that overseas employees required more under• Responding to climate change page 43~47 standing of CSR, and that LGE needed to reinforce the connection • Removing and managing hazardous materials within products page 37 between CSR and the business. Various improvements were devised, • E-waste take back and recycling page 41~42 • Development of Greener Products page 37~42 including conducting new training programs for overseas subsid• Use of minerals from conflict regions such as Congo page 56 iary leaders and issuing a CSR newsletter to department leaders. STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION | materiality analysis 27 For more accurate and effective reporting, LG Electronics has selected the most important key issues and reports these to internal and external stakeholders every year. The key issues selected through the materiality analysis process are specifically underlined in the report. Starting this year, performance as well as overall progress of the issues are regularly reported to management. to each external inquiry, and report key issues to the management to Materiality Analysis Criteria reflect the corporate business activity. Criteria Considered Factors Internal A. Short-term financial Management meeting report, 2010 Materiality Analysis Results impacts Compliance risk, Topics of the corporate magazine LGE’s material issues identified through the materiality analysis are B. Policy commitment Existence of policy commitment, as follows: The issue which shows the most dramatic increase in its employee survey importance compared to last year is the management of E-waste. External C. Peer based norms EICC code of conduct, Tomorrow’s Value Rating, DJSI survey Also, contribution to sustainable consumption and communication D. Stakeholder behavior Experts’ feedback, Inquiry from external and participation in the local community are being observed as new and concerns organizations (buyers, investors, and NGOs), Stakeholder consultation, Assurissues in this year. Starting this year, the report will include the trend ance management report of each issue in the materiality matrix of each issue; the process was E. Societal norms ISO 26000, GRI, UN Global Compact also improved to further detail the selected key issues in the report • The factors in bold represents the ones added since last year. • EICC: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and ‘Key Progress and Performance’(See pages 3~4), and monitor • Tomorrow’s Value Rating: The sustainability analysis of the global companies published every year by the Fortune magazine their performances periodically. • DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes • ISO 26000: International standard on social responsibility 2010 Materiality Matrix 2009 Results 2020 20 21 14 21 14 22 23 22 6 19 19 Very Important IMPORTANT MOST IMPORTANT 6 7 11 7 9 9 15 8 3 10 2 3 Stakeholders’ 5 10 concerns 23 16 8 16 15 12 2 1 1 18 12 11 4 Important 17 17 4 LESS IMPORTANT 13 IMPORTANT 13 Important Impact on LG Electronics Very Important Customer Business Partner Environment: Present and Future Generations 1 Fair marketing(restrain exaggerated advertisement) 12 Fair trade 19 Development of Greener Products 2 Customer support and dispute resolution 13 Win-Win growth with small and medium 20 Removing and managing hazardous materials 3 Product Safety enterprises within products 4 Protecting customers’ privacy 14 Promoting supply chain CSR 21 Reducing environmental impacts in the NEW 5 Contribution to sustainable consumption manufacturing process 22 Responding to climate change Employee Community 23 E-waste take-back and recycling 6 Labor rights protection 15 Social contribution 7 Non-discrimination 16 Developing regional economy 8 Fair evaluation and rewards 17 Protecting local culture, respecting natives’ 9 Corporate culture/Work-life balance human rights 10 Talent attraction and retention NEW 18 Communication and participation to the 11 Occupational health and safety local community 28 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Customer Creating Value for Customers With the management principle of “Creating Value for Customers”, LG Electronics is committed to delivering on its promise to customers of enriching lives through technology innovation. LG Electronics strives to provide its customers worldwide with the best value by reliably supplying products in demand from the customers’ perspective, listening to their feedback, and assisting with fast, accurate, and unique service. My first work with LGE Started from the participation in TROMMIZ prosumer activity in 2009. TROMMIZ inauguration ceremony was very impressive, and I could feel LGE’s devotion through every detail and effort paid in preparing the event. The family voyage, mother-and-daughter photo contest, it was a memorable experience. Especially, the visit to Changwon production site was a very special experience, which made myself proud of being a member of TROMMIZ. I was surprised at the clean and organized space filled with high-technology equipments where the products were being manufactured. What I liked the most was that LGE was eager to listen to our opinions and communicate with us in various occasions. I really anticipate the company’s efforts to take one step closer to the customers, like its recent policy allowing the customers’ comments in ‘The BLOG’, the company’s official blog to listen to the customers’ voices, and the operation of ‘Life’s Good Studio’, the company’s online live broadcast studio. Hyo Eun Kim Power blogger, TROMMIZ member CUSTOMER | COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS 29 Communication with Customers Based on the Brand Identity(BI) strategy of “Enriching Lives through Technology”, LG Electronics is striving to fulfill its promise customers. In addition to listening to the customers through diverse channels, LG Electronics is actively applying the customers’ opinions to product development, service improvement and marketing activities. OUR APPROACH brand image in the global market. One of the major activities was sponsoring the F1™ race as its global partner. F1™ is recognized as one of the world top 3 sporting events, together with the Olympics • Developing global brand identity and the World Cup, and has more than 600 million fans in about 180 Brand benefit: Enriching lives through technology countries. LGE also hosted a global project with YouTube called “Life in Brand foundation: Breakthrough innovation a Day”, where users across the world upload videos of their every day Brand attributes: Stylish design, Reliability, Smart lives and some of them were selected for a documentary film. The technology documentary is to be played at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival and also distributed on YouTube in 25 languages. The documentary will OUR PERFORMANCE continuously deliver the message of “enriching lives through technology” while imprinting the uniformed brand slogan of “Life's Good”. STRATEGIC bRAND COMMUNICATION Every brand communication at LGE is based on its own brand iden1 2 tity. This is expressed by “Life’s Good”. LGE’s products and services enrich customers’ lives through innovative technology, ultimately making their lives better. However, since the fundamentals of the market and consumer characteristics differ for each region, LGE has been implementing differentiated customer communication strategies with insight analysis for each region to ensure that the cultural differences for each region 1. Sponsorship for “Life in a Day” project are respected. Particularly, LGE conducts Brand Health Index(BHI) 2. Sponsorship for the F1TM race surveys in 66 countries around the world on an annual basis to evaluate it’s own brand communication system. The survey is to monitor COMMUNICATION FOR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT criteria such as unaided awareness, preference, price premium, and A mobile phone that reads books for the visually impaired • consistency of brand identity, and compare with data from the previIn 2006, LGE developed a mobile phone that can read books. Togethous year with emphasis on the establishment of a premium brand er with LG U+(former LG Telecom), LGE has donated a total of 6,580 identity. LGE identifies the degree of preference of LGE brand and book-reading mobile phones to visually impaired users by 2010. This applies the information gained for developing effective brand comproduct was specially designed for visually impaired users based on munication strategy for the regional market. the feedback from an advisory committee consigned by the Korea At the same time, LGE is also performing the brand marketing acBlind Union. tivities to imprint corporate brand identity in the global market. Since The phone includes the Text To Speech(TTS) feature which converts 2009, LGE has been making efforts to create young and dynamic LGE texts into sound. Moreover, the phone enabled users connect to the [CASE] LG Life Tastes Good Championship A SUCCESSFUL GLO GLOb bAL COMMUNICATION FUFILLING CON ONSUMERS SUMERS’’ NEEDS “LG Life Tastes Good Championship” is the part of HA(Home Appliance) Company’s global communication strategy that has perfectly met the needs of local consumers. The championship has been selected as the “No. 1 Best Practice at the Global Marketing Conference 2010” not only for demonstrating the excellence of the cooking appliances but also for it’s important role in delivering LGE’s brand image enriching people’s lives. 30 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report “Auto Book Reading Library” operated by the LG Sangnam Library ed to listen to the customers’ honest opinions in the market and find and access over 5,000 digital voice books in such diverse fields as solution, Unlike previous communication forums for product launchhumanities’, culture, science, and arts. es, this meeting was significant in that top management listened to customers’ voice at pre-planning stage of the product. Throughout Long-Term Care TV for senior citizens • To develop customized the meeting, participating customers criticized the weaknesses of TV for senior citizens in care facilities, LGE visited over 100 care faciliLGE’s smart phones and made suggestions on improvements. ties for senior citizens and collected various opinions. Long-Term Care TV provides some special features such as enlarged screen size, radio, CUSTOMER INSIGHT MARKETING COMMUNICATION schedule reminder, reduced surrounding noise, and simpler remote LGE has launched events and campaigns covering various concepts control so that the elderly can easily control the TV without difficulty. tailored to local customers and developed through customer insight In addition, the TV has an automatic detection feature that turns marketing strategy. These events and campaigns have been contriboff the TV when no one is watching it. This feature was designed to uting to the enhancement of LGE brand image in the global market save the energy for the elderly who often leave the TV on and forget as well as growth in revenue. to turn it off. Glocalization of customer insight marketing Prosumer Marketing • LGE has been involve prosumer marketing activity that allows consumers to be directly involve in the developRegion Activities ment stage of products. One main example of this is the TROMMIZ LGE Recycling Challenge Program: North Awarding US$10,000 and inviting a rock group to the school program, in which 15 housewife bloggers participated in the developAmerica which collects the most waste mobile phones ment phase of the TROMM washing machine. By getting involved Digital Experience 2010: with product planning, providing online suggestions, and giving feedShowcasing new products based on local insights such as Brazil back after usage, the selected participants act as a bridge between the 3D TV and Chaplin(TV phone) during World Cup season which considers the Central and South American market LGE and consumers. LGE has been expanding the prosumer marketing activities to include all home appliances such as water purifiers, The Live BORDERLESSTM Campaign: Dubai An event for BORDERLESSTM LED TV launch, where the air conditioners, and light wave ovens. In November 2010, LGE's top winner gets a ticket for travel around the world for 80 days management held a forum with its communication partners “The LGE Lebanon Service Car Parade: BLOGer”, under the theme “This is what we want from a LGE mobile Promoting the LGE call center by driving across Lebanon in 19 Levant phone.” The forum helped to find ways to enhance product competiservice vans with LGE logo The Air-Conditioner Academy and LGE Dead Sea Ultra Marathon tiveness, especially in that of smart phones. Top management want1 3 1. Long-Term Care TV for senior citizens 2. Book-reading mobile phone 3. L GE TROMM washing machine prosumer, TROMMIZ 4. M  eeting between The BLOGer and R&D center executives at LGE 2 4 CUSTOMER | COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS 31 RESPONSIBLE MARKETING COMMUNICATION Online communication through SNS In addition to complying with local laws and regulations throughout In 2009, LGE launched the official corporate blog, “The BLOG( all marketing activities including advertisements, promotion, and http://blog.lge.com)” and also opened Twitter and Facebook accounts sponsorships, LGE implements self corrective and improvement meain 2010 as means to communicate with the consumers. Through sures in case unintentional violation is identified. such efforts, LGE has broadened the contact points with the consumers and has been actively launching SNS marketing and campaign Correcting Energy Label Marking Error in Australia • In 2010, programs to take one step closer to the customers. LGE identified an error on the annual energy consumption label for some of the side-by-side refrigerator models sold in Australia. As a corrective measure, LGE actively notified the public by contacting the FUTURE DIRECTION customers individually as well as through mass media advertisement. LGE conducted corrective actions by either exchanging the product • Strengthen consistent Brand Identity(BI) free of charge, by offering a full refund, by compensating the differin the global market ence in the electricity costs. • Launch glocalized marketing strategies based on In addition to this, to provide only verified models to customers, all “Life’s Good” spirit models exported to Australia are inspected not only by LGE but by • Improve reliability of the brand through responsible the National Certification Lab of Australia to test the energy consumption and performance for double check to ensure that there is marketing and communication no fault with the products. From the corporate business division level, each organization under the HA(Home Appliance) company has established a standard/PL under the Quality Assurance Department. LGE improved its prevention capabilities by strengthening standards that are applied to the testing criteria. Furthermore, LGE is making an effort to prevent quality defects in the future, and have established compliance team in Australia subsidiary. LGE in Spain LGE in Germany Nacho Palou, Power Blogger Gilly, Power Blogger (http://www.microsiervos.com) (http://blog.gilly.ws) LGE looks like a credible brand and is perceived as a suitable option for Many people buy LGE products because they have an excellent price to those who do not have a well-formed opinion, as well as for those who performance ratio. Nevertheless LGE is not as well-known as other prodo not know the brand and look for advice from others before making ducers in this market segment. In the area of mobile phones, LGE does their purchase decision. LGE helped the market to move away from a very not enjoy a very good reputation as the software of many devices is polarized consumption attitude, in which consumers used to perceive faulty-especially in the area of high-end smartphones. Many people buy certain brands from certain countries as the only acceptable option for LGE devices because of their great design but are disappointed by the certain products. handling afterwards. However, if LGE keeps building new smartphones based on Google Android and offers regular updates to customers, I think Nacho Palou is one of the co-operators of Spain’s power blog called, “Microsierit has good prospects on the German market. vos.” The blog writes mostly about electronics, technologies, and gadgets. The power blog, “Gilly’s Playground,” is run by a person who lives in Berlin using an Internet ID called Gilly. The website is renowned among Germany’s earlyadopters for its in-depth reviews on home appliances and devices that the blogger has self-tested. 32 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Product Safety OUR APPROACH Strengthened Quality Organizations • The product safety system has been reinforced by adopting the 3 stage management mechanism – business unit > division > and headquarters, and the • Quality Vision: L G Electronics, Perceived as World relevant professionals are ensuring product safety through regular exBest Quality by Customers and change of information in the product specifications committee and Consumers PL(Product Liability) committee. • Product Safety Awareness Ethics of the management and managers Product Safety • LGE established the product safety regulations Development of safe products including the product safety design checklist to ensure safety proacSafety validation tively, and ongoing efforts are made to enhance the safety awarePL(Product Liability) claim management ness of all employees. Product safety regulations provide “product Vendor management safety awareness” to ensure through product safety. Talent nurturing OUR PERFORMANCE Quality Vision • With the strong encouragement of the CEO, LGE has reinforced to the enterprise QA organization, and is shaping the PRODUCT SAFETY AWARENESS corporate culture to allow neither the slightest quality problem nor compromise on quality under the vision of “LG Electronics, Perceived 1. Ethics of management and managers as World Best Quality by Customers and Consumers”. LGE is also tryIn order to perform effective operations for guaranteeing safety, human and material resources shall be supported, as well as providing to provide consumers with the high-safety products by promoting ing no defect products through faithful fulfillment of this standard. enterprise quality activities and quality awareness. In the case of the occurrence of continuous claims on similar cases due to defects in the design or extensive defects in the production, active service or measures such as recall shall be taken in order to guarantee the safety of customers. CONSIDERATIONS FOR SAFE DESIGN 2. Development of safe products To prevent product safety issues, LGE is focusing on the 3 areas: deContinuous researches on safety development shall be carried out sign defect, manufacturing defect and caution & warning expression to enable the designing of products with the best engineering techdefect. LGE also established the safe product development process to nology, and shall be applied in product development. Moreover, protect the consumer rights systematically under the product liability the safety of our products shall be compared and analyzed with law. For safe product design, LGE considers the followings: products of competitors to guarantee safety at least above the equal level. User environment questionnaire 3. Safety verification Strengthened safety standards shall be established with safety Safety design PL claim questionnaire regulations and shall be abided according to laws and regulations survey related to product safety. Safety shall be verified through a Safety Technology level questionnaire Review, and product safety shall be guaranteed through regular safety verification on mass products. DRBFM*(design/process) Risk analysis 4. PL claim management As product safety is of importance to the life and property of Misuse analysis customers, the occurrence of safety problems shall be constantly monitored, and reported immediately to Top Management when Design standard Prepare a design standard such PL Claims are detected. Management shall take measures to guarantee the safety of our customers. *DRBFM: Design Review Based on Failure Mode (method of design to solve all the problems without omission) CUSTOMER | PRODUCT SAFETY 33 LG Electronics places the highest value on providing customers with reliable products which they can use in a safe way. Product safety must be ensured under any circumstance, and product safety has the highest priority over sales objective, product design, marketability and expense issues. All staff at LG Electronics will exert their best effort to observe standards for the product safety system, acknowledging that safety is a fundamental value of products. Active Measures • LGE actively responded to the recall service requests through the use of sales, delivery and service date so that as 5. Supplier control LGE, together with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, conducted many customers as possible can receive the service. a safety check campaign against old Cathode Ray Tube(CRT) TV for 3 months starting from September 2010. The target TV sets were Safety class for children(in Korea) • LGE is running a campaign to 25 types of 10+ year-old products, for which inside cleaning and part replacement service were provided. protect children from product related accidents. This safety campaign reflects the strong commitment of the CEO that LGE should not only 6. Fostering human resources sell products but also look into the fundamental problems to prevent PS(Product Safety) professionals shall be fostered who can detect recurrence of accidents. With safety on top priority, LGE is working its expected defects in advance to guarantee product safety, and who best efforts, through the campaign to establish a culture of using all can establish countermeasures for development by correctly analyzing causes of accidents. home appliances and the drum washing machine in a safe way. For this purpose, LGE held safety training sessions in 15,000 preschools and elementary schools across the country. The main audience to safety training is preschool children and first/second graders FIELD CLAIM MANAGEMENT in elementary schools who are vulnerable to accidents. LGE distribCRT TV Safety Check Campaign(in Korea) • LGE, together with uted campaign posters, messages to home, safety news letters and the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, conducted the safety check training CDs to the relevant schools across the nation. The children campaign against old Cathode Ray Tube(CRT) TV for 3 months starttraining CD includes the safety song and dance video, flash, animaing from September 2010. The target TV sets were 25 types of 10+ tion and advanced teaching method which can induce children’s inyear-old products, for which inside cleaning and part replacement terest. This material is a proven training program jointly produced by service were provided. the Department of Early Childhood Education, Pusan National University. For more information, please visit the website( http://www. Voluntary recall of drum washing machine(in Korea) • For the academysafe.com). drum washing machines of 10kg and 12kg capacity produced between August 2003 and October 2008 whose doors cannot be opened from the inside, a voluntary recall was made to replace locking systems(over 400,000 units) and distribute safety caps(over FUTURE DIRECTION 500,000 units) free of charge(as of March 2011). This campaign will continue all year round so that every customer can use the LGE drum • Address the global PL(Product Liability) through the washing machine safely. The drum washing machine(of capacity 10+ global IT system kg) on the market after November, 2008 has the structure where the • Nurture the global Product Safety professionals door can be opened from inside. • Reinforce the in-house product safety regulations and audit activity Proactive Recall Notice • LGE announced a recall notice for the drum washing machine lock system through major newspapers and TV advertisements in Korea. LGE also used various online channels e.g., LGE website, blog and Twitter to make the announcement. 1. Safety class for children 1 2 3 2. A poster for safety check campaign 3. Website for safety class 34 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport Customer Satisfaction and after-Sales Services OUR APPROaCH VOC Analysis by Type • Innovate the service center and call center based on Marketing related on the customers’ perspective 1,200 (9%) • Provide a differentiated service 43% product quality • Build service infrastructure for new products/projects product related and acquire service competence 31,000 (24%) 74% repair related OUR PERFORMaNCE 15% product related suggestions 12% RESEARCH AND VOC MANAGEMENT TOWARDS BETTER CUSspec pec complaints TOMER SATISFACTION service related 10% Enhanced customer satisfaction research • LGE conducts sci13% 89,000 (67%) Design related service policy 8% entific based research, namely, the Net Promoter Score(NPS) and uneasiness / 6% discomfort Customer Satisfaction Index(CSI) results, for better understanding of suggestion related 12% others customer satisfaction and complaints. The NPS helps us analyze the 5% part strengths and weaknesses of each of our customer contact points, 2% others while the CSI shows customer satisfaction for each of our services and their comparison with our competitors. The research results give us the ability to pinpoint our weaknesses, further our improvements, INCREASING CUSTOMER VALUE THROUGH CUSTOMER-ORIand double our efforts in bringing higher customer satisfaction. ENTED CONTACT POINT MANAGEMENT Call center • LGE operates its call center over the weekend hours Global Voice of Customer(VOC) management • Since its overto provide a fast and convenient service for customers. The weekend seas expansion of VOC management in 2007, LGE has increased VOC call centers, currently being operated in 27 countries, will be further collection channels to 10 in 2010. Currently, LGE is managing over extended to cover every region of the world. 130,000 VOC worldwide. With the expansion of the online communiIn addition, we at LGE support the customer with the dedicated spety, blog and social networks, LGE is getting web-buzz to keep ourselves cialists to resolve complicated cases through phone calls, and provide in line with online customer opinions. remote diagnosis/repair to increase customer’s convenience even [CASE] Differentiated Service Activity NDONESIA:: SERVICE 1. INDONESIA SERVICE INDIA:: 103 S 2. INDIA SERVICE ERVICE 3. KOREA OREA:: 3 YEARS OF FREE SERVICE TO THE 4 PROMOTION ACTIVITY MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES Based on LGE’s motto Since December 2010, LGE has extended its to provide service to the free service period for the 4 major household customer anywhere and appliances(TVs, refrigerators, air conditioners, anytime, LGE is actively washing machines) from 1-2 years to a maximum promoting our services cur1) Confirmation call within 10 days from the date of 3 years. The 3 year warranty, offered to memrently offered in Indonesia of purchase(inform the public of the call cenbership holders, contributes to increasing customalong with the call center’s ter’s contact number) er confidence in the quality of the product. contact number through 2) Regular visit and courtesy call within 10 weeks various media(radio, flyers from the date of purchase and inserts). Gather customer complaints on products Provide product cleansing and usage tips 3) Second regular visit and courtesy call within 10 months from the date of purchase CUSTOMER | CUSTOMER SATISFACTION and AFTER-SALES SERVICES 35 LG Electronics’ philosophy is to provide service for customers at the right time, in the right place, and at the right cost. Based on this principle, LGE promises to deliver a satisfaction level that exceeds our customers’ expectations, and strives to provide the highest value to our customers through a fast, accurate and differentiated service based on multi-angle analysis of the customers’ satisfaction and expectation levels. without necessity of in-home service. MOBILE REPAIR To effectively respond to the extended customer service requests, LGE SERVICE also offers customer responses to cover general issues from product purchase inquiry to user guides. Call Centers Operating all week long(7days) As of February, 2011 Region Country North America U.S., Canada, Mexico South & Central Panama, Venezuela, Argentina, Peru, Chile, Colombia America China China, Taiwan, Hong Kong Repair Service and Product Promotion through Moving Service Bus Europe Greece, Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Latvia Australia, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Asia Singapore, the Philippines, Japan Middle East Turkey, United Arab Emirates Sisterhood relationship In February 2011, LGE opened a systematized service center in event between korea Mali, Africa, for the first time in the global household appliance inand overseas dustry. To cover Africa’s wide region, which has a relatively weak -middle east service infrastructure, LGE operates a Care & Delight Bus program to offer on-site service to customers. The interior of the bus consists of a repair station where the technicians can repair general household appliances such as mobile phones and TVs, and a waiting LGE carries out various activities to share its service expertise with overroom equipped with hi-tech LGE products where customers can rest seas service centers to improve overseas’ service levels. In 2010, LGE and experience new technologies while their products are being established a sisterhood relationship between Korea-Middle East and repaired. The exterior of the bus is used as a billboard to promote Korea-Singapore service centers to share our service know-how and inLGE’s brand and products. crease the service level for overseas customers. Service center • LGE operates 141 service centers in Korea and over 13,000 worldwide. The service network is organized in a systematic FUTURE DIRECTION and scientific manner, in accordance with the area and population of the regions to maximize its efficiency. To provide a fast and accurate • Enhance competence through the efficient expansion service in line with customer expectations, LGE is further extending of service infrastructure the operation of the LG Mobile Service Vehicle, which carries the re• Improve global service levels through the development quired tools and components to perform on-site repair services. Our and promotion of a differentiated service program efforts to provide distinguished service centers, customized to each • Increase the consultation and repair service capability region, are well recognized and appreciated by local customers. The technicians are trained to explain the cause of the problem, the details of the repair, and the necessary preventive measures after repair to keep the customers informed about repair service and therefore increase their satisfaction level. 36 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Environment Environment Preservation and Sustainable Growth LG Electronics is conducting green management to preserve the natural environment, promote the growth of the society, and improve the quality of people's lives. To fulfill its environment duties throughout the entire product lifecycle, LG Electronics pursues an ongoing development of green technology while minimizing the amount of direct and indirect greenhouse gas. LG Electronics also seeks to reinforce its green business partnerships, strengthen the Global Management System of Energy, Environment, Safety and Health (EESH), and double its efforts in managing discarded electronic products. LG Electronics promises to further the efforts in providing greener products and services to the customers. A respected company in the 21st century is the one that uses its knowledge and technology to minimize its impact on the environment, restore the ecosystem, and fulfill its social responsibility to help people suffering from natural disasters resulting from climate change. In regard to this, I think LGE is certainly a respected company, considering all the efforts made and performance achieved in 2010. LGE reduced greenhouse gas that is not only produced during the development, but also from the product use. To promote the reduction of the greenhouse gas throughout the supply channel, the company initiated the Low-Carbon Purchasing to prioritize the products of the business partners participating in greenhouse gas reduction. Also, the company conducted the installation of solar cells in the presidential palace of Maldives jointly with 350.org, the world's representative non-profit organization against the climate change. The world is still experiencing from the increase of greenhouse gas, depletion of natural resources, and disruption of the ecosystem. This is a threat to the natural environment, worsening socioeconomic instability and uncertainty of the future. Today, the social and environmental responsibility of a corporation is greater than ever. As one of Korea’s leading companies, I hope that LGE will position itself as one of the 21st century’s most representative brands through its value creation and sustainability management. Ji In Chang Chairperson of Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) Korea ENVIRONMENT | GREENER PRODUCTS 37 Greener Products With the green product strategy focusing on energy, human and resources, LG Electronics is exerting ongoing efforts to implement its environmental responsibility throughout the whole product lifecycle via partnership with suppliers and management of wasted electronic products, thus to provide customers with products and services that are environmentally consciousness. OUR APPROACH GREEN PRODUCT RATING SYSTEM : Eco-Index Eco-Index Rating System • Eco-Index is LGE’s own rating sys• Continue to increase the number of greener products tem which quantifies the eco design level of products in terms of their eco-consciousness, and it is used as the tool to manage their • Provide customers with the information environmental performance and goal-setting. LGE meets, in advance, on product environmental performance environment regulations such as Energy related product(EU ErP); and • Research and develop to increase recyclability divided the product environmental performance rating to Green 1 of products Star, 2 Star and 3 Star to increase the portion of the products satisfy• Pursue the green growth jointly with suppliers ing the relevant requirements(e.g., Energy Star). The rating system is to extend green management across described below. LGE will continue increasing the portion of products the whole value chain meeting the higher Eco-Index. OUR PERFORMANCE Eco-Index Ratings and 2010 Rating Results GREEN PRODUCT STRATEGY LGE’s greener products aim to lower the environmental impact 17% Green 3 Star throughout the whole value chain. LGE divides Green Product Strat•Meets the Green 2-Star • Meets the LGE’s standard for high energy egy into three sectors: Energy, Resources, and Human, and they are efficiency strategy(for mobile phone, the new based on the eco-design to promote or enhance energy efficiency, green technology or USP* is applied) 71% resource conservation, and living environment. For more information, Green 2 Star please visit the homepage: ( http://www.lg.com/global/sustainability/environ100% Meets the Green 1-Star • • Meets the LGE‘s standard equivalent ment/greener-products/index.jsp) to Energy Star(for mobile phone, NGOs and buyer requirements are applied) Green 1 Star • Meets the local environment requirements and relevant environment labels and standard. • Meets the LGE’s energy efficiency standard LG Electronics’ Green Product Strategy * USP(Unique Selling Point): Differentiated product features Resource reduction • Reduce product weight/volume • Use recycled material Voluntary Replacement of Hazardous Substances • All LGE Resources products satisfy the EU RoHS requirements. LGE is also replacing the Recyclability improvement • Use recyclable material PVC and brominated flame retardants(BFRs) which are not subject • Design for easy disassembly to the regulations but are known to have environmental impact afEnergy efficiency enhancement • Reduce power consumption Replacement of Hazardous Substances Greener • Reduce stand-by power Energy Product Mobile • PVC replaced for all new models developed after January 2010 CO2 emissions reduction Phone • BFR replaced for all new models developed after January 2010, • Use renewable energy except for some components e.g., IC, transistor, etc. • Reduce CO2 emissions through product life-cycle PVC/BFR replaced for all 2011 newly developed models of Hazardous substances insulation sheet and deco sheet; gradually replaced for individual TV management components such as stand, front cabinet, bottom bracket, back • Reduce use of heavy metal cover, etc. Human • Phase out certain hazardous material Vacuum PVC/BFR replaced for individual components such as hose, Home environment Cleaner charger, battery, steam pipe, etc. • Decrease noise and vibration Home PVC/BFR replaced for some electronic components such as Appliance cabinet, back cover, stand, packing, etc. 38 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report ter safety and reliability test for new PVC/BFR components. We alGREEN PRODUCT AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS ready started replacing the halogen(Cl and Br) contained in the moAs of November 2010, LGE products had been recognized with 2,253 bile phone PCB, headset and battery several years ago; after January certificates for green technology from organizations around the world. 2010, halogen is not used in all newly developed mobile phones and The major awards and certifications in 2010 include the following: starting in 2011, all models will be halogen-free. In addition, reduction is under way for ODD(Optical Disk Drive), laptop and LCD TV CES 2010 Eco-Design and Sustainable Technology Award, U.S. components. For more information, please visit the homepage: ( LED LCD TV 47LE8500 received the U.S. CES 2010 Eco-Design and http://www.lg.com/global/sustainability/environment/details-of-hazardous-substances.jsp) Sustainable Technology Award in U.S. GREEN TECHNOLOGY •Resource saved by 29.3 mm slim design Recognizing the impact of electronic products on the environment •Number of assembly screws reduced to increase recyclability and human health, LGE announced environment management in •Smart energy saving function (by 70% vs. traditional CCFL model) 1994 to conduct R&D activities throughout the entire product life cycle so that the impact on environment can be reduced. The key R&D areas include energy efficiency, replacement of hazardous substances, design for improved recyclability, and infrastructure for developing The UL Sustainable Product Certification(SPC), U.S. • The mongreener products and technologies. itor E2350V acquired the SPC, the UL green certification. Green Technology Certifications(by the Korean Government) •Energy conservation by unique LED technology of LGE Under the Green Technology Certification system introduced by the •Resource saved by 17.5 mm slim design Korean Government in 2010, LGE acquired 11 certificates on home appliances, solar energy, LED lighting, etc. These technologies are applied to various products of LGE. For more information, visit the Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology website: ( http://www.greencertif.or.kr) The Best “Eco-Chic” Product in MAISON & OBJET 2010, France•The refrigerator GB7143A2HZ and GB7143AVRZ for EuGreen Technology Certifications rope, which adopted linear compressor, was selected as a representaProduct Technology tive “eco-chic” in MAISON & OBJET 2010, France. High efficiency inverter linear compressor technology Refrigerator •High efficiency and energy saving function High efficiency parallel cooling system technology •Capacity increased by 50 L compared to other product with the same dimensions. Technology for maximizing washing machine capacity using a fixed tub structure Washing Machine 6-motion washing technology Dual injection steam washing technology Ultra-power saving technology using a high efficiency Air inverter compressor and motion sensor Conditioner High efficiency central air-conditioning system technology 2010 EISA Green Mobile Phone Award, EU•The ‘Pop’ phone received the European Imaging and Sound Association(EISA) Award 130-micron thin layer crystalline silicon solar cell Solar Energy technology as a green mobile phone. LED flat lighting design technology of high efficiency LED Lighting •Use of recycled material and high color rendering •Low energy consumption charger •Solar charger battery pack(Sold as accessory) TV High efficiency panel technology for PDP TV Microwave Technology reducing the standby power down Oven to 0.9W or less ENVIRONMENT | GREENER PRODUCTS 39 SELECTED GREENER In 2010, LGE released various products using green technologies such as a hybrid solar air condiPRODUCTS RELEASED IN 2010 tioner, refrigerator with a top energy efficiency rating in U.S., mobile phones with recycled plastic, and robot cleaners with improved energy efficiency and reduced noise. Energy efficiency enhancement Energy efficiency enhancement • Inverter: Power saving function • High efficiency charger with standby power • Air purifier function operable by max 100% 0.03W and energy efficiency 70% better solar energy; cooling function operable by up to 15% than conventional charger solar energy vs. minimum power consumption Hazardous substances management Home environment • Meets EU RoHS requirements •“Human Care Robot” : auto wind direction/volume/ • No use of BFRs, PVC and phthalate temperature control function through sensors Recyclability improvement • Green-tea HEPA filter • Platinoid enzyme filter • 76% of recycled paper used for package box • Deodorization function • Soy ink printing of package box and user manual Hazardous substances management Resource reduction •Meets EU RoHS requirements • 30% of recycled plastic used in battery cover Awards & Certifications Awards & Certifications • 2010 Green Technology • Displayed in CES 2011 U.S. Certification (Inverter and solar technology) Korea • 2010 Energy Winner Award Grand Prix Korea • 2010 Green Growth Brand Korea • Carbon Footprint Label Korea LG-VN270 FQ232LASS Mobile phone Hybrid solar air conditioner using recycled plastic LFC21776ST VR5902KL Top tier refrigerator Robot Vacuum Energy efficiency enhancement Energy efficiency enhancement • North America energy efficiency rating Top tier level * • Energy saving • High-efficiency linear compressor On-mode: 18W Power-saving mode • High-efficient/high-luminous LED lighting • Reduce cleaning time using “Dual Eye” sensor Resource reduction • Li-ion polymer battery • Recycled plastic used Home Environment (PP and ABS material, 1kg/unit) • Reduce noise level to 50dB Hazardous substances management • HEPA filter • Meets EU RoHS requirements Hazardous substances management • Eco-conscious foaming agent, cyclopentane** adopted • Meets EU RoHS requirements Awards & Certifications Awards & Certifications • 2010 Green Technology Certification • Displayed in CES 2011 – U.S. (Linear compressor technology) * Top tier level : The efficiency level higher than the Energy Star requirements of US EPA (varies per product; 10% for refrigerator) ** Cyclopentane : A subtitute for CFC and HCFC 40 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport REINFORCEMENT OF GREEN PARTNERSHIP Expert Training Program for Suppliers • Since December 2006, Green Program Plus Green Supply Chain Management • The LGE has been conducting expert training programs for hazardous Green Program Plus(GP Plus) is a proprietary LGE program intended substance control policy and LGE’s green policy to suppliers throughto contribute to the green competitiveness of suppliers and joint out the supply chain. growth by providing them with LGE’s know-how. In 2010, based on In 2011, we have plans to open an expert course on GHG managethe Green Program, which was launched in 2005 to address the rement and hazardous substance measurement, as well as provide quirements on hazardous substances contained in products. GP Plus training opportunities to second and third-tier suppliers. was expanded to include second and third-tier suppliers and incorporate greenhouse gas control, CSR support, etc. No. of Green Certified Companies(Cumulative) Unit : No. of Supplier LGE validates new suppliers’ green management capabilities, and ex4.075 3,967 isting suppliers are managed through follow-up procedures. New can3,879 didates are assessed for their environmental management level, con3,715 trol of hazardous substances, control of green materials/products, and existing suppliers are examined to check if their components comply 1,956 with LGE’s standards that are recommended to voluntarily manage hazardous substances specified by NGOs, etc. in addition to those defined by LGE in the context of global environmental protection. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 No. of Certified Auditors(Cumulative) Unit : People Green Program Plus / Assessment Criteria for Suppliers 1,379 Screening of New Supplier Follow-up Screening 1,090 Environmental Hazardous Substances 934 20 55 729 Management System Management 760 621 Hazardous Substances Management of 2nd-tier 529 50 15 425 Management Suppliers 289 Material/ Product 30 Inspection & Validation 30 Management 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Voluntary Phase-out of 5(extra PVC/BFR score) LG Electronics Suppliers LG Electronics’ Green Program Plus GHG Emission control Train/Assess/ Train/Assess Train/Assess Performance Check Green Program Green Program Plus Hazardous 3rd Tier suppliers 2nd Tier suppliers 1st Tier suppliers substances in product csr support for suppliers ENVIRONMENT | GREENER PRODUCTS 41 Low-Carbon Procurement • LGE is planning to construct a lowonly collects waste products based on local regulations and requirecarbon supply chain by implementing low-carbon procurement from ments, but is also establishing a take-back system through collaborasuppliers who actively participate in the GHG reduction. The lowtion with local partners( http://www.lg.com/global/sustainability/ carbon purchase is intended for selection of preferred suppliers who environment/take-back-recycling.jsp). have the GHG reduction objectives, and the purchase volume will LGE is also conducting research on take-back management in some reach KRW 50 trillion in 2020. We will gradually provide suppliers with non-regulated areas. To satisfy the WEEE requirements in China slatGHG inventory and monitoring system setup, third party validation, ed to take effect July 2011, it is preparing a take-back system jointly GHG reduction know-how consulting and training services to support with the Chinese government and industrial associations. In addition their low-carbon green management. to this, the company is participating in the Great American Cleanup event of KAB* starting March 1, 2011. Green Win-Win Growth MOU with Suppliers • In November In Korea, in addition to the operation of its own recycling center, it 2010, we concluded a MOU with 3 suppliers on the use of eco-magcollects other e-waste generated in several provinces(MOU with local nesium and carbon credit for green win-win growth. Through the governments: Geoje city, Ulsan city). To improve resource efficiency MOU, suppliers will benefit from the expanded sales channels, imacross the entire process, LGE has adopted and applied recyclability proved productivity, and carbon credit business know-how; and LGE criteria from the product design stage. The take-back performance of will benefit from the green technologies of suppliers. LGE and selected countries is as shown below. * KAB(Keep America Beautiful): The environmental organization in U.S. founded in 1953, focusing on community improvement. KAB holds the Great American Cleanup event where about 4 million E-Waste Take-back System and Recycling • LGE is proactively people participate every year, engaging in various activities e.g., waste prevention & management responding to the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (reduction, reuse and recycle) and community forestation. (WEEE) regulations and e-waste regulations around the world. It not Ceremony for MOU Ceremony for Setup on Green Win-Win of the E-Waste Growth Take-back System LG Electronics’ Waste Product Recovery & Recycle Diagram LGE’s contractors collect the E-waste discarded by consumers, and they are transported to and Waste flow recycled by local recyclers. The recycled plastic, metals, and nonferrous metals are used by LGE as resources, and the non-recyclable is finally disposed. Product flow 3. Waste product delivered 5. Use of recycled Plastic to recycling center resources Plastic Recycling Center Raw material 4. Disassemble Metal Company & sort of waste products 1. Sold to 2. Waste products consumers recovered Nonferrous metal Consumers Non-recyclable Final disposal wastes 42 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Global E-Waste Take-back and Recycling Results Unit: Ton Use of Recycled Resources • LGE uses recycled materials(e.g. Country 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 recycled plastic ) for resource recycling in addition to management * Korea 30,959 37,016 32,540 38,542 43,412 of e-waste. Recycled polypropylene(PP) and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene(ABS) accounts for 667 tons from the 625,000 tons of plastic Japan 1,257 2,250 3,570 4,247 3,603 used in 2009. In 2010, LGE used total 2,014 tons of recycled plastic: Europe 24,140 38,141 71,090 122,358** 148,284* 3.3 tons of polycarbonate, 1,221 tons of PP, 506 tons of ABS and North 284 tons of ABS+PET. 124 277 935 2,330 3,685 America * The recycled plastic only refers to the post consumer plastic. Total 56,480 77,684 108,135 167,477** 198,984 * Due to the different reporting system in Europe, some figures are estimated on their own or neighFUTURE DIRECTION borhood country performances, As a result, data in the next year's report can be changed. ** The figure for 2009 Europe performance was corrected from 107,041 to 122,358 to reflect the actual performance of Greece, Denmark, Romania, Slovakia, UK, Czech , Portugal, Poland and France. Types and Usage of Recycled Plastic Unit: Ton • Continue to introduce greener products • Provide customers with product environmental 2,014.32 performance 1221 • Establish a global take-back system 989 506 • Develop technologies for recyclability 669 320 284 0 3.32 0 PC PP ABS ABS+PET Total 2009 2010 tronic waste still ends up in landfill sites where it cannot be recycled. LGE COLLECTION & PROCESSING are working with our partner WEEE schemes to increase public awareness OF WASTE ELECTRONIC PRODof the importance of recycling WEEE. In the future we hope to see less UCTS OF LGE (IN EUROPE) WEEE entering landfill sites and more WEEE being separately collected and properly treated so as to further reduce the environmental impact of our Daniel Seager, products. Environmental Specialist LGE is also involved with industry associations in Europe which advise polLGE European Standard Center icy makers of the importance of achieving better take-back regulations so as to improve the collection and recycling systems in Europe. How do you collect and process waste electronic products from LGE LGE will continue to meet all its obligations under the current, and future in the EU region? The WEEE Directive in Europe requires producers to WEEE regulations and will strive to optimise the take-back process through organise and finance the collection, treatment, recovery and environmenenhanced partnerships with recyclers and take back-schemes in Europe. tally sound disposal of WEEE. At LGE Europe we take our WEEE responsibilities very seriously since we believe that recycling and the recovery of reWaste Products sources plays a significant role in contributing to sustainable development. Collected by LGE in EU region Unit: Ton In order to meet our obligations, LGE Europe has either jointly founded or partnered with 24 take-back compliance systems in 21 countries and is 148,284 compliant with the national WEEE regulations in all countries where a producer obligation exists. The current process of WEEE take-back in Europe varies from country to country, but in principle, through membership with 122,358 21.19% our take back systems, LGE finances the collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of WEEE from private households deposited at local collection centers. How many waste electronic products do you collect and process in EU region? LGE collected about 122,358 tons in 2009 and 148, 284 tons in 2010, up by 21.19%. The recovery volume is increases gradually every year. 2009 2010 *2  010 data is preliminary so it is subject Photo of the Remondis, What’s your plan in EU region regarding collection and processing to change a recycling partner of the waste LGE electronic products? Unfortunately a lot of elecin LGE German Subsidiary ENVIRONMENT | LOW-CARBON GREEN MANAGEMENT 43 Low-Carbon Green Management LG Electronics has established a low-carbon green management system to provide low carbon value to customers through voluntary greenhouse gas(GHG) reduction. Throughout its activities, LGE is endeavoring to pursue the coexistence of the two major values: creating value for customers and stakeholders, and protecting the natural environment. OUR APPROACH Low-Carbon Green Management Strategy • LGE is conducting an enterprise-wide low-carbon green management strategy to provide low carbon value to customers through voluntary GHG re• Manage climate change risk and exploit duction. The low-carbon green management strategy is based on 4 opportunities major themes: production level GHG reduction through productivity • Establish long-term GHG reduction plan enhancement, product usage level GHG reduction through energy • Reinforce 4 major strategies against climate change efficiency improvement, business-wide GHG reduction and manage• Establish low-carbon supply chain management ment, and enhancing social responsibility through the establishment of low-carbon culture. OUR PERFORMANCE Low-Carbon Green Management System Establishment GHG Inventory Setup Having completed the GHG inventory setup ESTABLISHMENT AND EXPANSION OF LOW-CARBON GREEN for its all 12 Korean operations in 2008 for the first time among KoMANAGEMENT rean electronic companies, LGE expanded and completed the GHG Voluntary GHG Reduction Target Announcement • LGE aninventory setup for its all 29 overseas manufacturing sites in 2009. nounced its voluntary GHG reduction target in January 2009. The The company is currently conducting systematic management of its company established a goal to reduce its GHG emissions from manGHG emissions through the Corporate Carbon Management System ufacturing level by 150,000 tons, equivalent to 10% in 2020 com(CCMS), a GHG management IT system. pared to the 2008 baseline(cumulative reduction from 2008 to 2020 To ensure the reliability of data, LGE engages third-party verification. is around 1 million tons). For reduction of emissions during product In 2010, the company completed the third-party validation on its 13 use phase, we set a reduction target of 30 million tons of GHG emismanufacturing sites in China. sions from the BAU* in 2020(cumulative reduction from 2007 to 2020 in approx. 200 million tons). To achieve its target, LGE pursues Low-Carbon Green Management System LGE has been managvarious GHG reduction activities, including manufacturing process ining reduction of GHG in production levels and product usage levels novation, facility improvement, operation improvement, as the company's primary business objective since late 2008. For the and renewable energy use, and maintains its efforts to develop highlow-carbon green management, GHG reduction status is reported to efficiency products. top management team periodically by the Eco Strategy Team. More* BAU: Business As Usual. Projected GHG emission based on the assumption that the GHG reduction over, LGE has established an Eco-Design Committee, chaired by the technology and policy are maintained to the current level. Chief Technology Officer and consisting of executives from R&D deLG Electronics’ Low-Carbon Green Strategy Providing Low-Carbon value to customer through voluntary GHG emission reduction Value Productivity enhancement Product competitiveness Operational efficiencies Social contribution Low-Carbon factory Low-Carbon product Low-Carbon value chain Low-Carbon culture Strategic GHG emission reduction at Contribution to GHG emission GHG emission reduction over Engagement of Employees & Directives production sites reduction In product use life cycle community Target 0.15M tons in 2020 30M tons in 2020 Reduction Management Top-tier performer (cumulated amount: (cumulated amount: by 2015 by 2015 1 million tons) 200 million tons) Infrastructure for effective GHG emission management 44 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report partments. In the Committee, executives examine and monitor the Climate change: Exploiting opportunities progress of development for energy-efficient products and technoloStandpoint Opportunity Measure gies, and evaluate the carbon footprint of product at the R&D phase. Stricter energy Develop high energy efficient The 14th committee was held on May 2010. efficiency standards products, Expansion of renewable national incentive systems energy usage rules Develop solar cell technology, GHG Inventory Unit: K ton Co2-e Initiation of greenhouse expand production Regulatary gas emissions trading I nitiate CDM business for high schemes energy efficient refrigerators Increased new business S mart grid, LED, geothermal 911 866 opportunity owing to heat pump, etc. 795 the green growth policy Unusual temperature Enhance the development due to climate change of high energy efficient air 357 Worsening of conditioning technology 297 349 253 water deficit and pollution Reinforce the water purifier, 193 142 Physical Increase of yellow dust water ionizer and water processing business Reinforce the air conditioning and air purifier business 2008 2009 2010 Increase of low-carbon Enhance the development Scope1 Scope2 Scope3/Optional product consumption of low-carbon product technology Enhanced brand and Expand external communication • The data include 12 Korean operations and 29 overseas manufacturing operations. company image Expand voluntary carbon label • Calculation Standard : 2006 IPCC Guideline, WRI GHG Protocol ManageExpansion of product's acquisition • Scope 3 : Commute Shuttle, lease building (exclude offices smaller than 100 employees work) ment carbon footprint disclosure Share CO2 reduction results • Optional : Refrigerant R-22, Firefighting facilities, Halon, etc. Energy efficiency through energy efficiency • The total GHG emissions could be slightly changed after the 3rd party verification. improvement through improvement process innovation Risk and Opportunity of Climate Change • LG Electronics is GHG reduction performance in 2010 Unit: K ton conducting corporate-wide measures to minimize the risks from climate change. Production level Product usage level Objective Performance Objective Performance Climate change : Risks and Countermeasures 100 Standpoint Risk Measure 160 6,000 Stricter energy Manage energy technology efficiency standards roadmap, develop 12,750 GHG & Energy Target high energy efficient technology Management System by Complete inventory buildup, Korean government conduct third-party • To calculate the direct use phase emission, LGE utilizes specific scenarios for customer's product usRegulatory Total greenhouse gas verification every year age by each product. Customer usage scenarios are basically calculated with power consumption, emission regulations Set and execute voluntary average product usage time, and so on. Expansion of product's GHG reduction target carbon footprint disclosure Operate GHG management IT Production Level GHG reduction • LGE set its target to reduce Economic measures including system, perform LCA carbon tax, border tax, etc. 100,000 tons in production levels of GHG in 2010 compared to 2008, and achieved a 160,000 ton GHG reduction through diverse activiProduction instability due Enhance safety management to natural disasters system and risk evaluation ties, including production facility/operation improvement and the enPhysical Worsening employee health Conduct total health program, ergy conversion. Below are the company’s main activities to reduce improve response capability the production level GHG. Cost increases due to stricter Conduct raw material cost regulation, supply and analysis, manage the supply demand instability etc. chain Facility and operation improvement LGE achieved a yearly GHG Production instability due Establish low-carbon gas reduction of approximately 20,000 tons by improving the energy to supply chain's supply network Managefunctional impairment Conduct CSR activity, efficiency of compressors and air handling units, respectively used in ment Lower product consumption including appropriate the manufacturing facilities of air conditioners as well as household due to the impact of technology climate change Enhance public appliances and mobile phones. Stricter company evaluation communication from investors, NGOs, etc. Incineration waste heat recovery system LGE’s Changwon factories invested approximately KRW 7.2 billion to establish a steam supply system operating with waste heat from the incineration plant ENVIRONMENT | LOW-CARBON GREEN MANAGEMENT 45 of the city. With the introduction of the new system, the company the company’s washing machine(model FR3228WA) received the achieved a yearly reduction of 10,000 tons of GHG emission and industry’s first certification from the Carbon Footprint Label program KRW 3.1 billion of energy consumption compared to the previous conducted by Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute LNG system. (KEITI). Currently, the company endeavors to expand its carbon labeling certification to other products, including TVs, refrigerators, and Incineration waste heat recovery system air conditioners. In 2010, owing to voluntary carbon disclosure efforts, LGE received a total of 12 carbon footprint labels for its compoWaste heat supply from Steam nents and products. Changwon incineration plant Steam GHG Reduction for the Whole Product lifecycle Logistics GHG reduction target After establishing the GHG reduction target in production levels and product usage levels, LGE anHeat Test Painting Component Others nounced its goal to further reduce GHG emissions respective to the washing transportation distance of each unit weight by 1% compared to the previous year. In October 2010, the company participated in the veProduct Usage Level GHG Reduction • In 2010, LGE announced hicle logging device project conducted by the Korea Transportation its plan to reduce 6 million tons of GHG in the product usage level Safety Authority(KOTSA) to improve the calculation accuracy of the compared to the 2007 power consumption. The company contribGHG emission during the transportation. The company aims to esuted to 12.75 million ton reduction of GHG through high-efficiency tablish green logistics through modal shifts, energy usage optimizatechnology development, R&D investment, and low-carbon products. tion, and employee awareness. Promoting low-carbon consumption through carbon disclosure Low-Carbon Culture LGE provides carbon footprints of its products with the 3rd party certiGHG reduction activity In late 2009, LGE Labor Union announced fication. Based on the lifecycle carbon footprint, the company makes its official establishment of the Union Social Responsibility(USR), efforts to reduce the GHG emission in each required step. In 2008, and set as its primary objective the expansion of low-carbon culture against climate change. The company published a volume of GHG emitted during major events, and conducted various activities such as tree plantings to offset GHG emissions. Owing to these efforts, the company was awarded the Carbon Neutral Certification from Korea Energy Management Corporation(KEMCO). In addition, the comLED LCD TV Mobile phone (47SL90QD) (LG-SU430) pany introduced a low-carbon food menu for employees to induce their awareness on the climate change, and organized a green idea Products with Carbon Footprint Label competition to collect employees’ ideas for energy and carbon reduction. The best ideas will be selected and implemented in actual work Model Date of Certification environments. Commercial electric heat pump August 2010 -heating/cooling outdoor unit(LRP-N4108D) 1 2 Vacuum cleaner(VC6860LHAY) July 2010 Light wave steam oven(MP929NPS) July 2010 Refrigerator(R-T759MHHGP) June 2010 Mobile phone(LG-SU430) June 2010 Air conditioner(FNQ182FASV[FUQ182FAU]) May 2010 3 4 LED LCD TV(47SL90QD) February 2010 Drum washing machine(FR3228WA) March 2009 Washing machine: motor(WDC246Y01S) December 2009 Air conditioner: inverter compressor(GKT176DAA) December 2009 Air conditioner: compressor(GJT240DAA) November 2009 1. carbon neutral tree planting event 2. usr low-carbon campaign Refrigerator: linear compressor(FC140NEM) November 2009 3. Low-carbon menu campaign 4. Low-carbon labor union officers’ athletics day • Source: Korea Environment Technology & Industry Institute (http://eng.keiti.re.kr/) 46 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Online Climate Change Training • In 2010, LGE expanded the It also concluded an agreement with three business partners to proonline climate change training previously conducted for all Korean mote “green” win-win growth(See page 41) and reinforce the carbon employees in 2009, to overseas employees. The online training, concredit business. ducted in North America, China and EU regions with the participation of about 20,000 employees worldwide, was intended to promote the Expansion of Voluntary Efforts • LGE is actively participating awareness of climate change and share LGE’s measures against the in activities developed by international organizations, including the environmental impact. The program acclaimed with an approximate UN, to fulfill its corporate responsibility towards resolving the climate 76% satisfaction rate. change issue. In April 2010, the company subscribed to Caring for Climate, one of the initiatives of UN Global Compact, and is currently Carbon Credit Business participating as a member of the steering committee to represent KoApproval of CDM business in India LGE is proceeding with the rean companies. It is also participating in the Electronic Industry CitiClean Development Mechanism(CDM), acquiring carbon credits zenship Coalition(EICC)’s Environmental Sustainability Work Group through sales of high energy efficient refrigerators. The company’s in joint efforts with the electronic industry to enhance sustainability. initiative was approved by the Indian government in April 2010, marking LGE the world’s first company to obtain the approval of Join Carbon Green Management Leaders Club by Korea CDP CDM through the production of high energy efficient refrigerators • LGE was recognized for its low carbon green management and its (AM0070). efforts to respond to the climate change and create low carbon customer value, which yielded a high evaluation score from renowned Sales of low-carbon refrigerators to low income families In Auexternal organizations. Since 2008, LGE has been participating in the gust 2010, LGE participated in the old refrigerator replacement proCarbon Disclosure Project(CDP) to enhance corporate sustainabilgram as a part of Korea Energy Foundation’s “low income families enity and increase socially responsible investment through low carbon ergy efficiency improvement project” and supplied 3,000 high energy green management. Since the best prize award in 2009, the comefficient, refrigerators to low income families. The replacement of low pany has joined by the Carbon Management Global Leaders Club as income families’ old refrigerators with LGE’s high-efficiency refrigeraone of the top Korean companies with outstanding carbon disclosure tors will yield a yearly reduction of 1,260MWh of energy consumpand reduction performance, demonstrating its leadership in low-cartion and 850 tons of GHG. The Korea Energy Foundation has been bon green management. conducting third-party verification since 2010 to register the carbon reductions obtained through its project as a voluntary carbon credit NEW ENVIRONMENT-ENERGY BUSINESS business under the Voluntary Carbon Standard(VCS). Solar Solution • Solar power is LGE’s new energy business. The company manufactures solar cells and modules based on its 25 years Enhancing Cooperation of accumulated expertise in the research and development of solar Conclusion of cooperation agreement LGE further enhanced power. LGE has established a solar module test center, certified as the cooperation with external organizations to expand its low carbon official test center by the Europe certification body(TÜV Rheinland) green management and strengthen its capability to respond to the and U.S. certification body(UL). climate change. The company signed an agreement with Korea EnviThe company has also installed its solar modules at the Gumi 1 Site. ronmental Industry & Technology Institute in July 2010 to promote Solar power provides up to 20-30% of electricity used in the adminthe participation and establishment of the Carbon Footprint Label istration offices. LGE plans to expand its solar power production to program. In October 2010, LGE concluded an agreement with the 330MW in 2011, and is furthering its efforts in increasing production Korea Environment Corporation to better respond to GHG restrictions. capacity and in research and development to achieve a revenue goal of KRW 300 million by 2015. 1 2 1. Conclusion of cooperation agreement against climate change with Korea Environment Corporation 2. Solar panel installed in Gumi 1 site’s parking lot ENVIRONMENT | LOW-CARBON GREEN MANAGEMENT 47 Lighting system • LGE is currently in development and production the household charger/discharger pilot project(SCE) jointly with LG of the energy efficient Light Emitting Diode(LED) lighting system and Chem in North America region. the Plasma Lighting System(PLS) adapted from the plasma emission principle. The company’s LED lighting products have received LG Smart Grid Training Facility in Jeju the High Efficiency Energy Equipment Certification from the Korea Energy Management Corporation(Ministry of Knowledge Economy), and its LED flat panel lighting design technology awarded the Green Technology Certification. Also, the company’s PLS received two quality certifications from China Quality Certification Center, the indoor lighting system quality certification and the floodlight quality certification. LG Electronics’ Lighting Certifications Water Treatment Business • With plans to foster a water treatment business as a future growth engine, LGE will invest over 500 billion KRW over the next 10 years starting from 2010. In 2010, LGE developed new water treatment technology in collaboration with GS Neotek and Korad, which was awarded the EnvironmenHigh Efficiency Energy GD Mark Green Technology Equipment Certification Certification tal Technology Certification from the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute(KEITI), led by the Ministry of Environment. The Company registered two patents and applied five patents related to its new water treatment technology in Korea, and is preparing an international patent application as well. Japan China Product Safety Mark for China Quality Certification Electrical Appliances FUTURE DIRECTION Total HVAC System • LGE provides a total HVAC system, an op• Create low-carbon customer value through timized Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning solution adapted voluntary greenhouse gas reduction to the condition of the site during the building’s construction and/ • Foster and expand new green business or renovation design. The system employs LGE's inverter technol• Expand the greenhouse gas reduction to the whole ogy to provide automated control according to the cooling/heating value chain condition and reduce energy consumption. The company is also • Enhance social responsibility through the expansion engaging in the development of green buildings through its line of of low-carbon culture products using renewable energy, such as “hybrid XEO”, which uses geothermal energy. Smart Grid Business • A smart grid, also known as the next generation intelligence power network. It also requires the application of new intelligent technology to the existing electricity network. It also allows utilities and consumers to communicate in real time using two-way digital technology to optimize energy efficiency. LGE has been developing home network technologies and releasing remote controlled products since the early 2000s. Since 2009, the company has participated in Korean government-led smart grid pilot projects as a consortium-leading company. LGE opened the Jeju Smart Grid Showroom where customers can stay in and experience smart grid technologies and appliances. LGE has also been participating in the smart grid pilot project (Smart Watts) led by Achen, Germany, and in 48 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report EESH Management OUR APPROACH strengthen the operation system, review integration of certification of management system for overseas sites, and reorganize the audit •M  id and long term strategies: Integrate global EESH system in 2011. management and Develop EESH risk management In 2010, the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 systems for all worksites system and R&D centers in Korea were integrated to establish a platform • Mid and long term action plan for building uniformed EESH strategy. In addition to this, the global -E  nergy: Reduce energy consumption, secure reliable supcapabilities of the EESH managers were enhanced by sharing best ply of utilities, reduce CO2 practice among worksites as well as conducting technical seminars Environment:  Decrease environmental pollution, reduce at the biannual global EESH conference. environmental management cost, promote environmental LGE also developed an emergency evacuation system at the R&D protection activity for local community. centers to minimize injuries in case of fire. LGE applied the evacuaSafety: Manage industrial safety prevention system and tion simulation for high-rise buildings and conducted actual evacuIncident Rate(IR), fire risk mitigation and prevention Health : Reduce potential occupational illness through ation exercises to identify potential problems that may occur in real Total Health Program(THP), improve working environment situation and performed improvement activities. The 2nd Global Conference for Enhancing the Capacity of OUR PERFORMANCE EESH Managers • LGE held the 2nd Global EESH Conference at the Pyeongtaek Learning Center in May 2010, participated by KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES FOR EESH IN 2010 over 200 EESH managers from Korea and overseas. Participants disDevelop a globally integrated EESH management system cussed ways to protect the environment, reduce energy consump1. Implement EESH strategy that aligns with corporate policy tion, and improve safety activities. They also presented best prac2. Develop integrated certification of management system tices and held technology seminars which improved the awareness for worksites in Korea level and formed consensus as the global enterprise. Participants 3. Develop a global audit system platform were also educated about the Global EESH Management System 4. Hold Global EESH Conferences initiated by headquarters. The conference provided an opportunity for LGE to integrate global EESH activities. Develop an EESH risk management system In addition, managers from overseas subsidiaries visited a recycling 1. EESH activity innovation center in Korea and learned about the advanced recycling system. 2. Hold a Best Practice(BP) expo for first-aid and fire prevention 3. Develop emergency evacuation process for high-rise buildings EESH managers underwent various training programs for each worksite to improve their capabilities. In particular, this conference Key Strategic Goals for EESH in 2010 • Based on the corpofocused on introducing new technologies and enhancing the caparate management philosophies of “Respecting Human Dignity” and bilities of managers, which resulted in increased NPS index among “Creating Value for Customers”, LGE has established the EESH Code, participants compared to the 1st Conference held in 2008(75% in the guideline for EESH activities, that corresponds to the global 2008 > 78.2% in 2010). scale of LGE in 2007 and has been applying the codes ever since. In 2009, various standards for each worksite were integrated and 2nd Global EESH reorganized as a single standard and distributed to all the business Conference divisions to be uniformly applied. In 2010, all the activities for environment, safety and health, as well as the certification of management system were revamped to be consistent which resulted in work efficiency and created synergy effects. However, there was some confusion during the implementation stage and LGE is planning to ENVIRONMENT | EESH MANAGEMENT 49 LG Electronics is realizing its vision to become Top Global Company in Energy, Environment, Safety, and Health (EESH) by operating corporate-wide EESH Management System, optimizing energy efficiency applying cleaner production, and improving occupational health and safety. Development of EESH Audit System Platform • LGE has conIntegrated Certification of EESH Management System(in Korea) ducted an annual EESH audit from July to October for all worksites • LGE was the first Korean electronics company to establish a cor(36 sites) globally since 1996. The global EESH audit is conducted porate-wide integrated certification system for Environmental Manto reduce EESH risks at worksites by discovering best practices and agement System(ISO 14001) and Occupational Health and Safety performance evaluation. The selected outstanding sites are recManagement System(OHSAS 18001). These were independently established for each worksite. As headquarters integrated and manognized and awarded each year by the CEO. In 2010, the Gumi aged certification for six worksites and five R&D centers under a single production site in Korea and Noida site in India were selected as system, each site’s performances can be compared and monitored the most outstanding sites. From the audit process in 2010, LGE effectively. Most of LGE’s overseas production sites have acquired learned that it needs to apply an audit checklist that corresponds ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification. Of 30 overseas offices, 28 to newly changing global standards and to nurture qualified audihave already acquired the ISO 14001 and 21 have acquired the OHtors. In 2011, LGE is planning to develop a new platform for the SAS 18001(See page 82). The production site in Russia is expected to global EESH audit system including new checklist and internal audiobtain certification in 2011, and the site in Saudi Arabia is expected tor training program. to acquire certification in 2012. Global EESH audit trend * Maximum score = 100 Ceremony for establishment of integrated 87.8 90 ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 certification 81.2 81.5 systems for Korean operation Development of Fire Evacuation Drills and Simulation System for High-Rise Buildings • LGE has developed an emergency evacuation system in five R&D centers in high-rise buildings and has been 2008 2010 implementing the system. Specifically, employees at the Seocho Korea Overseas R&D Center participated in fire evacuation drills in cooperation with the Seocho Fire Department. LGE and the fire department analyzed • Internal evaluation is conducted annually but the headquarters' evaluation is conducted biannually. various situations that may occur in a high-rise building through the Structure of Global EESH audit checklist pre-evacuation simulation to identify the evacuation process. As a Plan 1. Policy & Leadership result, full evacuation could be completed within 21 minutes, which is 2. Goal & Plan 4 minutes shorter than the simulation. 3. Organization / Accountability A fire evacuation drill at Seocho R&D center 4. Risk Management 1 2 3 5. Training & Exercise Execution 6. Response to Emergency 7. Document Management 8. Communication 1. Reporting fire 2. Emergency evacuation 3. Initial extinguishment 9. Operation & Management 4 5 6 (Energy, Environment, Safety, Health, Fire Prevention, Suppliers) Measurement 10. Investigation & Analysis 11. Evaluation & Improvement Management 4. Arrival of fire engines 5. Full extinguishment 6. Overall review Improvement 12. Management Review 50 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Best Practice Expo for First-aid and Fire Prevention • Environbest practice to strictly manage environmental impact. ment & Safety Group at headquarters held a Best Practice(BP) expo At the Pyeongtaek site, the LCD module packages were previously infor first-aid and fire prevention. A total of 11 teams participated in cinerated, but they are now cleaned and reused. This was achieved the expo and shared BP for fire prevention at each business site. The through continuous cooperation with partners and resulted in savexpo was focused on proliferating the BP and improving the employing incineration and package costs by over 3.6 billion KRW annually ees’ capability in handling emergency situations. The event was cen(based on monthly production of 30,000 units). At the Cheongju site, tered not on the professionals but on the employees, which increased the amount of daily wastewater from the membrane production proemployee awareness. The BP expo was held for the first time in an cess was reduced from 10 tons to 5 tons, by filtering it once again beattempt to share know-how between employees at each site and the fore discharge. The generated waste and wastewater increased draFire Prevention Center. LGE is planning to hold the BP expo for first-aid matically in 2010 compared to 2009 because of increasing sludge and fire prevention every year to improve crisis management capafrom changed manufacturing process in Gumi PDP site, waste from bilities of employees at all the worksites. closed video tape plant in Cheongju site, and waste and mass produc1 2 tion initiated from solar plant in Gumi site. Please refer to pages 80 to 82 for environmental data at other sites in Korea and overseas. In addition, LGE’s employees are continuously participating in environmental protection activities. In particular, employees are involved in various volunteer activities and participate in events on special days for the environment such as the Water day, Arbor day, Children’s day, Ocean day, World Environment day, and Recycling day, to contribute 1. Best Practice expo for first-aid and fire prevention towards environmental protection for the local community. 2. Certificate of Energy management system(Changwon II plant in Korea and Noida plant in India) Generated and Recycled waste(in Korea) Water usage(in Korea) Base unit: ton/KRW 100 million Base unit : ton/KRW 100 million ACTIVITIES OF PRODUCTION SITES Unit: ton Unit: ton 0.27 31.3 Energy • LGE has been continuously implementing energy con0.21 servation and GHG reduction activities. In 2010, some production 0.19 23.1 23.5 sites implemented a pilot energy management system to strength48,349 5,670,585 38,086 34,639 4,338,142 en monitoring and systematic management of energy conserva4,159,930 tion activities. Particularly, the Noida plant in India received the world’s first EN 16001 certification from the British Standards 37,529 Institution(BSI). In Korea, the Changwon II plant and Pyeongtaek 28,187 27,911 (77.6%) (74.0%) (80.6%) site received the energy management system certification, from Korea Energy Management Corporation and BSI, respectively. In 2011, 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 LGE is planning to establish an energy management system for the Total Recycled Total Changwon I plant and Gumi site and prepare for the certification. In addition to such activities, LGE is continuously making improve1 2 ments on aged and worn-out facilities to ensure a stable energy supply. Particularly, the Changwon II plant installed a 154KV transformer, a circuit breaker, and an emergency power supply back-up system to prepare for the blackout caused by cable malfunction. Please refer to page 44 for more information on energy conservation activities. 3 4 Environment • LGE is giving its best effort to improve the manufacturing process and managing the source of pollution by minimizing emission of environmental pollution that is created during the manufacturing process. Production sites in Korea, excepting Cheongju and Gumi, are composed of mostly simple assembly process which gener1. Junam reservoir: Natural clean-up activity ate less environmental pollutants compared to other manufacturing 2. Arbor day: Tree-planting activity 3. Ocean day: Stream cleaning activity industries. However, LGE is continuously making efforts to seek out 4. World Environmental day: Environmental protection activity ENVIRONMENT | EESH MANAGEMENT 51 Safety • LGE is making an effort to identify potential accidents and Metabolic syndrome management program share corrective measures by holding BP presentation events. The number of accidents occurring at the Changwon site is decreasing Exercise program Customized daily habit Daily habit improvement due to the identification of possible causes of accidents and shared control program program BP cases. In addition, LGE’s Labor Union and Honorary Industrial Safety Inspector conducts cooperative investigation of the worksites Pre-survey / Metabolic syndrome Face-to-face counseling Demand check management program and diagnosis to ensure a safe, working environment, and compliance with safety and health guidelines. Together with these efforts, LGE has established an accident prevention plan for every seasons and has been Improvement on the risks of diabetes or brain and cardiovascular illnesses implementing various activities to improve awareness of safety and health among employees. In response to the increasing number of traffic due to increase of logistics and new employees at the Pyeongtaek site, LGE installed a Digital DFS(Driver Feedback Sign) system, an Health • LGE has been implementing a Total Health Program(THP) audible speed warning system, to prevent traffic accidents. In addito improve the health of employees. LGE is continuously promoting quit tion, LGE has been managing the Incident Rate(IR) index since 2008. smoking and overweight management programs in all of its business The IR index is calculated by dividing the number of injury and illness sites while relieving the employees’ stress through psychiatric counselcases with days away from work by the total working hours. Thus, ing service. Such efforts allow employees to better focus on their work. lower value signifies a lower accident rate. Since its first calculation in In addition, LGE is making an effort to reduce noise and improve the 2008, the IR index has continuously declined. ventilation system for a better working environment. In case of the Changwon I plant, a tornado ventilation hood was installed to reduce Fire prevention • LGE has adopted history card and management welding fume, which significantly improved the working environment. manual systems for fire prevention facilities to manage facilities in an Pyeongtaek site has jointly developed a web-based daily habit control optimal way. LGE also issues a Non-Conformance Report card to enprogram(for both on and off-line) in cooperation with a university to sure the proper operation of the Standard Operating Procedure(SOP) assist employees with a metabolic syndrome. The program includes monitoring system. All employees are trained on the usage of the 16 weeks of concentrated control and 2 months of post-activities. Emfire extinguisher which is specially designed for training. In addition, ployees learned how to self-manage their daily habits and reduced employees at the Fire Prevention Center are dispatched to 119 Emerthe risk of metabolic syndrome by 16%. Furthermore, every business gency Rescue Centers for training on fire extinguishing, emergency site reduced the number of smoking rooms or isolated smoking area rescues and evacuation activities. Moreover, headquarters conducts to prevent non-smokers from second-hand smoking, along with impleunannounced drills so that employees can be always prepared for acmenting quit smoking programs for smokers. Particularly, Changwon cidents and be aware of response measures. Every worksite has estabis soon to be declared a smoke-free site in 2011. lished a cooperative relationship with the local fire department for the safety of local community. For example, the Gumi site has provided direct support such as dispatch of fire engines for five times in 2010. In FUTURE DIRECTION addition, LGE also conducts regular training to prepare against leakage of hazardous substances at each worksite. Through such activities, LGE •LGE is making efforts to stabilize the integration of the is enhancing employees’ awareness on characteristics of hazardous EESH management system, and apply global standards substances and training them for urgent cases. to improve the KPI throughout all areas of EESH. Incident Rate(IR) 1. D  evelopment of global EESH audit checklist and training Digital DFS (Driver Feedback program for auditors sign) System 0.91 2. P romotion of a leading green company by minimization 1 2 of pollution and continuous environmental protection 0.62 0.54 activities 3. A dopting Behavior-Based Safety(BBS) concept for developing accident prevention program 0.13 4.Reduction of potential fire risks by developing fire risk 0.08 0.05 evaluation index 5. M anagement of occupational health with the cerebro/car1. Safe speed 2. Dangerous speed 2008 2009 2010 (between (30km and higher) diovascular illness risk index and Total Health Program(THP) 0 and 30km) Korea Overseas 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport Business Partner Win-Win Partnership Based on Mutual Trust Based on the company’s philosophy of and Cooperation Jeong-Do management, LG Electronics places the highest importance on the establishment of a fair trade system with its business partners. Through a mutual growth program that emphasizes communication, LG Electronics is promoting its partners to strengthen competitiveness. At the same time, LG Electronics has developed its CSR program to help suppliers foster environmental and social risk management capabilities so that they can well balance their growth. I sincerely appreciate LGE’s efforts in supporting and nurturing its suppliers. LGE not only sets its goal to become the world’s best electronics manufacturer, but the company also aims to provide financial and ESH management supports for supplier’s business operation and CSR activities. All of these help suppliers attain global competitiveness and achieve growth together. Having a long-term partnership with LGE, I am impressed that the company has built up a comprehensive communication mechanism which encourages suppliers to express opinions and possible improvement, such as Supplier Portal Site and annual Suppliers’ Satisfaction Survey, thus facilitating win-win partnership. In addition to this. LGE’s CSR strategy is truly visionary, particularly in terms of its constant researches and the introduction of greener products, as well as its continuous work in developing green innovations which are also what AUO advocates and puts stress on. In 2008, AUO unveiled “Green Solution”, practicing innovations, procurement, production, logistics, service, and recycling in an environmental friendly manner, and in 2010, we furthermore declared to reduce product carbon footprint by 30% by 2012, aiming to provide greener service and product to our customers. Based on the similar vision, I believe LGE and AUO would be consistently dedicated on developing low-carbon society and act faster on the road to sustainability as we committed. LJ Chen president of au optronics corp. BUSINESS PARTNER | BUSINESS PARTNERS FOR WIN-WIN GROWTH 53 Business Partners for Win-Win Growth LG Electronics’ USD 35.9 billion global purchasing total demonstrates well the importance of supplier competence for the company. For this reason, we must make our best efforts to support our partners with diverse programs to ensure win-win growth. OUR APPROaCH Global Procurement Organizations • In LGE’s procurement organizations, a number of purchasing personnel was adjusted according to the importance of each region, and an overall reduction of 15% • Enhancing competence through Win-Win Growth was made. Based on data recorded at the end of 2010, 1,694 personPromoting stable business through financial support nel were working in the world’s major purchasing regions(Korea, RusStrengthening managerial capability through sia, Poland, Italy, India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, non-financial support Enhancing communication with business partners China, U.S., Mexico and Brazil). Global Purchasing Amount • As of 2010, LGE spent a total of USD OUR PERFORMaNCE 35.9 billion on direct and indirect material costs. Direct material costs occupied around 80% of the total amount, and 77% of the direct material cost was spent in Asia. Global Purchasing in 2010 ENHANCING COMPETENCE THROUGH WIN-WIN GROWTH LGE continues its efforts towards win-win growth with suppliers to 0.3% 10.7% 49.2% secure global competence. The efforts are driven by “Win-Win Korea Growth” and “Supplier Quality Engineering” organizations. Currently, 12.0% we are carrying out projects under four categories: education, funds, asia management innovation, and partner communication, each pursuing technology innovation, core competency development, manage21.6% 77.0% china ment innovation, and quality/productivity improvement. All these 8.5% Japan tasks are performed in parallel with a survey to get suppliers’ feed5.0% taiwan t 4.4% indonesia back on our approach and make necessary changes to maximize Asia 4.1% singapore America efficiency. 2.8% Hong Kong Europe Middle East & Africa 4.4% others Purchasing Personnel Distribution of LG Electronics 103 Europe 42 CIS 261 China 862 Korea 125 U.S. 301 Asia (Unit : people) Total: 1,694 54 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport The relationships with suppliers are established in accordance with the Small and Medium Enterprise Technology Fair. Prior to this event, LGE’s fair trade principle. LGE seeks win-win growth opportunities during the agreement for win-win cooperation and fair trade with from a long term perspective by guaranteeing equal opportunities, suppliers in September 2010, we announced a program to support and respecting relevant regulations in fair and transparent manner. outstanding suppliers in their new growth engine projects, including LGE's fair trade activities are described in more detail on page 74. the research and development in solar energy and water processing. Support Program for Suppliers Financing for Quality and Productivity Improvement • LGE proposed an enterprise-wide project to conduct a program to fund supGlobal competence pliers’ quality enhancement and productivity improvement activities (e.g molding equipment improvement) (2010: KRW 33 billion, 2011 : KRW 37 billion). Win-Win Growth Quality/ Technology Productivity Innovation Key Innovation Improvement of Cash Payment Terms • Since September 2010, Competence Management LGE has improved its process to increase cash payment rates for subDevelopment Innovation contractors to 100% to improve the suppliers’ financial status. training support Financing Launch of Win-Win Cooperation Funds • LGE subsidizes the Supplier talent management Direct/Indirect/Mixed support Win-Win Cooperation Funds to support the working capital needs of Running suppliers’ own programs Cash payment terms improvement suppliers, and offers the lowest interest rate among the competitors process innovation supplier communication (based on data from the Industrial Bank of Korea). To further support Business Consulting Satisfaction survey suppliers as molding companies forming the basis of the manufactur6 Sigma Consulting Supplier Grievance Process ing industry, we established the Root Industry Performance Bond program to provide deposits as a form of special financing. Additionally, we continue to offer zero-interest funds and network loans to provide PROMOTING MANAGERIAL STABILITY THROUGH FIongoing supports for the suppliers’ financial stability. NANCIAL SUPPORT SUPPORTING FINANCIAL STABILITY STRENGTHENING MANAGERIAL CAPABILITY THROUGH LGE supports its suppliers’ financial stability through various types of NON-FINANCIAL SUPPORT financing programs and continuous improvement in payment terms. PRODUCTION LEVELING ACTIVITIES THROUGH MANAGEMENT CONSULTING Green Partnership • In December 2010, LGE promised to provide Management Consulting and Business Advisory Council • financial support of KRW 40 billion for 5 years to suppliers selected at In addition to the financial support, LGE operates a business advisory Supporting program for financial stability Green partnership Financial/Government agency connection ACTIVITIES OF THE C COMMISSION OMMISSION OF •New core technology investment •Network loan support Yearly 8 billion, a total support KRW 133.7 billion WIN--WIN G WIN ROWTH FOR LLARGE GROWTH ARGE AND S SMALL MALL of 40 billion from 2011 to 2015 (228 suppliers) in 2009 COMPANIES KRW 110 billion (220 suppliers) in 2010 The Commission of Win-Win Growth for Large and Small companies •Win-Win cooperation funds LGE KRW 50 billion + KRW 75 is a civil organization founded on December 13, 2010, aimed at idenbillion joint financing tifying and discussing social conflicts between large enterprises and small/medium enterprises and providing a pivotal role in reaching cash payment Direct Financing an agreement on a neutral ground. The commission comprises of 9 members for the large company, 9 members for the small/medium •100% of subcontractors’ •Accumulated funding from company, and 6 members for the public sector. Currently, Woody payment in cash 2004 to 2010 Nam, the Business Innovation office Leader of LGE is appointed as the •No-Internet financing tinacing member of the commission The commission is planning to introduce KRW 19.6 billion from 2009 the “win-win index” based on the large companies’ win-win growth to 2010 activities to conduct the evaluation of each business category. •KRW 10 billion funding in 2011 (planned) BUSINESS PARTNER | BUSINESS PARTNERS FOR WIN-WIN GROWTH 55 council consisting of retired procurement managers to strengthen event, the Global Outstanding Supplier Award was given to the winthe suppliers’ managerial capabilities. The business advisory council ner of each company. The Green Award, newly established in 2010, is dispatched on the supplier’s premises and operates a program to was also awarded to respective winners. In addition to this, a charity improve supplier’s production levels upon request. Also, an on-site auction of goods donated by LGE was held, raising a total of KRW 60 consulting activity from the Factory Innovator(FI), organized by LGE million to support for Good Neighbors. employees, is provided in parallel to improve the productivity. LGE aims to achieve its production leveling goal through management Suppliers’ Satisfaction Survey • Each year, LGE conducts a satconsulting and plans to increase the number of supporting staff by isfaction survey for its domestic and overseas suppliers. In 2010, LGE 50% by 2012. conducted the survey to the top 180 Korea and overseas companies, compared to 122 companies in 2009, and evaluated the overall Establishment of the Supplier Quality Engineering(SQE) satisfaction level of purchasing group and contact point. The result group • LGE carries out a specialized program to support suppliers was somewhat lower than the previous year. The overall satisfaction through quality specialists trained within the procurement group to selevel of procurement scored 73.4 out of 100 in 2008. The satisfaction cure the quality of the components and enhance technical supports. level increased by 1.6 point in 2009, then decreased by 1.0 point in 2010, showing little difference in terms of time series analysis. Overall Vocational Training Consortium • LGE operates diverse consorsatisfaction level have gradually increased. Since 2008, with the “will tium with the collaboration of in-house and the regional training cento continue business” increasing approximately one point every year. ters to enhance the suppliers’ competence. In 2010, a total of 2,298 LGE intends to conduct the suppliers’ satisfaction surveys regularly employees have completed the training courses, which is 50% more and use them as base data to reinforce partnerships with suppliers. than 2009. Enhancing communication with suppliers FUTURE DIRECTION Supplier Grievance Process • To further enhance communication with suppliers, LGE operates the Supplier Grievance Process site( •Promote suppliers’ financial stability through financial http://ethics.lg.co.kr) in each of its affiliates to understand supplier support opinions. •Improve the suppliers’ competence through non-financial support such as training and consulting 2010 Global Suppliers' Day • Following 2009, LGE has once again •Seek Win-Win Growth through fair trade organized its “2010 Global Suppliers’ Day” in Seoul with the participation of the top 300 global suppliers’ CEOs and 600 personnel by procurement teams in the headquarter and companies. During the Training Program for suppliers Suppliers’ Satisfaction Survey results The number of participated The number of Overall satisfaction(CSI) Virtual satisfaction suppliers Unit: No. of Supplier participants Unit: People 2008 2009 2010 Willing to continue business 2298 393 N=160 N=122 N=180 88.7 90.2 91.0 1400 2008 2009 2010 248 78.7 84.4 81.1 251 Gap compared Satisfied +1.5 +0.8 45 to last year 46 Willing to recommend 67 57 10.0 Neutral 12.5 9.0 46 Unsatisfied 8.8 6.5 8.9 77.5 79.0 79.0 90 39 Average 73.4 75.0 74.0 2008 2009 2010 Suppliers in 2009 Suppliers Expected participants Participants Gap compared Gap compared to last year +1.6 -1.0 to last year +1.5 in 2010 in 2010 in 2010 HA&AC Company BS Company • The satisfaction in the overall satisfaction represents the Top 3 rate in the scale of 7; the unsatisMC Company HE Company fied represents the Bottom 3 rate. Others • The average of the overall satisfaction and the virtual satisfaction are represented with the value in the scale of 7 converted to the score of 100. • A gap compared to last year is the year-on-year scale. 56 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Promoting Supply Chain CSR OUR APPROACH Establishment of Supplier Code of Conduct Based on EICC Code, LGE established and declared its Supplier Code of Conduct in 2010 to assist its suppliers in fulfilling social responsiEstablishing supplier’s CSR management system bilities. We are providing Supplier Code of Conduct training programs Systematizing activities through EICC code to the suppliers in Korea as the initial step to obtain voluntary agreeEstablishment of Supplier Code of Conduct ment on compliance with the Code of Conduct, and consequently Measures to prevent the use of illegally mined raw materials expand CSR from LGE’s internal activity to overall supply chain management. Eventually, we plan to expand our activity globally to help OUR PERFORMANCE every supplier fulfill its social responsibility and achieve long term competence. Systematizing activities through EICC CODE Measures to prevent the use of illegally Based on Jeong-Do management, LGE fosters win-win growth by supmined raw materials porting its suppliers in building CSR management systems and helpIllegally mined raw materials consist of tantalum, tin, tungsten and ing them to succeed in global competition. other industrial minerals excavated from conflicted regions such as To provide a systematized support program, LGE joined Electronic Inthe Democratic Republic of Congo. These minerals are used as core dustry Citizenship Coalition(EICC), a CSR consultative group founded materials for vehicle, cellular phone and PC components. A militant in 2004 with global electronic companies. LGE has since actively parforce may get hold of the distribution channel, trade the minerals, ticipated in EICC’s regular meeting and its 6 working groups from and use the profit it earns from the trade to acquire weapons, result2010. In the future, we plan to conduct suppliers CSR risk manageing in child labor, forced labor and other crimes against humanity. ment based on EICC Code, along with a training program to enhance The severity of this issue has the world’s attention. LGE is conducting supplier ability to conduct autonomous CSR risk management. Supnecessary measures to prevent the use of illegally mined raw materipliers will be encouraged to conduct self-improvement programs to als. In February 2010, we conducted an internal survey with major enhance their performance. We expect to improve and expand the tantalum suppliers, and identified the source of origin as Australia overall supply chain’s CSR throughout the activity. and China. We are planning to conduct regular surveys on raw materials, and also expand the scope to fundamentally block the use of ilSummary of LG Electronics’ Supplier Code of Conduct legally mined raw materials. LGE is participating in the industry’s joint Non-discrimination/Humane treatment/ efforts to prevent the use of illegally mined raw materials, namely Freely chosen employment/Avoidance of child labor/ Labor and human rights Working hours/Wages and benefits/Freedom of EICC’s Extractives work group to discuss joint action towards prevenassociation tive measures. Occupational Safety/Industrial Hygiene/ We also underlined related activities in LGE Supplier Code of Conduct Emergency preparedness/Occupational injury and Health and safety illness/Sanitation, Food, and Housing/Physically to identify the source of the minerals and prohibit the use of minerals demanding work/Maintaining machine safety obtained through illegal mining, thus preventing the use of illegally Environmental permits and reporting/Hazardous mined raw materials in the supply chain. substances/Solid waste and wastewater/Air emisEnvironmental impact sions/Pollution prevention and resource reduction/ Product content restrictions Suppliers’ CSR PILOT diagnosis In the second half of 2010, LGE selected 4 outsourcing partners for Business integrity/Disclosure of information/ Ethics Protection of identity/Protection of intellectual each business area to conduct a pilot diagnosis to identify the status property of their respective Corporate Social Responsibility(CSR) and plan imMaterials obtained Ensure raw materials distributed through the supply provement activities. from mining chain are legally mined The diagnosis was conducted by the headquarters outsourcing manCompany commitment/Management accountabilagement strategy group, with the following criteria: labor, human ity and responsibility/Legal and Customer Requirerights, ethics, safety, health and environment. The diagnosis was Management system ments/Risk assessment and management/ Improvement objectives/Training and communicabased on key requirements from the ILO Convention, SA 8000, ISO tion/Worker feedback and participation/etc. 14001, and OHSAS 18001, following the recommendation of EICC BUSINESS PARTNER | PROMOTING SUPPLY CHAIN CSR 57 To ensure sustainable competitiveness in the global market, LG Electronics is supporting its business partners to develop and improve the sustainable management systems. In particular, LG Electronics motivates its business partners to comply with Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on EICC Code, and encourages them to analyze and improve their weak points through CSR risk management. in which LGE joined in August. The demo diagnosis was conducted CSR risk management program on-site to three outsourcing partners in China and one in Eastern LGE plans to launch a comprehensive supply chain (production facilEurope(Poland) The result exposed several common issues of comity) risk management program based on the EICC process in 2011, panies in China. and strengthen CSR competence of the suppliers located in Korea and in potential risk countries. Diagnosis Result • The working hours of workers at production sites The CSR risk management program to be conducted for around of outsourcing partners located in China were exceeding the legal 4,000 manufacturing suppliers consists of four steps. The program limit, and the companies were failing to provide appropriate mea(i) will be promoted in order to reach LGE’s all production sites and sures. The regulation against forced labor was weak, and there was suppliers, and obtain consent on compliance with the Supplier Code no labor management council activity. of Conduct, (ii) evaluates the suppliers’ CSR risk, (iii) conducts diagnosis to the high-risk classified suppliers, and encourages improvement, 1) Company A in Yantai, China: and (iv) keeps monitoring to verify if the improvement is maintained • Some manufacturing workers exceed legal working hours. at constant level, and support the suppliers to fulfill their social reInjection molding machine subject to potential problem due to sponsibilities. unstable process interval. • No policy for labor management council activity. • No policy against forced labor. Suppliers’ Environment, Safety and Health(ESH) • No health center record. diagnosis and improvement activity 2) Company B in Shanghai, China: Supplier Support Group in Changwon, Korea carries out periodic train• Some manufacturing workers exceed legal working hours. ing and evaluation of the Environment, Safety and Health(ESH) for • No labor management council activity. HA and AC Companies’ 140 domestic and overseas suppliers. In • Insufficient record and/or management of harmful substances. 2010, we focused on managing high-risk companies, establishing and • PCBA process is close to the dangerous substance repository. following suppliers’ ESH audit, and enhancing environmental man3) Company C in Huizhou, China: agement. The yearly ESH diagnosis and evaluation on 142 suppliers • Most production workers exceed legal working hours. resulted in 568 non-compliances(environment: 51, safety: 298, fire • No labor management council activity. prevention: 182, health: 37). The improvement rate recorded 98%. • Insufficient use of safety equipment. Also, we organized the “Suppliers’ ESH Best Practice Competition” to • No medical record management system. enhance the capabilities of personnel through best practice sharing 4) Company D in Poland: No non-compliance detected. and encouraged field application and improvement. Owing to these efforts, the average incident rate with suppliers deLG Electronics’ Supplier CSR Risk Management Program clined sharply from 0.75% in 2009 to 0.57% in 2010 ; with the inphase 1 phase 2 phase 3 phase 4 crease of capability, the number of partners capable of managing Introduction Assessment Validation Improvement their own ESH increased from 30 to 50. Initial AssessSelf Assessment Performance Trend Analysis & In 2011, we will focus on the prevention of the suppliers’ ESH risks ment& CSR & Improvement Improvement Training Requirements and conduct monitoring activities and supports to overseas and 2ndtier suppliers, as well as fostering specialists. Internal/External Self Assessment Selection for Continuous Training Programs Questionnaire Audit Target Monitoring (SAQ) SCC* Compliance Establishment of Support for SupFUTURE DIRECTION Agreement Audit Plan plier Competence Development •Support sustainable management through suppliers’ Initial Risk Corrective Awards& CSR management Assessment(RA1) Action Process Recognition •Continuous monitoring & preventing the use of illegally Verification Periodic &Unanmined raw materials nounced Audit *SCC : Supplier Code of Conduct Focus on Risk Assessment Focus on Continuous Improvement 58 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Community Hope for Life’s Good ⓒ WFP As a global leading corporate citizen, LG Electronics is contributing to achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals under the slogan “Hope for Life’s Good”. Hunger is solvable, but no single organization can do it alone. That’s why WFP seeks to catalyze change through innovative partnerships in the fight against hunger – such as our partnership with LGE. The leadership being shown by LGE is an example of how the private sector can be a powerful force for good in our world. LGE is driving a global corporate social responsibility movement that helps the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals – of which halving hunger is the first one. LGE has been supporting WFP’s work in Africa since 2009, and is now also supporting the fight against hunger and under-nutrition in Asia, providing poor families with nutritious food while helping to protect them from the effects of climate change. Now that’s a real investment in the next generation! ⓒ WFP/Peter Smerdon Josette Sheeran, Executive Director of UN WFP COMMUNITY | SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 59 Social Contribution We are strengthening cooperation with both in-house and external individuals to actively respond to global issues and contribute to local communities with a long-term view. OUR APPROaCH LGE Social Contribution Framework • Under the slogan “Hope for Life’s Good”, LGE has been making an effort in the community • Contribute to achieving the UN Millennium through activities such as securing environmental sustainability, Development Goals(UN MDGs) contributing to eradicate poverty and environmental diseases in de• Contribute to promoting environmental awareness veloping countries. In particular, the company has been actively and alleviating poverty and disease implementing activities to improve long term awareness, donations, • Strengthen cooperation with diverse stakeholders technical support, human resource fostering, and employee volunteering programs through diverse relevant organizations to achieve a sustainable solution to global issues. LG Electronics’ Social Contribution Framework Hope for Life’s Good Slogan providing sustainable solutions for the global environment, poverty and disease problems Goal (contribute to achieving un Millennium Development Goals) Disease Environment Poverty Category prevent environmental promoting environmental alleviating poverty in developing disease sustainability countries Vaccination in partner of LG Hope school Program developing countries “champions of the Earth” LG Hope Village Life’s Green class LG Hope Family The UN Millennium Development Goals are eight international development goals that all 192 United Nations member states have agreed to achieve by the year 2015. They have 8 goals including eradicating extreme poverty(Goal 1), and ensuring environmental sustainability(Goal 7). 60 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report OUR PERFORMANCE Emergency Relief for Natural Disasters Caused by Climate Change • While donating an emergency relief fund for environmenPROMOTE ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS tal and natural disasters, LGE also operates temporary repair service centers. In 2010, LGE donated emergency relief funds for the victims of the earthquake in Haiti, the floods in Pakistan, and the forest fires in Russia. Champions of the Earth 2010 • LGE has been active as the strategic partner of the UNEP Champions of the Earth since 2009. LGE has Alleviating Poverty in Developing Countries sponsored the 2010 Champions of the Earth promoted by the UN to improve environmental awareness. The president of the Maldives Mohamed Nasheed, a Chinese actress Zhou Xun, and 4 others won the 2010 Champions of the Earth award which was categorized into LGE operates the LG Hope Series in Africa and Asia to alleviate povsections such as Policy Leadership, Science & Innovation, Corporation erty and reduce the gap between the rich and the poor. LGE also pur& Vision, and Awareness Improvement. sues diverse activities to improve awareness of poverty and hunger. Sponsoring the B4E Summit 2010 • LGE was the strategic partLG Hope Series • Since 2009, LGE has been cooperating with the ner of B4E Summit 2010, hosted by the UNEP, UN Global Compact, UN WFP in operating the LG Hope Series toward sustainable developand WWF, and sponsored by the Ministry of Environment, Ministry ment. LGE provided 24,157 children with the opportunity of educaof Knowledge Economy, and the Presidential Committee on Green tion in the 15 LG Hope Schools throughout the slum districts in Kenya. Growth. LGE presented its strategy on partnership companies sustainLGE also provided green land preservation support and food relief for ability under the title of Sustainability Leadership, and introduced its 15,000 families in the 12 LG Hope Villages in 4 districts of Ethiopia to environment strategy to over 1,000 participants through its exhibiassist them in adapting to climate change. From 2011, LGE is plantion booth, where the participants had the opportunity to have a realning to expand its LG Hope Series to Asia and operate the LG Hope life experience of the Smart Grid and renewable energy. Family program in Bangladesh and Cambodia. Life’s Green Class • The “Life’s Green Class” was initiated in 2006 Global Hunger Elimination Campaign • In June 2010, LGE jointthrough a partnership with Hanyang University. Through the proly launched the hunger elimination campaign with Doctors without gram, environmental training was conducted by touring science fairs Borders to improve awareness of the seriousness of global hunger. In in elementary, junior high and high schools throughout the counaddition to sponsoring the production of documentaries on hunger, try using a specially customized vehicle equipped with a high-tech LGE has sponsored the airing of the documentary film in 20 majors laboratory and video equipment. In 2010, LGE used the specially cities including New York, Toronto, Milan and Rome throughout the equipped vehicle and jointly launched an environmental training proworld via Infinia TV. gram with the University of Pune to the 70 middle schools near Pune city annually. 1 2 3 4 1. Champions of the Earth Awarding Ceremony 2. Life’s Green Class in India 3. LG Hope Family Partnership Signing Ceremony 4. LG-IVI Partnership Signing Ceremony COMMUNITY | SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 61 ELIMINATING DISEASES ties in 2004 to reduce the information gap for those with severe disabilities. 32 employees of LGE performed visitation PC training in 2010. In addition, LGE also sponsored the Seoul IT Challenge for the Disabled in which the participants of LG IT Angels Programme competed. Vaccination in Developing Countries • Since 2008, LGE has been sponsoring International Vaccination Institute(IVI) in its vacSalary Rounding Fund • 95.8% of the employees in LGE Korea cine R&D and vaccination efforts to prevent environmental diseases (30,492 out of 31,840 employees) participate in donating money of in developing contries. LGE signed a MOU with IVI to supply vaccine less than KRW 1,000(about USD 1) from their salary each month. In from April 2010 to 2013 in Ethiopia, a country with a high death rate 2010, a total of KRW 190,428,107 was raised and donated for emercaused by cholera. LGE plans to vaccinate 20,000 local residents. gency natural disaster relief funds. Blood Donation Campaign Executive Contribution Funds • To strengthen executives leaderSince LGE’s cooperative agreement in 2004 with the Korea Red Cross ship for social responsibility activities, 0.5% of their basic salary has as the 1st corporate organization to sign a blood donation agreebeen collected and its matching amount was provided by LGE as the ment, LGE has been actively promoting a corporate-wide blood dosociety contribution funds by executives since 2004. 158 executives nation campaign. In 2010, LGE launched the “Share Life Campaign” from LGE Korea(Proportion of Total Executives: 81.9%, as of Jan. it supported children with serious diseases by funding them with the 2011) and in 2010, the fund raised KRW 331,586,974. This fund was amount corresponding to the number of blood donors. Consequently, donated for the vaccine R&D and vaccination of people in develop1,552 online users via SNS and employees participated in the blood ing countries. donation program. LGE’s blood donation campaign has also been conducted in Russia, Thailand and India. Charity Party for Africa • To increase employees awareness of poverty in developing countries, the Charity Party for Africa was held EMPLOYEES ENGAGEMENT at 7 business sites throughout the country, starting from the executives’ seminar in March of 2010. A total of KRW 24,665,000 was raised by selling Ethiopian honey and coffee. This fund was donated to Ethiopia LG Hope Village to purLife’s Good Volunteers • The “Life’s Good Volunteers” are LGE’s chase books and desks. employees sharing their talent in an attempt to make life better and enrich it. Employees volunteer plan and implement activities using their own or their team’s talent. In 2010, a total of 31 volunteer FUTURE DIRECTION teams launched various events such as cleaning the river, and taking •Contribute to the UN Millennium Development Goals 1st birthday photos of babies of single mothers. •Launch social contribution programs that correspond to the core of LGE’s business LG IT Angels • These are 1:1 visiting computer sessions jointly initi•Encourage employee engagement ated with the Seoul Society for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabili5 6 7 8 5. Blood donation campaign 6. Life’s Good Volunteers 7. LG IT Angels 8. Charity Party for Africa Russia 62 2010 LG ELEctronics ctronics sustainabi sustainabiLity rEportport Kazakhstan Poland China Korea India Kenya Indonesia Regional Community activities around the World as a responsible corporate member of the global community, LG Electronics has been pursuing diverse social contribution programs, including donations for the environment, diseases, KOREA and poverty, while participating in technical support, talent fosEnvironment, Employees – tering and volunteer activities. Junior Science Class Employees who have a high interest in the environment and science held short training sessions and provided science classes to socially disadvantaged children for a day. Members from the MC R&D Center participated in the program and provided several science experiment classes. KAZAKHSTAN RUSSIA INDONESIA Disease Disease, Online, Employees Environment, Education – – – Healthy Asia with LG Breast cancer is widely Blood Donation As the first corporate partner LG Go Green 12,500 trees were planted around spread disease in Kazakhstan and early diagnosof the Russian government in blood donation, corporate centers through this program in 2010. tics is very important for saving lives. Kazakhstan Russia subsidiary has designated 12 days of a LG Loves Children In commemoration of the subsidiary provides breast cancer diagnosis and year as the Blood Donation Day and launched 20th anniversary of Indonesia subsidiary, the promotes local citizens' health awareness with a a blood donation event in which 20% of LGE’s company formed a partnership with the commuspecially equipped vehicle. In 2010, the program employees participated. In addition, LGE apnity welfare organization, the Sayap Ibu Foundavisited rural districts with poor transportation pointed Olympic medalists, popular singers and tion, and established a school for the homeless infrastructure and diagnosed 18,423 women. other renowned figures as the LG blood donorand low income family children but also operates Among them, abnormal symptoms were identiambassadors and encouraged active participaa free medical check up and provides medicine on fied at the early stage for 9,758 women. tion among the local citizens. a long-term basis. Canada COMMUNITY | SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 63 Chile CHINA KENYA CHILE Poverty, Education Disease Environment, Online – – – LG Hope School in Expo Over 100 students and Support for Prosthesis For those who do not One Click, One Tree This campaign was teachers in 10 LG Hope Schools in China were invithave their arms or legs by accident, natural dilaunched to build homes for the homeless and ed by China Region Representative to the Shangsaster and War but did not have the money for to plant trees. Over 120,000 customers took part hai Expo LG Week and provided with an opportuniproper treatment, this program provided 100 in the campaign and by matching the number ty to experience science and culture. The LG Hope patients with treatment and prosthesis for a of clicks by the participating customers who School in China is a program in which 1 branch new life. watched the environment related video clip onoffice and 4 plants in China select 10 schools in 4 line, Chile subsidiary planted 5,000 trees and cities and provide sponsorship. built homes for 1,200 families. INDIA CANADA POLAND Environment, Employees Disease Employees, Disease – – – Cyclotron Go Green A cycling campaign was The Inside Ride The Inside Ride is an indoor cyHope for Children Mlawa subsidiary in Poland launched to promote awareness of the environcling celebration event dedicated to fundraising donated LCD TV with integrated DVD players to ment and over 1,000 employees participated in in support of childhood cancer charities which are the oncological ward of the Children’s Memorial the campaign. In addition, a tree planting event profoundly underfunded. In 2010 over 57 schools Health Institute. LGE managers visited the instiwas held in Pune. and 40 workplaces hosted The Inside Ride. 15,000 tute and met young patients and their parents. people participated in over 100 events; with $1.2 LGE’s Mlawa subsidiary and its employees care million raised. 100% of the donations were distribgreatly about local children who regularly chaluted solely to children’s cancer charity initiatives: lenged physically, socially or economically. pediatric oncology hospitals, family funding, pediatric oncology research, year round survivorship support, and educational & vocational counseling for teens. 2010 LG ELEctronics sustainabiLity rEport Employee Respecting Human Dignity LG Electronics continues to make efforts to implement its management philosophy of respecting human dignity. Instead of striving for short term achievements, LGE is making an effort to recruit outstanding individuals and foster core human resources, despite difficult business conditions, to ensure long term growth. LGE is also supporting employee sustainable capacity enhancement and is making an effort to form a creative and free corporate culture that encourages innovative ideas. Adopting a top management philosophy that emphasizes work and life balance sends a good message to employees. From a communications perspective, it is not only consistent with the tenets of LG Way, but it also positively demonstrates top management appreciation for the dedication and hard work of employees. As a newcomer to LGE, it is good to know that it is not “all work and no play,” and that while “Fast, Strong, Smart” is necessary to prevail from a business perspective, we should not forget to refresh and enjoy our lives. As a global company, there are always going to be challenges. As one of the people responsible for facilitating culture and communications, a big challenge being faced is creating understanding across an organization that is so geographically and culturally diverse. Fortunately, in my short time here I have had the opportunity to work with high caliber LGE professionals and have observed first-hand the importance they place on shared understanding within the organization. From a work-culture perspective, I very much look forward to contributing to an environment that has embraced the collective mission and is actively pursuing new and innovative means by which to achieve it. Phillip Anderson HQ Corporate Culture Group, LG Electronics EMPLOYEE | CORPORATE CULTURE / WORK-LIFE BALANCE 65 Corporate Culture / Work-Life Balance LG Electronics is striving to create a corporate culture based on creativity and autonomy that elevates it to become a true number one. While forming a work environment in which employees work hard and improve their quality of life, it is also making an effort to elevate the standard of living for each individual member. OUR APPROaCH the results of the survey. Employees respond to a questionnaire on the working environment in which they can express their creativity • Objective: To establish a creative and autonomous corpoand autonomy, as well as on leadership styles(e.g. I can work with rate culture based on LG Way initiative based on my ideas and judgment to achieve my organi• Strategy: Implement LG Way based on the communicazation’s goals. My supervisor encourages me to try new things that tion of trust and respect and contribute to have not been tried before by others, etc). achieving our corporate vision More importantly, creativity and autonomy is not applied to only LGE but is continuously emphasized throughout all companies in the LG Group as a part of the management philosophy of respecting each OUR PERFORMaNCE member. Each business division at LGE conducts a yearly survey for individual employee satisfaction of their working life. The results of Communication for Solving Problems • LGE has been continuthis survey are analyzed and through Focus Group Interview(FGI), ously making efforts to create a corporate culture based on commuimprovement issues are identified, and feedback is then provided to nication. In particular, the communication culture, promoted under each sub-division. Each organization then holds a workshop to dethe title of “Open Communication” was transformed in 2010 into velop improvement measures and continuously implements these “Communication for Solving Problems”, which represents the process measures until the next survey is conducted in the following year. of 1:1 communication that solves problems that may occur in the organization. Instead of a simple give and take way of discussing inParticipation Culture Based on the Voice of Employees(VOE) • tentions, this process allows an employee to communicate with top Another main platform for LGE’s representative corporate culture is management or leaders in a timely manner. its VOE based culture. This is the process of identifying employee perCommunication between individuals does not end with just reporting of ception about major company policies, and after establishment, and the problem, but each member views the problem from the owner’s perthen reflecting these views into those policies. spective and suggests a solution to the problem. This process increases The corporate-wide slogan establishment process is a prime example. their sense of belonging and contributes to individual perceptions. Interviews were conducted at all levels of the company to identify the Efforts to Improve the Working Environment • Through the LG direction the company must take and then a few suggestions were Way survey held each year, LGE identifies awareness among employmade based on the interviews. A survey was then performed on all ees as to whether they believe that they are working in an environcompany members to select the final slogan. Change Agent(CA) and ment in which creativity and autonomy are respected. LGE is continuDigital Board(DB) played important roles in encouraging this emously making efforts to improve the environment in accordance with ployee participation culture to become active. CAs are members that the “respect for creativity and autonomy” index in LG Way 1 77 2 67 55 2008 2009 2010 • Research was conducted on office employees in Korea and overseas. 1. open communication with top management • Until 2009, the survey was conducted under three categories of Promoting Challenging 2. Digital board’s event for employee Experiments, Open Communication, and Empowerment, but starting in 2010, the survey was integrated under the theme of ‘Respect for Creativity and Autonomy’. 66 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report 1 2 3 1. E  vent for the children of employees at Russian subsidiary 2. Singapore Subsidiary’s “LG-Night of the stars” 3. Creating One Team in our Kenya Subsidiary lead change in overseas organizations. 415 employees acted as the Event for children of employees at Russia subsidiary • LGE’s communicators and motivators in each of their respective organizaRussian subsidiary invites the children of employees each year to tions last year. DB is a medium for employees in Korea that delivers Child Protection Day. The subsidiary gives the children a tour of the employee opinions to the top management and performs various offices, production line, and the show room and prepares meals to roles for the rights of the employees. enjoy with their parents at the employee cafeteria. In addition to this, VOE is considered first in all the improvement plans and is now a the subsidiary also has an advertisement program titled LG Family. unique part of LGE’s corporate culture. Programs for a Happy Corporate Life • LGE operates the CreHandling Grievances and Employee Counseling • LGE proating Fun Work Place program and supports individuals’ hobbies so vides stress management and psychological counseling services so that the employees can enjoy working at the office. It actively enthat employees can focus on their working life. It operates psychocourages employees in Korea to use their Refresh Vacation, which is logical counseling programs in all corporate branches throughout 3 or more days. Korea, and a mobile counseling service is provided for small regional branches. In particular, a counseling service is provided to family Singapore Subsidiary’s “LG-Night of the Stars” • The “LG-Night members of employees at R&D centers to actively help employees of the stars” was planned for all employees at the Singapore subsidsolve their problems. iary to show the company’s appreciation for their hard work. This event, in which the employees impersonate famous actors and acFamily Participation Activities • LGE operates various programs tresses, included a dance party and activities for everyone to mingle, for the family members of employees to ensure their work-life balance. regardless of their position at the subsidiary. Family farm at Production Engineering Research Institute LGE Creating One Team in Kenya Subsidiary • The Kenya office holds Production Engineering Research Institute has been allocating family team building events, that include sporting events or mountain climbfarm lots since 2008 so that the employees and their families can visit ing, at the end of the first and second half of each year to promote and experience farm life every weekend. team work and create a pleasant working environment for all employees. This event eliminates the barriers of race, gender, assignment HA Company’s “Children’s Day with Daddy” Launched in 2004, type, or position at the subsidiary, and provides good opportunities this program is an event in which the children of the employees for everyone to become a member of One Team. come and have a fun day at specially prepared an amusement park in the company. Support for Informal Group Activities • Over 216 informal LGE employee groups are active in Korea. LGE provides financial support CTO Division’s “Open Lab” This is a day on which the technologies so that these groups can continue to be active. In particular, the top being developed at the research center and the center itself is intromanagement participates in these groups and increases interest duced to family members of employees at the R&D center. Various among members. programs are prepared for the family for this day. MC Company R&D center “Junior Science Class” This is a fun FUTURE DIRECTION experience program that includes a Science Experimental Class and Traditional Music Experience Class for the children of the employees •A chieve No.1 based on the corporate-wide slogan of at the R&D center. “Fast, Strong & Smart” • Firmly  root a corporate culture of true open HE Company’s “Family Festival” In addition to showing the work communication place to their family members, HE Company prepares various pro• Strengthen work & life balance grams so that the employees and their family members can have a fun time together at the company. Employee | TOTAL MANAGEMENT 67 Talent Management Based on the corporate philosophy of “Respect for Human Dignity” and “Creating Value for Customers”, LG Electronics has been strengthening fundamentals as a manufacturing company and implementing various HR policies that respect the diversity of LG Electronics employees. The global business leader and life-long training program that fosters each employee as a specialist in their respective field is actively implemented both on and off line. OUR APPROACH Develop Specialists Corresponding to the Training Roadmap • LGE conducts various training programs based on the corporate•Mid and Long Term Goal: Hire and train employees wide training roadmap. Based on the results of the capability evaluwho will develop the company into a true global ation conducted each year, LGE implements a priority handling trainleading company ing program for all employees, designed for each employee’s job. In addition, LGE’s Global e-Learning program was expanded and LGE provides a specialist fostering program for each task and an individuOUR PERFORMANCE al capability development program for all employees. International HR Recruit Activities • LGE is planning to hire over Global Talent Training Programs • LGE has developed local train5,000 new employees in 2011(in Korea) to strengthen its R&D capabiling programs and has been actively making efforts to foster and recruit ity. As a part of this effort, recruitment events were held in universities in local professionals. LGE provides the “HR Fostering Program” through Korea and overseas. In addition, LGE is actively pursuing various recruitthe Pyeongtaek learning center and 6 overseas learning centers (Brament activities such as career development consulting and LG Techno zil, Singapore, India, China, France, and UAE). In particular, LGE has Conference to acquire outstanding individuals throughout the world. developed a mandatory Global Training Program and provides the HE Company provides internship opportunities to outstanding indisame course to all LGE employees throughout the world. This is LGE’s viduals through its Global Marketing Adventure and corporate-wide initiative to strengthen LG Way Leadership and to provide a uniform Right People Camp(RPC). LGE cooperates with universities through leadership fostering program to every employee. LGE provides a spethe Industry-University Program and at the same time, actively encialist training program for each job category, a specialized program gages in recruitment activities for outstanding R&D individuals. As for for the different position levels, and in the case of Korea, LGE also the long term goal, LGE plans to increase its current recruitment ratio provides in-house and external MBA programs through cooperation to acquire diversity as a global enterprise. with leading universities in Korea. Overseas Employee Adaptation Program • When sending employees to an overseas subsidiary, LGE provides a training program inFUTURE DIRECTION volving work, language, culture, and leadership so that the employees can communicate with locals. In addition, LGE assigns these employ•E stablish a standardized training roadmap for overees a project relevant to the country prior to sending the employee to seas and strengthen the mandatory training programs that country, or sends the employee for a short period of time before •S  trengthen training programs for talented individuals permanent assignment to support fast adaptation and increase proin each region fessionalism. • Increase  employees’ opportunities to receive training LG Electronics’ Employee Training Roadmap Leadership Competency Job Role Korean Overseas Nomination Only or Elective Grade EnDP* Executive Vice President (EVP) On-Boarding Executive Leadership Coaching Business New Executive Course Marketing Leader PBL** On-Boarding New Team Leader G4/G5 Procurement Sub. President On-Boarding Supply Chain Pre Executive Management(SCM) Business Successor G4 On-Boarding Production Global Business Leader G4 Quality Group Leader Advanced Manager Elective Course for Group Leader (Manager) 6 Sigma New Manger Group Leader Leadership Coaching HR Group Leader G3 Training G3 (Manager) Successor G2 Training G2 Finance G1 Training New G1 Hires LGE New Hire LG New Hire • In addition, various training programs are provided including in-house & external MBA programs. * EnDP : Entrepreneur Development Program * * PBL : Product Business Leader 68 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Fair Evaluation and Rewards LG Electronics strongly believes that people should have proper incentives to produce their best work, and that good work should be amply rewarded. We therefore operate an objective and transparent evaluation and bonus system that takes individual and team achievement into consideration. OUR APPROACH Continuous Capability Development of Employees rent capability level is assessed in all employees and a capability devel• The curopment target is set. To achieve this goal, LGE establishes a capability •HR Principles: Respect each individual’s creativity development plan, and then implements job experience, mentoring and freedom(source of value creation) and training programs to ensure continuous capability development. •Mid and Long Term Goal: Acquire Global No. 1 standard organizational capability •Strategic Directions: Improve individual employees’ Promotion and Reward System • LGE has initiated the Global and the organization’s capability standards through Total Reward(GTR) system to help it attract top candidates and to organization and HR development activities respond to increasing global mobility. However, in the case of overseas subsidiaries, multi-culture and special conditions are considered and the position as well as reward sysOUR PERFORMANCE tem is flexibly managed. From a long term perspective, the policy that considers multi-culture will be implemented in various ways. Global Standardization for Assessment Process • LGE has established corporate-wide standard process and regulations, and it LG Electronics’ Performance Evaluation System has been applying this towards the evaluation/incentive HR system. In-Year Performance Overall Performance Capability evaluation on performance and team capability of office Exceptional High employees is conducted once a year to comprehensively evaluate GOAL Meet Absolute Evaluation Middle Relative Evaluation POTENTIAL Expectations the employee’s degree of achievement of goals, difficulty of goals, Need Low improvement and competitiveness. The performance evaluation will be reflected Need Solid Outstanding Low Middle High on the individual’s salary increase & incentive bonus and the capaimprovement LEADERSHIP OF COMMON CAPABILITY 3-YEAR PERFORMANCE bility evaluation will be reflected on promotion. ⇢ Salary and Bonus ⇢ Promotion and Staffing 360-degree multi-faceted evaluation of the leadership of managers is conducted once a year. LGE places high importance on the basic insight of an individual for promotion and conducts a promotion training program to ensure that the promoted employee will possess FUTURE DIRECTION appropriate insight. Starting in 2011, an individual performance incentive system will •Improve salary competitiveness be applied for technical staff semiannually, and LGE is planning to • Improve differentiated rewards system according to strengthen responsibility towards quality. performance Global Total Reward(GTR) system Grade Four Position System(G1-G4) / Role-based Structure GTR Components Basic pay Role-based compensation / Job-based Basic Pay Differentiated reward according to Incentives individual performance Performance Annual performance incentive at company level Incentive Capability Development and Assessment Process Capability Selection and Self Evaluation / Capability Development Plan Capability Development Assessment Evaluator Review Employee | LABOR RIGHTS PROTECTION 69 Labor Rights Protection LG Electronics guarantees employees’ basic labor rights including freedom to associate and right to negotiate. It is highly praised for its fine labor-management relationship based on the labor union’s fulfillment of social responsibilities and future-oriented Win-Win Labor Relations. OUR APPROACH tablished in 2010 after 3 years of discussion. Through such efforts, the labor and the management achieved their 22nd consecutive year •M id to long term goal: Improve the level of overseas of agreement without dispute at the 2011 Collective bargaining held sites to up to 90% of Korean sites by 2015 (assessin February, proving LGE’s superiority in labor relations. In addition, ment data based on EICC) LGE also operates the Digital Board to obtain suggestions from both •S trategic plans: Motivating employees by protecting union and non-union members. LGE further makes diverse efforts labor rights and reducing risks which threaten huthrough various channels to promote effective communication. man/labor rights of suppliers Strengthening Global Win-Win Labor Relations • In the case of overseas offices, there is higher chance for various labor-manageOUR PERFORMANCE ment issues to arise due to cultural differences. As a result, LGE has spread the advanced labor-management culture and labor-manageRespecting Human Dignity • LGE recognizes the right of all emment know-how to overseas offices as a part of its ongoing efforts ployees and stakeholders to pursue happiness, to work with dignity to form a global advanced labor-management culture. In 2010, LGE and to have their value as human beings respected. Accordingly, launched the Global Win-Win Labor Relations Project and inspected LGE complies with the standards established by the UN, ILO, OECD, the labor-management status of subsidiaries in Nanjiang of China, and other international labor organizations as well as labor laws and Indonesia, and Poland. LGE advised these office to establish regionregulations. It established and announced Global Labor Policy that specific guidelines that reflect their culture and conditions. Continucontains the values to be shared with all stakeholders in August 2010. ing on from 2010 and to 2011, LGE is planning to establish a stanThe Labor Policy includes a regulation that prohibits forced labor that dard labor-management organization both in Korea and overseas restrains mental and physical freedom, employing minors below the and build an even stronger and more systematic labor-management age of 15, and assignment of dangerous tasks to youths under the relationship(See pages 18~19, “2010 Self-assessment and on-site age of 18. The Labor Policy further prohibits discrimination based on audit” section). In addition, LGE is strengthening the global laborgender and race, promotes compliance with the maximum working management network to monitor and evaluate the labor-managehours set forth by the law, payment for overtime, and contributes toment relationship in real-time and assign a Green, Yellow, or Red sigwards local economic development. In addition, the policy also guarnal corresponding to the situation. antees employees the freedom to join a union, as well as to join in the activities of the union and freedom to organize. The Labor Policy has Establishment of Win-Win Labor Relations based on Social Rebeen distributed to all the worksites throughout the world and has sponsibilities • The Labor Union of LGE held a declaration event been complied with as the LGE labor standards. for the Union Social Responsibility(USR) Charter in January 2010. The union has faithfully been complying with the provisions set forth Diverse Communication Channels(in Korea) • All employees in the Charter and has introduced a new concept of labor union. The of LGE are eligible to join and participate in the activities of labor union introduced the “Win-Win Labor Relations” based on social reunions, in accordance with the relevant collective bargaining agreesponsibilities to the public, and has been making joint efforts with ments and labor union regulations. As of year-end 2010, a total of the management to create a healthy and sustainable society. For de8,215 employees, representing 27% of our total workforce in Korea, tailed information, please refer to Special Issue page 20-21. were union members. The union’s infrastructure consists of one head office and six branches throughout the country. All union members have voting rights and are eligible to stand for office. In addition FUTURE DIRECTION to the quarterly labor-management meeting and annual Collective bargaining, LGE communicates various issues, including working con• Improve global labor-management activities ditions, regularly through diverse channels. Both parties negotiate • Expand labor rights protection activities for suppliers in good faith and with patience on important agendas to reach an agreement. A prime example is the adaptation of a performanceoriented promotion system for production employees that was esManagement Report Our Data appendix MANAGEMENT REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 Corporate Governance Since the creation of LG Group’s holding company structure, LG Electronics has operated with an advanced corporate governance structure, centered on the Board of Directors (BOD). The BOD is committed to upholding the highest standards of management transparency, and to increasing corporate and shareholder value. Shareholders Committee, the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation ComAs of year-end 2010, LGE’s total shares issued and outstanding were mittee and the Management Committee. The Audit Committee con161,833,806(144,647,814 common stock, and 17,185,992 preferred sists of three Outside Directors, and is responsible for examining corstock). The number of non-voting shares amounted to 17,949,149, or porate financial records and accounting to ensure compliance with 11.1% of the total outstanding. LG Corp., the Group’s holding comthe accounting laws and transparency. The Management Committee pany, owns 34.8% of the shares. At the most recent Annual General reviews and determines the agendas delegated by the BOD and ordiMeeting(AGM), the CEO personally updated shareholders on current nary management activities. In 2010, the Management Committee management issues. Shareholders’ opinions and suggestions were reviewed a total of 52 agendas. gathered, carefully considered by management and the BOD, and are reflected in corporate policy. Evaluation and Compensation Compensation for the BOD members is made within regulations perBoard of Directors taining to BOD compensation that has been approved at the General The BOD consists of 7 Directors, 4 of whom are Outside Directors. Shareholder's Meeting. The evaluation of management and execuThe directors are elected in accordance wiith the Korean Commercial tives of LGE is held annually. Top management and executives are Code and other related regulations. The BOD operates independentevaluated to determine whether they have set and achieved chally of any influence from major shareholders and management. The lenging goals, whether their job objectives composed of quantitative Outside Directors are appointed by the AGM following review by the and non-quantitative factors were achieved, as well as their capabilOutside Directors Candidate Recommendation Committee, to ensure ity through fair and objective process, and appropriate compensation fairness and transparency in the nomination of candidates. corresponding to the outcome of the evaluation is determined. The Outside Directors are recognized professionals who monitor overall corporate management activities and provide substantial adShareholders Status As of December 31, 2010 vice to management. The BOD actively provides recommendations for important management decisions and conducts unbiased evaluation and supervision of the management. 31.4% 34.8% In 2010, the BOD met 10 times to review 38 agendas(28 approved, 10 reported). The attendance rate by all BOD members was 97%(The Individuals and institutional attendance of the outside director was 100%). investors LG Corp. 33.8% Foreign investors Committees The BOD is supported by three Board Committees. They are the Audit LG Electronics’ BOD Status As of March 31, 2011 Committees Category Name Career Remarks Board of Directors Management Committee Executive Bon Joon Koo CEO, Vice Chairman (Chairman) Director Do Hyun Jung CFO, Executive Vice President Management Committee Audit Outside Management Chairman of the Board of Director Directors Committee Committee NonCandidate Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Executive Yu Sig Kang Vice Chairman of LG Corp. Recommendation Committee Director (Chairman) Committee Management Committee 1 Outside Director 2 Executive 3 Outside Directors 1 Non-executive Directors Audit Committee(Chairman) In Ki Joo Professor of Yonsei University Outside Director Candidate Director 1 Non-Executive Recommendation Committee Director Outside Kyu Min Lee Adviser of SK Research Institute Audit Committee Review and Audit of Director Outside Director Determination of Attorney Financial and Sang Hee Kim Audit Committee Recommendation Management (former Vice Minister of Justice) Accounting issues Delegated Records Chong Nam Chu Professor of Seoul National University by the Board 72 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Compliance Risk Management LG Electronics regards sound and transparent management practices as essential to achieving individual success and global competitiveness. Throughout our global operations, LG Electronics pledges to comply with local laws and regulations, compete fairly, and uphold the highest standards of corporate conduct. Effective risk control activities at the worksite Code of Conduct As a part of our mission to establish “field-oriented risk management”, Online Training LGE has continued to implement various measures to promote effecProgram(French) tive internal control in all kinds of business operations, in all business sites through the development and deployment of corporate policies, training programs and self-review processes. In 2010, these control activities were systematically monitored for the first time throughout 123 operations of LGE. These efforts have contributed to advancing the level of risk management throughout the company while solidifying Compliance Program as a whole. Survey on Employees’ Awareness Level of Compliance Compliance Risk Management Plan In an effort to better understand employees’ compliance awareness, •Mid and long term vision and goal: Establish effective LGE conducted it’s first corporate-wide compliance survey. Data was field-oriented compliance risk management system gathered from over 33,000 employees, and was analyzed into 5 ele•Strategic plans: Establish a foundation for adopting and operating a corporate compliance system ments of “Awareness”, “Tone at the Top”, “Responsibility”, “Prevalence” •Main achievements in 2010 and “Group Pressure”. Through this survey, LGE was able to calibrate Improved effectiveness of risk control activities in the field compliance culture within each operation, and build a long-term -E nhanced employee understanding and awareness of compliance foundation for nurturing a better compliance culture at LGE. Code of CONDUCT Training in 16 Languages for All New and Experienced Employees In 2009, LGE conducted a the Code of Conduct training course for approximately 33,000 office-workers throughout the world. In 2010, the course was expanded to all new and experienced workers worldwide. The expanded course has been made available in 16 major languages used within LGE worldwide, and completion rates have improved from 77% in 2009 to 90% in 2010. Code of Conduct in 16 Languages French Arabic Chinese(Simplified) MANAGEMENT REPORT | JEONG-DO MANAGEMENT 73 Jeong-Do Management LG Electronics established its Code of Ethics and supplementary guidelines to make clear to everyone in the corporate our high expectations for personal conduct and professional judgment. It applies the same standards to all suppliers and business partners who do business with LG Electronics. CODE OF ETHICS HANDBOOK RELEASED IN 3 LANGUAGES actively promoted the program in diverse ways to get the employees LGE drafted its first edition of Code of Ethics in 1994, based on the involved with Jeong-Do Management activities and understand its Jeong-Do Management. Since Chairman Bon Moo Koo announced significance. LGE’s management objectives as Jeong-Do Management and No.1 LG at an inauguration ceremony in 1995, the Code of Ethics has been JEONG-DO MANAGEMENT TOGETHER WITH SUPPLIERS well complied with throughout LGE. To help familiarize LGE’s Code of In line with the trend of increasing importance of the Win-Win RelaEthics and encourage employees to comply with Jeong-Do Managetionship and CSR Management throughout the world, LGE has fully ment, a handbook was created in English, Korean and Chinese. This launched a Jeong-Do Management training program for domestic handbook not only specifies the LG Way and Jeong-Do Management and overseas suppliers. With the start of training program for supplipursued by LGE, but also includes the ethical guidelines such as Code ers in India and Yentai, China in 2009, the program was expanded of Ethics, Code of Ethics Practice Guide, and detailed action definito include 141 suppliers in Tianjin, China in 2010. LGE is planning to tions, as well as a Q&A format of actions to be taken in the event of include suppliers in Europe in 2011. LGE is continuously expanding its violation of Code of Ethics during the course of work. Jeong-Do Training Program for suppliers. Through the training programs, suppliers will have better understanding of LGE’s Code of EthGLOBAL TRAINING/PROMOTION ON JEONG-DO MANAGEics and the objectives related to Jeong-Do management and building MENT a win-win relationship. LGE recognizes that Jeong-Do Management is not an option but an essential condition for its survival. LGE carries out Jeong-Do ManageESTABLISHIMENT OF LGE’S COMMON CRITERIA FOR JEONGment training programs and promotion activities each year to all the DO MANAGEMENT employees to prevent corruption and deeply root Jeong-Do ManageAccording to LGE’s regulations, employees should report to the Ethics ment culture. In 2010, efforts were made not only with employees Department if they receive money or valuables from an interested parin Korea but at global level to include overseas employees. As a rety that is beyond an acceptable amount. But since the valuables were sult, a total of 18,873 employees completed the training program. reported in KRW or USD only, it was difficult to apply this regulation in In addition, Jeong-Do Management managers in overseas subsidiary some overseas subsidiaries. Accordingly, new common criteria are set for each region, taking the region’s price levels into consideration. promotion of Jeong-Do Management in overseas 2011 IMPLEMENTATION PLAN subsidiary Internally, the training and promotion system will be rooted as a part (czech republic) of a corporate principle that will promote self-motivated participation in Jeong-Do Management by every employee. Externally, LGE will continue to make every effort to elevate the level of Jeong-Do Management in order to become an ethical enterprise that leads the electronics industry. Jeong-Do Management Handbooks in Korean, English, and Chinese Jeong-Do Management Training Program(2010) no. of employees(unit: people) no. of suppliers(unit: suppliers) Total 18,873 Total 426 Korea Korea 2,716 overseas overseas 285 141 16,157 74 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Fair Trade LG Electronics implements and strengthens fair trade compliance programs to maintain awareness of fair competition rules and proper transaction standards throughout our value chain. Reinforcing Fair Trade Compliance Activities support localization of parts, cooperative research and development, Fair Trade Compliance managers are appointed from business divicertification and procurement of green products, reassignment and sions and supported by the Fair Trade Compliance Office at corporate other business related supports including training programs for longheadquarters. Training is conducted at each tier of the value chain, fair term employees, online training, management competency enhancetrade compliance, and initiate improvement activities are strengthen ment, and management consulting. LGE will continue to provide the ed overall through this process. Fair Trade Compliance activities to enaforementioned support and will make every effort to improve the able all the employees to recognize that fair competition and trade win-win relationship with its partners in 2011. mean not just complying with laws and regulations but are essential elements of corporate survival in the competitive market. Future Direction LGE is planning to increase its efforts in reorganizing the system so that Cartel Prevention Activities each local business division at all levels of the value chain are able to Cartels have become an issue both in Korea and throughout the world. perform self-supporting Fair Trade Compliance activities. Particularly, Accordingly, LGE’s CEO, CRO, and Fair Trade Compliance Officer sent the Fair Trade Compliance Office at corporate headquarters is plane-mail notices to all employees warning them not to participate in carning to visit over 20 overseas subsidiaries in 2011 to monitor their fair tels. In addition, live training for cartel prevention for employees was trade compliance activities and increase their awareness on this issue. expanded to include members of the executive management team, employees of Korea Marketing Company, employees of various business divisions in Korea as well as overseas subsidiaries, reaching over Live training for 1,000 employees in 2010. cartel prevention for employees As part of the training program, participating employees are required to sign a Pledge of Cartel Compliance. In addition, in-depth interviews and audits are held for employees whose duties and responsibilities may expose them to cartels to prevent potential risk of cartel involvement. Furthermore, LGE continuously communicates with the relevant government agencies and law firms both in Korea and overseas to learn from cartel regulation trends and cartel-related cases. LGE integrates the knowledge to the Fair Trade Compliance activities. Win-Win Partnership and Fair Trade Agreement LGE held the Win-Win Partnership and Fair Trade Agreement Signing Ceremony in September 2010. In the agreement, LGE pledged to provide financial support to 817 partners: KRW 61 billion in direct loans, indirect support of over KRW 270 billion, as well as 100% cash payments for their products and services. LGE has also promised to MANAGEMENT REPORT | PRIVACY PROTECTION 75 Privacy Protection as we face the cutting-edge technology era of the 21st century, global enterprises are making every effort to protect valuable corporate information and customer information. Information security activity is recognized as an essential factor for LG Electronics’ sustainable growth and LG Electronics is implementing diverse activities as a world leading enterprise. CUSTOMER PRIVACY ESTABLISHMENT OF A GLOBAL INFORMATION SECURITY LGE conducts a scheduled privacy protection training program for MANAGEMENT SYSTEM system operators who directly manage customer information so that LGE is currently building a monitoring system that detects any attempt leakage of customer information by human error is prevented. to steal corporate and customer information, and is making efforts to build a system that can take measures in the event of an accident. LG Electronics’ Privacy Control Strategy It has minimized the risk of information leakage through integrated management of the Information Security System and by systematiMinimizing violation against privacy protection laws and cally analyzing whether or not the information has been leaked. improving private information management standards Minimizing information leakage risk by developing Implement a strategic action plan Optimize application effects an integrated monitoring system in accordance with the roadmap through customization Minimize information leaks Organize the policy and Company-wide privacy Company-wide privacy management system protection training protection diagnosis program Strengthen the weakStrengthen the risk Strengthen the crisis Online privacy Online security monitor Improve document ness management monitoring system handling system protection audit security system Alternatives to using Acquire Privacy Disseminate privacy • Provide analysis • Integrated analysis • Respond to conCitizen ID No. Protection Certification protection system to information on environment for tinuous multi-threats overseas offices suspected security individual security through trend breaches system log information • Develop an inte• Expand integrated • Strengthen weak grated and concenlog search security system trated monitoring Applying Solutions to Secure Customer Privacy environment Effective analysis integrated Establish weak DB • Database(Db) Data audit of existing security monitoring/ factor management Data Audit : Check data route of the system logs reporting of signs of process and tools privacy information in DB and information leakage control information leaks PC DB • pc Data audit: Check Data Audit Encryption data route of the privacy Not only at the business sites in Korea but throughout over 100 subCustomer information in PC and control Privacy information leaks sidiaries LGE operates a corporate-wide information security system. • Db Encryption / i-pin: LGE holds “Global Security Conference” and training programs periStore citizen ID No. in DB in encrypted format odically to improve the capability of security managers. LGE performs • ssL(secure socket Layer: Web site Web site periodical on-site audits for information security and customer inforsecurity server): Prevent hackSSL i-Pin ing by encrypting the privacy mation protection at least twice a year to identify weaknesses. information data route In 2006, LGE’s MC R&D Center was certified by the Global InformaCERTIFICATION OF PROTECTION FOR SECURING CUSTOMER tion Security Management System(ISO 27001), and LGE is operatINFORMATION ing a global information security management system at all business LGE and LG CYON websites protect customer sites. It has established a risk analysis and management plan for its information systematically and technically. important management and technology information and has been LGE was certified as an outstanding privacy continuously making improvements to the information security sysprotection website by Korea Association for tem. LGE has also established an information security system for supICT Promotion(KAIT). pliers. In this respect, LGE provides suppliers with information security training and carries out on-site audits twice a year. 76 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Economic Data 1. Sales Result(Parent) Summarized Income Statement Unit: KRW million Category 2010 2009 2008 1. Sales 29,238,503 30,513,436 27,638,515 Domestic Sales 6,892,025 6,665,027 6,445,179 Exports 22,346,478 23,848,409 21,193,336 2. Cost of Sales 24,893,697 23,406,778 20,822,187 3. Gross Profit 4,344,806 7,106,658 6,816,328 4. Selling and administrative expenses 5,449,449 5,694,164 5,589,438 5. Operating Income(loss) (1,104,643) 1,412,494 1,226,890 6. Financial Income 707,739 1,340,197 2,670,535 7. Financial Expenses 680,091 1,333,720 3,382,401 8. Net Incomes before corporate tax expenses(loss) (1,076,995) 1,418,971 515,024 9. Corporate Tax Expenses(gain) (441,121) 272,167 32,238 10. Net Income(loss) (635,874) 1,146,804 482,786 * We adopted and applied K-IFRS from 2010 and prepared the income statement of 2009 again based on K-IFRS. The income statement of 2008 was prepared based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. 2. Asset Status(Parent) Summarized Financial Position Unit: KRW million Category 2010 2009 2008 l. Current assets 8,094,379 7,691,694 4,517,638 Trade receivables 7,029,587 6,924,675 3,616,517 Inventory 1,064,792 767,019 901,121 ll. Non-current assets 14,880,630 14,451,516 12,820,243 Investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled and associates 7,844,726 7,897,109 7,879,443 Tangible assets 4,661,430 4,657,140 3,710,704 Intangible assets 725,818 685,917 470,610 Other non-current assets 1,648,656 1,211,350 759,486 Total assets 22,975,009 22,143,210 17,337,881 l. Current liabilities 9,358,809 8,668,430 5,941,588 ll. Non-Current liabilities 3,690,072 2,586,825 2,989,488 Total liabilities 13,048,881 11,255,255 8,931,076 l. Paid-in capital 3,017,088 3,017,088 3,461,080 Capital stock 809,169 809,169 809,169 Premium on Capital stock 2,207,919 2,207,919 2,651,911 ll. Earned surplus 6,932,015 7,892,549 4,117,223 lll. Accumulated other comprehensive income 9,844 11,137 873,395 lV. Other components of equity (32,819) (32,819) (44,893) Total equity 9,926,128 10,887,955 8,406,805 Total liabilities and equity 22,975,009 22,143,210 17,337,881 * We adopted and applied K-IFRS from 2010 and prepared the income statement of 2009 again based on K-IFRS. The income statement of 2008 was prepared based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. OUR DATA | ECONOMIC DATA 77 3. Main Financial Ratio(Parent) Stability Ratios Trends Ratio Category Formula 2010 2009 2008 Current assets Current ratio X 100 86.5% 88.7% 76.0% Current liabilities Total liabilities Debt ratio X 100 131.5% 103.4% 106.2% Equity capital Borrowings and bonds Debt X 100 21.8% 15.6% 14.9% Payable ratio Total assets Interest coverage ratio to Operating income -7.6 x 7.4 x 11.4 x operating profit Interest expenses * We adopted and applied K-IFRS from 2010 and prepared the income statement of 2009 again based on K-IFRS. The income statement of 2008 was prepared based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. Profitability Ratios Trends Ratio Category Formula 2010 2009 2008 Operating income Operating income to sales X 100 -3.8% 4.6% 4.4% Sales Net income Net income to sales X 100 -2.2% 3.8% 1.7% Sales Net income Total assets at the beginning of X 100 Net income to total assets the fiscal period -2.8% 5.2% 3.0% + /2 Total assets at the end of the fiscal period * We adopted and applied K-IFRS from 2010 and prepared the income statement of 2009 again based on K-IFRS. The income statement of 2008 was prepared based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. Activity and Growth Ratios Trends Ratio Category Formula 2010 2009 2008 Sales of the current Growth rate of sales fiscal year X 100 100 -4.2% 10.4% 17.6% Sales of the previous fiscal year Operating income of the current Growth rate of fiscal year X 100 100 -178.2% 15.1% 117.3% operating income Operating income of the previous fiscal year Net income of the Growth rate of net income current fiscal year X 100 100 -155.4% 137.5% -60.5% of the current fiscal year Net income of the previous fiscal year Total assets at the end of Growth rate of the current fiscal year total assets X 100 100 3.8% 27.7% 20.9% Total assets at the end of the previous fiscal year Sales Total assets at the beginning of Assets turnover ratio the fiscal period 1.3 1.4 1.7 + /2 Total assets at the end of the fiscal period * We adopted and applied K-IFRS from 2010 and prepared the income statement of 2009 again based on K-IFRS. The income statement of 2008 was prepared based on Korean Business Accounting Standards. 78 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Social Data The number of employees working at LG Electronics is 90,578 as of December 31, 2010. Among them, 31,840 work in Korea and 58,738 work in overseas offices. Approximately 64.8% of the total employees are either Korean workers dispatched abroad or locally recruited. Among the Korean employees, temporary employees numbered just 330, or 1.0% of the total. The resignation rate of 4.8% in 2009 was up 1.5% from the previous year. 1.3% of the total employees have disabilities. The average age of the employees is 35.5 years old(average age for male employees is 37.3) and the female executives account for 1.5%. The average age for female executives is 47.6 years old(the average age level among the male executives is 50.3). The minimum wage for newly hired employees is 322% higher than the government set minimum wage. There is no salary gap between males and females. Percentage of Temporary Employees, Retired Employees, and Female Employees(in Korea) s of December 31, 2010 Percentage of Temporary Employees(%) Percentage of Retired Employees(%) Percentage of Female Employees(%) 1.3 1.7 1.0 7.1 3.3 4.8 15.7 15.0 13.2 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Number of Employees As of December 31, 2010 Korea Overseas* Organization Total Executive Staff Operator Others** Total Executive Staff Operator Total HE Company 15,333 33 4,951 2,556 76 7,616 5 2,037 5,675 7,717 MC Company 14,397 40 7,419 2,142 60 9,661 12 2,509 2,215 4,736 HA Company 9,745 14 2,178 2,095 87 4,374 7 1,453 3,911 5,371 AE Company 8,046 17 1,774 1,442 23 3,256 4 1,796 2,990 4,790 CTO 2,922 27 2,754 5 28 2,814 1 107 108 Headquarters 5,926 61 2,667 165 55 2,948 2 886 2,090 2,978 Korea Marketing Company 1,171 5 1,165 1 1,171 0 N  orth America 2,263 6 1,856 401 2,263 Region Representative Europe Region Representative 3,426 12 3,414 3,426 Southeast Asia 6,870 3 3,795 3,072 6,870 Region Representative Southwest Asia 4,435 4 2,693 1,738 4,435 Region Representative S outh & Central America 7,590 4 3,842 3,744 7,590 Region Representative Middle East & Africa 2,025 6 1,782 237 2,025 Region Representative CIS Region Representative 3,204 6 1,675 1,523 3,204 China Region Representative 3,225 9 3,216 3,225 Total 90,578 197 22,908 8,405 330 31,840 81 31,061 27,596 58,738 * Korean staff working overseas(FSE: Foreign Service Employee) are included in overseas workforce * * Contract workers OUR DATA | SOCIAL DATA 79 Benefits and Support Programs Employee Training Time Table LGE helps employees maintain a harmony between their work and personal life. It also increases creativity and competitiveness by imCountry Total Training Hours Training Hours per / Region Employee proving employee welfare as well as supporting employee leisure activities and benefits such as paid maternity leave. Korea 1,036,706 54.7 2008 Overseas 136,826 5.1 Benefits (for Korean Employees) Korea 628,478 31.1 2009 Legally Required Benefits Overseas 169,117 6.3 National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Korea 963,686 41.7 Insurance, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance 2010 Total  Overseas 86,963 2.8 39.8% KRW 341.8 billion 60.2% Other Benefits Other support programs than legally required benefits * Training hours in Korea in 2010 increased as a result of the increase in new recruitment (1,960 employees) * Training in overseas not conducted during second half of 2010 as a result of Global Organization Restructuring and overseas training system/program revision Benefits and Support Programs(for Korean Employees) • Vacation for Refreshment: Employees plan their yearly vacation at the beginning of the year and are encouraged to freely take their leaves Leisure Activities • Resort Facilities: Employees have access to 10 resort facilities(including condominiums and pensions) across Korea • Informal Groups: Hobby and volunteer groups • Lounge and nursing room for female employees: For female employees / pregnant and nursing employees • Childcare Facilities : Available in Seoul, Pyeongtaek, Changwon; plans in place for expansion to all business sites • Maternity Leave Paid maternity leave for female employees before and after childbirth(up to 90 days) Childbirth and Maternity Leave Time off offered in the event of a miscarriage / stillbirth(30-90 days), time off for fertility issues(2 days) Time off given when a spouse gives birth(3 days) Time off given to raise infants under one year of age(for up to 12 months) • Housing Loans: Housing loans offered to employees with at least two years of experience of service • Domestic Moving Costs: Assistance with moving costs when an employee is transferred Housing and Stable Living • Congratulatory / Condolence Money: Support for congratulatory events and funerals of employees and their families • Disaster Relief Money: Support offered to employees and their families who have suffered property damage cause • Medical expenses for employees and family members • Group insurance related to disasters; operation of Health Care Center and Counseling Center Medical / Health • Paid sick leave: For sick leave due to occupational accidents, 70% of average wages for personal illness, 30-100% of ordinary wages • Scholarship for employees’ children / Support for employees entering / reentering educational programs Education • Special lectures on healthcare, financial technology, and family life • National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Legally Required Benefits • Retirement Pension System: Fixed amount guaranteed • KRW 1,000,000 worth of points awarded to employees Selective Benefits • Points can be redeemed for personal development, leisure / health, gift & product purchasing Learning-NET Service Website Learning-NET(Korean) Learning-NET(Global) Learning-NET(Chinese) Participants Korean employees Korean and overseas employees Chinese employees No. of Employees Trained(as of 2010) 163,485 94,416 23,419 No. of Training Courses(as of 2011) 536 517 507 Language Korean English, Spanish, Portuguese, etc. Chinese 80 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Environmental Data LG Electronics manages the environmental management standards at 50% stricter than the legal standards, contributing to reducing environmental risks and improving the local environment through such strict management. To increase the reliability of the environment data, LG Electronics ensures that the relevant personnel in all production sites undergo corresponding training sessions, while continuously improve the overall data management system. In this process, LG Electronics identified some errors in the previous year’s data due to differing data management systems among sites. LG Electronics will provide a more reliable environmental data through improved management systems. * All data correspond to the entire production sites of LGE(6 in Korea and 30 overseas), except the data on Energy and Material INPUT DATA Energy Unit: TJ Material(in Korea) Period 2008 2009 2010 Products Required for Recycling Released Volume(Ton) Electricity 5,906.37 5,213.07 5,720.85 Refrigerator(General) 102,302 Steam 421.91 367.39 390.17 Refrigerator(for Kimchi) 25,545 LNG 1,463.43 1,053.40 1,112.84 Washing Machine(Top-load) 26,048 Coal 1,233.16 1,101.25 1,137.22 Washing Machine(Front-load) 27,614 Other 558.55 398.54 474.29 Air-conditioner(Indoor unit) 25,979 Total 9,583.42 8,133.65 8,835.37 Air-conditioner(Outdoor unit) 44,819 * Applicable business sites: Korea(production, office, R&D centers); Overseas(production) Television(CRT) 3,130 * Applicable energy usage: Combustion facility in business sites and external electricity and heat usage(excluding energy consumed by vehicles) Television(LCD, PDP) 19,439 * The energy consumption is calculated based on net heating value * Verification status: Korea(2008 2010), Overseas(verification is not performed, excepting for China Personal Computer(Monitor) 6,541 from 2008 to 2009) * The data correction can be made in the process of the third party verification. Personal Computer(Keyboard) 445 Personal Computer(Desktop) 2,639 Water use Unit: Ton Personal Computer(Lap-top) 552 2008 2009 2010 Audio(All-in-one type) 81 4,159,930 4,338,142 Audio(Separated type body) Korea 5,670,585 (3,574,123) (3,024,600) 222 Audio(Speaker) 6,354,165 5,936,851 Overseas 6,220,628 (5,252,002) (4,820,769) Mobile handset(Body) 631 10,514,095 10,274,993 Total 11,891,213 Mobile handset(Battery) 195 (8,826,125) (7,845,369) *T  he numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate the mistaken data disclosed in the 2009 report. The Mobile handset(Charger) 54 values have been adjusted to fix the errors occurred during the verification process. * The water usage has significatly increased in Korea in 2010 because of the changed Printer(Laiser) 35 manufacturing process in the Gumi PDP site and mass production of the solar cell initiated in 2010. Printer(Non-Laiser) 328 Total 286,599 Ozone depleting chemicals Unit: Ton 2008 2009 2010 Korea 2,324 1,631 1,509 HCFC Overseas 3,530 3,036 3,023 (R22) Total 5,854 4,667 4,532 OUR DATA | ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 81 OUTPUT DATA Air Emission Unit: Ton Discharges into Water Unit: Ton Category Region 2008 2009 2010 Category Region 2008 2009 2010 Korea 2.1 (7.2) 1.5 (6.5) 1.8 Korea 0.8 1.5 1.3 NOx Overseas 103.9(123) 92.6 (108) 114.1 T-P Overseas 0.6 0.6 0.5 Total 106.0 (130.2) 94.1 (114.5) 115.9 Total 1.4 2.1 1.8 Korea 0.3 (1) 0.1 (0.1) 0.4 Korea 33.8 (34.4) 51.3 (52.2) 58.0 SOx Overseas 73.2 (102) 55.6 (67) 89.1 T-N Overseas 5.1 (67) 6.5 (42) 5.3 Total 73.5 (103) 55.7 (67.1) 89.5 Total 38.9 (101.4) 57.8 (94.2) 63.3 Korea 6.6 (4.8) 4.0 (3.5) 5.0 Korea 11.5 (13.2) 18.3 (19.2) 38.8 Dust Overseas 76.9 (91) 66.5 (81) 80.7 SS Overseas 56.9 (151) 32.7 (96) 30.5 Total 83.5 (95.8) 70.5 (84.5) 85.7 Total 68.4 (164.2) 51.0 (115.2) 69.3 Korea Korea 43.9 (44.2) 54.4 (55) 106.8 11.5 (0) 14.0 (0) 16.4 (ppm) VOCs COD Overseas 100.0 (373) 48.0 (372) 99.2 Overseas 16.0 (29) 21.6 (43) 21.8 (ton) Total 143.9(417.2) 102.4 (427) 206 * The numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate the mistaken data disclosed in the 2009 report. The * The numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate the mistaken data disclosed in the 2009 report. The values have been adjusted to fix the errors occurred during the verification process. values have been adjusted to fix the errors occurred during the verification process. * In case of VOCs, there was no standard for VOC measurement in Korea so this report presents the * Previous reports included the measurement for general sewerage waste water treatment facility, average concentration of Total Hydrocarbon (THC) in ppm from the painting facilities. but this report only includes the waste water facilities directly related to the production. Waste Unit: Ton Category Region 2008 2009 2010 Korea 28,187 (30,428) 27,911 (27,894) 37,529 Recycle Overseas 71,480 (87,839) 68,601 (103,027) 80,472 Total 99,667 (118,267) 96,512 (130,921) 118,001 Korea 4,145 (5,476) 1,614 (1,870) 4,368 Landfill Overseas 29,972 (9,381) 26,766 (8,975) 40,434 Total 34,117 (14,857) 28,380 (10,845) 44,802 Korea 5,754 (9,028) 5,114 (4,739) 6,452 Incineration Overseas 1,561 (478) 898 (620) 1,166 Total 7,315 (9,506) 6,012 (5,359) 7,618 General 34,255 32,200 45,883 Korea Hazardous 3,831 2,439 2,466 By region 38,086 34,639 48,349 Overseas 103,013 96,265 122,072 Total 141,099 130,904 170,421 * The numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate the mistaken data disclosed in the 2009 report. The values have been adjusted to fix the errors occurred during the verification process. * Incineration includes the heat recovery * For hazardous wastes, this reports only includes data from Korea, because definition of hazardous wastes differs in each country. * The increase in the amount of waste is due to sludge from changed manufacturing process in Gumi PDP site and additional waste from closed video tape plant in Cheongju site. 82 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report Wastewater discharge Unit: Ton Safety Data Region 2008 2009 2010 Category Region 2008 2009 2010 2,510,566 3,017,428 Korea 0 0 0 Korea 3,922,150 (2,646,430) (3,154,587) Fatality Overseas 1 1 0 1,605,772 1,464,472 (case) Overseas 1,493,185 (1,631,713) (1,594,471) Total 1 1 0 4,116,338 4,481,900 Total 5,415,335 Korea 29 14 12 (4,278,143) (4,749,058) Incident *T  he numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate the mistaken data disclosed in the 2009 report. Overseas 456 316 333 (case) The values have been adjusted to fix the errors occurred during the verification process. *T  he waste discharge rate has significantly increased in Korea in 2010 because of the changed Total 485 330 345 manufacturing process in the Gumi PDP site and mass production of the solar cell initiated in 2010. Korea 44,417,463 36,914,334 47,708,018 Total hours worked Overseas 100,533,996 102,571,389 122,422,941 (hours) Total 144,951,459 139,485,723 170,130,959 Global Production Network Region City Subsidiary Product ISO Certification North Mexico Reynosa LGERS LCD/PDP TV, CRT TV, PDP Module ISO 14001 America Mexico Monterey LGEMM Refrigerator, Oven ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 South & Brazil Manaus LGEAZ TV, DVD, Audio, Car Audio, Microwave Oven, Air Conditioner ISO 14001 Central America Brazil Taubate LGESP Monitor, Mobile Phone, Laptop, Washing Machine ISO 14001 Poland Mlawa LGEMA TV, Monitor ISO 14001 Europe Poland Wroclaw LGEWR Refrigerator, TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Egypt Ismailia LGEEG CRT TV, FPD ISO 14001 Middle East Turkey Istanbul LGEAT Air Conditioner ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 & Africa Saudi Arabia Riaydh LGESR Air Conditioner South West India Noida CRT TV, LCD/PDP TV, Monitor, Refrigerator, Air Conditioner, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 LGEIL Asia Pune Washing Machine, Compressor, Optical Storage, Mobile Phone ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Thailand Rayong LGETH Washing Machine, Air Conditioner, Compressor, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Hung Yen TV, Monitor, Mobile Phone, Air Conditioner, Washing Machine, ISO 14001 South East Vietnam LGEVN Hai Phong Refrigerator, Microwave Oven, Vacuum Cleaner ISO 14001 Asia Bekasi LCD Monitor, LCD TV, PDP TV, CRT TV, VCR, DVD-P, VCR, COMBI, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Indonesia LGEIN Tanggerang REC COMBI, DVD-P, DVD-R, BD-P, BD-Home theater, DVD-Home Theater, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Taizhou LGETR Refrigerator, Compressor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Huizhou LGEHZ Media, Optical Storage ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Nanjing LGEND Monitor, LCD/PDP TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Nanjing LGEPN Washing Machine, Motor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Qinhuangdao LGEQH Casting ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Shanghai LGESH Security Camera ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China China Shenyang LGESY CRT TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Tianjin LGETA Microwave Oven, Air Conditioner, Vacuum Cleaner, Compressor, MGT ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Yantai LGEYT Mobile Phone ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Kunshan LGEKS Telematics, Audio ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Hangzhou LGEHN Video Cassette Tape, USB, HDD, Prism Sheet ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Qingdao LGEQD Mobile Phone ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Kazakhstan Almaty LGEAK TV, Washing Machine ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 CIS Russia Ruja LGERA TV, Monitor, Refrigerator, Washing Machine * No. of Overseas Production sites: 30(No. of Production subsidiary: 27) * All 6 Korean production sites have ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 certification. APPENDIX | INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 83 Independent Assurance Statement Scope and objectives LG Electronics has commissioned Two Tomorrows(Asia) Limited to under• Site visits to the Seoul headquarters, Pyeongtaek and Changwon mantake independent assurance of the LG Electronics Sustainability Report ufacturing sites to review procedures and systems for preparing site 2010. level sustainability data and the implementation of the sustainability strategy. The sites were chosen by us; The assurance process was conducted in accordance with AA1000AS • Review of information provided to us by LGE on its reporting and man(2008). We were engaged to provide Type 2 assurance, which covers: agement processes relating to the Principles, including its approach to • Evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS(2008) principles of inclustakeholder engagement; sivity, materiality and responsiveness(the Principles) and; • Review of supporting evidence for key claims in the report; •The reliability of specified sustainability performance information. • Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating data and, for a sample, checking the data consolidation. Sampling was based on Our review of sustainability performance information covered collection prioritised data for the most material issues; and consolidation processes for key data and claims in the report. The fol• Facilitation of a stakeholder event to obtain feedback on the future lowing information was outside the scope of our assurance engagement: direction of LGE’s social contribution approach. • Reporting on non-Korean operations and suppliers. However, our review of Korean activities and data also involved the consideration of Findings information relating to LGE’s sustainability management of overseas We reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report and where operations and suppliers, and we have provided some related comnecessary changes were made. ments in our observations. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to • Financial information in the report. suggest that the Report does not properly describe LGE’s Korean opera• Information provided on the LGE’s website. tions’ adherence to the Principles or its performance. In terms of data • GHG data. These data were verified by another 3rd party organization. accuracy – we are not aware of any data errors that would materially afWhen evaluating performance information, we used the Global Reporting fect the reported data. Nothing has came to our attention to suggest that Initiative’s(GRI) Quality of Information Principles. data has not been properly collated from the operational level. Responsibilities of the directors of LG Electronics and Observations of the assurance providers Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the following The directors of LGE have sole responsibility for the preparation of the observations. Report. In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the During the management interviews, we noted significant improvement management of LGE. However, our statement represents our indepenin top management awareness of sustainability issues despite recent dent opinion and is intended to inform all LGE stakeholders. We adopt a changes to the team. This provides evidence that the sustainability govbalanced approach towards all LGE stakeholders. ernance structure, including the CSR committee, is working effectively. This is the third year we have provided sustainability assurance for LGE. We Recent changes to the CSR council are expected to further improve sushad one other contract with LGE in 2007, which was to benchmark their tainability governance by enhancing the company’s understanding of report against global best practice. Two Tomorrows has not been involved customers’ issues and effective response to them. The changes include in the preparation of the report, nor do we have any other contracts with enhancement of the council’s role and responsibility and assignment of the company. Our team comprised of MinGu Jun, project leader, as well marketing managers to the council to collect and manage customers’ as Todd Cort, Thomas Krick and InMog Yang. This assurance statement expectations regarding LGE’s CSR performance. Further improvement of was prepared by the team in English, and reviewed and signed off by Jagovernance can be achieved if roles and procedures for the management son Perks, a Two Tomorrows(Asia) Limited Director. Further information, of sustainability issues are clearly defined at board level. including individual competencies relating to the team can be found at: While there have been some improvements in terms of balanced report( http://www.twotomorrows.com) ing, to continue to build credibility with stakeholders, it is recommended that a clear policy should be established and implemented throughout Basis of our opinion the organization, which ensures balanced disclosure of both positive and Our work was designed to gather evidence with the objective of providing negative aspects of the organization’s performance. moderate assurance as defined in AA1000AS(2008). We undertook the Inclusivity concerns the participation of stakeholders in developing and following activities: achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. • Review of LGE’s process for identifying and assessing material issues; • LGE shows continuous improvement of inclusivity for its customers and • A desk-based review of stakeholder perceptions of the company, brief also for other key stakeholders. Ultimately, the company’s improved media sweep and benchmark research with peers to independently understanding of the needs and ideas of stakeholders should be linked check the issues identified through LGE’s materiality process; to its innovation efforts such as new product development, operational • Interviews with 10 members of the executive management team, as innovation and enhancing social benefits of products. We recommend well as with other senior management team members responsible for that LGE establishes official systems to facilitate this linkage. the management of material non-financial issues, and with the presi• LGE discloses the expectations and characteristics of key stakeholder dent of LGE labor union. The interviewee roles were requested by us, groups and communication mechanisms. To further improve inclusivand individuals suggested by LGE and agreed by us; ity, we recommend that LGE reports on procedures for identifying • Review of selected evidence to support issues raised during discussions stakeholders and linking their expectations with the company’s relwith managers; evant response. 84 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report • It is commendable that LGE holds a stakeholder panel to identify exfor key material issues, which is a highly commendable reporting pectations and communicate its response, and that it has extended approach that establishes a baseline for consistent reporting of perthe panel’s role to more specific material issue areas. We recommend formance. We believe this logical explanation of LGE’s key material that LGE develops a formal stakeholder procedure to make this experiissues will improve awareness and understanding of internal and exmental panel a regular and consistent approach to inclusivity. We also ternal stakeholders. recommend that LGE ensures the key issues raised by stakeholders are •D  ue to the increasing importance of e-waste , LGE discloses its takediscussed at the highest governance bodies, such as the board of diback system to meet the requirements of mature markets and also rectors and/or CSR committee. provides some discussion of its activities in non-regulated markets. • Evaluation and rating schemes of product environmental and social We recommend that LGE builds on initial research to further underaspects are increasing globally, and due to the expansion of internet stand the current status of e-waste streams from Korea to developing and mobile communication technologies, customers’ access to the countries like China and India, to identify problems and possible coinformation is expected to increase. It will become increasingly imoperation opportunities with local stakeholders to develop long-term portant for LGE to respond systematically to the information providsolutions. ers, based on their significance and relevance to LGE’s business. These • L GE’s innovation processes focus primarily on environmental perforresponses might include preparing comprehensive environmental permance with some discussion of product safety. In the future, we recformance information of its products based on lifecycle based benchommend that LGE expands discussion on product innovation efforts marking analysis with its peer products. for social aspects of products, such as usability for the disabled and • LGE demonstrates highly commendable approaches to supplier enelderly, possible solutions for bottom of the pyramid including water gagement through various programs that covers aspects of control treatment and micro-energy generation. and support. We recommend LGE expands its current focus on major •W  e recommend that LGE discusses employee diversity and equal suppliers of large purchasing volume to cover small and medium sized opportunity issues further. This area is gaining in importance, for exsuppliers that have heavy reliance on LGE and those with high social ample from recent Social Responsibility and reporting standards and and environmental risks. It is also recommended that LGE enhances guidance. A specific area for enhancement of disclosure is gender dimanagement of specific supplier issues including resource traceability versity, where we recommend providing statistics, related targets and in products, human rights and labor standards and energy efficiency management approaches for improvement. of logistics. Performance Information Material issues are those which are necessary for stakeholders to • Nothing came to our attention to suggest that the consolidated data make informed judgments concerning LG Electronics and its impresented within the report and associated claims are not fairly stated. pacts. •W  e recommend that LGE establishes data collection and quality con• Based on the work undertaken, we are not aware of any issues that trol processes to improve data quality from the different parts of the are of high materiality for its Korean operations that LGE has not reccompany. As the reporting scope and issues are expanded, a data reliognised within its report. ability review process, for instance using internal audit, needs to be • LGE’s materiality process demonstrates continuous improvements, introduced. which includes enhancing the linkage with the compliance risk man•W  hile there have been improvements in systematic performance reagement process. To support further improvement, we recommend porting, including Key Progress and Performance , there is still a lack that the process be formally documented, covering methods, assumpof quantified performance information. We recommend that LGE uptions, materiality threshold criteria, reporting and review procedures dates the current qualitative description of targets with quantitative at the top management level. It is also recommended that process ones and makes reports performance against those targets. transparency be enhanced by disclosing the process to stakeholders and taking feedback for further improvement. • We recommend that LGE ensures social and environmental issues in Two Tomorrows(Asia) Limited its key markets are reviewed through the corporate level materiality Seoul Korea process and connected to product development to drive innovative 21st April 2011 products that help solve local environmental and social issues. • The materiality process can be enhanced further through greater efforts to identify potential environmental issues during the life-cycle of Jason Perks MinGu Jun Todd Cort Director Project Leader Principal Consultant its products e.g. resource extraction, logistics, manufacturing, use and end of life of products. Responsiveness concerns the extent to which an organisation reThomas Krick InMog Yang Senior Consultant Senior Associate sponds to stakeholder issues • Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the report does not adequately describe LGE’s Korean operations responsiveness to Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited, trading as Two Tomorrows, is an stakeholder issues. international consultancy that helps companies to perform better • The newly introduced Key Progress and Performance covers context, and create value by doing business in a sustainable way. opportunity and risk factors, performance and mid-long term targets www.twotomorrows.com APPENDIX | MEMBERSHIPS/AWARDS & RECOGNITION 85 Memberships/Awards & Recognition Memberships As of December 31, 2010 Meberships Council of Economic Organizations Korea Invention Promotion Association Organization of Consumer Affairs Professionals in Business Korean Association of Occupational Health Nurse Industrial Health Association Korea Association of Information & Telecommunication Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers(KSME) Korean Industrial Technology Association Korean Institute of Industrial Engineers(KIIE) Korea Association of Industrial Designers(KAID) Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korean Institute for Industrial Safety The Republic of Korea National Red Cross Korea Forum for Progress The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering(KSNVE) Media Convergence Association(NMF) GS1 Korea The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies _Ethics Management Forum Korea Electronic Safety Association The Foundation of Korean Industries Korea Electronics Association National Industrial Health Association Korean Battery Recycling Engineering Sound E-Trade Management Association Korean Information Display Society(KIDS) Korea Radio Promotion Association Telecommunication Technology Association Federation of Korean Information Industries Society of CAD/CAM Engineers Korea Association for ICT Promotion Korea Home Network Industry Association Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development(KBCSD) Korea Association of RFID/USN Convergence Korea Audit Bureau of Circulations Korea-U.S. Economic Council, Inc. European Information & Communications Technology Industry Korea Employers Federation Association(EICTA) Korea Economic Research Institute International Council Society of Industrial Design(ICSID) Fair Competition Federation Japan Article Management Promotion Consortium(JAMP) Accreditation Board for Engineering Education of Korea Licensing Executive Society Korea(LES Korea) The Korean Federation of Science and Technology Societies Quality Brand Protection Committee(QBPC) Korea Advertiser Association Trade Related IPR Protection Association(TIPA) Korea Management Association Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition(EICC) Korea Micro Joining Association(KMJA) United Nations Global Compact(UNGC) The Korea International Trade Association United Nations Global Compact Korea Network(UNGC Korea Network) Awards & Recognition Date Award Awarder December 2010 India subsidiary, National Energy Conservation 2010 India Ministry of Power December 2010 Grand prize at the Korea Blog Award Korea Blog Business Association December 2010 Best of Best Grand Prix at the Red Dot Award with recycled green packaging Red Dot Award December 2010 2010 Arabian Sponsorship Award winner Arabian Sponsorship November 2010 Grand prize at the 2010 Korea Green Award Korea Environment Committee Environmental Media The Changwon site, 18 years successive selection as excellent business site for November 2010 Korea Energy Management Corporation energy reduction November 2010 Peru subsidiary, selected as Great Place to Work for the first time in South & Central America. Peru Newspaper, El Comercio November 2010 Selected as the best notebook brand in Brazil Brazil Newspaper, Folha de Sao Paulo October 2010 Selected as an excellent business site for low carbon management Korean Committee of Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) Vice president of Monitor Department, President’s Award in commemoration of the October 2010 Korea Ministry of Knowledge Economy Electronics Day September 2010 Selected as the most trusted brand in Indonesia The Economic Times August 2010 3 awards at the European Imaging and Sound Association Awards(EISA) European Imaging and Sound Association Awards(EISA) August 2010 3 awards at the Canne Advertising Festival 2010 Canne Advertising Association August 2010 MC R&D center, selected as excellent business site for Eco-mileage Korea Seoul Government August 2010 Trusted Brand Award 2010 The Reader’s Digest Trusted Brand Award(Thailand) July 2010 2010 Wireless Product the Year Platinum Winner Mark of Excellence(USA) July 2010 Green Energy Innovation Award Environment Certification Institute TÜV Rheinland Group June 2010 TV, Selected as Top of Mind(TOM) 1 in Brazil UOL search engine(uol.com.br) June 2010 Monitor, the world’s first UL Sustainable Product Certification(SPC) award UL(Underwriters Laboratories) April 2010 Indonesia CIC, Best call Center 2010 Award Center for Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty 86 2010 LG Electronics sustainability report UNGC INDEX The Ten Principles Our Activities Related Contents Page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support Based on corporate management philosophy of Respecting Human Dignity, LG Electronics strives to protect human Our Philosophy 9 and respect the protection of internarights of employees. To ensure fundamental human rights and labor rights of employees as well as those of suppliers, CSR Management 16~19 tionally proclaimed human rights; LGE announced Global Labor Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. Also, LGE is engaging in a series of outreach activiBusiness Partner 53~57 Principle 2: make sure that they are ties, including participation in the steering committee of the “Company and Human Rights Forum” organized by Korea Labor Rights Protection 69 not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Foundation. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold LG Electronics continues its efforts to establish a corporate culture that values the diversity of the employees and fosters Labor Rights Protection 69 the freedom of association and the creativity and autonomy. Owing to its efforts, LGE is leading an exemplary labor management relationship, achieving Business Partner 53~57 effective recognition of the right to 22 consecutive years of collective bargaining and wage negotiation without labor dispute(as of February 2011), and CSR Management 16~19 collective bargaining; declaring Union Social Responsibility(USR) charter. In addition, LGE joined Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Principle 4: the elimination of all forms (EICC) and established an enterprise-wide policy for the protection of labor rights in overall supply chain. To improve its of forced and compulsory labour; labor management climate, LGE asked Korean and overseas business sites to conduct a self-assessment(20 business Principle 5: the effective abolition of sites) and carried out on-site audit for 4 production sites and 4 suppliers. child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support LG Electronics strives to contribute to the community’s sustainable growth by minimizing harmful environmental Environment 37~51 a precautionary approach to environimpacts resulting from business activities. As a part of its efforts, LGE acquired 11 green technology certifications in demental challenges; velopment of greener products, concluded a green win-win growth MOU with its suppliers, and expanded its voluntary Principle 8: undertake initiatives substitution of PVC and BFRs. For low-carbon green management, LGE surpassed its GHG reduction goals at both the to promote greater environmental production and product use stages, and further expanded its activities towards suppliers and logistics. LG Electronics’ responsibility; and efforts towards facilitating low-carbon culture were acclaimed by Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) Korea. LGE established Principle 9: encourage the developan integrated EESH (Energy, Environment, Safety, and Health) certification system and global EESH audit system at ment and diffusion of environmentally its all production sites. In April 2010, LGE joined Caring for Climate, one of initiatives of UN Global Compact, and is friendly technologies. currently participating as a member of the steering committee to represent Korean companies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work LG Electronics’ “Jeong-Do Management” is the basis for all action taken by employees. LGE applies the same standard Jeong-Do Management 73 against corruption in all its forms, to all suppliers and business partners who do business with LGE. In 2010, it carried various activities, including a distribuCSR Risk Management 16 including extortion and bribery. tion of code of ethics handbook, code of ethics promotion and training for Korean/overseas employees and suppliers, Business partner 53~57 and establishment of the global standard. In addition, LGE added the ethics category to the CSR risk management program to monitor its worksites’ and suppliers’ management systems. GRI INDEX AppliGRI G3 No. Disclosure Items cationRelated Contents Page Level Profile Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustanability Strategy 1.1 CEO Message 6-7 to the organization and its strategy and Analysis Key Progress and Performance, CSR Management, 3~4, 16~19, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Stakeholder Engagement, Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 22, 23~25 2.1 Name of the organization Corporate Overview 10~13 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Corporate Overview 10~13 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Corporate Overview 10~13 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Corporate Overview 10~13 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations 2.5 Corporate Overview, Global Production Network 10~13, 82 Organizational or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability reporting Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 71 2.7 Markets served Corporate Overview and Economic performances 10~13 10~13, 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Corporate Overview, Financial statement, No. of employees 76-77, 78 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Corporate Overview 10~13 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Awards & Recognition 85 3.1 Reporting period Report Overview 2 3.2 Date of previous report June, 2010 89 3.3 Reporting cycle Report Overview(Annual) 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Overview 2 3.5 Process for defining report content Report Overview, Stakeholder Engagement, Key Progress and Performance 2, 22, 3~4 3.6 Boundary of the report Report Overview 2 Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report Overview 2 Parameters Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 3.8 Report Overview, Korean Subsidiaries 2, 11 between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Report Overview, Our Data 2,22, 76~82 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.10 Some environmental data in the previous report have been adjusted. 80-82 re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods LGE adopted K-IFRS for financial data 10, 76~77 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index 86~88 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Report Overview, Independent Assurance Statement 2, 83~84 O Fully Reported Partially Reorted X Not Reported N/A Not Applicable AppliAppliGRI G3 No. Disclosure Items cationRelated Contents Page GRI G3 No. Disclosure Items cationRelated Contents Page Level Level Profile Products EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation O Greener products, Low-Carbon Green Management, E-waste take back 36~42, 46, 81 and 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance 71 Services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category LCD module package, E-waste take back 50, 41~42 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Corporate Governance 71 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance X No violations in 2010 The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 4.3 Corporate Governance 71 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the non-executive members Transport EN29 GHG Inventory, logistics GHG Reduction target 44, 45 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 4.4 CSR Organization, Corporate Governance 17, 71 Overall EN30 X the highest governance body LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 Corporate Governance 71 and executives LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region O Employees by country, No. of Employees 13, 78 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance 71 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Percentage of retired employees 78 Employment 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance Corporate Governance 71 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, LA3 O Benefits and support programs 79 by major operations Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 Our philosophy, CSR management, UNGC Index 9, 16~19, 86 economic, environmental, and social performance Labor/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements O Percentage of labor union members(27%) 69 Governance, Management Commitments, Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and Relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes Labor Rights Protection, Labor Management communication 69, 67(2009 report) 4.9 CSR Organization 17 management of economic, environmental, and social performance and LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health and safety committees X Applied to all employees 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance Corporate Governance 71 Engagement Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Product Safety, Greener product strategy, Low-Carbon green strategy, 32~33, 37, LA7 Incident rate, Safety data 51, 82 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Occupational region EESH Management 43~47, 48~51 Health and Safety Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 O EESH management(safety, health) 49, 51 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 4.12 Memberships 85 to which the organization subscribes or endorses LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions X Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 4.13 Memberships 85 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Average training hours 79 organizations Training and LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning and assist them in managing career endings O Training Roadmap, Leaming-Net service 67, 79 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement 22 Education LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews O Fair evaluation(applied to all employees) 68 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement 22 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and Diversity and Equal LA13 O Corporate governance, No. of Employees 71, 78 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement, Materiality analysis 22, 26~27 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity by stakeholder group Opportunity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Social data(No differences) 78 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how 22, 23~25, 4.17 Stakeholder Engagement, Stakeholder Consultation, Materiality analysis HUMAN RIGHTS the organization has responded 26-27 System is not prepared to calculate the number of significant ECONOMIC Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that HR1 x investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed O Economic Performances 12, 13 have undergone human rights screening Investment and Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Procurement LGE conducted on-site audit for 4 suppliers in 2010. EC2 O Opportunities and risks for climate change, Key progress and performance 3~4, 44 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and organization’s activities due to climate change Practices HR2 LGE is planning to initiate CSR risk audit including human rights indica56 actions taken Economic tors for about 20 major suppliers in 2011. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Benefits and suport programs 79 Performance HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 18,873 employees were trained(Code of ethics) 73 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Investment-related income tax saving 12 Non Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Respecting human dignity, UNGC Index 69, 86 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local Percentage of standard entry level wages compared to the national minimum EC5 78 Freedom of Assominimum wage at significant locations of operation wage in Korea Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be ciation and CollecHR5 Labor Rights Protection, UNGC Index 69, 86 at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights tive Bargaining EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation O Stakeholder engagement, Business partner 22, 53~57 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Joining of EICC, Enactment and announcement of Global Labor Policy Child Labor HR6 56~57, 16, 19 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locato the elimination of child labor and Supplier Code of Conduct Market EC7 Talent management, No. of Employees, Employees by country 67, 78, 13 tions of significant operation Forced and ComOperations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Establishment of CSR Risk Management system for Korea & Presence HR7 56~57, 16, 69 pulsory Labor contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor overseas business sites and major suppliers Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 O Flow of economic value, Social contribution 12, 59~63 through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of Security Practices HR8 X human rights EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts Flow of economic value, CDM business in India 12, 46 Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken X ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIETY EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Input data(Material) 80 Materials Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials The usage of recycled plastic 42 Community SO1 X operations on communities EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source O Input Data(Energy) 80 System is not prepared to calculate the percentage and total number SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption X EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source O Input Data(Energy) 80 of business units for corruption risks Corruption EN5 Production level GHG reduction , EESH Management GHG reduction results 44, 50 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 18,873 employees were trained(Code of ethics) 73 Energy Greener products, Production level GNG reduction, Solar solution, 37~39 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Jeong-Do Management 73 EN6 Greener Products, Low-carbon green management, New Environment-Energy business Smart grid business 44~47 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Stakeholder Engagement, Cooperation with low carbon policy 22, 43 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Low-Carbon green management 43~47 Public Policy Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions SO6 N/A Prohibited in Korea by law EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Input data (Water) 80 by country Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water X Currently under investigation by the fair trade or antitrust authorities Anti-Competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and 2010 SO7 in Korea and the European Union with respect to possible antiEN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused X Behavior their outomes Financial statements competitive activities among CRT manufacturers. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 N/A LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with biodiversity value outside protected areas Compliance SO8 1 case violation(KRW 141 million) in 2010 laws and regulations Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EN12 N/A LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. PR1 Product Safety, Greener products 32~33, 37~42 Customer Health and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity N/A LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and PR2 Responsible Marketing Communication 31 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle EN15 N/A LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and Carbon Footprint Label 45, 2010 EnvironmenPR3 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight O GHG emissions(Global) 44 services subject to such information requirements (See Environmental report for details) tal report Product and EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight O GHG emissions(Global) 44 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Service Labeling PR4 O Resposible Marketing Communication 31 service information and labeling EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Low-Carbon green management 44-47 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction O Communication with Customers 29-31 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight O Input data(Ozone depleting chemicals) 80 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications Communication with Customers, Compliance risk management 29-31, 72 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight O Output data(Air Emissions) 81 Marketing Emissions, Communication Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Output data(Wastewater) 81 PR7 X Effluents, communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship and Waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method O Output data(Waste) 81 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Measures customer privacy and losses of Customer Privacy PR8 Privacy protection 75 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills X None of significant spills occurred in 2010 customer data Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision EN24 X Compliance PR9 Resposible Marketing Communication 31 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally and use of products and services Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected EN25 X by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff People Who Participated In This Report Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina K KIM Tingli Uk ARK Yvonne THE Angela S PARK SAKUMA Surin CHO Tatiana SHAKHNES YOON Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung Dukesoo YOON KIM Minseok K KIM Heejin An Junghyun PARK Hyunjin JEON Stansen JANG Sewon MIN MIN Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina K KIM Tingli Uk PPARK Yvonne THE Angela SAKUMA SuCHO Tatiana SHAKHNES Dukesoo YOON rin CHO YOON Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung KIM K Minseok KIM KIM Heejin An Junghyun P PARK Hyunjin JEON Stansen JANG Sewon MIN M Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina KIM K Tingli PARK Yvonne THE Angela SAKUMA Surin C Uk PARK CHO HO Tatiana SHAKHNES Dukesoo YOON Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung KIM K Minseok KIM Heejin An Junghyun PARK Hyunjin J JEON Stansen JANG Sewon MIN Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina K KIM Tingli Uk PARK Yvonne THE Angela SAKUMA SAKUMA Surin CHO CHO Tatiana SHAKHNES Dukesoo YOON Y Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung K KIM Minseok KIM KIM Heejin An Junghyun PARK P Hyunjin JEON Stansen JANG ANG Sewon MIN Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina KIM K Tingli Uk PPARK Yvonne THE Angela SAKUMAAKUMA Surin HO Tatiana SHAKHNES Dukesoo YOON CHO Y Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung KIM K Minseok KIM Heejin An Junghyun P PARK Hyunjin JEON Stansen JANG ANG Sewon MININ Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina KIM Tingli Uk P PARK Yvonne THE Angela SAKUMA Surin CHO Tatiana SHAKHNES Y Dukesoo YOON Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung K KIM KIM Heejin An Junghyun PARK Hyunjin JEON Stansen JANG Minseok KIM JANG Sewon MIN Sanghak LEE Jaewon KIM Phillip Raymond ANDERSON Jinyeub JUNG Hyejin CHO Minchul SHIN Jihoon KIM Jaewoong KIM Hayeon MOON Woosub KIM Sungyong KANG Gilhyo NA Jongho WON Hyemi LEE Kyuah OH Jongmin LEE Sooyoun KIM Christina KIM KIM Tingli Uk PARK Yvonne THE Angela SAKUMA SAKUMA Surin CHO CHO Tatiana SHAKHNES Dukesoo YOON YOON Claudia Albuquerque Hyunsik Kim Hosung Joo Jiyoung KIM K Minseok KIM Heejin An Junghyun PARK Hyunjin JEON Stansen JANG Sewon MIN LG Electronics’ Sustainability Report 2005 Published in October 2006 2006 Published in October 2008 2008 Published in July 2009 2009 Published 2010 in June 2010 Published in May 2011 2007 Designed by_intoGraphic This report was printed with soy-based ink on eco-friendly paper
