2011 Sustainability Report Contents Introduction by the CEO 01 The CTICC and Sustainability 02 Organisational Profile 04 • Stakeholder engagement • Governance and compliance • Key performance and sustainability indicators Economic Sustainability 09 • Financial security • Economic contribution and impact – Total contribution to national and provincial economic development – Direct economic contribution – Indirect economic contribution Environmental Sustainability 11 • Energy efficiency • Eco procurement • Waste minimisation • Water efficiency • Transport • Greenhouse gas emissions • Realising the vision Social Sustainability 20 • Employment creation • Enterprise development • Social upliftment and volunteerism • Transformation, empowerment and gender equity • Training and education • Customer service excellence • Human rights • Occupational health and safety • Anti-corruption GRI Checklist 25 UNGC Principles 29 • Report on Progress MPI Rise Award puts CTICC and Cape Town in the global spotlight The Cape Town International Convention Centre clinched the 2011 Meeting Professionals International (MPI) Recognising Industry Success and Excellence (RISE) Award for best Organisational Achievement – which acknowledges the transformational impact an organisation has envisioned and achieved and the leadership exhibited to advance organisational strategy, drive business results and create change through meetings and events. RISE Award recipients are recognised for innovation, influence, global transferability and impact on complete sustainability. As such, the award recognises the value that is being unlocked by the CTICC’s focus on embedding sustainability into every facet of its business. “Courageous thought and effort are usually behind results that inspire. The recipients remind us what one organisation can do”. Brian Palmer; Chairman of the RISE Awards judging panel. Introduction by the CEO Any business that is serious about its long-term success Whilst the CTICC has made great strides towards must be prepared to build that success on sustainability. achieving its sustainability objectives in the years It needs to be a strategic priority, rather than a secondary since its establishment, we acknowledge that there consideration. Sustainability is not the result of a good is much work still to be done. As is the case with any business plan; it is central to that plan. Without it, organisation, we face many challenges in our efforts to businesses can no longer expect to stay competitive or entrench sustainability in the ethos and operations of our effective. business. However, as is evident from the information in this report, we are as determined as we are passionate. At the Cape Town International Convention Centre And that is what drives us to keep on working towards (CTICC), sustainability is not something we do, sustainable being sustainability leaders and pioneers in our industry is what we are. Sustainability is the common thread that and in our communities. binds every aspect of our business together and enables us to achieve the goals and vision we have set. We This is the first dedicated Sustainability Report produced strive, in every area of our business, to place economic, by the CTICC and we consider it our benchmark for social and environmental sustainability considerations the future. Our intention is to keep on extending our at the core of our operations. It’s what drives us to be reach, increasing our effectiveness and expanding our innovative, create opportunities for all our stakeholders sustainability horizons. It’s a journey that we are extremely and transform events into experiences for our clients. excited about and we hope that you will join us on it. It’s what keeps us fresh, relevant and dynamic. And it is what keeps us focused on our core mandate – to make a lasting contribution to the economy and people of the region, and have a positive impact on our planet. Rashid Toefy Chief Executive Officer CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 01 The CTICC and Sustainability THE CTICC’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH economic contribution, employee development, social By Joey Pather; Chief Operating Officer upliftment and, even, green event offerings. The CTICC embraces its mandate to its stakeholders and The sustainable framework and triple bottom line the communities in which it operates and makes every approach of the organisation are further supported by effort to impact positively on all areas of sustainability. its achievement of a number of ISO certifications and Whilst limiting and mitigating any negative impacts its its membership of the United Nations Global Compact, operations may have on the environment, the focus is both of which are discussed briefly below. on supporting local economic and social development through its sustainability strategy, which includes internal ISO certifications policies, procedures and initiatives. In early 2009, the CTICC gained the distinction of being the first convention centre in Africa, and the The triple bottom line approach of the CTICC is second convention centre in the world, to obtain three encompassed within the four key pillars that underpin management system certifications simultaneously. its vision: Following an exhaustive process of transforming the centre’s work processes to internationally recognised • To maximise economic spin off and job creation. systems standards, the CTICC was awarded the following • To focus on innovation and exceeding expectations. certifications: • To achieve service excellence by building capable and quality staff. • ISO 9001 – Quality Management • To become a world leader in sustainability initiatives. • ISO 14001 – Environmental Management • OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health and Safety These are not mutually exclusive aspects of the CTICC’s • HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) strategy and operations, but are closely interlinked – Food Safety and, in many ways, interdependent. For this reason, sustainability is actively pursued across every area Apart from representing a significant achievement and operation of the business – from facilities design, for the CTICC, these certifications also serve as the management and maintenance, to performance-driven CTICC’s guarantee of consistently excellent standards 02 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report of operations, service, environmental management and 7. Business should support a precautionary approach safety, as well as world-class, sustainable facilities. to environmental challenges. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote They are, in many ways, the foundation on which the greater environmental responsibility. centre will continue to build its reputation for excellence 9. Business should encourage the development and in sustainability in the years to come. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10.Business should work against corruption in all United Nations Global Compact forms, including extortion and bribery. CTICC is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact programme and the first convention centre CTICC’s adherence to these principles, and progress in the world to achieve full membership status. In in terms of their implementation across the business, addition, the centre’s CEO, Rashid Toefy, is a Member is outlined in the relevant sections of this report. The of the South African Advisory Committee to the UN UN Global Compact checklist at the end of the report Global Compact. offers page references to information on each of the principles. Given its involvement in, and commitment to the UN Global Compact, the CTICC actively embraces and Environmental policy supports the core values of the agreement, particularly Environmental considerations are critical factors for in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the meeting planners and event organisers when selecting environment and anti-corruption. The principles of the a venue. The CTICC’s clients, and particularly its Global Compact inform the CTICC’s strategy, culture international clients, want to know what the centre is and day-to-day operations, and the centre subscribes doing to reduce its carbon footprint and how, in turn, to the following UNGC principles: the CTICC is able to help them reduce theirs. 1. Business should support and respect the protection To this end, in 2008 the CTICC established an of internationally proclaimed human rights. environmental task team – the Nurture our World (NOW) 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit team – that is made up of representatives of each of in human rights abuses. the divisions of the organisation, as well key partner 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association service providers, in order to focus on achievements and and the effective recognition of the right to progress. collective bargaining. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms The NOW action plan includes the following elements: of forced and compulsory labour. • Green Identity 5. Business should support the effective abolition of • Green Audit child labour. • Green Client Guide 6. Business should support the elimination of • Green Training and Development discrimination in respect of employment and • Green Communication occupation. • Green Operations Environmental considerations are a critical factor for meeting planners and event organisers when selecting a venue. CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 03 Organisational Profile The Cape Town International Convention Centre its five-year business plan that has been agreed between Company (Convenco) was established in 1999 as a Convenco and the City of Cape Town. collaborative effort between the City of Cape Town, the Provincial Government of the Western Cape and the The CTICC continues to raise the profile of Cape Town business sector. as a sought-after international leisure and business tourism destination, and is maintaining and growing the Convenco was formed as the holding company of the economic and social contributions it makes to the city of CTICC. The Convention Centre serves both local and Cape Town, the Western Cape Province, and the country international guests through the provision of services and as a whole. facilities for events, exhibitions, conferences and meetings. Convenco is jointly owned by: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT • the City of Cape Town (50.2% shareholding), As a public entity, owned primarily by the City of Cape • the Provincial Government of the Western Cape Town, and with a mandate to contribute tangibly to the (25.1% shareholding), and economic and social development of the city, region and • SunWest International (Pty) Ltd (24.7% shareholding). country, the CTICC is committed to actively engaging with its stakeholders and keeping them informed of Whilst financial sustainability is an obvious objective of the progress it is making, successes it achieves, and the CTICC, the key rationale for its establishment was challenges it faces. Such stakeholder engagement is the to have a positive impact on the community by ‘bringing ultimate responsibility of the CEO, but is overseen by meetings to Cape Town in a world-class facility and, in so a dedicated communications team and executed via a doing, to generate jobs and economic development.’ number of communications channels, including: Since then, the vision of the centre has evolved, and • External newsletter – This electronic newsletter is is now, “to become the best long-haul international sent to all local and international clients on a monthly convention centre by 2020.” basis to keep the local and international industry abreast of the latest developments at the centre. The achievement of this vision forms the substance of the CTICC’s strategic blueprint for the future, as outlined in Awards Whilst garnering awards is not a key focus of the CTICC, the achievement of such recognition by its peers and the local and international events industry not only validates the effectiveness of its sustainability approach, but helps to position the CTICC as a recognised global leader. Some of the recent accolades enjoyed by the CTICC include: • MPI Rise Award 2011 for organisational achievement • 3rd Place: Europecar Award (Sustainability) • Finalist: UFI ICT Award (Sustainability) • Finalist: Exhibition News Best International • Finalist: Climate Change Award (Sustainability) Venue Awards 2011 04 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report • Press releases – These are an effective way of raising the • Speaking engagements – Offering speakers for profile of the centre’s sustainable initiatives in the media. industry conventions, trade association meetings, and other groups provides an opportunity for CTICC • Press conferences and media roundtables – These to position itself as an industry leader and expert in the are used as a platform to strengthen relationships conference industry and is an excellent way to network with print, radio and TV journalists and disseminate and generate customer leads. information and news about the centre and its sustainability initiatives. • Plasma screens – Key messages and principles are broadcast within the centre via strategically placed • Press kits (biography packs) – These include CTICC plasma screens. information in the form of news releases, organisation background, key spokesperson biographies and other • Website – The CTICC website is one of its key supporting materials that could prove useful communication tools and assists the centre to to reporters. effectively communicate with the local and international business communities. The website also • Media event calendar – The distribution of an event incorporates new media elements to stimulate greater calendar to the media is an ideal way of generating story engagement between CTICC and its clients. ideas for journalists. It is also an ideal platform on which to showcase sustainable events the centre is hosting. • Annual report – In addition to being a compliance document, the annual report is an important marketing • Advertising – Advertising in key local and international tool of the CTICC. industry publications is a significant way of marketing CTICC both locally and abroad. • Social media – The CTICC has dedicated Facebook, Twitter, Linked In and Foursquare pages used to • Collaborative marketing platforms – These ensure communicate its sustainable initiatives to the public. closer interaction with key stakeholders such as Cape Town Tourism, Cape Town Partnership, etc. The CTICC is also able to leverage off key events to promote its sustainable objectives. CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 05 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Compliance with the risk management requirements set The CTICC’s approach to corporate governance extends out in King III is also prioritised and a comprehensive risk beyond mere legislative compliance. Rather, good identification and management process is in place to corporate governance is seen as a cornerstone of the measure the severity of risks and implement appropriate sustainability of the centre, promoted and enabled risk mitigating interventions. through the development of a collective governance consciousness, a risk management ethos, and a values The CTICC Board of Directors and ethics driven culture. AM Boraine (Chairman) Non-executive R Toefy (CEO) Executive The CTICC’s membership of the UN Global Compact SA Fisher (Dr) Non-executive and its recent ISO certifications mean that the centre MA Gierdien Independent Non-executive is already well positioned as an events industry leader DS Jack Independent Non-executive in terms of governance. This position is being further resigned 5 May 2011 entrenched through the ongoing implementation of S Montsi Independent Non-executive King III principles across the business and the provision of TM Pasiwe Independent Non-executive integrated reporting addressing the triple bottom line. LF Platzky (Dr) Non-executive BN Roberts Non-executive Convenco endorses the principles of the Code of AC Seymour (CA(SA)) Non-executive Corporate Practices and Conduct as set out in the King DC Skeate Independent non-executive Report on Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III), HJ Taljaard Independent non-executive which came into effect, and replaced King II, on 1 March 2010. The Board places strong emphasis on maintaining The Board has established the following subcommittees high standards of financial management, accounting to assist it in discharging its duties and responsibilities: and reporting, to ensure that the company’s affairs are managed in an ethical, transparent and responsible • Audit committee manner. • Remuneration committee • Nominations committee • Expansion committee 06 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS The performance measurement of the CTICC by its shareholders is based on more than mere financial returns, but also includes a particular focus on the achievement of specific sustainability criteria. The Key Performance Indicators (KPI) against which the CTICC’s performance is evaluated by its shareholders, are as follows: KPI Annual Target 2011 1 Percentage spend of operational budget 98% 2 Percentage spend of capital budget 80% 3 Contribution to gross domestic product R2.3 billion 4 International delegate days 200 000 5 Number of jobs created 9 000 6 Number of events 500 7 Customer centricity and service excellence 75% of minimum aggregate score for all CTICC internal departments and external suppliers 8 Reduction of water and energy consumption 5% saving compared to previous year 9 Supply chain procurement from BEE suppliers measured in terms Percentage spend not lower of the BEE Act than 50% 10 All training costs spent on the current permanent and temporary staff Minimum 5% as a percentage of salary costs Whilst indications are that the CTICC has exceeded most or all of these Key Performance Indicator targets for the year under review, verified data was not available at the time of publishing. Full details of targets and actual performance will be contained in the CTICC Annual Report which will be published in October 2011. The CTICC’s membership of the UN Global Compact and its recent ISO certifications mean that the centre is already well positioned as an events industry leader in CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 07 terms of governance. This broad set of performance assessment criteria not only offers a more holistic and realistic view of the success achieved by the centre over time, it also helps to assure the sustainability of the organisation as a whole and serves to embed a high performance culture whilst driving transformation and growth. These Key Performance Indicators are cascaded down to the individual performance assessments of every CTICC employee, thereby ensuring that sustainability in all its facets remains a core focus of all staff members. Scope of reporting Whilst this first report focuses on the sustainability efforts and achievements of the CTICC during the period 1 June 2010 to 31 May 2011, many of the initiatives, policies and undertakings outlined on these pages extend further back in the centre’s history since its establishment in June 2003. This report focuses on the activities related to promoting and implementing sustainability principles based on the triple bottom line approach. The report specifically refers to the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) based in Cape Town. Further details about the business principles, management structure and client base are available in the Annual Report. All data and statistics in this report relate to the CTICC unless otherwise stated. The data was provided by the CTICC and supporting documentation is available. This report will be made available in electronic format only. Given that the financial results and details of the economic contributions of the CTICC for the period under review will only be available after this report is published, it has been necessary, in certain instances, to include figures covering the 2009/10 financial year. This report focuses on the activities related to promoting and implementing sustainability principles based on the triple bottom line 08 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report approach. Subsequent reports will be produced on an annual basis. Economic Sustainability Whilst the continued profitability of the CTICC is key to its continued growth and success as an international destination, a central tenet of the organisation’s existence is making a significant contribution to the sustainable tourism development and economic growth of the City of Cape Town, the Western Cape region and South Africa as a whole. The CTICC’s achievements in this regard during the 2009/2010 financial year* are outlined in the table below: CTICC economic contribution at a glance 2009/2010 2008/2009 Cumulative Contribution to GDP R2.3 billion R2.3 billion R14.1 billion Contribution to GGP R835.7 million R828 million R4.9 billion Direct jobs created and maintained 3 076 3 242 – Indirect jobs created and maintained 4 004 4 168 – Visitor days (excl. induced tourism) 1 119 852 1 213 590 – Foreign exchange earnings R903.7 million R862.0 million R2.76 billion * The economic sustainability figures included in this report are taken from the 2009/10 financial reporting period. These were the last audited figures available at the time of producing this report. FINANCIAL SECURITY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION AND IMPACT Whilst financial results are not the only measure of the CTICC’s success, they are vital components of its sustainTotal contribution to national and provincial ability, as a profitable position is an essential requirement for economic development continued effectiveness in contributing to economic, social During the 2009/2010 financial year, the CTICC and environmental sustainability, both within the business and contributed R835.7 million to the Gross Geographic the environment as well as communities in which it operates. Product (GGP) of the Western Cape and R2.3 billion to South Africa’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This places During the 2009/2010 financial year, the CTICC delivered the cumulative contribution by the CTICC to the national revenue of more than R138.9 million, which represents a economy at R14.1 billion – a figure that is projected to 14% increase on the R121.5 million in revenue generated rise by a further R17.3 billion over the next five years. during the previous financial year. Current projections are that the CTICC will make a CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 09 The expansion will effectively create a “convention precinct” which, it is envisaged, will contribute to the creation of more than 8 000 jobs annually by 2018. cumulative contribution of R11.1 billion to provincial Indirect economic contribution GGP by 2015. In addition to its economic contribution to the national and provincial economies, the CTICC was a Direct economic contribution net generator of R531.7 million in foreign exchange Actual operations by the CTICC itself – including capital earnings for the country during the 2009/2010 financial and operational expenditure, host, organiser and year. This figure takes into account foreign exchange exhibitor expenditure, and delegate spend – have made brought into the country by international delegates and up R1.7 billion of the contribution to GDP and R610.9 returning visitors, as well as the purchases of imports. million of the contribution to Western Cape GGP since The business operations of the CTICC also generated the centre’s inception. R216.9 million in tax revenue and created R1.2 billion in indirect household income. Expanding our impact The proposed expansion of the Cape Town International Convention Centre is set to boost Cape Town’s reputation as a globally competitive business destination and contribute to economic growth through job creation in the province. The expansion will effectively create a “convention precinct” which, it is envisaged, will contribute to the creation of more than 8 000 jobs annually by 2018, and unlock construction and development opportunities to the value of over R4.5 billion, which will have a multiplier effect on the economy. A recent feasibility report by economists from the University of Cape Town’s Graduate School of Business that measured the possible impact of the expansion, revealed that the centre’s contribution to national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) could be expected to increase from R2.3 billion currently to over R5.1 billion per annum. It is also hoped that the expansion will enable Cape Town to double the number of international meetings that it currently hosts. 10 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report Environmental Sustainability Rather than merely limiting any negative impact its source is electricity, with a back-up support provided operations may have on the environment, the CTICC is by diesel generators. The existing electricity metering committed to actively contributing to the conservation focuses on the rentable areas, but is not able to and preservation of our local natural heritage. Our determine electricity consumption in the kitchen, offices environmental sustainability efforts are therefore guided or public walkways. There are various, infrequently by a comprehensive environmental management policy occupied rooms (storage, toilets and walk-in fridges), and executed via a range of green initiatives. These are where lights are left on. Energy consumption could be supported by determined and ongoing efforts to embed optimised by the installation of sensors. green as a mindset across the organisation and beyond. In the kitchens energy management is closely linked The CTICC’s business strategy places a priority on to food production with ovens only switched on when progressively and innovatively implementing best practice needed. Walk-in fridges have air curtains to reduce sustainable initiatives, particularly (but not exclusively) loss of cold air, whilst hot water pipes are insulated to in terms of energy efficiency, waste management and reduce heat loss. Thermal blankets are used over trolleys the reduction of water consumption. These initiatives for plated functions, as they enable plates to retain the all impact on the overall environmental footprint of the required heat levels for up to 25 minutes. The kitchens CTICC as outlined below. are situated in the basement and consequently no gas may be used for safety reasons. Electricity is the sole ENERGY EFFICIENCY source of energy for cooking. A significant part of CTICC’s business strategy focuses on implementing energy-efficient technologies and practices Some of the CTICC’s energy efficiency initiatives throughout the building. CTICC’s ISO-14001 accreditation include: requires adherence to international standards for sound • The facility management team promotes energy environmental management systems. efficiency through on-going maintenance and continuous improvement, including energy-efficient The CTICC’s policy is to firstly find ways to reduce its lighting retrofit. energy requirements as much as possible and then to • Variable speed drives have been implemented on HVAC consider alternative energy sources. The main energy pumps and fan motors, optimising energy usage. CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 11 • HVAC systems are adjusted to suit seasonal conditions • Metering has recently been upgraded to allow more and on cool days ventilation is used instead of airaccurate billing to clients for rentable areas. conditioning. • Most of the lights in the centre have been equipped • All lighting and HVAC is centrally managed from the with energy-efficient lamps. Natural light is accessed control room. by opening blinds where and when possible. • During build-up and strike the lighting is set to 50% • Efficient IT technologies are implemented throughout with only ventilation instead of air-conditioning. the building, including energy-efficient hardware, • Preferred contractors implement energy-efficient audioefficient cooling of data rooms and server visual and lighting equipment with staggered startvirtualisation. up to reduce the peak energy requirement (KVA). • Energy-efficient requirements are included into • All escalators in the centre are fitted with proximity the procurement specifications for applicable capital sensors. expenditure. Energy consumption: 2005 to mid 2011 1,400,000 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,100,000 1,000,000 900,000 800,000 700,000 600,000 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov kWh-2005 kWh-2006 kWh-2007 kWh-2008 kWh-2009 kWh-2010 kWh-2011 Year-on-year comparison (total kWh per month as illustrated in the graph above) shows constant improvement in and reduction of electricity consumption as efficiency measures have been implemented and refined. Energy-efficient light bulbs have been installed and natural light is maximised by opening blinds in all venues whenever possible. 12 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report Looking ahead, the CTICC plans to roll out thin-client architecture to all administrative computers to further reduce power consumption. Energy – continuous 1,400,000 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,100,000 1,000,000 900,000 800,000 700,000 600,000 Nov 04 Jan 05 Mar 05 May 05 Jul 05 Sep 05 Nov 05 Jan 06 Mar 06 May 06 Jul 06 Sep 06 Nov 06 Jan 07 Mar 07 May 07 Jul 07 Sep 07 Nov 07 Jan 08 Mar 08 May 08 Jul 08 Sep 08 Nov 08 Jan 09 Mar 09 May 09 Jul 09 Sep 09 Nov 09 Jan 10 Mar 10 May 10 Jul 10 Sep 10 Nov 10 Jan 11 Mar 11 kWh Linear (kWh) 6 per. Mov. Avg. (kWh) A continuous plot of electricity consumption (total kWh per month as indicated in the graph above) illustrates the success of efficiency measures, particularly since mid 2009. Looking ahead, the CTICC plans to roll out thin-client ECO PROCUREMENT architecture to all administrative computers to further To encourage effective resource management and reduce reduce power consumption. Realising the importance waste, the CTICC supports eco procurement principles. of a more integrated building management system By engaging with suppliers, and through service level (BMS), which can provide more accurate and accessible agreements, the CTICC is able to request locally sourced reporting in near real-time, the centre intends upgrading goods and services, which supports the local economy this in the near future. and reduces food miles and the associated embodied energy. CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 13 For example: Waste is sorted on site before collection for recovery • Polystyrene disposable cups have been replaced with and recycling purposes. Waste is generally separated at biodegradable cups and reusable glasses are provided source to reduce contamination, however, additional whenever practical. focus will be placed on the provision of clearly marked • Menus have been designed to enable local and bins for visitors and staff. It is envisaged that this will seasonal preference through providing non-specific also become standard practice for events to reduce the recipes. quantity of waste going to landfill. • Preference is given to procuring organic food whenever possible and all foods used are local. Fish suppliers During the reporting period a total of 391 366 kg of waste are all required to be SASSI accredited and freshwater was generated at the CTICC. A total of 291 639 kg was sent fish (such as trout) are sourced from local farms. to landfill, whilst 99 613 kg was recycled (25%). The type and amount (measured by weight in kg) is indicated When procuring new equipment, energy efficiency is an in the table below. important characteristic and appropriate specifications are incorporated in tender requests. Recycled waste Paper & board 55,584 WASTE MINIMISATION The CTICC is committed to the effective use of resources Glass 25,425 and the reduction of waste. The first step is to reduce Plastics 13,078 waste generation by the application of best practice Metals 5,527 in the form of eco procurement. Preference is given to reusable and recyclable products rather than disposable TOTAL RECYCLED (kg) 99,613 items. As an example, the need for plastic wrap has been minimised through the procurement of reusable sleeves to cover food trolleys. 14 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report Currently 25% of the waste generated at the CTICC is diverted from landfill and sent for recycling. The main types of recyclables include paper, cardboard, Comprehensive systems and process are in place for the glass, plastic and metal (as illustrated in the graph below). disposal of hazardous waste: The aim going forward is to improve the effectiveness of • Used cooking oil is collected by an appointed service the recovery of material by providing greater numbers provider and used for the production of biofuel. of clearly marked waste bins to reduce mis-sorting and • Grease traps are regularly serviced; residual grease is contamination of recyclable material, rendering it useless treated as hazardous waste. so that it has to be disposed of in landfill. • A collection point for used batteries has been established at the reception desk. Batteries deposited here are removed for appropriate safe disposal. Recyclables • A fluorescent lamp crusher is available on-site to crush and store spent fluorescent lamps prior to safe disposal as hazardous waste, whilst controlling the release of hazardous mercury vapour emissions. • Hazardous chemical substances (HCS) are stored according to the stipulated method as indicated in 25% the Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). Handling and disposal of these are strictly carried out according to the respective MSDS requirements. A series of 56% universal spill kits are provided for oil, water, coolants 13% and solvents. Waste management and cleaning staff have been trained in their deployment. 6% • Electronic waste, such as computers, LCD/CRT screens, office equipment, and mobile phones, is segregated from the normal waste stream. Disposal procedures are complicated by the need to comply with regulations Glass Paper & board for disposal of government assets. Plastics Metals CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 15 The centre is also investigating establishing a worm farm to reduce organic waste to landfill. Leftover food that can still be consumed is either sent to WATER EFFICIENCY the staff kitchen or collected by Foodbank South Africa for The CTICC water usage is moderate with the primary redistribution to those in need. Appropriate regulations use in restrooms and kitchens. As part of our on-going and guidelines are carefully observed in this process. maintenance plan and continuous improvement strategy, we seek innovative methods to reduce our water Clients staging exhibitions can request a skip for waste consumption levels. removal. There is no control over the actual waste content although the skip is taken away and sorted off site. Due Since establishment of the CTICC the water consumption to the fact that the CTICC is the sole food supplier and has been reduced through the installation and use of dual carefully controls food distribution and food waste, the flush systems on all toilets in the centre. Some waterless contents of the skips are usually not contaminated with urinals are present in public and staff restrooms. Taps in food and have a high recyclable content. the public restrooms are being retro-fitted with proximity sensors, which will further reduce consumption. Looking forward, the CTICC will seek to further reduce cardboard waste through the use of re-usable crates or The kitchens require water for cooking and cleaning. pallets that can be returned to suppliers. The centre is Dishes are washed using two high-capacity, highly also investigating establishing a worm farm to reduce efficient conveyor-driven dishwashers, which saves time, organic waste to landfill and provide compost for the energy and water. Staff members are encouraged to use plants, as well as a herb garden to provide fresh produce water with care – notices in the kitchens reinforce the for the kitchen. message. Creating new from old During the past year, the CITCC once again received recognition for its dedication and commitment to implementing sustainable initiatives across every facet of its business. The centre won 3rd place in the Europcar Green Office awards for its innovative use of recycled materials in its office refurbishment. As a leading environmentally sustainable convention centre, CTICC is always looking at innovative ways in which it can reduce its carbon footprint. When it embarked on an office refurbishment project, the decision was made to reconfigure and re-use old desks and furniture to create new furniture, rather than disposing of and replacing it. The result was a clean, new and modern office, created in a way that reflects the centre’s sustainability commitment and objectives. 16 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report A cleaning services contractor is appointed to provide inTRANSPORT house cleaning services for back of house and the public As an international convention centre, transport is the areas. No laundry facilities are present on site; staff major contributor to the CTICC’s carbon footprint – as a uniforms and table linen are collected and laundered by result of travel undertaken by the centre’s representatives an outsourced contractor. and clients as well as guests attending events at the CTICC. The CTICC strives to use eco-friendly cleaning products wherever possible. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) Whilst much of the transport used by clients and visitors is are clearly posted on the walls where the cleaning beyond the control of the CTICC, the centre encourages products are stored. the use of environmentally friendly transport options, such as public transport, car-pooling, pedi-cabs and Indoor landscaping utilises indigenous and water-wise choosing accommodation close to the centre. There are plants, which are watered by means of a drip irrigation pedestrian walkways and even a unique water taxi to the system. The CTICC also takes responsibility for the Waterfront that stops right outside the CTICC entrance. maintenance and irrigation of the islands and traffic circle outside the venue – this is outsourced to a landscaping The CTICC is working to limit transport-based emissions company. as a result of events it hosts by cooperating with public transport companies and offering various emissionsThe centre is planning to ensure greater water savings reducing innovations. During the year under review the through the installation of water-efficient showerheads Green Cab company – a preferred transport provider to in staff restrooms and a possible investment into the CTICC – transferred the centre’s clients and guests rainwater harvesting tanks and the installation of a over a distance of 8 171 kilometres. These trips were water recycling system. all metered and the greenhouse gas emissions were calculated and offset in partnership with Food and Trees The CTICC recognises that more accurate data needs for Africa. to be kept around water management. Sub-metering, allowing greater granularity of measurement of water The City of Cape Town’s MyCity buses and airport use, is required and will be investigated. shuttles allow for further reductions in transport-based The CTICC is working to limit transport-based emissions as a result of events it hosts by cooperating with public transport companies CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 17 emissions, and the CTICC is working closely with the (these emissions physically occur at the facility where the City to find innovative ways of maximising usage of energy is generated). According to the property utility these public transport systems by delegates. The centre’s records, a total of 10.29 GWh of electricity was used proximity to a number of world-class hotels also puts it during the year under review. Based on the conversion within walking distance for delegates. factors provided by Eskom (June 2009) an estimated amount of 10 195.42 tonnes of carbon equivalent was The rollout of Cape Town’s Integrated Rapid Transit generated through electricity consumption. (IRT) system will enable further success in this regard by integrating all modal options into a coherent package for Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) that are a the customer. consequence of the activity, but that occur from sources not controlled by the CTICC (such as transport of Internally, the CTICC is striving to reduce its transportparticipants to the venue), are not so easy to calculate. based emissions by encouraging greater use of videoand Record is, however, kept of local and international flights tele-conferencing by staff and management wherever by staff. A total of 18 staff members flew a total of 64 possible. The CTICC owns four vehicles, including a local return trips to Durban and Johannesburg in the year motorcycle, pick-up, cherry picker and forklift. under review, which resulted in a total of 14.14 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In addition to this a total of 11 staff GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS members made 22 international long-haul flights, which Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) that occur from sources calculated to 20.57 tonnes of CO2 carbon equivalent. The that are owned or controlled by the CTICC are minimal. Food and Trees for Africa on-line carbon calculator was Only emissions resulting from the operation of on-site used to do this calculation so that it links up with the vehicles (cherry-picker and forklift) and diesel generators My Tree in Africa initiative, which is supported by the CTICC. are considered here. The average long-haul return flight produces 1.4 tonnes The indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) associated with the of carbon per passenger. Trees absorb carbon dioxide and generation of purchased electricity used by the CTICC can convert it to oxygen, thereby preserving the environment be calculated based on the electricity consumption figures and adding to the aesthetic appeal of communities. My Tree in Africa In order to offset the centre’s carbon emissions due to short-haul flights undertaken by the management team, the CTICC partnered with two local schools to plant 58 trees at the Ruiyterwacht Preparatory and De Waveren Primary. This was part of the CTICC’s My Tree in Africa initiative, which was launched in 2010 to mitigate carbon emissions and raise awareness around the importance of hosting sustainable meetings and events. 18 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report By creating green spaces in the communities, planting • Green Event Packages – The Green Event Packages trees also helps revitalise urban neighbourhoods and allow event organisers to purchase green power, strengthen CTICC’s ties with local communities. replace bottled water with water jugs, use recycled notepads and pencils and choose organic meal options. REALISING THE VISION • Event Greening Forum – The CTICC supports In addition to its policy-driven initiatives aimed at the Event Greening Forum, which drives awareness promoting environmental sustainability, the CTICC of the importance of implementing sustainable continues to introduce various innovations aimed at initiatives in the meetings and events industry. driving its vision of becoming an environmental leader. In recent years, these have included: In line with the focus on environmental leadership, the CTICC aims to actively intensify its communication efforts • Nurture Our World (NOW) – The CTICC formalised to make all its stakeholders and staff aware of industryits environmental commitment through the developrelated greening initiatives. In this way the CTICC will ment of its Nurture Our World (NOW) initiative. be able to capitalise on its core sustainability values and Through this initiative the CTICC aims to achieve ensure we have a positive impact on every individual who excellence in environmental responsibility in all facets enters the building. of its business. • NOW Supplier Accreditation – In order to encourage suppliers of the CTICC to align themselves with the centre’s sustainability objectives, CTICC developed a set of environmental criteria that it encourages its suppliers to meet. • Smart Living Training – The CTICC, in conjunction with the City of Cape Town, offered its staff comprehensive ‘Smart Living’ training, aimed at encouraging environmental awareness and ‘green’ practices, both in the workplace and at home. Nurture Our World More than a clever logo or a once-off campaign, the CTICC’s NOW initiative epitomises CTICC’s commitment to total sustainability. Created from the N, O and W of the statement ‘Nurture Our World, the logo uses these three letters to represent a tree within a protective shape or capsule. In addition to being an acronym, NOW is a strong call for action by the CTICC to all its stakeholders to join the centre in living out its commitment to protecting the environment and preserving the world’s natural resources. In addition to formalising the organisation’s environmental and social commitment, the NOW initiative has been expanded recently to include supplier accreditation. CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 19 Social Sustainability As a convention centre with a stated commitment EMPLOYMENT CREATION to contributing towards the sustainable economic Direct and indirect job creation is a key means by which the development of Cape Town, the Western Cape and CTICC contributes to the social upliftment of individuals South Africa as a whole, the CTICC is committed to and communities in the city, region and country. As a uplifting the communities in which it operates, enabling direct result of the existence and operations of the CTICC, the social and economic sustainability of businesses and 3 076 people were employed in the Western Cape and individuals. The CTICC is aware of the fact that its staff a further 4 004 people were employed indirectly around is crucial to its sustainable success. For this reason, a the country in the 2009/10 financial period. priority is placed on developing the knowledge and skills of all CTICC employees, both permanent and casual, It is anticipated that the number of people directly and the creation of a unifying, empowering and growthemployed due to the CTICC will increase to 3 913 per promoting culture that promotes the centre’s social annum by 2015, whilst the number of indirect jobs is sustainability agenda. estimated to rise to close to 5 000 per annum. Contribution to provincial direct jobs – Western Cape Known Projected Financial year FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CTICC capital expenditure 31 36 19 50 31 29 30 CTICC operational expenditure 55 52 52 51 53 52 52 Host/organiser expenditure 37 42 47 41 39 38 36 Exhibitor expenditure 131 138 164 148 128 121 112 Delegate expenditure 2 127 1 956 2 970 2 388 2 322 2 371 2 301 Induced tourism 860 854 953 1 015 1 062 1 473 1 382 Total direct jobs 3 242 3 076 4 205 3 693 3 634 4 085 3 913 20 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report The CTICC takes its role as a social upliftment facilitator very seriously and is committed to making a positive contribution. ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT • Food redistribution – the CTICC donates all excess The CTICC continues to place a high priority on food from functions it hosts to a registered noncontributing to enterprise development in South Africa. profit organisation that delivers food to 66 beneficiary Through effective business partnerships with its suppliers organisations. On a daily basis, each of these feeds an and service providers – many of whom have grown with average of 120 people – many of whom are vulnerable the organisation since inception – the CTICC affords children in care homes and pre-school facilities, as well these small and medium enterprises the opportunity to as terminally ill patients, the disabled and the elderly. develop into sustainable businesses. • Charity support – Since 2008, the CTICC has supported eight local charities and social institutions Effective BEE supply chain procurement practices form part that were selected by staff. These are: of the CTICC’s key performance indicators. A procurement – The Eziko Cooking and Catering Training Centre audit in 2010 showed that 54% of all CTICC procurement – The SPCA spend was placed with BEE businesses and suppliers. – The Farouk Abrahams Goalkeeper Academy – The League of Friends of the Blind SOCIAL UPLIFTMENT AND VOLUNTEERISM – CAFDA (Cape Flats Development Association) The CTICC takes its role as a social upliftment facilitator – Nazareth House very seriously and is committed to making a positive – Doornbacht Community Centre contribution towards improving the lives of the – Homes for Kids in South Africa disadvantaged in and around greater Cape Town. To this end, the centre strives to provide staff, guests and In 2010, staff were invited to nominate new charities to add suppliers opportunities to be involved in helping those to this list of supported organisations. In addition to the less fortunate than themselves and sustaining the contributions via the CTICC’s formal CSR programme, environment. Initiatives include: staff members at the centre are encouraged (but not required) to get involved in supporting these and other • Bring back your bag – event organisers are encouraged charities or projects in their personal capacities. to prompt delegates to donate unwanted congress bags, pens, notepads and lanyards for distribution to schools in Cape Town’s disadvantaged communities. Lending a hand UCT Graduate School of Business students from the CTICC, The Westin, and Winchester Mansions partnered with the Cape Flats Development Association (CAFDA) to secure over 200 hours of voluntary community services from businesses and raise over R12 000 at a breakfast hosted by the CTICC. CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 21 The CTICC runs a comprehensive talent management and skills development programme aimed at furthering the knowledge, enhancing the skills, and raising the employability of all its staff members TRANSFORMATION, EMPOWERMENT AND GENDER EQUITY Staff demographics by race The CTICC is committed to contributing to the transformation of the South African hospitality industry and follows stringent employment equity policies. As at 7% the end of June 2011, a total of 86% of staff employed 14% by the CTICC were from historically disadvantaged population groups. The CTICC staff profile can be illustrated as follows: 24% 55% Staff demographics by gender African White Coloured Indian 47% 53% TRAINING AND EDUCATION The CTICC runs a comprehensive talent management and skills development programme aimed at furthering the knowledge, enhancing the skills, and raising the employability of all its staff members. This recognition of Female Male this commitment by the broader events and hospitality industries has seen the CTICC become a highly attractive 22 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report place to work, and the centre attracts, and retains, a • Internal and on-the-job training in customer care and consistently high calibre of employee. In so doing, a service, performance management, and sustainability. self-perpetuating cycle of personal and organisational • The opportunity for select staff members to development has been created, as talented and attend national and international hospitality industry motivated staff add value to the organisation and build conferences. its high-performance culture, whilst simultaneously • A job rotation system and job shadowing scheme that enjoying every possible opportunity for self-development allows employees to gain experience or insight in and personal growth. other positions within the organisation. The CTICC’s internship programme, which is run in In partnership with the University of Cape Town’s collaboration with the City of Cape Town, offers educated, Graduate School of Business, the CTICC has developed but unemployed, individuals from local communities and implemented a Post-graduate Diploma in Event the opportunity to obtain skills and experience in the Management – an honours level course designed to hospitality industry by working at the CTICC for a period equip hospitality and events managers with specific skills, of six months to one year. Since its inception at the thereby helping to raise the standards of South African start of 2010, the programme has proven immensely events management and conferencing. popular and has afforded the interns the opportunity to make themselves significantly more employable, whilst CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE allowing the CTICC to bolster its temporary and part-time An independent client service improvement company staff complement in a cost-effective manner. A specific has been contracted to conduct monthly research to focus area is the kitchen, where interns are received from gauge the satisfaction of the CTICC’s clients with the institutions such as School of Skill, Jobstart, False Bay services and facilities on offer. The research is extensive Khayelitsha Campus, Eziko and Walter Sisulu University. and includes every aspect of the client’s experience when dealing with the CTICC. The resulting client satisfaction Specific training and education interventions at the index is updated quarterly and provides valuable insight CTICC include: into ways in which the CTICC can improve service delivery • Ongoing opportunities for employees to attend short and create consistently excellent guest experiences. For courses, and study towards relevant diplomas and the 2009/2010 year, the average service level target of degrees. 75% across the entire CTICC was met and exceeded. In partnership with the University of Cape Town’s Graduate School of Business, the CTICC has developed and implemented a Postgraduate Diploma CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 23 in Event Management. The CTICCC’s Code of Conduct serves to prevent extortion, bribery and corruption amongst its employees and directors. HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION The CTICC is committed to entrenching and promoting, As a Municipal Entity, the CTICC adheres to the Local in every area of its business, respect for human rights Government Municipal Finance Management Act and freedoms as set out in the Constitution of the (MFMA), no. 56 of 2003, which aims to secure sound Republic of South Africa as well as the Universal and sustainable management of the financial affairs of Declaration of Human Rights. An extensive set of policies municipalities and municipal entities. and procedures ensure that this commitment is carried through and ensure the protection of human rights of all As part of this legislative adherence, the CTICC has a CTICC employees and suppliers. These include: comprehensive Supply Chain Management Policy that • Conditions of employment ensures all contracts or business agreements are awarded • Business practices and procedures via a fair, equitable, transparent, competitive and cost• Security (including health & safety) effective system. • Employee Rights and Disciplinary Code • Employee benefits The CTICC’s Code of Conduct serves to prevent extortion, • Financial policies (including supply chain management) bribery and corruption amongst its employees and directors. Employees and clients have access to an ethics OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY hotline through which to report incidents or suspicions It is important that the CTICC manages environmental of unethical activity, and the centre is in the process of and occupational health and safety risk exposures in a forming an ethics committee that will be responsible for consistent manner. This is driven by forces such as the setting and monitoring ethics policies. need for improved corporate governance, changing regulatory requirements, more demanding stakeholders Compliance with all relevant legislation, codes and policies and increased competition for market share. The CTICC is closely monitored with any exceptions or irregularities includes this in its management system and provides reported directly to the Audit Committee and the Board. weekly training for staff to ensure that they are aware The CTICC is also subject to an annual audit by the of the requirements and are able to comply with the Auditor General of the Republic of South Africa, and an regulations. audit report is submitted to National Treasury. 24 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report GRI Checklist The following GRI indicator table is based on the guidelines for sustainability reporting as issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As this is the CTICC’s first official Sustainability Report, it is our belief that the C-level of the G3.1 guidelines applies to this report. We have attempted, wherever possible, to exceed the requirements of this C-level application, and will endeavour to further improve and extend our reporting in future years. G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level C Page in Reason for omission if applicable report STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Disclosure Description 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation. 1 2. Organisational Profile Profile Disclosure Description 2.1 Name of the organisation. 1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2, 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, 4, 6 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. 8 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of N/A Only in South Africa countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 4 and types of customers/beneficiaries). CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 25 G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level C (continue) Page in Reason for omission if applicable report STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continue) 2. Organisational Profile (continue) Profile Disclosure Description 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. AR Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 4 structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 4 3. Report Parameters Profile Disclosure Description 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 8 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). N/A First Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 8 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 30 3.5 Process for defining report content. 2 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 8 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 8 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 16, 17, Partial outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect 21 comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information N/A First Report provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, N/A First Report boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 25 report. 26 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level C (continue) Page in Reason for omission if applicable report STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continue) 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Profile Disclosure Description 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees 6 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 6 an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the 6 number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 5 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4, 5 engage. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators GRI REQUIREMENT: REPORT FULLY ON 10 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Profile Disclosure Description Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 9, 20, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other AR community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based 10, 13, suppliers at significant locations of operation. 21 Indirect economic impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, 10, 13, including the extent of impacts. 20, 21, AR CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 27 G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level C (continue) Page in Reason for omission if applicable report STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators (continue) GRI REQUIREMENT: REPORT FULLY ON 10 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (continue) Environmental Profile Disclosure Description Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 11, 12 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 11, 12 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 18 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 17, 18 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 17, 18 achieved. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 14 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 11 – services, and extent of impact mitigation. 19 Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 17 goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Profile Disclosure Description Occupational health and safety LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control pro24 grams in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. * CTICC Annual Report (2010 and 2011) 28 CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report UNGC Principles REPORT ON PROGRESS The following table outlines the specific pages on this report that contain information on the CTICC’s compliance with, and progress made in terms of, the 10 key principles contained in the United Nations Global Compact. Page(s) of report United Nations Global Compact Principle on which covered 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally 24 proclaimed human rights. 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 24 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 24 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 24 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 24 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 22 and occupation. 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 19 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 19 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 24 technologies. 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. 24 CTICC is proudly associated with: TM Member CTICC 2011 Sustainability Report 29 Convention Square, 1 Lower Long Street, Cape Town 8001, South Africa GPS co-ordinates: 33° 54’ 56” S by 18° 25’ 36” E Tel: +27 21 410 5000 Fax: +27 21 410 5001 E-mail: info@cticc.co.za Website: www.cticc.co.za
