Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2009 Introduction It has all started naturally, as many good things do: spring follows a long winter, one good thing leads to another… When creating our business, we were sorting out priorities, asking each other what our company should look like, discussing the importance of always treating our clients and partners fairly in order to achieve better results, so that attention to the client, continuous improvement, competent and cohesive team would be the driving force for our business and we could create meaningful relationship and value while living and working in our community. Back in the day these visions became the “foundation” of our Company. We stick to these principles today and we’ll try to keep doing it in the future. Contents A Message from the Head of the Company 4 About PakMarkas 5 ■ Our mission 5 ■ Our values 5 ■ Membership in organizations 6 ■ Awards 6 ■ Administrative and industrial premises 7 ■ Key figures 8 What does social responsibility mean to PakMarkas? 9 Our achievements 9 ■ Partnership with clients 10 ■ Creation of motivating working conditions 11 ■ Environmental protection 13 ■ Cooperation with NGOs 14 We do value your opinion 15 A Message from the Head of the Company Dear readers, I would like to thank you for taking interest in corporate social responsibility of our Company. No matter what era we live in, socially responsible activity is of great concern. When times are hard, it is more likely to face people in need of charity and support. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to fulfill social responsibilities. I doubt it would be fair to say “I’m so tired” or “I had enough work for today” in respect of those people in need. After the working day is over, one’s duty to help still calls. Once we recover from economical and financial crisis, it is very important to take care of these smaller and weaker people around us. Dear readers, it would be much harder for those people to recover without your support and it would take much longer. By helping others to rise we, at the same time, become stronger and lift the spirit. Respectfully and sincerely, Virginijus Gumbaragis Generalinis direktorius www.pakmarkas.com 4 About PakMarkas UAB PakMarkas is one of strongest and leadingOur mission edge companies in Lithuania offering packing and marking solutions. During the activity period of 16 years in the market of packaging, we have developed We work to become the leaders in the Baltic States the process of label/packaging production, impleby offering the advanced solutions to our customers mented modern technologies, built the team of in the sphere of packaging and commodity marking qualified professionals, which ensures accuracy and as well as to improve the welfare of our shareholders, speed of services, environmentally friendly producemployees and business partners. tion and high-quality of print. As of the first days of the Company activity (1994), we have offered a wide range of packing services to Our values the Lithuanian and foreign markets: ■ Client care ■ Print of self-adhesive labels and shrink-sleeves; We take care of our customers on a regular basis ■ Trade in packing materials; and in an attentive manner, being aware that our customer’s welfare means our welfare. ■ Trade in packing and marking equipment; ■ Continuous improvement and excellence ■ Gears and automation systems. Continuous update of knowledge and its application contribute to coming out on top under any Attention to product quality and protection of harsh and changing conditions. the surrounding environment have become an integral part of PakMarkas activity. ■ Team work In 2002 we have implemented the quality maWe believe that pulling together contributes to nagement system complying with ISO 9001. Morethe faster achievement of the common goal. over, in 2003 we integrated the environmental ma■ Respect to employees and business partners nagement system complying ISO 14001. We understand that respect guarantees long-term and reliable relations. ■ Ambition to take the lead This is our driving force making us strive for new heights. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 5 About PakMarkas Membership in organizations: Awards ■ Lithuanian Packagers’ Association (LPA) as of 1995; Most Successful Operating Company ■ Initiative of the United Nations: Global Compact 2008 www.globalcompact.org as of 2005; In 2008, PakMarkas was recognized as “Most Suc■ Corporate Social Responsibility network of Lithucessful Operating Company 2008” by the Lithuanian ania (NAVĮT) as of 2005; Confederation of Industrialist. The Company was ■ Lithuanian Printers’ Association (LISPA) as of 2006. awarded for implementation of modern technologies, investment into production and increasing efficiency. In 2008 PakMarkas installed an environment friendly flexographic printing machine (ten colors) – only 4 machines of this type exist all over the world. The core of the equipment lies in the new WetFlex Unicure® technology, which is famous for the supreme quality of reproduction. Moreover, patented high-quality paint used for printing is particularly friendly to environment: carbon dioxide (CO2) is not emitted to the environment, which prevents from greenhouse effect. Print is also safe in hygiene terms, i.e. it is suitable for food packaging. Top Employer 2009 We are happy that our socially responsible approach to business and employees was recognized. In the category of small and medium enterprises PakMarkas was recognized as “Top Employer 2009” (the Company was awarded for good working conditions and informal attitude towards people). Companies which managed to get ready for the crisis promptly responded to challenges and initiatives of their employees, solved the problems of crisis by creating jobs, as well as maintained additional guarantees to the employees and maintained the level of remuneration for work were put in nomination of “Top Employer”. The national responsible business award was initiated by the Ministry of Social Security and Labour together with the United Nations Development Programme in Lithuania, as well as the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Environment. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 6 About PakMarkas Administrative and industrial Subsidiary in Latvia premises In 2008, PakMarkas moved to newly arranged, Having started successful operation, in 1995 we modern industrial and administrative premises, loestablished a subsidiary in Riga, Latvia for convecated in Daržininkai village, Nemėžis ward, Vilnius nience of our clients. Today, SIA PakMarkas account region. A building of 7,110 sq m contains modern adfor the major share in the Latvian market of packing ministrative premises, label production division and services, whereas fifteen years ago the company ena large stockroom from which distributed goods are tered the emerging packaging and marking market delivered to the broad market. with a simple PVC tape for packing bread and conWhen choosing the location for a new building, fectionary. we took into consideration convenience of access In 1999 SIA PakMarkas became a member of for clients and our employees. We have settled down the Latvian Packaging Association. The Company is near the centre of the city and the air port so that our also a member of the Latvian Chamber of Industry employees would have a convenient access by either and Commerce. In 2005 the company was awarded public or private transport. Clients and partners arrithe prize “Mercury 2005” as one the most successful ving from abroad can easily find the location of PakLithuanian companies operating in Latvia. The prize Markas as well. was awarded by the Lithuanian Chamber of Commerce operating in Latvia which brings together the Lithuanian entrepreneurs conducting business in the neighboring country. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 7 Įmonės duomenys About PakMarkas Key figures LITHUANIA 2007 2008 2009 Sales income (without VAT, 58,941 53,663 46,036 in thousand Litas) 2007 2008 2009 Number of employees 147 157 157 LATVIA 2007 2008 2009 Sales income (without VAT, 10,798 9,239 8,053 in thousand Litas) 2007 2008 2009 Number of employees 20 20 21 At least 25% of our production is exported on a constant basis. We have operated in the export market for more than 15 years. The export countries are the following: Belarus, Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Latvia, Denmark, Germany etc. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 8 What does social responsibility mean to PakMarkas? In 2005 we were invited to join the United NaOur achievements tions Global Compact (www.globalcompact.org). In the same year we became a member of Corporate Social Responsibility Network (NAVĮT). Membership in corporate social responsibility Following principles of socially responsible busiorganizations means that in addition to our main ness in our every day activity, we achieved positive objectives, such as financial targets, we publicly and results during the year 2009 by: responsibly declare our respect for human rights, ■ Maintaining partnership with our clients; working conditions, compliance with anti-corruption ■ Creating motivating working conditions; principles, attention to environmental improvement and protection. And what concerns activity of the ■ Preserving environment; Company, we will make related information publicly ■ Communicating and cooperating with available for the society, partners and other groups non-governmental organizations (NGO). concerned. In 2007 we presented the first social responsibility report for the year 2006. Today, it is the fourth social responsibility report of PakMarkas you are reading. Social responsibility of PakMarkas includes economic, environmental and social activity issues. This report has been prepared on the basis of these issues: ■ Economic – our clients; ■ Environmental – our Planet; ■ Social – jobs and cooperation with our society. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 9 Our achievements Partnership with clients Reliable and high-quality package We accept responsibility for good service, highIn order to guarantee the quality of raw materials quality production and services, obligations fulfilled are used by the Company, in 2009 we started impletimely and in a professional manner, solutions creating menting requirements of Good Manufacturing Pracvalue for clients. tice (GMP). We see successful partnership with clients as selfdetermination to grow and improve together. ■ We have conducted a research on migration of PET, CPP, PE, A-PET films into food. Results of the research have shown that raw materials are used We value your opinion by the Company fully comply with the EU requirements for food contact materials. In October 2009, in cooperation with TNS Gallup, ■ Risk of pollution in the production process was Global market research company, we conducted a assessed; schedules on cleaning of premises were research on client needs. Clients’ comments and sugset up. gestions revealed the Company’s areas of improvement and encouraged to look for new ways of communication with clients. Results of the research show Significant stability that clients of PakMarkas greatly appreciate compliWe are happy that in 2009 the number of recordance with terms and deadlines, considerable experied non-compliances did not increase despite the ence of the Company and professionalism of staff. production volume increased of 30%. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 10 Our achievements Creation of motivating working conditions We know from experience that safe and motivating working conditions contribute to each decision taken by the employee, his emotional, physical health and efficiency. Therefore, we create such working conditions that our employees could be proud of. Increased importance of responsibility during the economic slowdown Once we felt the very first changes due to the economic crisis, we had an open discussion with our staff and started looking for rational decisions how to Continuous learning cushion the effects of the crisis. In doing so we were able to save jobs, maintain the social security guarIn 2009, our employees spent 441 hours on imantees for our staff, provide tangible and intangible proving their skills and developing personal efficienincentives. Furthermore, our remuneration policy has cy. 29 employees were improving their knowledge been fair and transparent, work schedule remained and skills. flexible so that employees could adjust it to their family lives or studies. Motivation Safety at work In November 2009, we carried out a survey on employees’ motivation in order to find out what are In early 2009, in association with experts of Nathe main motivators and de-motivators. The results tional Public Health Surveillance Laboratory we testshowed that the main motivator for employees is a ed and assessed the professional risks our employees good team. Based on the survey results, the Compaare exposed to. The results showed that the profesny’s managers have plans to conduct team building sional risks were in compliance with requirements for activities. normal working conditions laid down by legislation. Tidy, safe and comfortable working environment is the working routine of our employees. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 11 Our achievements Company culture PakMarkas upholds traditions and events, which We also encourage children, our little fellows, to gather together all the employees of the Company. broaden their horizons and take interest in the world In 2009 we followed our traditions and organized around us. In 2009 we were visited by a group of Christmas events: one for our employees and the othfirst-year schoolchildren from Vilnius primary school er for their children. It was a special Christmas event; “Žiburys”. Children were talking to our employees, a number of participating employees with their sigvisited our print house, had a chance to see how nificant others broke the records. colorful pictures were put on packs of their favorite At the end of each year we grant one of our emchips, how self-adhesive labels were produced. Chilployees with award for personal initiative. In 2009 this dren were thankful to us and made a little exposition award went to Jolita Daunorienė, Quality Manager, of brooches hand-crafted by them and their parents. for organizing the environmental campaign “What could be your contribution?” (“Kaip prisidėsi tu?“). Each Monday our employees used to get an e-mail containing useful tips and interesting facts about effects of our daily activity on the environment. This information made us think about it and showed that all of us could contribute to saving environment, starting with small and simple things. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 12 Our achievements Environmental protection We understand perfectly the extent of environmental damage caused by production companies. Therefore, we seek to minimize this damage throughout the whole production cycle. Measurement of air pollution During November-December of 2009 we carried out inventory of stationary sources of air pollution and emissions of PakMarkas. The results revealed that emissions were in compliance with air pollution regulations. Changing old to new We have purchased new shaft ultrasonic cleaning equipment, which helps to prevent use of substances, thinners and solvents hazardous for people and environment, since shafts are cleaned by the ultrasonic device. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 13 Our achievements Cooperation with NGOs We are an active part of our society; therefore, we Preparation of printing specialists highly appreciate a possibility to have a direct contact with local communities, respond to their needs and be We have successfully completed one-year prepauseful. ration project for printing specialists, organized by Lithuanian Printers’ Association (LISPA): we assisted Project “Leaders of Tomorrow” in educating the first graduates of printing and post printing operator’s qualification program. In order to make a contribution to development of our leaders, we have participated in the project “Leaders of Tomorrow 2009” organized by Career Voluntary activity incentives Centre of Vilnius University. 9 out of 27 participants of the project selected PakMarkas for development We have participated in the “Auction of Volunof their competences. teers” for social organizations arranged by the Corporate Social Responsibility network of Lithuania, the Project “Junior Colleague” purpose of which is to strengthen dialogue between the business and non-governmental organizations, Cooperating with “Lithuanian Junior Achieveencourage business to participate more actively in ment” we have participated in the “Junior Colleague” the society’s life, get familiar with current issues and program for the second time already. We are happy help finding solutions. PakMarkas offered 6 of its emto be able to encourage students to achieve high acployees as volunteers for 4 out of 8 social projects seademic and practical results. lected by the commission of NAVĮT. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 14 We do value your opinion You are welcome to join us in improving our social activity and share ideas how to develop our socially responsible activities. By creating a better world together we will achieve way better results. Please, send your comments by e-mail to: pm@pakmarkas.lt Be sure that all your suggestions and comments are important to us and they will be considered. Social Responsibility Report of 2009 | pakmarkas.lt 15
