Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Contents 2 Chairperson’s Message 3 Chief Executive Officer’s Message 4 Yaşar Holding Board of Directors 5 Yaşar Holding 6 Our Corporate Values and Our Mission 8 Yaşar Group Companies 14 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Activities 20 Global Compact Principles and Our Companies One of Turkey’s leading industrial groups With 22 companies (six of which are traded on the İstanbul Stock Exchange) and two charitable foundations, 19 production plants, and 6,500 people, a network of more than 1,000 dealerships, and 200,000 points of sale through which it delivers its products and services, Yaşar Holding is today one of Turkey’s leading economic actors. 1Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Chairperson’s Message İdil Yiğitbaşı Chairperson of the Board of Directors Sustainability is an important strategic goal all through our organization The journey on which we embarked By signing the Global Compact, Yaşar 1. Minimize the environmental impact of as Yaşar Holding in 2007 when we Holding commits itself to report on its our growth signed the UN Global Compact stance and progress with respect to continues. Corporate responsibility is an the issues of human rights, manpower, 2. Work closely with local communities indispensable element of management and combating corruption. In addition, wherever we engage in activities quality because of the contingent ability through our activities conducted under that it gives companies to respond the “Corporate Reputation” project 3. Increase our in-house communication to long-term trends and to maintain that we launched in 2010, we also among all personnel by ensuring that their competitive edge. We consider emphasize that we intend to be more our holding company’s subsidiaries are corporate responsibility as being closely systematic in continuing our ongoing aware of each others’ activities and by linked to the Yaşar Group’s values and efforts to achieve balance among enabling our blue-collar workers to take strategies and thus as being the key to its economics, the environment, and social part in communication networks more own sustainability. life. Thus our goal as Yaşar Holding is effectively to demonstrate an integrated approach When we consider that we shall by including social and environmental 4. Strengthen our existing otherwise need three more planets like factors along with economic communication channels with our our existing one to meet the basic needs considerations in all of our decisionsuppliers as well as with all of our other of a world population that is expected making processes and operations. In stakeholders and continue our journey to reach 9 billion by 2050, we can other words we are rapidly continuing towards sustainability along with them. much better understand why we must our efforts to: achieve balance among economics, the environment, and social life. İdil YİĞİTBAŞI Chairperson of the Board of Directors 2Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Chief Executive Officer’s Message Dr Mehmet Aktaş Chief Executive Officer We are aiming to raise awareness in our group. Our world is in the midst of the most not have enough water. In short, social behalf of sustainability with numerical rapid changes and transformations. well-being does not increase as fast as data, identifying targets, and composing Developments experienced in economic development. Supply is unable a report making use of Global Reporting recent years and the economic and to keep up with demand. Initiative (GRI) criteria. In addition, we also technological point that we have reached worked with our employees at a variety is far beyond anything we imagined. This is why sustainability has today of conferences and seminars in order to Nowadays when making any forecasts become an issue of the highest increase awareness about these matters about the future we are obliged to priority on the agendas of the world, among Yaşar Group companies and to simultaneously assess not just a few of countries, of governments, and of bring that awareness down to the level but many different variables and when companies. Because of its awareness of of every individual. Our personnel were planning our activities we are in a position this, we signed the UN Global Compact given training on such subjects as energy of absolutely having to consider no just (UNGC) in 2007 as the Yaşar Group and efficiency and drawing up a greenhouse the economic benefits they will secure resolved to pursue our activities along gas emissions inventory in order to but also their impact on sustainability. the axis of global sustainability. The report reduce the environmental impact of our you are now reading is the Yaşar Group’s companies as they pursued growth. According to Millennium Ecosystem second “communication on progress” Assessment that was published in March concerning its compliance with Global We know that we still have a long way to 2005, human activities during the past Compact criteria. go. As we proceed, our objectives must 50 years have brought about much faster be to build upon the sense of corporate and more comprehensive changes in In our first Global Compact responsibility that is inherent in Yaşar the world’s ecosystems than have ever Communication On Progress (Yaşar Group traditions in line with today’s been seen before. Projections for the 2009), our aim was to determine the needs and to share with you information future reveal the true urgency of the existing situation in our companies and to about our efforts to achieve and maintain situation that confronts us. The demand quantify our goals more numerically over sustainability as we strive to fulfill our for water, energy, and food is expected to time. After sharing that communication duties as a corporate group. increase between 30-50% over the next on progress with our stakeholders, we two decades. Even today about 15% of conducted an intensive training program the world’s population exists at the edge for our personnel that focused on the of starvation. By 2030, half the world’s issues of preparing our sustainability Dr Mehmet AKTAŞ population will be living in places that do roadmap, supporting our efforts on Chief Executive Officer 3Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Yaşar Holding Board of Directors Name Position İdil YİĞİTBAŞI Chairperson (1), (4) Yılmaz GÖKOĞLU Vice Chairperson(4) Mehmet AKTAŞ Board Member (3) Hasan GİRENES Board Member Servet TOPALOĞLU Board Member Neslihan TONBUL Board Member (3) Mehmet KAHYA Board Member (2) 1. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Subcommittee on The Yaşar Holding Board of Directors consists of seven Human Resources & Corporate Governance members, three of whom are independent members. There is 2. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Subcommittee on a chief executive officer who is responsible for all of the Yaşar Audit & Risk Management Group’s executive functions and who reports directly to the 3. Member of the Board of Directors Subcommittee on Board of Directors. Human Resources & Corporate Governance 4. Member of the Board of Directors Subcommittee on Audit Following the OECD’s publication of Corporate Governance & Risk Management Principles in 1999, the responsibilities of the chief executive officer were separated from those of the Board of Directors. 4Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Yaşar Holding for a better life... Established in 1945, Yaşar Holding is active in a wide range of Group companies export goods in the “food & beverages” consumer products with particular emphasis on the “food & business line to Gulf and EU countries and goods in the beverages” and the “coatings“ sectors. “coatings” business line to countries in Asia, Europe, and the Gulf. Our Food & Beverages Group controls an extensive portfolio of products sharing the “Pınar” label, an extremely well-known The Food & Beverages Group is active in Germany through brand that enjoys a high level of market share in Turkey. Pınar Pınar Foods GmbH. HDF FZCO is based in Dubai, where it is an enduring leader of its sector in the milk, spreadable carries out its mission of making the Pınar name a trusted cheeses, charcuterie products and frozen meat products regional brand with a reputation for quality throughout the market segments. Middle East and the Gulf. Yaşar’s presence in the coatings sector reaches as far back as Kemipex, a member of the Coatings Group, has been 1927. Today the Coatings Group is at the service of customers engaging in the manufacturing, sale, marketing, and with more than 1,000 products sharing the “Dyo” label that distribution of Yaşar coating products In Russia since 1996. come in 3,500 different forms of packaging and with more than 60,000 color options. SC Dyo Balkan SRL, which was founded in 2003, is based in Romania, where it sells construction coatings and wood Yaşar Holding consists of 22 companies (six of which are varnishes. traded on the İstanbul Stock Exchange) and two charitable foundations. It has 19 production plants and is directly Dyo Sipes Mediterranean Trade for Paints Co is a joint venture responsible for the employment of 6,500 people. The with the Sipes Group that was set up in Egypt in 2004. The group also has a number of joint ventures with Ferrero and company engages in the production, sale, and marketing of McDonald’s. automobile repair and furniture coatings. In 2010 Yaşar Holding booked an consolidated turnover amounting to TRL 2.6 billion. Company name: Yaşar Holding AŞ Principal business activities: Food & beverages, coatings, agro business, tissue paper, services & trade Number of employees: 6, 500 UNGC member since: 12 November 2007 Address Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 İzmir, Türkiye Contact person and position: Dilek EMİL Corporate Affairs Coordinator Contact information: Tel: + 90 312 294 9200 E-mail: dilekemil@yasar.com.tr 5Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our Corporate Values Our Consumers and Our Ethical Stance Our People Customers Come First! All our business units strive to Everywhere our operations are Under our “Science, Unity, quickly and accurately identify located; we are respectful to the Success” motto, our people; who the needs of our consumers and social, political, and cultural values. are well-trained and experienced, customers. Our approach is to be Our actions are transparent and in who have a high sense of agile, proactive, and innovative compliance with all requirements possession and belonging,who in meeting their ever-changing of law and rules of ethics. We are open to science-based expectations for a better life. emphasize honesty, open developments, who value free communications and fairness in all exchange of information and our activities. unity, who embrace participatory management and successoriented culture, are among our most valuable assets. Our Mission Our mission is to add value to the lives of consumers by providing high quality products and services, with our trusted brands. 6Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our Operational Our Environmental Excellence and Social Responsibility Our approach to operational In all our operations, we follow excellence includes effective use an approach that values the of technology in all areas, lean environment and nature while operational processes, well-defined contributing towards creating a business systematic, fast and datafuture that will be better than based decision support systems. today. As a socially responsible Agility is a core competence we company, we continue our longseek in our organization. standing support for education, sports, arts and culture to further improve the quality of life. 7Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Yaşar Group Companies a rich product portfolio and unrivalled market position 8Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our publicly-traded companies Pınar Süt Mamulleri Sanayii AŞ (Pınar Dairy) Pınar Entegre Et ve Un Sanayii AŞ (Pınar Meat) Founded in İzmir in 1975 as the biggest venture of its kind in The first integrated meat processing plant in Turkey the Middle East and the most advanced in Europe, Pınar Dairy conforming to EU and other international norms, Pınar Meat quickly earned a well-deserved reputation among Turkish since the day it was founded has been supplying consumers consumers with its diversified range of innovative, healthy, with healthy, reliable, and tasteful meats and meat products tasteful, and nutritious products, and its “My Life Source” while focusing on both quality and hygiene. slogan. Pınar Meat leads its sector by virtue of the confidence that its More than just the major supplier of milk and dairy products quality inspires among consumers. Seeking to offer diversified to the domestic market in Turkey, Pınar Dairy is advancing products to consumers in identified target markets, Pınar rapidly towards becoming a “global brand” that is known for Meat engages in constant R&D and marketing activities while the superior goods which it exports to leading national markets exporting its goods to many different countries. around the world. The author of many firsts since 1975, Pınar Dairy single-handedly pioneered the concept of standardized, Constantly reviewing and revising its product portfolio in wholesome dairy products in Turkey. line with the wishes, expectations, and needs of consumers, Pınar Meat also gives the utmost attention to today’s crucially Employing advanced technology to produce the milk and dairy important issues of food safety and traceability. In its annual products that are essential to good nutrition and to deliver inspections by the European Food Safety Inspection Service them to consumers, Pınar Dairy contributes towards greater (EFSIS), and independent food inspection agency, Pınar Meat dairy production in Turkey by continuously supporting its more consistently receives the highest marks, thereby demonstrating than 35,000 producers and maximizing the benefit of their that it is worthy of the confidence that consumers have in its efforts for all concerned. This is the essential objective of the products. company’s current expansion of its Eskişehir plant, whose total investment cost will reach TRL 26 million by the time it is www.pinar.com.tr completed. www.pinar.com.tr 9Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Pınar Su Sanayi ve Ticaret AŞ (Pınar Waters) Dyo Boya Fabrikaları Sanayi ve Ticaret AŞ (Dyo Coatings) The pioneer of the bottled water sector in Turkey, Pınar Waters Dyo Coatings manufactures paints for the construction and metalworking industries and for marine applications; paints, varnishes, introduced the first natural spring water bottled in one-way synthetic resins, and polyester compounds used in furniture making; packaging to the country’s market in 1984. Today Pınar Waters paints for automobile repair work; heat insulation materials; and supplies spring water obtained from Madran, Gökçeağaç, and brushes and rollers. The company has two production plants located Toros springs under the “Pınar Yaşam Pınarım” [Pınar My Life in İzmir-Çiğli and in Gebze-Dilovası. Source] trademark to appreciative consumers both in Turkey and in the countries to which it is exported. The Çiğli plant concentrates on making furniture paints and varnishes, industrial-application paints, special-purpose paints and polyesters, synthetic resins, and automotive repair paints. The plant’s superior www.pinarsu.com.tr technology and extensive capacity make it one of the sector’s leading manufacturers. Located on 67,000 m² of grounds, the Dyo Coatings Çiğli factory is the biggest facility in the sector in Turkey. Employing a proprietary system capable of formulating more than six thousand hues, the company manufactures a wide range of products for use in applications ranging from building interiors and exteriors to metal and wood surfaces. Dyo Coatings operates 220 color mixers and 24 color centers that are conveniently accessible to users everywhere in the country. In addition to swatch cards showing the full range of colors, the company also supplies seven-color “softone” swatch cards that take changing tastes into account and in line with consumer preferences. Known for its strong focus on research and development, Dyo Coatings once again added to its reputation for innovation and leadership in the second half of 2005 by sparking a revolution in the sector with its introduction of the first nanotechnology products to the Turkish market. The company authored yet another first in the industry by receiving a patent from the Turkish Patents Institute for its nanotech paint products. The nanotech paints that Dyo Coatings has launched to date are marketed under the names Nanoipekmat, Nanomat, Nanotex, Nanosön, Nanolacke, Nano Ahşap, and Nano Marine. www.dyo.com.tr 10Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Viking Kağıt ve Selüloz AŞ (Viking Tissue) Altın Yunus Çeşme Turistik Tesisler AŞ (Altın Yunus Resort) Turkey’s first foreign-financed and privately-owned paper Located in İzmir’s Çeşme township, Altın Yunus Resort is a manufacturer, Viking Tissue was originally founded in İzmir’s holiday village that has been at the service of Turkey’s tourism Aliağa township in 1969 and joined the Yaşar Group in industry since 1974. Situated on 140,000 m² of grounds 1982. Since 1996, Viking Tissue has been active in national with 465 rooms and a bed capacity of 1,080, Altın Yunus and international markets in the finished and semi-finished Resort is one of Turkey’s biggest resorts. Its many pioneering household paper product business lines. The company’s basic innovations have contributed greatly to the progress of tourism strategies consist of pursuing growth and defending its market in Turkey. position in household paper products by offering superior goods that appeal to consumers while taking maximum In addition to being a popular summer resort with its firstadvantage of brand and delivery channel strengths and also class facilities, marina, and blue-flag beach, Altın Yunus Resort of increasing its exports by focusing on end-product sales in attracts winter visitors with its thermal springs and is also a international markets. health tourism destination thanks to the thalassotherapy pool in its Bio Venus unit. With its well-equipped spacious hall, Altın www.viking.com.tr Yunus Resort is capable of hosting events such as congresses, seminars, receptions, and business meetings year-round. www.altinyunus.com.tr 11Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our other companies Çamlı Yem Besicilik Sanayi ve Ticaret AŞ (Çamlı Feed) Yaşar Birleşik Pazarlama Dağıtım, Turizm ve Ticaret AŞ (YBP) Çamlı Feed initially got its start in 1983 as a manufacturer YBP carries out the sale and distribution of the products whose only product was cattle feed. As time passed, the company began to take lead in the agriculture and livestock bearing the Pınar brand, the leading name in Turkey’s food industries by virtue of the principles to which it committed sector, employing huge fleet of vehicles and a strong team of itself. In the course of 28 years, Çamlı Feed has contributed customer-focused, experienced people who are specialized greatly towards the growth and development of a thoroughly in the company’s business lines. YBP supplies more than 600 modern sector that has the advantage of tremendous items in all categories of the Pınar label to 152,000 points of competitive strength. sale. Having expanded into many different business lines, the company today has become a comprehensive farming, With its customer-focused sales specialists and experienced livestock raising, and fisheries group which has a presence at dealers numbering a hundred or so, YBP continues to build on every link of the food chain from producer to the table with its productivity-based mass distribution strategy day by day. In hundreds of different products ranging from feeds and feedlots to fish farming and fertilizers. addition to its own (Pınar) brand products, since 2004 YBP has also been successfully selling and distributing Nutella, Kinder, It is Çamlı Feed’s principle to pursue growth by focusing on and Bueno-brand goods made by Ferrero, the giant Italian supplying products and services that are the result of using manufacturer of chocolate and other confectionery products. modern production methods and advanced technology, on distinguishing itself through continuous development while www.pinar.com.tr also maintaining its standing as a quality leader. The company has been audited by Certification of Environmental Standards GmbH (CERES) and is accredited as an “organic agricultural enterprise”. Çamlı Feed is also the first company in Turkey to be awarded GlobalGap certification in the business of feed manufacturing. Çamlı Feed, aware of its responsibilities towards both the sector in which it is active and the community of which it is a part, always abides by its principle of engaging in production that is sensitive to ethical values, to animal wellbeing, and to the environment. Recognizing the fundamental importance of intellectual capital in today’s information society, the company regularly invests in knowledge, education, and research. The company creates strong working relationships with producers, suppliers, companies, and retailers in its ongoing efforts to maximize production efficiencies and to foster the growth and development of its market. www.camli.com.tr 12Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Bornova Matbaa Mürekkepleri Sanayi ve Ticaret AŞ Astron Yaşar Bilgi İşlem ve Ticaret AŞ (Astron) (Dyo Inks) YH Bilgi Sistemleri (Yabim) was originally set up in 1983 to Controlling a 40% share of the market for printer’s inks in conduct and manage the Yaşar Group’s information system Turkey, Dyo Inks is the leading and only fully integrated functions. Yabim remained active in the areas of hardware and manufacturer in its sector with a 25,000 ton annual production software until 1996. capacity and with marketing and sales forces that make it a potent force in all aspects of newspaper, magazine, Astron was formed late in 1996 to install the SAP R/3 enterprise photo-offset, serigraphy, metal packaging system, flexo, and resource planning (ERP system at Yaşar Holding and among its rotogravure printing inks. Dyo Inks is now conducting its subsidiaries and Yabim was incorporated into it. activities at its new plant. Located in the Manisa Industrial Park, the plant has 12,000 m² of indoor space and commenced Astron was the first fully world-class implementation of an production in November 2010. ERP system in Turkey. Having successfully undertaken and concluded the country’s first comprehensive SAP project, With a network of 40 dealerships, Dyo Inks is able to reach Astron subsequently led the way forward for other projects of printers all over Turkey. An efficient dispensing system that nature. consisting of its new plant, an İstanbul-based “Color Production Center”, and dealerships allow the company to In 2001 Astron took over responsibility for the IT systems of produce customized inks capable of satisfying customers’ all group companies with aim of unifying them. Today, it not individual needs in the least amount of time. only provides all of the group’s information technology needs but has also achieved a nationwide presence that enables it to www.dyo.com.tr offer informatics services all over Turkey and even abroad. Astron provides information technology services in line with its mission of making use of technology, processes, and methods to strengthen the technological infrastructure of the Yaşar Group while giving group companies a competitive advantage and helping them achieve their goals. When providing service, Astron comes up with solutions that quickly and completely satisfy all the needs of group companies. It gives attention to ensuring that the products that it supplies embody solutions that will strengthen group companies’ business processes and enhance their productivity. When performing its services, Astron gives utmost importance to equip its human resources with the advanced skills required by their jobs. By encouraging teamwork and participation, it seeks to create superior benefit for the entire Yaşar Group. www.astron.ws 13Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our Corporate Social Responsibility Activities an ongoing effort to create sustainable and enduring value for our stakeholders 14Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our corporate social responsibility activities For more detailed information about the foundation’s activities, please consult 2009 annual report, which is available at www. As part of the “Corporate Reputation” project that was yasar.com.tr. launched throughout Yaşar Holding in 2010, a Corporate (http://www.unglobalcompact.org/participants/detail/10228Social Responsibility Committee was set up whose purpose is Yasar-Holding-Co-) to coordinate the group’s activities in such areas in line with defined strategies. Another important event organized by the foundation is the Dyo Art Competition, which it has been holding for forty-four Yaşar Eğitim ve Kültür Vakfı years. Yaşar Eğitim ve Kültür Vakfı (Yaşar Education and Culture 44 years of Dyo Art Competitions Foundation) engages in a variety of activities in the areas of education, culture, and art. Since its inception the foundation Durmuş Yaşar, who founded the first paint factory in Turkey, has provided gratuitous scholarships to 5,046 students. believed that it was essential in an developing country such as Turkey to undertake artistic functions in addition to having Since its inception, the foundation has undertaken the economic objectives. Taking this conviction as his point of construction not only of schools but also of such annexes, departure in 1967, thirteen years after the firm was set up it cafeterias, and sports and cultural facilities as the schools was decided to organize a regular series of art competitions may need. It also meets schools’ requirements for science, with the aims of encouraging art and artists and of making a language, food technology, and computer laboratories. contribution to Turkish painting. The foundation organizes seminars and panel discussions on A record-breaking 1,004 artists from everywhere in Turkey as such topics ranging from “Working-life flexibility” to “Equality well as from Azerbaijan, France, Greece, Holland, Italy, and of the sexes” and from “Increasing social awareness and Switzerland submitted total of 1,609 works in the 34th Dyo Art education about the healthy nutrition of children and youths” Competition whose jury-members consisted of Prof Gören to “Milk and health”. Bulut, Prof Mümtaz Sağlam, Prof Ergin İnan, Burhan Doğançay, Yalçın Gökçebağ, Prof Atilla Atar, and Prof Mustafa Pilevneli. To date the Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation has From among the works that were submitted, 64 were deemed supported cultural life with 39 publications. The foundation to be worthy of exhibition while awards were handed out for also sponsors archaeological excavations such as the Nysa four paintings and two original prints. project near Aydın in southwestern Turkey. During 2011 the collection of 64 works will go on tour and be exhibited in the cities of Bursa, İzmir, Konya, Adana, and Ankara. The Yaşar Eğitim ve Kültür Vakfı Primary School Dyo Art Competition 15Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Pınar: Corporate social responsibility activities Pınar Kido Art Competition Social and cultural activities The Pınar Kido Art Competition has been held for 30 years with the aims of increasing primary school children’s interest Since the day it was founded, Pınar has sought to provide its in art and of contributing towards the development of the consumers with a better life through both its products and artists of the future. Children from all over Turkey take part in its services while also contributing towards their physical and the Pınar Kido Art Competition, which has been focusing on intellectual development and to the health and well-being of a different theme each year since it was inaugurated in 1981. future generations. In keeping with this overall objective, Pınar The contest continues to fulfill its mission of discovering and has been undertaking corporate social responsibility projects encouraging the artistic talents of children today. The most and supporting education, sport, culture, and art since 1975. recent round of the competition attracted a record-breaking 887,660 participants. Twenty-two children from Turkey’s Pınar Kido Children’s Theater seven geographical regions and from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus whose works were selected by a jury of In addition to supporting the physical and mental development educators and professional artists were awarded a laptop of children through its products, Pınar also gives importance computer each and a chance to take part in a one-week art to activities in the areas of culture and art. Since 1987, the Pınar camp in İstanbul under the direction of the well-known artist Kido Children’s Theater has been employing a professional Hüsamettin Koçan. The talented young artists taking part team of performers, directors, designers, and backstage crews in workshops kitted out with professional equipment and to mount dozens of programs specially designed to appeal supplies received certificates at an award ceremony held at the to children. During each year’s theater season, the Pınar Kido conclusion of the camp. Children’s Theater appears before audiences in schools that it visits in İstanbul, İzmir, Bursa, and Eskişehir in addition to In addition to being a record-breaking year for the Pınar Kido going on tour and giving performances in other parts of the Art Competition, 2010 was also witness to an important country for thousands of children who might not otherwise first in the competition’s history. Pictures submitted to have a chance to experience theater. In the course of 24 years, the contest, whose theme this year was “Draw what most the Pınar Kido Children’s Theater has put on free of charge attracts your attention” were used as input for a sociological performances attended by about 3 million children. The study conducted by Professor Ercan Tatlıdil, chairman of theater has also been instrumental in launching the careers of the Sociology Department of the Ege University Faculty of many of today’s well-known performers such as Bülent İnal, Literature, and his team of assistants. Their study was based Vahide Gördüm, Engin Altan Düzyatan, Sarp Apak, and Özgür Ozan. Pınar Kido Children’s Theater Pınar Kido Art Competition 16Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress on 3,257 pictures that had been selected as a result of a Education preliminary jury examination. It revealed much valuable and useful information about the longings, living conditions, Apprentices School attitudes, and perceptions of children of elementary school in Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The The Pınar Meat Professional Training Unit was launched in results of the survey, which were also shared with the Ministry 1998 to provide professional education in meat and meat of National Education, give us a deeper understanding about product operations and management in order to provide children themselves and the ways in which they perceive their trained people for a business line that lacks any other source of living spaces, their times, and the opportunities adults provide professional training in our country. The first such undertaking them with. of its kind in Turkey, the unit’s objectives are to provide young people in the 15-18 age group who have completed primary Sport school education and who must go to work with theoretical and practical training to make them qualified to pursue a Pınar KSK profession for which there is considerable unsatisfied demand in the country. Since opening its doors, the Pınar Meat Pınar has been providing advertising support for Pınar Professional Training Unit has turned out 255 graduates. Karşıyaka, a basketball team that has been contending in the Turkish Premier Basketball League since 1998. A thousand During the 2010-2011 academic year, 79 apprentice students children also benefit from the facilities of the Çiğli Selçuk Yaşar were attending the professional training unit. Training is Sports Center every year. Pınar Karşıyaka is representing Turkey provided by master teachers with experience in butchering in the Euro Challenge Cup during the 2010-2011 Basketball and meat products. Students who successfully complete the League season. course and pass their examinations are awarded journeyman certification. To date, Pınar Meat has itself employed 71 of the units’ graduates. Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball Team Apprentices School 17Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Our Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Joint CSR projects with NGOs Public education TOBAV & Pınar Yaşam Pınarım Under the “Listen to Me” project prepared by the İzmir branch First appearing in 2004, Yaşam Pınarım is a magazine published of the State Theatre, Opera and Ballet Employees Foundation by Pınar that seeks to establish and maintain bonds between (TOBAV) with the support of Yaşar Holding Foods Group the company and its consumers and business partners and company Pınar acting as prime sponsor, training is to be with academic and governmental circles. Employing an provided to seventy musically talented children and youths engaging style and delivering unique content, Yaşam Pınarım who would not be able to develop and make use of those published 10,000 copies quarterly and delivered with no talents without social, cultural, and economic support. The charges. project, which will last for nine months, focuses on achieving equality of opportunity in education while making it possible Pınar for young participants to take the first steps towards a career in music. Participants in the program are encouraged to make Pınar is a quarterly newsletter published in 20,000 copies. the most of their abilities as they prepare themselves for the Intended mainly for the producers, Pınar is an important admission examinations in order to attend fine arts lycees, source of information for meat and dairy farmers. state conservatories, university music departments, and other music schools. Manisa-Beydere Dairy Campus The Manisa-Beydere Dairy Campus will be located at a dairy plant with a 1,000-head capacity occupying 1,566 decares. Training at the campus will be provided in cooperation with universities in such areas as milking, feeding, dairy farm management, and livestock care and nourishment. Students who successfully complete the course will be awarded certificates. This project’s feasibility and preliminary studies have been completed with a launch date planned some time in 2011. TOBAV & Pınar: The “Listen to Me” Project Pınar Newsletter 18Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Yaşar University Throughout their stay at Yaşar University, students are provided with every possible opportunity to benefit as much Yaşar University is a privately-owned institution of higher as possible from professional education in a supportive learning that was set up by the Selçuk Yaşar Sport and educational environment. There are 25 departments offering Education Foundation in İzmir in 2001. The university’s close undergraduate programs in the school’s Communication, links with the business world as well as with other national and Economic and Administrative Sciences, Architecture, Art & international institutions make it an ideal place for education Design, Science & Literature, Engineering, and Law faculties. and personal development. The Institute of Social Sciences and the Institute of Physical Sciences offer a total of 22 programs at the master’s degree Yaşar University is focused on quality education and and doctorate levels. The Yaşar University Professional performance. Because of its long-standing ties with the city College’s catalogue consists of associate degree program. of İzmir, it has close relationships with local authorities and concerns and it takes pride in being a part of creative social Yaşar University is an institution of higher learning which is projects. During 2010 there were 948 instances of national known for: and local media news reports concerning the university’s achievements, projects, and activities. • Student-focused education in English • Instruction provided by leading Turkish and international Since 2004 has been an active participant in Erasmus and academic personnel Lifelong Learning programs involving 110 universities in 23 • A catalogue of electives that qualify for transfer to the countries. In 2010 Yaşar University was designated “Success European university system Story of the Year” among European universities by European • Competitive scholarship opportunities for students Commission. • An educational campus and sport facilities located in the heart of İzmir. www.yasar.edu.tr Yaşar University Yaşar University, Sailing Team 19Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies The Yaşar Group • We as the Yaşar Group support • We seek to eliminate the internationally recognized discrimination of any kind in our United Nations Declaration on workplaces. Human Rights in any area in which may be impacted by any • In its efforts to be a corporate of our activities. social citizen aware of its responsibilities, the Yaşar • We respect our employees’ rights Group’s activities are informed and liberties. by environmental awareness and a desire to avoid causing • We do not employ children in environmental damage. any capacity whatsoever in our businesses and are absolutely • The Yaşar Group supports efforts opposed to child labor. to combat dishonesty, bribery, and any and all other forms of corruption. 20Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 1. Human rights 1.2. Employee training concerning other issues 1.1. Training programs and healthcare In addition to individual development and management skills training, employees’ progression is also supported with Training programs are conducted for our employees and technical training. Among the training programs provided their families on issues related to healthcare. Employees are under this heading are “Occupational Health & Safety”, given checkups by workplace health units. As part of the Anti“Occupational Health & Safety Statutory Responsibilities & Tuberculosis Campaign, employees are given chest x-rays, Obligations”, “Chemicals & Their Safe Use”, “Ergonomics”, germ carries examinations are conducted, and throat cultures “Employees’ Legal Rights & Responsibilities”, “Fire Safety & are collected and checked. Firefighting”, “First Aid”, “Pest Control Measures”, “Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points”, and “Basic Disaster Food & Beverages Group Awareness”. Training is provided to personnel under annual programs that First aid training focus on a variety of issues such as defense against contagious diseases, general and personal hygiene, family planning, Under the Ministry of Health’s First Aid Regulations, at least one substance abuse, and breast cancer. in every twenty people in normal workplaces must be trained in first aid. In some workplaces specially designated as heavy Coatings Group and dangerous this requirement is at least one in every ten. Dyo Coatings factory employees are given annual blood tests The most fundamental objective of first aid training is to teach and checked for heavy metal and solvent exposure once every personnel the lifesaving action they need to take to protect three months. Dyo Inks employees undergo blood and urine themselves, those around them, and their surroundings in tests once a year. Tuberculosis screening as well as hearing the event of an emergency and how to do so correctly, and breathing function tests are also performed annually on knowledgeably, and effectively in such cases. personnel who are identified as being at risk. Employees with first-aid certification 2010 Coatings Group Dyo Coatings 33 Dyo Inks 20 Food & Beverages Group Pınar Dairy 87 Pınar Meat 110 Pınar Waters 5 Viking Tissue 28 YBP 54 Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Çamlı Feed 31 Others Yaşar Holding 11 Altın Yunus Resort 2 Total 381 21Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies 1.3. Employee sex and average age indicators Average age (all personnel) 2009 2010 Sex distribution (all personnel) Coatings Group 2009 2010 Dyo Coatings 36 36 % female % male % female % male Dyo Inks 37 36 employees employees employees employees Food & Beverages Group Coatings Group Pınar Dairy 34 35 Dyo Coatings 16 84 15 85 Pınar Meat 37 37 Pınar Waters 34 34 Dyo Inks 20 80 18 82 Viking Tissue 34 35 Food & Beverages Group YBP 34 34 Pınar Dairy 15 85 15 85 Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Pınar Meat 11 89 12 88 Çamlı Feed 35 35 Pınar Waters 13 87 13 87 Others Viking Tissue 10 90 10 90 Yaşar Holding 37 40 Altın Yunus Resort 35 34 YBP 15 85 16 84 Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Çamlı Feed 13 87 13 87 2010-Average age Others Management-level Yaşar Holding 49 51 47 53 White-collar personnel (team personnel leader or higher) Altın Yunus 16 84 16 84 Coatings Group Resort Dyo Coatings 36 40 Dyo Inks 36 40 2010-Sex distribution Food & Beverages Group Management-level Pınar Dairy 34 36 White-collar personnel (team leader Pınar Meat 37 39 personnel or higher) Pınar Waters 34 37 % female % male % female % male Viking Tissue 35 38 employees employees employees employees YBP 34 39 Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Coatings Group Çamlı Feed 35 40 Dyo Coatings 27 73 25 75 Others Dyo Inks 35 65 28 72 Yaşar Holding 40 43 Food & Beverages Group Altın Yunus Resort 36 41 Pınar Dairy 32 68 29 71 Pınar Meat 25 75 25 75 2010 -Yaşar Group company employees by age group Pınar Waters 18 82 19 81 18 or 46 or Viking Tissue 20 80 26 74 (%) below 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 above YBP 16 84 18 82 Coatings Group Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Dyo Coatings 0 5 18 23 32 14 8 Çamlı Feed 25 75 25 75 Dyo Inks 0 8 12 27 24 21 8 Others Food & Beverages Group Pınar Dairy 0 5 23 29 26 12 5 Yaşar Holding 53 47 49 51 Pınar Meat 0 2 13 25 28 24 8 Altın Yunus Resort 21 79 7 93 Pınar Waters 0 4 27 31 25 9 4 Viking Tissue 0 5 27 27 24 11 6 YBP 0 4 27 28 25 12 4 Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Çamlı Feed 0 9 24 26 21 13 7 Others Yaşar Holding 0 1 15 30 15 12 27 Altın Yunus 0 17 21 21 20 9 12 Resort 22Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Altın Yunus Resort Average training time (hours) Firms which provide the hotel’s security and landscaping 2009 2010 services are reviewed once a year to determine whether or Coatings Group not they are fulfilling their responsibilities towards their own Dyo Coatings 6 22 employees. These firms are also required to submit monthly Dyo Inks 2 34 reports and documentation in order to check their fulfillment Food & Beverages Group of their essential labor and social security law obligations Pınar Dairy 8 6 towards their personnel. Pınar Meat 6 10 Pınar Waters 5 6 1.4. Other employee training Viking Tissue 8 16 YBP 12.5 9 Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Yaşar Group training programs are designed and conducted so Çamlı Feed 5 9 as to encompass all employees in all Yaşar Group companies Others with the fundamental aims of increasing all employees’ Yaşar Holding 6.5 11 knowledge and skills and developing their competencies in Altın Yunus Resort 20 4 such a way as to support their efforts to achieve the group’s and their company’s aims and to realize their individual goals. Greenhouse gas and energy management systems training The training programs which are provided by the Yaşar Group in order to assist its employees’ progression are conducted Under the heading of combating climate change, the Yaşar under the headings of “Orientation Training”, “On-The-Job Group provided 2,920 hours of training concerning “ISO Training”, “Personnel Development”, “Management Skills”, and 14064-1:2006 Specification with guidance at the organization “Specialist Training”. level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals”, “Greenhouse gas emission Seminars and conferences are also conducted to keep calculation”, and “EN 16001:2009 Energy management employees up to date on a variety of matters and current systems” to a total of 73 people. issues and to help them to acquire an international vision. Occupational training for workers employed for heavy and Training time dangerous jobs Total training time throughout the Yaşar Group in 2010 Training required at our companies under “Communique amounted to 59,073 hours and was provided to 7,363 concerning occupational training for workers employed for participants. Average training time per person was 8.02 hours. heavy and dangerous jobs” published pursuant to Statute 4857 71% of training was provided extramurally with the remaining was given by Dyo Coatings, Dyo Inks, Pınar Meat, Pınar Dairy, 21% being conducted in-house. 46% of training participants Viking Tissue and Çamlı Feed during 2010. in 2010 were blue-collar workers; 40% of them held non-key positions and 14% of them held key positions. Average training time per person at Altın Yunus Resort, which was 20 hours in 2009, was only 4 hours in 2010. This difference arises from the intensive extramural training which was provided by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2009 and which is repeated every other year. The substantial increase in the average (per-person) training time in the Coatings Group in 2010 was due to sales and marketing training given to personnel at Dyo Coatings and to professional development and compliance training given to blue-collar workers at Dyo Inks . 23Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies 1.5. Training and meetings for other stakeholders Food & Beverages Group YBP & Pınar Waters Pınar Meat & Pınar Dairy Training is targeted not just at company employees but at The rights of the companies’ employees are governed and all those who are involved in their processes at any level. protected by workplace and company collective bargaining In line with this, “Pre-Sale Personnel” and “SAP Module and agreement entered into between the employers and their Work Flow User” training is provided for the employees of representative, the Tek Gıda İş trade union. dealerships with the aims of developing behavior models among personnel who are starting out in the Yaşar Group sales Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining organization with models of behavior that are consistent with agreements the group’s corporate culture and brand values, of increasing 2010 an individual’s sales effectiveness, and providing the necessary Dyo Coatings 53% background. Such training also seeks to develop personal Dyo Inks 52% Pınar Dairy 65% competencies that employees may also use in their everyday Pınar Meat 66% lives. “SAP Module and Work Flow User” training was provided to 89 1.7. Security services dealerships during 2010 of which 41 were Pınar Waters and 48 were YBP dealers. All security services at all of our companies are provided by specially-trained and licensed security personnel. Security Pınar Dairy & Çamlı Feed personnel undergo refresher training at regular intervals. # Security personnel The first stage of the “Joint Producer Development Seminar” series that began in 2010 was conducted in İzmir’s Tire 2010 township. These seminars are attended by large numbers of Coatings Group livestock and dairy farmers. Their aim is to make it possible Dyo Coatings 8 for the increasingly important farming and stock raising Dyo Inks 12 industries to be more knowledgeable and productive while Food & Beverages Group also improving producers’ earnings. The seminars will be Pınar Dairy 35 Pınar Meat 17 continuing in 2011 with the first to be held in Muğla’s Milas Pınar Waters 17 township. Viking Tissue 11 YBP 46 1.6. Trade unions and collective bargaining agreements Farming, Livestock Raising, & Fisheries Group Çamlı Feed 24 All personnel are employed under indefinite-term work Others agreements as per requirements of the labor law (Statute Yaşar Holding 15 4857). Under the terms of their agreements, contractors and Altın Yunus Resort 11 subcontractors doing business with group companies are Total 196 required to employ only people who are covered by social security. Coatings Group No member of the Yaşar Group has been accused of or penalized for any violations of human rights. Dyo Coatings & Dyo Inks The rights of the company’s employees are governed and protected by a workplace collective bargaining agreement entered into between their employer and their representative, the Petrol-İş trade union. 24Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 1.7. Attitudes towards public policy 2. Labor Yaşar Group companies are actively represented on a Our human resources strategy is defined as “Taking as its point corporate basis among NGOs and sectoral associations that of departure the principle of putting the right person to work contribute towards the development of the sectors in which it at the right job, to attract the most talented, qualified, creative, is active. Particular care is given to ensure that representative innovative, motivated, and high-performance people in the activities endeavor to develop public policy. The group is also market to our group through human resources policies and actively represented on the government’s National Red Meat practices that win the hearts and minds of employees and to Council and the National Dairy Council as well as among the retain them by developing the qualified manpower we have national sectoral assemblies of the Union of Chambers and and increasing its loyalty.” Commodity Exchanges of Turkey. 2.1. Recruitment and hiring 1.8. The value we add to consumers’ lives through our trusted brands Yaşar Group companies comply with the requirements of the labor law (Statute 4857) and of Yaşar Holding Our Food & Beverages Group companies conduct their personnel regulations with respect to recruitment and hiring production activities in accordance with the requirements procedures and practices. During our recruitment and hiring of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs’ National processes, candidates are evaluated strictly on the basis Foodstuffs Codex, which is EU regulatory-compliant, and with of their knowledge, skills, competencies, and experience Ministry of Health regulations concerning spring and mineral as required by the position. During the evaluation stage, a water. Clearly-stated information about our products is made variety of competency-based interview techniques are used. available to consumers on packaging labels as required by All applicants are given an equal opportunity without any the regulations of these two ministries. Other Yaşar Group distinctions being made as to sex, race, age, or marital status. companies provide consumers with such information in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Industry 2.2. Compensation and Commerce’s “Regulations on labels, schedules, and price lists”. Whenever employee compensation is to be determined or changed, consideration is given to such criteria as position The promotion of our products among consumers using category, experience, education, location, foreign language advertising and other forms of marketing communication is competency, precedents, superior and subordinate positions, guided by an awareness of our social responsibilities. We are positions reported to, prior-year performance points/ a member of the Advertisers’ Association and with comply bonuses, and market compensation levels and decisions with that organization’s Advertising Self-Regulatory Board in are made accordingly. No consideration is given to matters line with internationally recognized practices. We make an pertaining to sex, race, age, or marital status when determining ongoing, proactive effort involving ourselves as advertisers compensation. The compensation paid and other rights along with agencies and media to ensure that our advertising is granted to employees covered by collective bargaining legal, moral, accurate, and honest. agreements are determined according to such agreements as they are signed. 25Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies 2.3. Business ethics rules manual representative (manager-level or higher) each from the Food & Beverages Group, the Coatings Group, and Yaşar Holding; and Wherever Yaşar Group companies are active, they are a general secretary. respectful of social, political, and cultural values and their actions are transparent and in compliance with the Issues related to matters defined in the manual that the Ethics requirements of law and the rules of ethics. Yaşar Group Rules Committee becomes aware of must be resolved within one of Business Ethics Handbook was composed and announced week’s time at the latest. to employees in 2009. In 2010 the manual was printed up in booklet form and given to all personnel. Use is made of In 2009 one matter was brought to the attention of the Ethics this manual during the orientation training of newly-hired Committee. In 2010 the number was seven. These issues were personnel. The precepts contained in Yaşar Group Rules examined and resolved by the committee. of Business Ethics Handbook are summed up under eight headings: 2.4. Performance evaluation system 1. While operating within a safe working environment, allow The Yaşar Group has adopted an integrated management no discrimination and be respectful of each other’s individual system in order to achieve its basic objectives and strategy rights. goals. The performance management system, which has been in operation since 2005, is designed to ensure that company 2. Make productive use of company resources. objectives and individual objectives are kept in alignment with each other. Performance evaluation results are used as input 3. Avoid conflicts of interest. for decisions impacting on individuals’ personal development, career planning, and reward/compensation issues. The system 4. Comply with rules of competition as prescribed by law while is based on the “Balanced Scorecard” technique making competing with rivals in such a way as not to cause harm to use of “Key Performance Indicators” which are decided the market. and mutually agreed upon at the beginning of every year. At midyear, guidance and monitoring meetings are held 5. Give importance to customer satisfaction while always during which targets are reviewed and revisions are made if dealing sensitively and honestly with customers and necessary. At year-end, performance and targets are reviewed consumers. again. Employees whose compensation is tied to the Bonus Regulations are excluded from the Performance Evaluation 6. Make every possible effort to ensure that company System. information, assets, and records are accurately stated while maintaining their confidentiality and refraining from using them The Performance Evaluation System has been in operation at for one’s personal benefit. the Pınar Meat, Pınar Dairy, Pınar Waters, YBP, Viking Tissue, Çamlı Feed, Dyo Coatings, and Dyo Inks companies since 7. Be mindful of the wellbeing of society and respectful 2005. In 2008 it was joined by Yaşar Dış Ticaret, which hitherto of environmental values in everything that we do as Yaşar had been excluded. In 2010 Altın Yunus Resort and Bintur as employees. well as the group’s international subsidiaries were brought in as well. The number of people covered by the system, which 8. Do not engage in any behavior either on the job or off that was 526 in 2009, was 545 in 2010. Work is now in progress to will create unfavorable opinions about the company while also include Yaşar Holding employees in the system in 2011. adhering to lifestyles that will not be contrary to the mores of the community of which we are a part. 2.5. Employee opinion poll Employees may report any actions or incidents involving In keeping with its “People First” principle, the Yaşar Group has business ethics rule violations to the Yaşar Holding Ethics been conducting an annual “Employee Opinion Poll” every Committee by e-mail, telephone, or letter. The Ethics year since 1998 in which its employees’ opinions on a variety Committee consists of five members, all of whom are chosen of issues are solicited. In line with the results of these polls, by the Yaşar Holding Board of Directors: a chairperson (who company managements draw up action plans and undertake must be one of the board’s independent directors); one activities to increase employee satisfaction and motivation. 26Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress For the Employee Opinion Poll in 2010, a survey of current individuals and create a data base/pool of people who may literature was carried out in line with requirements, a variety be qualified to fill particular positions within the group in of studies were undertaken, personnel employed in different the future. Students attending professional high schools are positions and at different levels were interviewed, and practices allowed to work three days a week at group companies in at other companies were examined and revised as needed. order to reinforce what they have learned in the classroom As it was observed that the concept of “employee loyalty” has and also to become familiar with where they may be working become an issue that deserves as much attention as that of after graduation. University students serve as trainees at group “employee satisfaction”, it was decided to include the first as companies during the summer months (June to September). a factor to be measured along with the second. According to the results of the 2010 Employee Opinion Poll, the overall rate 2.8. Child employment of employee loyalty was 59%. According to Turkish labor law, no one may be employed 2.6. Corporate values booklet unless they have completed their 15th year of age, the sole exception to this rule being made in the case of those who A project to review Yaşar Holding’s corporate values that have completed both their 14th year of age and primary was launched in the last quarter of 2009 was completed in school and who may be employed for limited periods of time early 2010. During conference calls in which members of the in light tasks in such a way as not impede their growth and Yaşar Group’s senior management personnel took part, the development or their further education. Although the law corporate values of the group that were considered to be allows younger individuals to be employed in some cases, it is outstanding by stakeholders were discussed and the following a principle of Yaşar Group companies not to hire anyone who five were identified as being of primary importance: is not at least eighteen years old. • Our consumer and customer priority 2.9. Involuntary servitude and forced labor • Our operational perfection • Our human resources Workdays and hours as well as official, general, and weekend • Our ethical stance holidays are prescribed for all Yaşar Group companies and • Our environmental and social responsibility. announced to employees. At a meeting that was held on 6 November 2010 and Employees may be required to work overtime for reasons attended by members of the Yaşar Group’s middle and senior arising from the nature of their jobs or to temporarily increase management, the group’s corporate values were formally output. Overtime work is performed under the conditions launched and a workshop was conducted focusing on ways stipulated by law and is paid for as prescribed by law. to facilitate the internalization of these values among all employees and to rapidly make them a part of everyone’s lives. When they are hired, employees are informed of their job description and they are first put through an interdepartmental The group’s corporate values were communicated to all orientation. Job descriptions and associated documentation employees during the customary celebrations surrounding are kept current and made available throughout the company the anniversary of the founding of Yaşar Holding and its by means of a shared system as per ISO 9001 that is accessible subsidiaries. As a way of reinforcing them in employees’ visual to employees. memories, this communication was followed up by placing visuals highlighting the values in conspicuous places such as No incidents involving involuntary servitude or forced labor company entrances, cafeterias, recreation areas, and meeting have been reported to any authorities. rooms. 2.10. Employment of the handicapped 2.7. Traineeship opportunities for high school and university students Yaşar Group companies comply with the requirements of laws and regulations as they apply to providing employment The Yaşar Group offers a specified quota of traineeship opportunities for the physically handicapped. 2.24% of the opportunities to enable high school and university students personnel employed throughout the Yaşar Group are in the to become better acquired with business life and to develop handicapped category. themselves. The aims of the trainee program is are to give students on-the-job training opportunities and also to identify 27Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies In 2010 Pınar Dairy received an award from the İzmir Municipal effectiveness in project management-related issues is Council and the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality upon a recognized throughout the world. The initial stages of this recommendation by the Turkish Employment Agency in project were completed in 2007 and the first “Wave” was recognition of its efforts to employ the handicapped. launched in 2008. 2.11. Employee statutory rights Three Master Black Belts were identified to fulfill the training and coaching functions during all of these efforts. Master Employees exercise all rights prescribed to them by law with Black Belts serve as bridges between project leaders and respect to such issues as rest time, meals, paid and annual management expectations in the conduct of projects. They vacation, service awards, severance pay, etc. ensure that activities are carried out in a coordinated manner and as scheduled. 2.12. Other practices Information about the number of personnel who have Management Trainee Pool Project achieved Black Belt and Green Belt status in the conduct of projects to date is provided below. 30% of the company’s In line with its notion of training its own managers itself, the project leaders are women and 70% are men. Yaşar Group introduced its Management Trainee Pool Project (MTPP) in 1996 and has been conducting it continuously ever # Black Belt # Green Belt since. All group companies take part in this project, by means projects projects of which high-potential candidates in whom the group plans 2008 13 to invest are first identified and then put through an 18-month 2009 7 11 progress program. 2010 9 24 2011* 7 31 The goals of MTPP are to identify young management * Planned candidates, expand and train their vision, monitor their career # employees trained 2008-2010 2011* progression, and enable them to take part in projects and Master Black Belt 3 activities that will develop their potential. By bringing individuals Black Belt 15 3 working in different companies together, MTPP gives them Green Belt 22 26 a chance to strengthen interpersonal communication while Yellow Belt 295 allowing young management candidates to become more acquainted with the Yaşar Group as a whole. * Planned The fifth round of the program (MTPP-5) was begun in 2010. Project topics during the new round consist of “Supply To date, 326 people have taken part in the program and 134 Chain”, “Energy Economy”, and “Production-Sales-Distribution of them went to work in group company positions. Of that Operations”. number, 67 were promoted. 24% of the people promoted were women and 76% were men. 2.13. Occupational health and safety MTPPMTPPMTPPMTPPMTPPA set of occupational health and safety internal regulations 1 2 3 4 5 has been put into effect at our companies with the aims of Female candidates 25% 31% 25% 33% 39% maximizing workplace safety and of preventing work-related Male candidates 75% 69% 75% 67% 61% accidents and illnesses. An occupational health and safety committee has been created as required by these regulations. Food & Beverages Group Lean 6 Sigma programs Dyo Coatings & Dyo Inks In 2007 the Yaşar Holding Food & Beverages Group decided to add a new dimension to its longstanding, ongoing efforts to Ministry of Environment and Forestry reporting requirements continuously improve productivity in a variety of ways in the are fulfilled pursuant to the Seveso II Directive the control of form of the “Lean 6 Sigma” discipline whose proven major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances. 28Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 3. Environment Pınar Meat The Yaşar Group supports taking a cautious approach when As a result both of projects carried out and of improvements dealing with environmental problems. To put it another way, made in group production facilities, the level of energy in any situation in which there is a risk of the environment consumption achieved in 2010 was essentially the same as suffering serious or irreversible harm, it adheres to the principle that of the previous year. that a lack of scientific certainty should not be advanced as a justification for delaying cost-effective measures that might Energy productivity was achieved by adhering to the principles prevent environmental damage. of using less in the way of natural resources and energy and of generating less in the way of waste through the use of highWithin this overall framework, Yaşar Group companies are efficiency production technologies and methods. fundamentally committed to compliance with all laws and regulations pertaining to protecting the environment and to Under the heading of both environmental protection and reducing environmental pollution resulting its activities on energy productivity efforts, combustion control optimization the one hand and, on the other, to the design of all products was carried out to ensure that fuels in combustion systems and production processes in such a way as to minimize their burned more efficiently. In collaboration with other environmental impact. manufacturers active in the sector, methods were investigated in order to achieve the highest possible efficiencies in heating, 3.1 Energy conservation and management cooling, air conditioning, and heat transfer systems. Yaşar Group members engage in energy conservation and To help address the issue of climate change, investments management on a individual company basis however an are currently in progress to make use of alternative Energy Committee has been set up at the holding company cooling technologies which do not involve the use of level in order to identify each company’s energy consumption hydrofluorocarbons and which contribute towards protecting profile and to develop energy efficiency projects with the ozone layer and minimizing environmental impact. the aims of tracking such efforts centrally and of creating synergies. Within the framework of “Sustainable Development Measurements using a thermal camera were conducted Committee” which is one of the elements of the “Corporate throughout the plant in order to identify and prevent energy Reputation Project” being carried out by Yaşar Holding, all consumption losses. On the basis of this project’s findings, environmental issues will be viewed through an integrated measures were initiated as needed to deal with losses and approach. This makes it possible to continue the efforts of leaks and to ensure the continuity of such efforts. group companies along the axis of sustainability. 29Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies Efforts are made to automate operational processes where The temperature of the naturally occurring local thermal possible in order to achieve greater energy efficiencies making water used in pools was reduced from 53 to 40 degrees improvements and changes in production processes so as while a heat-exchange system has been in use to heat the to minimize errors resulting from human factors. In this way, thalassotherapy pool since 2007. These measures have process productivity has been increased. resulted in savings of about 15,000 kg/year in LNG use (worth about USD 10,000 / year). By using less fuel to heat water, the In line with efforts that are being are made throughout the hotel is also helping reduce CO2 emissions as well. plant to increase energy efficiency, every department’s energy use is monitored by means of measurement devices according In 1982 a heat recovery exchanger was brought on line in to the energy source. In its current configuration, this system order to take advantage of the flash steam heat in steam return makes it possible to keep track of about 85% of the areas water thus saving about 10,000 kgs of fuel oil a month during throughout the plant where energy is being used. the summer months. This system is still in operation. Pınar Waters Viking Tissue Efforts continue to be made to reduce the amount of A voluntary energy density reduction project has been electricity used in production facilities. as a result of these launched in collection with the Electrical Power Resources efforts: Survey and Development Administration (EİEİ). So far EİEİ has undertaken such projects with only ten firms in Turkey, Viking • Economies of 25% were achieved in electricity consumption Tissue being one of them. The aim of this project is to reduce by adding frequency inverters to the electrical motors of highoverall energy density in 2010-2012 by at least 11% below what pressure compressors that use a great deal of electricity (256 it was in the years before that. kWh). Through the use fan frequency converters to adjust the • The amount of electricity used for bottle and package amount of natural gas used in the boiler combustion systems, conveyor systems was reduced by adding speed controls to the average amount of electricity consumed per ton of their electrical motors. steam generated was reduced from 7.95 kw to 4.83 kw. This corresponds to 12-month savings on the order of 280,000 • Energy was used more productively by specifying electrical kWh. line measurement, cleaning, and maintenance in schedule maintenance programs in greater detail and performing it Energy-efficiency work carried out on the first paper machine accordingly. (PM1) reduced the amount of electricity consumed per ton of paper from 877 kWh to 781 kWh. This corresponds to a per-ton Average electricity use at three facilities (Madran, Gökçeağaç, saving on the order of 12%. Toros) was reduced from 37 kWh/ton to 33.7 kWh/ton. Activities are also continuing to take advantage of more Valve jackets are being installed on all factory steam lines with economical rates by using electricity more effectively at the the aim of preventing heat losses amounting to about 347,000 right times of day. kcal/hour. Altın Yunus Resort Water booster system pumps which had been in use since 1997 were replaced with more efficient units. The water pumps supplying the hotel with water, which had to work 5,710 hours in 2009, worked only 4,122 hours (1,588 hours less) in 2010 despite the increase in the number of guests. This corresponds to savings of 8,734 (1,588 * 5.5) kWh of electricity last year. 30Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Pınar Dairy Pınar Waters Under the annual environment management plan and During the most four years consolidated production line programs whose performance is monitored all year long, efficiencies at all plants were achieved as follows: 72.96% in the company seeks to achieve improvements in its efforts 2007, 78.34% in 2008, 81.1% in 2009, 79.38% in 2010. This to reduce resource consumption. Per-unit-of-production performance is due to the following: electricity, water, and steam economics achieved at the İzmir and Eskişehir plants are shown below. • New investments have been brought on line. Electricity Steam Water • Bottlenecks have been corrected in existing production lines. (%) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 İzmir -0.46 2.75 -5.50 5.70 12.00 -0.50 -10.00 12.50 3.30 Eskişehir 5.38 -4.06 0.50 4.74 8.30 -0.20 11.00 7.32 0.00 • Programmed maintenance is carried out more effectively and regularly. Note: Positive values indicate declines, negative values indicate rises. • Sales and thus production activities are managed more dynamically and effectively so as to reduce discrepancies Details concerning new operational procedures that have been between plans and performance. agreed upon with Pınar Dairy’s hygiene chemicals supplier are summarized below. Dyo Inks A “dry-tech” lubrication system will be installed on the Tetrapak Projects have been drawn up and launched to reduce the production lines to replace the existing “wet-tech” one. In amounts of electricity and fuel used in production operations addition, water-saving equipment will be installed on the at the new factory located in the Manisa Industrial Park. It is fitjet nozzles that are used when disinfecting open areas. The planned to achieve electrical energy economies through the objective of this project is to economize on the amounts of use of frequency-controlled speed adjustment systems on water that are use. many of the biggest electrical motors. An illumination system (ton) Dry Tech Fitjet that takes advantage of natural daylight is being considered İzmir 2,600 9,100 for use in production and administrative operational areas. Eskişehir 3,200 4,555 This will make it possible to achieve economies by reducing Total 5,800 13,655 the amount of electricity needed for lighting. The plan is to lower electrical energy consumption per ton of output from its In addition to the foregoing, efforts were made to better current figure of 0.30 kWh/ton to 0.28 kWh/ton during 2010. control the amounts of chemicals being used. Through the use of the Secure Clean system on which testing will begin in Another objective at the new factory is to reduce the amount 2011, information about chemical concentrations, equipment, of energy needed for heating and cooling by giving greater systems, and other issues that affect total cleaning costs such importance to insulation. The plan is to burn 200,000 m³ of as water consumption and heat will be systematically entered natural gas for this purpose in 2011 rather than the 228 tons of by technical personnel using hand-held computers and will fuel oil that were used in 2010. be reported to the units concerned. This hard data will make it possible to conduct activities with less environmental impact and while keeping consumption under better control. 31Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies Astron Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is an international treaty that was signed to prevent the rapid buildup In line with our goal of making the information technologies of greenhouse gases and stop climate change. The objective sector more environment-friendly, significant measures are of UNFCCC is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations included in Astron’s annual operational plans. in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous human-caused interference with the climate system. To deal Every year efforts are made to reduce the amounts of energy with the direct and indirect consequences of the impact of needed to operate servers, clients, and peripherals such as greenhouse gases, work has begun at Yaşar Group companies printers and scanners. to increase energy efficiency and to make use of appropriate energy sources in manufacturing and distribution processes. Whenever new hardware is to be procured, particular attention As a first stage of these efforts, teams have been set up at is given to ensuring that it is “Energy Star” compliant. individual companies who will be responsible for the conduct of projects to identify existing greenhouse gas emission levels Thin client and LCD monitor replacements resulted in energy and ways to reduce them. These teams have been given economies on the order of 70% in client services in 2008training in issues related to the ISO 14064-1 (Quantification 2010. and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals) and to the EN 16001 (Energy management systems) standards. Through the use of terminal server systems, virtual server “Climate Change and Carbon Footprint” training has also been systems, and application virtualization technologies, energy provided help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to make savings on the order of 15% have been achieved in system all employees aware of such matters. room operations. Efforts are continuing in this area. Pınar Waters The use of individual printers and scanners has been substantially eliminated through the installment of centralized, As a result of efforts to increase the efficiency of the +4 multifunction units that can act as printer, scanner, and refrigerator units employed in product sales and to conserve photocopier. Energy savings on the order of 30% have been energy, comparisons were made between units equipped with achieved in this way. R-134 refrigerant and those equipped with R-600 refrigerant. As it was determined that R-600 refrigerant is more energyThe number of physical servers has been reduced by 30% efficient and breaks down naturally thus remaining free in through the use of virtual server systems. This has resulted in the atmosphere for less time, it was decided to use that in energy economies by reducing the amount of climate-control refrigerators. that is needed. Astron 3.2. Greenhouse gas emissions • Both the need for air conditioning and the emission of Available evidence shows that there have been substantial greenhouse gases were reduced by decreasing the number of increases in the amounts of CO2 released into the atmosphere servers in use. since the 1970s; that these missions have brought about changes in the earth’s atmosphere; and that the rise in • Equipment was installed to achieve more efficient automatic temperature is steady and on the order of 0.8-2.0 C°/century. control of heat in system rooms both during and outside These changes have caused the concept of “greenhouse gas” working hours. With this equipment, air conditioning to become a part of our everyday lives. The United Nations automatically turns on only when it is needed. 32Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress • Video-conferencing systems installed in 17 offices greatly Pınar Meat eliminate the need for travel and that contributes towards reducing the greenhouse gas emissions generated by transport All effluents generated by Pınar Meat’s production processes conveyances. and facilities are treated in the company’s own on-site biological treatment plant. Waste water quality is periodically 3.3. Efforts to reduce the environmental impact of products checked for compliance with standards by officials of the and services Ministry of Environment and Forestry and by an independent laboratory as well as in the company’s own laboratories. In our production processes we adhere to the principle of controlling and minimizing their environmental impact Dyo Coatings & Dyo Inks through an integrated approach that involves using natural resources and energy efficiently, avoiding toxic and dangerous The companies keep a close watch on EU REACH substances, and reducing waste, effluents, and emissions. (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) directives and regulations to be sure that they Pınar Meat & Pınar Dairy remain in compliance with the requirements of law. Our products cause no harm whatsoever to the environment. Viking Tissue Ongoing efforts are made to minimize the environmental impact resulting from raw materials and from manufacturing Waste paper recovery: The amounts and percentages of activities. 100% of the hazardous waste resulting from our recycled cellulose used in paper production in 2009 and 2010 operations and maintenance activities is collected in a are shown below. temporary holding area within the confines of facilities that fully complies with the requirements of laws and regulations. Year % Tonnage Such waste is carried away by means of the vehicles of 2009 27% 10,300 licensed firms for disposal or recycling by licensed firms as 2010 42% 16,000 appropriate. Every single ton of recycled paper corresponds to the pure In the same way, both organic waste from production activities cellulose obtainable from 16 average-size pine trees. Since the and domestic waste are collected in a temporary holding area company’s waste paper processing plant went into operation, within the confines of facilities that fully complies with the approximately 154,000 tons of paper have been secured from requirements of laws and regulations. It is then disposed of recycling. That corresponds to about 2,464,000 trees. at location which have been designated by local authorities and which are licensed by the Ministry of Environment and The per-ton amount of water used in paper manufacturing in Forestry. 2010 was 20% less than what it was in 2009. Altın Yunus Resort YBP The company has begun recycling waste in collaboration with Optimizing and standardizing the numbers and types of the local Çeşme municipality. printed forms used every day by the company’s sales and delivery personnel resulted in 19,150 fewer sheets of A4 paper Brown grease which is generated by the hotel’s kitchens is and 12,000 fewer sheets of photocopy paper being used collected and disposed of under this agreement. 1,240 kgs and during 2010. 1,350 kgs of such grease were handled in this way in 2009 and 2010 respectively. 33Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies 3.4. Packaging waste Pınar Waters Yaşar Group company Pınar Waters is a founding member of Under the heading of reducing amounts of packaging waste, the Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery efforts are made to reduce manufacturing unit costs by using and Recycling Foundation (ÇEVKO). Group companies fewer materials and improving manufacturing processes have delegated their rights and responsibilities pertaining to through packaging design, process enhancement, and packaging waste recovery and recycling to this organization, changes in materials’ specifications. which is recognized by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry as an authorized agency for such activities. ÇEVKO is In 2010 the process specialists of bottle-making machinery authorized to sport the “Green Dot” logo. manufacturers were involved in projects to develop the company’s process parameters. as a result of these efforts, Group companies work with firms licensed by the ministry to various improvements were made while 13.5-14 gram preforms collect and recycle all packaging waste materials. According were used instead of 15-gram materials to make half-liter to our waste management plan, which has been drawn up bottles. A similar reduction was made in 5-liter bottles, for on the basis of contractual agreements and submitted to the which 74-75 gram preforms replaced 78-gram materials. A ministry, public education activities aimed at both individuals “short-neck” bottle project was launched that will economize and municipalities are also carried out by ÇEVKO. These on the amounts of material used in the necks of 0.50, 0.33, activities address such issues as at-source waste sorting and and 1.5 liter preforms. When manufacturing under this project segregation, recovery, and recycling. begins in May 2011, there will be savings on the order of 1.5 grams of materials in each preform unit as well as of 0.3-0.5 Product packaging is designed and executed with the issues of grams/unit in caps. reusability and recoverability in mind. From the initial concept stage to final production and post-use, attention is given to Process improvements were made in the heating tunnels of ways in which to minimize waste and to create packaging shrink-wrap machinery used for 4, 6, 12, and 24-bottle packets materials that will cause as little harm to the environment as resulting in savings in stretch wrap use. Savings on the order possible. of 20-25% were also achieved in the materials used as a result of improvements (tension, stretch thickness, winding counts) The chart below shows packaging materials supplied to and made in stretching machines. recovered from the market 2009-2010 broken down by type along with the targets set for 2011. Preform discards are kept under control by actively monitoring manufacturing processes and taking corrective/preventive % recovered Target (%) measures as required. The percentage of preform discards, Type 2009 2010 2011 which was 1.2% in 2009, was reduced to 1.12% in 2010. Our Paper & cardboard 36 37 38 goal is to further lower this to the 1% level in 2011. Plastic 36 37 38 Glass 36 37 38 Viking Tissue Metal 36 37 38 Under the heading of reducing the among of packaging used per unit of product, in 2010 the weight and thickness parameters of napkin packaging was optimized. This had the result of reducing the amount of polyethylene used in packaging by 16% per product unit. On a 12-month basis, this corresponds to savings on the order of 18,500 kgs of polyethylene packaging material. 34Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Pınar Meat YBP As a result of packaging R&D work carried out in 2010, a An APO (Advanced Planning and Optimization) module was structural change that could be made in one type of packaging added to the SAP system to minimize costs and optimize material used for the company’s cold cuts. We expect to be routings in intercity shipping processes. This model will also using 10% less as packaging materials as a result of this change be deployed for use in rationalizing distribution activities within in 2011. cities. When this project becomes operational, it will maximize product tonnages and minimize travel distances by using the 3.5 Shipping right vehicles on the right routes. Pınar Waters In 2009 an average of 30.12 kms was traveled per ton of product when making intercity deliveries. In 2010 this figure Beginning in 2008, a number of improvements were was reduced to 27.97, meaning that an average of 2.15 introduced in order to make the company’s shipping kilometers less had to be traveled for each ton of product. In management more effective. this way: A web-based system was developed that makes it possible • Exhaust emissions generated by vehicles traveling a total of for shipping management to be perceived as a fully390,000 kilometers were prevented. integrated whole and has been in regular use since 2008. This system maximizes the efficiency and productivity of vehicle • 180 fewer tires had to be changed on trucks. deployment. • 500 fewer liters of engine lubricant had to be used. Weigh bridges installed at factories ensure that vehicles are loaded to their maximum allowed carrying capacity. These efforts resulted in vehicle travel-distance savings equal to about ten times the circumference of the earth and in a Transport distances have been reduced by concentrating sales corresponding reduction in their exhaust emissions. wherever possible in areas close to factory locations. This has reduced travel distances per ton as compared with 2008. Dyo Inks 2008 2009 2010 Weigh bridges installed at the factory ensure that vehicles are Distance/ton 23.52 21.98 22.10 loaded to their maximum carrying capacity so as to derive the maximum benefit from their use. We work with shippers who possess QMS certification, who hold N2 and R1 licenses issued by the Highway Department, and whose policy is to engage in an ongoing effort to continuously improve the efficiency by which our products are delivered to customers. Viking Tissue As a result of order/delivery optimization efforts, the average volume of product per delivery vehicle, which was 33.97 m³/ vehicle in 2009, was increased to 34.62 m³/vehicle in 2010. This corresponds to a year-on rise of 1.92%. 35Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Global Compact Principles and Our Companies 3.6. Management System activities Management System System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Dyo Inks Altın Viking Çamlı Çamlı Certificate Meat Dairy Waters Coatings Yunus Tissue Feed Farm Resort Quality Management System ISO 9001 X X X X X X X X Food Safety Management System ISO 22000 X X X X X Environmental Management System ISO 14001 X X X (Madran X X Plant) Occupational Health & Safety OHSAS 18001 X X System Certificate Experiment and Calibration ISO 17025 X Laboratory Accreditation Customer Satisfaction Management ISO 10002 X System Certificate Quality Management System for ISO 16949 X automotive production and relevant service part organizations Entrepreneur Certificate for Organic X Agriculture FSC-CoC (Forest Stewarship FSC 40-004 X CouncilChain of Custody) FSC 40-007 X Management System NSF (National Sanitation X Foundation) (Madran Plant) Pınar Dairy & Pınar Meat All production activities and processes are carried out within the framework of integrated management systems. Every year All activities are conducted within the framework of ISO 14001 our personnel are given internal inspection training in order to Environmental Management System standardization in order to increase the number of the companies internal inspectors. determine the environmental dimensions of our products and services, assess their risks, and develop and implement control Deniz Ürünleri, a subsidiary of Çamlı Feed, conducts its methods as needed. In order to ensure the sustainability production operations within the framework of ISO 14001 of management systems and increase their effectiveness, Environmental Management System certification. European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) “Excellence Model” activities were undertaken along with the Çamlı Feed standards and methodologies indicated below. Çamlı Feed was the first company in Turkey to receive “organic • ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System agricultural enterprise” certification for the production of animal feeds in Turkey. The company encourages the use of • ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System organic resources and the making of organic products. Çamlı Feed is also the first company in Turkey to be audited • Lean 6 Sigma and awarded for compliance with GLOBALG.A.P standards and to receive compound feed manufacturing (CFM) standard • Kaizen practices certification. This recognition is evidence not only of the company’s commitment to improving the reliability, quality, and value of its products but also of its sensitivity towards such issues as minimizing detrimental environmental impacts of farming operations, reducing the use of chemical inputs and ensuring a responsible approach to worker health and safety as well as animal welfare. 36Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Çamlı Feed’s ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System is 4. Anti-Corruption now operational. This makes it possible to more effectively provide customers with the trustworthy, high-quality products All Yaşar Group companies support the “United Nations that they demand. Declaration against Corruption and Bribery in International Commercial Transactions”. The employees of all Yaşar Group 2011 objectives companies pledge to act in accordance with the requirements of Yaşar Group Rules of Business Ethics Handbook. To ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification is the extent of its abilities, the Yaşar Group keeps track of to be obtained for all companies other than Deniz Ürünleri. and supports the government’s “Strategy for Increasing Transparency and Strengthening the Struggle against Occupational health and safety risk analyses have been carried Corruption” and activities related to it. out in all groups and measures have been taken accordingly. These efforts have not only ensured the right of all our 4.1. Business units whose risks are analyzed personnel to work in a safe and healthy work environment but also serve as the groundwork for obtaining OHSAS 18001 The Yaşar Group consists of twenty-two companies and two Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series certification, foundations. All of these units are subjected to a general which is another of our 2011 objectives. company examination annually and a secondary examination and/or audit may be conducted during the same year as Dyo Coatings circumstances warrant. To put it another way, the goal is to keep the average time between an individual unit’s review to Preliminaries for OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety within a twelve-month period. In the course of these reviews, Assessment Series and ISO 14001:2004 Environmental individual processes are studied with the aims of identifying Management System certification were initiated in 2009. TSE any shortcomings and/or possibilities of improprieties and of awarded both certificates to our Çiğli and Gebze facilities in taking such measures as may be needed. 2010. Efforts to make improvements continue to be made to ensure that both certifications remain sustainable. Viking Tissue Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody (FSC CoC) certification was completed in 2010. The FSC CoC management system tracks FSC-certified material through the production process from the forest to the consumer, including all successive stages of processing, transformation, manufacturing and distribution. Viking Tissue is the first and only paper and cardboard manufacturer in Turkey to have been awarded such certification. 37Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 4.2. Training related to anti-corruption policies and procedures All company managers serving throughout the Yaşar Group undergo in-house and extramural training and briefings on the group’s anti-corruption policies and procedures during which they are provided with examples that are to serve as benchmark references. Under this heading, there exists a body of group policies and procedures which are updated on a regular basis. About 30-40% of all senior management and key personnel undergo this sort of training every year. 4.3. Measures taken to deal with instances of corruption For all Yaşar Group companies, priority is given to methodically defining in-house anti-corruption auto-controls, processes, and methods and both personnel and task flows are made to comply with these. Whenever any instance of corruption is identified, measures and solutions are employed with are both absolute and intended to serve as an example. Every effort is made to ensure that all necessary preventive measures are taken so that similar events do not recur anywhere else in the group. In addition, there is also a centralized oversight function whereby existing preventive and identifying auto-control structures are regularly reviewed to ensure that they are operating soundly. Under the heading of such oversight activities, attention is given to technological developments so as to obtain and make use of such methods and means as may be necessary. 38Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress GRI Index Associated GRI indicators included in Subjects UNGC Principles this communication Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. LA8, LA13, HR2 (-), HR3, HR4, HR5, Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit HR6, HR7, HR8, PR2 (-), SO5 in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. LA4, HR2 (-), HR3 (-), HR4, HR5, HR6, Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child HR7, SO5, LA13 labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote EN6, EN18 (-), EN26 (-), EN27, EN29, greater environmental responsibility SO5, PR4 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5 forms, including extortion and bribery. Note: “(-)” indicates that the GRI indicator is included in the communication on a partial basis. Report name Period Publication date Scope Yaşar 2009* 01.01.2008 31.12.2009 30.03.2010 The companies indicated on pages 5-8. Yaşar 2010 01.01.2010 31.12.2010 08.04.2011 The companies indicated on pages 9-13. * The Yaşar Group’s first communication on progress. 39Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress for stakeholder feedback: You may direct any views, suggestions, and/or questions about United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress reports published by the Yaşar Group to the email address indicated below. forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr Yaşar Holding A.Ş. İzmir Head Office Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 İzmir Tel: (90 232) 482 22 00 Fax: (90 232) 484 17 89 483 46 59 Email: info@yasar.com.tr Web: www.yasar.com.tr İstanbul Representative Office Setüstü No: 23 Kabataş 34427 İstanbul Tel: (90 212) 251 46 40 (Pbx) Fax: (90 212) 244 42 00 Email: info@yasar.com.tr Ankara Representative Office Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarı Ali Suavi Sokak No: 11 Maltepe 06570 Ankara Tel: (90 312) 294 92 00 (Pbx) Fax: (90 312) 232 01 82 232 16 73 Email: info@yasar.com.tr Thanks to the COP Reporting Team We sincerely thank each of the members of the COP Reporting Team, for their efforts in the preparation of the Yaşar 2010 United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress as well as for the work which they have begun to ensure that future communications are based on more numerical information. 40Yaşar 2010 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Produced by Tayburn Kurumsal Tel: (90 212) 227 04 36 Fax: (90 212) 227 88 57 www.tayburnkurumsal.com Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 İzmir Tel: (90 232) 482 22 00 (10 lines) Fax: (90 232) 484 17 89 483 46 59 www.yasar.com.tr
