United Nations Global Compact Barrick Gold Corporation Communication on Progress 2010/2011 Barrick has long been committed to the principles articulated in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have been proud signatories to this international voluntary initiative since 2005. Barrick continues to integrate best practices in human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption into its culture and day-to-day operations. For the past three years, Barrick has been ranked as a world leader in social and environmental responsibility by the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, and has been part of the North America listing since 2007. The following Communication on Progress provides an overview of Barrick’s 2010/2011 key achievements and objectives for 2011/2012, aligned with the UNGC principles and the indicators corresponding with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As Barrick is a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), we have also linked this annual update with ICMM’s Sustainable Development principles. I hope you will find this Communication on Progress informative and I invite you to view the Barrick website www.barrick.com, annual Responsibility Reports and Beyond Borders stakeholder publications for further detailed information on our commitment to corporate social responsibility and the principles of the UNGC. Kelvin Dushnisky Executive Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs UNGC PRINCIPLE 1 Principles: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Barrick Gold Corporation is dedicated to recognizing and respecting human rights wherever we do business. Barrick’s Corporate Social Responsibility Charter affirms our commitment to observe the fundamental tenets of human rights. This commitment is embedded in our corporate culture and is aligned with the principles in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Bill of Human Rights. Our Policies, Systems and Commitments that support this principle include: We require each operational site to adhere to Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and human rights requirements, and we will provide support and guidance to assist them in complying with that mandate. In addition, in most countries where we operate there are relevant local laws that overlap with our human rights requirements, including criminal laws, child labor laws, freedom of association laws, equality of economic opportunity laws, and compensation-related laws. Barrick requires that all employees adhere to such local laws, and will provide relevant training and instruction in that regard. We also expect employees worldwide to alert us to potential violations of Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We have a toll-free Compliance Hotline that permits employees and external stakeholders to provide reports on a confidential basis and in their own language. Barrick is a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). The VPSHR guide and dictate our engagement with host nation military and police representatives that provide external security and response assistance, ensuring that human rights principles are reinforced in contractual requirements, guidelines on the use of force, relevant training, and other relevant areas. In geopolitically complex regions, Barrick’s security personnel receive mandatory human rights training and training in the requirements of the Voluntary Principles. Barrick explores and operates in places in the world where our employees and assets may need to be protected from various security threats. Security challenges vary greatly by location. To address these challenges we have developed a global Security Policy, and a comprehensive Security Management System – both these documents are available on our website and include Barrick's commitment to the VPSHR. We believe that effective security controls, standards, policies and procedures contribute to the safety and protection of employees as well as the communities in which we operate. As part of our security program, all security managers and security officers who carry firearms receive human rights training and all operations where firearms are used are governed by the requirements of the United Nations Guidelines for the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials (as required by the VPSHR). 2 When engaging suppliers and business partners, we endeavor to avoid being complicit in or encouraging any activities that may result in human rights abuses. Where possible, we also seek to influence the behavior of our suppliers and business partners by drawing attention to human rights issues, such as safety in the workplace. To that end, Barrick requires its suppliers to abide by the Barrick Supplier Code of Ethics, and pursues other avenues to ensure its suppliers abide by Barrick’s standards and expectations. While the primary responsibility for human rights lies with local and national government, we are committed to working with and helping host governments avoid human rights violations. That includes a responsibility to promote human rights by contributing to public debate, supporting international agreements and commitments, identifying opportunities to constructively engage government on human rights issues relevant to our business in the host country, and helping to ensure the existence of appropriate systems to ensure that victims of human rights abuses have access to reasonable remedies. Barrick is a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), and is committed to ICMM’s Sustainable Development Principles, including Principle 3: Uphold fundamental human rights and respect cultures, customs and values in dealings with employees and others who are affected by our activities. Barrick actively participates in the following ICMM committees: Business and Human Rights Working Group; Artisanal Mining Working Group and Indigenous Peoples Working Group. GRI Indicators: 2010/2011 Outcomes HR8, MM7 In 2010 Barrick became a signatory the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). In 2010/2011, Barrick constructively engaged with Human Rights Watch and developed action plans in response to the issues outlined in their report which detailed serious allegations of human rights abuses at the Porgera Joint Venture in Papua New Guinea (PNG). In late June 2010, Human Rights Watch provided specific, detailed information to Barrick concerning alleged sexual assaults against local women by Porgera mine security personnel. Barrick took action in response to these allegations of serious crimes and, in cooperation with the PNG police, conducted a comprehensive investigation which has resulted in a number of arrests and employee terminations. Employees found to have breached Barrick's policies and those who had knowledge of but did not report assaults against women, were terminated. Additional actions are currently underway and include: Renewed human rights training and monitoring of Porgera security personnel through a 'real time' tracking system Recruitment of more female security staff Improvement of internal and third-party grievance mechanisms Enhanced support for the Porgera District Women's Association Third-party research on sexual assault and violence against women in PNG to ensure any future company-supported interventions are appropriate Continued involvement in the multi-stakeholder Restoring Justice Initiative, designed to address local law and order problems and build the capacity of the PNG justice system 3 In 2010, Barrick began developing a formal human rights compliance program, designed to prevent, detect and address potential human rights abuses by employees or third-party service providersits structure will include a formal human rights policy, training, internal reporting mechanisms and other elements; This program will take into account best practices among companies in the extractive sector and other industries. It will be fully consistent -if not exceed in strength -the principles contained in the recent submission to the U.N. Human Rights Council (“UNHRC”) by Professor John Ruggie, the U.N. Special Representative for business and human rights. Consistent with Professor Ruggie’s framework, Barrick’s program will be designed to cover all operations, employees, and third party service providers, on a global basis. The compliance program will be completed in 2011 and rolled-out in 2011 and 2012. A draft of Barrick’s Human Rights Policy will be finalized in 2011. In 2010/2011, Barrick finalized a company-wide Grievance Management and Resolution Procedure. The purpose of this procedure is to define the process (identification, tracking and redress) to manage complaints/grievances from communities and other local stakeholders in a systematic and transparent manner in order to promote mutual confidence and trust. As part of our 2010/2011 assurance process, independent third-party assurance providers [Bureau Veritas] conducted site visits and stakeholder interviews North Mara, Buzwagi (Tanzania), Lagunas Norte (Peru), Porgera (Papua New Guinea) and Goldstrike (USA). Site-level interviews were conducted with community members, local landowners, business owners, Indigenous peoples, government officials and women's groups. Topics covered in interviews with community stakeholders included human rights. 4 UNGC PRINCIPLE 3 Principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Labour PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment. Barrick is committed to treating all our employees with respect and dignity, providing equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination for all our employees and contractors, to uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and to support the effective abolition of child labour. Our Policies, Systems and Commitments that support this principle include: Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility Charter both include explicit commitments to fair employment practices, non-discrimination and a workplace where employees are treated with dignity and respect. Our Powerful Leadership Program strengthens leadership skills of our superintendents and managers, developing skills for providing feedback and coaching, leading change, delegating, resolving conflict, managing performance problems, and motivating high performance teams. Training is ongoing throughout the company. We respect the rights of our employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We have a number of facilities around the world with unions or bargaining associations. We have worked and continue to work closely with these groups over the years to develop and manage effective labour relations programs. The workforce in the mining industry is predominantly male, and many women see this as a barrier to gaining employment in the industry. At Barrick, our focus is to employ the best person for the job; to choose people on merit. Our challenge is to ensure that we are welcoming to women so that we can employ the best among a wide candidate base. We continue to introduce policies and flexible work practices to encourage higher participation rates of women in the workforce. The legal age at which young people may work varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Barrick will not knowingly employ a person who is under the legal age of employment, or where that employment would contravene the ILO definition of child labour. 5 A diverse workforce encourages creativity and innovation. We draw our workforce from many countries around the world, including each country where we operate, with the result that our workforce is extremely diverse in terms of national and ethnic backgrounds. We are committed to the localization of our workforce. To this end, we first recruit the bulk of candidates for employment from the local and regional areas near our operations. The company is committed to fair employment practices and a workplace in which all individuals are treated with dignity and respect. We do not tolerate or condone any type of discrimination prohibited by law. The company expects that all relationships among persons in the workplace will be professional and free of bias and harassment. We are committed to ensuring that both the letter and the spirit of the law is recognized and in effect with respect to promoting equal opportunity in the workplace and ensuring all persons (both employees and potential employees) are treated on their merit. Barrick conducts business in many countries and provides wages and benefits relative to regional economics. We match or exceed average wages in the countries where we operate. Benefits provided are in line with cultural sensitivities and include a core group of health care benefits at all operations, as well as non-core regional benefits. We developed a Supplier Code of Ethics, which was implemented in 2008, and we screen our major suppliers according to this Code. The Code is designed to help suppliers understand the business and ethical standards they must follow in any business dealings with, or on behalf, of Barrick. In all business dealings with Barrick, suppliers shall comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact, all applicable local laws and each suppliers own code of ethics policy. Barrick is a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), and is committed to ICMM’s Sustainable Development Principles, including Principle 3: Uphold fundamental human rights and respect cultures, customs and values in dealings with employees and others who are affected by our activities, and Principle 5: Seek continual improvement of our health and safety performance. GRI Indicators: 2010/2011 Outcomes MM4, LA4, HR5, EC5, LA3 HR7, LA14, HR6, HR6 Barrick sponsored 603 apprenticeships at 22 operations in 2010. In 2010, we provided 1.1 million hours of environmental, health, safety and emergency response training and over 1.2 million hours of technical, professional and leadership education offered both on and offsite. This education component includes university degree courses, college programs, technical short courses, and oneand two-day office skills courses. At the end of 2010, nearly 60 percent of our total spend was with suppliers who have self-certified their compliance with the Barrick Supplier Code of Ethics. During 2010, many new and important suppliers certified their compliance with the Code and, therefore, we have managed to increase supplier participation in the program by 22 percent compared to 2009. We have also been successful in maintaining supplier participation, as measured by the percentage of total spend, for the same period, where total purchasing has increased by 36 percent. 6 Barrick has implemented supplier scorecards and operational reviews as part of the supplier performance management program. The key areas of performance that are monitored include safety & health, environmental impact, costs, quality, and service. We have a target to expand the scorecard process, focusing on key suppliers and total spend for each region during 2011. The South American region has implemented a more comprehensive program of audits/spot checks for key suppliers. The other three regions also carry out spot checks and all regions record and report the results of these audits/spot checks. In addition there is a procedure in place for managing non-compliance with the Supplier Code of Ethics. The scorecard system and process for managing supplier performance was partially implemented in 2009 and continued to be developed in 2010. The program will be expanded in 2011 to include guidelines designed to target cost reductions and improve results with safety, health, and environmental impact. A global Barrick Leadership Development Program has been developed with the Centre for Creative Leadership. This program will commenced in mid2011; Barrick's top 100 leaders will be required to complete the program. A global rollout to our top 500 leaders will be executed in 2012. The program emphasizes the expected leadership behaviours associated with our leadership competencies at mid-level and seniorlevel leadership roles. At our Pueblo Viejo project in the Dominican Republic, a skills inventory of the local workforce began in 2007. A Talent Database was established at the Recruitment Office in the community in Cotuí, which is open to Pueblo Viejo’s contractors and sub-contractors, and talent fairs were held in the local communities. By December 2010, approximately three years later, the database had 11,314 applicant entries. By the end of February 2011, approximately 2,000 individuals from the Talent Database had been hired by contractors or sub-contractors. To date, approximately 2,200 individuals have participated in training to localize the workforce. As of late 2010, it was estimated that 90 percent of the Pueblo Viejo project’s workforce were Dominican nationals. In 2010, the number of expatriates represented slightly more than 4 percent of our employees throughout our global operations. In 2010, approximately 33 percent of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Procedures and standards for negotiations with trade unions have been developed either regionally or at each operation which has a trade union. At all unionized operations we consult with the union and negotiate over changes in the organization. At the end of 2010, 10 percent of Barrick’s total employees were women and 20 percent of our executive positions were held by women. Barrick recently appointed a woman to the Board of Directors. There were no incidents of forced or compulsory labour at our operations in 2010. There were no incidents of child labour at our operations in 2010. Our most significant contribution to the effective abolition of child labour is our investment in education, such as our partnerships as part of the Atacama Commitment and the Intel/Cisneros Foundation Class 21 program in Chile, and our community infrastructure development projects that support community centres and recreational areas. 7 UNGC PRINCIPLE 7 Principles: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Environment Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. At Barrick, our goal is to minimize our environmental footprint and safeguard the environment, now and for future generations. Our Environmental Policy Statement outlines its commitment to proven natural resource management practices for the protection, reclamation and enhancement of the environment. Our Policies, Systems and Commitments that support this principle include: We take a precautionary approach throughout the life of a mine by first assessing potential impacts, then evaluating how to avoid, mitigate or control these impacts. Controls typically include putting into place multi-layers of environmental protection and robust environmental management systems that include advanced planning against possible future events. Barrick is a signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code. Barrick contributed to development of the Code which is aimed at improving the global management of cyanide. Barrick is committed to state-of-the-art controls on all point sources of mercury air pollution. In 2009, we worked with the State of Nevada, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Nevada Mining Association to develop the Nevada Mercury Air Emissions Control Program. This program is among the most stringent in the world. Barrick has represented the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) at the 25 th Session of the UNEP’s Governing Council meeting where an agreement was reached to develop an international legally binding instrument on mercury. In 2010 and 2011, Barrick has participated in the first and second Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee meetings for the development of a legally binding instrument on mercury. Also, in 2010, Barrick participated in the UNEP Mercury Storage Partnership meetings addressing storage of mercury in Latin America and the Caribbean. Barrick has worked with the U.S. EPA in developing a federal rule to limit mercury air pollution from the gold mining industry. Our Environmental Management System Standard (EMSS) addresses 16 elements of environmental management, including environmental technology and life-cycle planning. Barrick established an Energy Group to assist our operations in implementing energy efficiency programs and alternative energy initiatives. We have energy champions at our operations who promote energy efficiency projects and programs. These include energy awareness education, the use of solar water heating and high efficiency lighting at some of our mine camps, compressor controls and fuel management programs. In 2009, Barrick approved five corporate-wide environmental standards: Water Conservation Standard, Biodiversity Standard, Mine Closure Standard, Environmental Standard, and Climate Change Standard. These Standards were implemented in 2010. 8 Barrick is a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), and is committed to ICMM’s Sustainable Development Principles, including Principle 2: Integrate sustainable development considerations within the corporate decision-making process; Principle 4: Implement risk management strategies based on valid data and sound science; Principle 6: Seek continual improvement of our environmental performance; Principle 7: Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and integrated approaches to land use planning; and Principle 8: Facilitate and encourage responsible product design, use, re-use, recycling and disposal of our products. Barrick actively participates in the following ICMM committees: Environment & Biodiversity Task Force; Climate Change Working Group; Water & Mining Working Group; Integrated Mine Closure Working Group; Materials Stewardship Task Force; and Mercury Working Group. GRI Indicators: 2010/2011 Outcomes EN6, EN7 EN5 MM2 EN2, EN10 EN16, EN17,EN18, EN22, EC2 The Barrick Water Conservation Standard was approved in 2009 and has been, or is in the process of being, implemented at all sites. It is standardizing site water conservation programs for both our operating and closed properties. Barrick's Water Conservation Standard requires each operation to track and report annually to corporate on water consumption and to develop a site-specific target for reducing consumption. This process is currently underway: some sites now have targets, others are developing them. 100 percent of our sites that are located in arid or semiarid environments have been assessed against current and future water scarcity taking into account potential changes due to climate change, and water management plans/programs are in place at all these sites. Water management plans vary in complexity but all include strict limits to the amount of water that can be extracted from the environment, and have reporting requirements. In 2010/2011, Barrick continued implementation of our Climate Change Standard, which includes a system to assist with management decision-making and promotes consideration of alternatives to minimize Barrick's carbon footprint. We are also working with our top suppliers to develop action plans to reduce our supply chain carbon footprint. Since 2007, Barrick has had energy efficiency and renewable energy targets recognizing that since our largest source of greenhouse gases has been energy, that this would be an effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have now translated these earlier commitments into a greenhouse gas emission reduction target. Our target is a 5 percent reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from business as usual by 2012 (base year was 2006). By the end of 2010, our progress against our target was 80 percent complete. In 2010 we completed 89 energy efficiency projects and 5 renewable energy projects. These projects resulted in 190,000 tonnes CO2e reduced and 1.8 million GJ of energy saved. In 2010, we sourced 15 percent of our electrical power, both self-generated and purchased, from renewable sources. In 2010, our Hemlo mine in Canada reduced their use of fresh water from a nearby creek by installing a water treatment plant to treat water from the tailings management facility to use as a source of process water. They are now using less than four percent of the creek water allowed by their permit. 9 Barrick is currently investigating the use of non-food crop biofuels with test projects in Tanzania. We have also erected a wind turbine at over 4,000 metres above sea level to investigate the potential for high elevation wind power and have a solar farm in Nevada. Construction is underway at our $70 million wind farm in Punta Colorado, Chile, which will feature 18 wind turbines and supply 36 MWs of energy to Chile’s power grid. The first phase (10 – 2 MW turbines) will be fully operational in the second half of 2011, producing 20 MW of clean, renewable energy. Barrick continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the CDP Water Disclosure for the 2010 reporting year. In 2010 Barrick was recognized as a carbon disclosure leader in an annual global survey of companies conducted by the Carbon Disclosure Project. Barrick was identified from among 200 major companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange as one of the most prepared, involved, and transparent in their initiatives to address climate change. Barrick tied for 3rd out of 100 companies benchmarked in a recent multi-industry study ranking water reporting practices of publicly traded companies. The study, entitled “Murky Waters? Corporate Reporting on Water Risk, A Benchmarking Study of 100 Companies,” was conducted by Ceres, a Bostonbased coalition of investors with $8 trillion under management. Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) are completed at all projects prior to the development/operations stage. The EIAs identify biodiversity issues and outline programs and procedures for addressing site-specific biodiversity issues. Biodiversity strategies and programs have been implemented at all sites where biodiversity has been identified as an important or material issue. In 2010, Barrick spent over $65 million in environmental protection expenditures, including environmental monitoring, mitigation of environmental contamination, equipment to reduce emissions and the disposal of hazardous waste. All South American operations are ISO 14001 certified and receive regular ISO audits. Barrick’s remaining operations are working towards ISO certification; it is expected that the North America region and two operations in Australia will be certified by the end of 2011. Of Barrick’s 23 operations (owned and operated plus joint ventures) where cyanide is used, 21 operations were certified under the International Cyanide Management Code by April 2011. The remaining two sites are in the process of certifying. In 2010, Barrick recycled 8.9 million litres of used oil, 43,900 metric tons of scrap metal, 2,100 metric tons of used tires, 495 metric tons of paper and cardboard, 89.3 metric tons of used batteries, 76.0 metric tons of glass and 37.0 metric tons of aluminum cans. To date, the Lake Cowal Foundation, which is principally supported by Barrick, has contributed to projects worth A$9.7 million and has improved close to 23,330 hectares of land in the region in partnership with 39 project partners. The organization does a range of conservation, sustainable farming, educational and research projects in conjunction with the local community and other environmental groups. The goal is to enhance the environment around Lake Cowal, a nationally significant wetland. Barrick achieved an 11 percent reduction in environmental incidents in 2010. 10 We produced a comprehensive online 2010 Responsibility Report in an effort to be more environmentally conscious. An Executive Summary of the online report was printed on 100% post-consumer waste fiber and is a carbon neutral document. For the second consecutive year, Barrick undertook and external assurance process to assure our annual Responsibility Report. In 2010/2011 the independent third-party assurance providers [Bureau Veritas] reviewed our data and management processes, including data management and calculations relating to our environmental data. Their independent Assurance Statement is posted on the company website and included the following conclusions: The 2010 Responsibility Report is accurate, reliable, free from material mistakes or misstatements and is clearly presented and understandable It is our opinion the 2010 Responsibility Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Reporting Framework, including appropriate consideration of the Reporting Principles and necessary indicators to meet the requirements of GRI Application Level A+. It is our opinion that Barrick continues to align its operations and activities with the ICMM Sustainable Development Principles. We observed evidence to support the conclusion that the five ICMM Subject Matters have been substantially addressed. 11 UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 Principle: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption Barrick is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and professional integrity. We conduct our business around the world in an ethical, honest and accountable manner and in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. We value and are committed to transparency in our business practices, consistent with good governance and commercial confidentiality. Our Policies, Systems and Commitments that support this principle include: The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the Barrick website, and applies to all employees of Barrick, as well as the company’s Board of Directors. The Code includes detailed reporting provisions and standards of conduct including with respect to conflicts of interest, public disclosure, compliance with laws, proper use of company assets, financial controls and records, confidentiality, fair dealing and employee harassment and discrimination. New employees are required to read the Code and certify their awareness, commitment and compliance to the Code. All supervisory and administrative employees are required to certify their awareness, commitment, and compliance to the Code annually, including as to compliance with anti-corruption laws, and to participate in regular training on the Code. At our operations, contractors/suppliers/service providers/consultants working for Barrick are given information on the Code. A 1-800 Confidential Hot Line is available for all employees (in the language of their choice) who have questions or concerns about the Code and other ethical issues. The compliance and support for the Code is linked to employee remuneration for senior management. Barrick has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy is available on the Barrick website, and explicitly addresses the issues of corruption and bribery and provides guidelines for compliance with the Corruption of Public Officials Act (Canada), the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (USA), and local anti-corruption laws. All employees in positions of trust are required to participate in training on anti-corruption laws. We also have a Disclosure Policy and an Insider Trading Policy. Our Anti-Fraud Policy is available on the Barrick website, and applies to all employees and sets out Barrick’s requirements relating to the prohibition, recognition, reporting and investigation of suspected fraud, corruption, misappropriation and other similar irregularities. Barrick has a corporate-wide Supplier Code of Ethics which is available on the Barrick website and applies to all Barrick-owned operations and joint ventures where Barrick is the operator or where operations are shared through a management company. Suppliers are required to selfcertify that they comply with the Supplier Code of Ethics. Suppliers are also provided the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and required to review. In 2006, Barrick became the first Canadian mining company to officially endorse the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). A statement of our endorsement is published annually in our Responsibility Report and posted on our website (Corporate Responsibility section). Barrick is also a member of Transparency International Canada. 12 GRI Indicators: 2010/2011 Outcomes SO2, SO3, SO4 In 2010/2011, all employees across the company who are located in administrative offices or employed in supervisory capacities at a mine or project site were required to complete annual training and an annual certification in respect of their understanding of and compliance with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the Anti-Fraud Policy. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training and certification covers matters such as avoiding conflicts of interest, compliance with laws, maintaining confidentiality, use of company assets, fair dealing, financial controls, fair employment practices, as well as mechanisms for reporting concerns about potential violations of the Code. The training is an interactive on-line training module with case studies and test questions and is made available to employees in English, Spanish and Swahili. In addition, the Company provides annual training on the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy to employees company-wide who are in designated “positions of trust”. This training has been in place since 2008. We provided public information in our 2010 Responsibility Report on calls to our Confidential Hotline regarding Code violation in the form of categories of incidents reported and the percentage of total incidents broken down by each category. Reporting on these incidents began in 2009. In 2010/2011, Barrick implemented a Supplier Grievance program as part of our Compliance Hotline. This program allows suppliers to confidentially report concerns with ethics, health and safety, environment and any other areas of concern. Consistent with the Ethics pillar of our CSR Charter, Barrick supports the overarching goal of the EITI (i.e. anti-corruption) and endorses the twelve principles which form the cornerstone of the initiative. Barrick joined the EITI in 2006 we were the first Canadian mining company to become an EITI signatory. By becoming signatories to the EITI we expressed our support for anti-corruption efforts which in turn contributed to an improved business environment and reduced political risk in the countries where we operate. Barrick meets all our corporate-level EITI commitments: publicly endorsing EITI on our website, Annual Report and Responsibility Report; annually submitting our self-assessment form to EITI; promoting EITI in conferences and workshops; and supporting implementation of EITI in the countries where we operate. At the country level, Barrick has operations in two EITI candidate countries: Peru (candidate country since 2007) and Tanzania (candidate country since 2009). In both countries, Barrick is actively involved in the EITI process and complies in all material respects with its EITIrelated obligations. Barrick actively encouraged the Tanzanian government to be a signatory to the EITI. Barrick openly discloses the amounts of payments to governments in our annual Responsibility Report, which is available on our website. 13
