GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company Name TMS Fashion (H.K.) Date 15 March 2011 Limited Unit (if applicable) Address Unit 1001-1002 Nanyang Plaza 57 Hung To Road, Membership date 2005 Kwun Tong, Kowloon Country Hong Kong, PRC Number of 550 employees Contact name Joerg Kornblum Contact Position Chief Financial Officer Sector Garment and Apparel Contact telephone +852 2959 4300 Sourcing Industry no. About The TMS Group The TMS Group has established itself as one of the leading sourcing organizations for apparel and fashion accessories in Asia. With offices in the United States, Hong Kong, China, India, Bangladesh, and Indonesia, the thriving group delivers fashionable products and services at the highest quality level to customers worldwide. The TMS Group is a preferred supplier with a number of well-known and fashionable international apparel brands. The TMS Group global customer-base markets products in five continents and more than 40 countries, in virtually every corner of the globe. The TMS Group Statement of Support The TMS Group is a committed Global and Corporate Citizen. By accepting such a responsibility the TMS Group fully understands and embraces the tremendous and inherent corporate social responsibilities demanded of global enterprises. As a member of the United Nation’s Global Compact, we have strived to embody each of the Global Compact’s Ten Principles within our business policies and practices. The TMS Group board is unswerving in the implementation and sustainability of these goals and principles. This commitment extends to every aspect of our business. These combined principles embody the TMS Group’s core values and corporate culture. Joerg Kornblum Position Chief Financial Officer PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights: Our Commitment The TMS Group fully supports and respects the protection of human rights and dignity. This is not merely a business decision, but a moral obligation as a corporate and global citizen. Processes and Systems Through the implementation of internal TMS Group Social Audit program combined with the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Standards, we ensure all members of our supply chain network adhere to the core values of: (1) providing a safe and healthy work place, (2) by guaranteeing freedom of association, (3) by ensuring non-discrimination in personnel practices, (4) by ensuring that they do not use directly or indirectly forced labor or child labor, and (5) by providing access to basic health care needs Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have continuously and rigorously deployed the use of surveillance audits, in conjunction with supplier education and training programs. The combination of these two with a mentorship approach has proven successful. Furthermore, the TMS Group employs training and development for its social compliance officers. For 2010, 100% of our compliance officers are certified as SA8000 auditors, and 75 % have achieved SA 8000 Lead Auditor status. The goal is 100% for 2011. Typically, this type of training and education is rd reserved for global 3 party audit agencies. However, we have elevated the standards, and strive to maintain the highest skill levels and current refresher training for our teams. Moreover, TMS conducts continuous factory education and training delivered for our suppliers though extensive partnerships rd with global 3 party organization such as SGS, and Intertek Services. For 2011, TMS will extend audits and certifications for authorized sub-contracted suppliers. Measurable Results or Outcomes For calendar year 2010, 75% of the supply base successfully passed their BSCI initial or renewal audits on the first attempt. Follow-up surveillance audits continue to yield a 98% compliance rate of maintaining BSCI standards. For calendar year 2011, the TMS Group will continue to progress towards 90% achievement for initial BSCI auditing, and similar for sub-contracted suppliers. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Human Rights: Our Commitment The TMS Group supports and upholds to the fullest extent the protection and enforcement of human rights. This extends to our suppliers and our employees. TMS Group employees who are in constant contact with our suppliers are made aware of their required adherence to the TMS Group policies, and Global Compact Principles, as part of their initial employment agreement and thru refresher training. Processes and Systems Our TMS Group Business Standards are executed with 100% of suppliers/factories within our network, prior to commencing any business relationship. This is coupled with an internal social audit process, and a written supplier management commitment for adherence to the BSCI Code of Conduct, and the associated principles. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The TMS Group Compliance and BSCI audit standards have been implemented. Continued supplier training and education are conducted on a quarterly basis. Measurable Results or Outcomes Through the combination of monitoring, training and education, adherence to established standards will be maintained, with zero “critical issues” identified within the supply base. There have been zero cases prior to participation in the Global Compact, and since our affiliation in 2005. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Labor Rights : Our Commitment The TMS Group’s commitment, and polices against anti-labor practices are clearly stated in our Business Standards, internal audit processes with suppliers, and the adopted BSCI Code of Conduct, that all suppliers must sign and adhere too. Processes and Systems The TMS Group Compliance and BSCI audit standards are implemented. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our actions are part of a continuous process and executed under the TMS Groups Compliance Program. Continuations of unannounced audits, training and education, supported by collaborative relationships with our suppliers have ensured there are no violations or abuses in this area. Measurable Results or Outcomes Zero instances of infractions in these areas from our suppliers. There have been zero cases prior to participation in the Global Compact, and since our affiliation in 2005. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Labor Rights: Our Commitment The TMS Group’s commitment, and polices against forced labor practices are clearly stated in our Business Standards, internal audit processes with suppliers, and the adopted BSCI Code of Conduct, that all suppliers must sign and adhere too. Processes and Systems The TMS Group Compliance and BSCI audit standards are implemented. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our actions are part of a continuous process and executed under the TMS Groups Compliance Program. Continuations of unannounced audits, training and education, supported by collaborative relationships with our suppliers have ensured there are no violations or abuses in this area. Measurable Results or Outcomes Zero instances of infractions in these areas from our suppliers. There have been zero cases prior to participation in the Global Compact, and since our affiliation in 2005. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR Labor Rights: Our Commitment The TMS Group’s commitment, and polices against child labor practices are clearly stated in our Business Standards, internal audit processes with suppliers, and the adopted BSCI Code of Conduct, that all suppliers must sign and adhere too. Processes and Systems The TMS Group Compliance and BSCI audit standards are implemented as part of a two – tier approach. Tier two of the process includes collaboration with customers for their own or extended 3rd party audits and verifications. This ensures integrity and transparency to all stakeholders. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our actions are part of a continuous process and executed under the TMS Groups Compliance Program. Continuations of unannounced audits, training and education, supported by collaborative relationships with our suppliers have ensured there are no violations or abuses in this area. Measurable Results or Outcomes Zero instances of infractions in these areas from our suppliers. TMS Group and its customer base exercises a “zero tolerance” policy for this type of labor rights violation. There have been zero cases prior to participation in the Global Compact, and since our affiliation in 2005. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Labor Rights: Our Commitment The TMS Group’s commitment, and polices against discriminatory employment practices based upon, race, gender, or religion are clearly stated in our Business Standards, internal audit processes with suppliers, and the adopted BSCI Code of Conduct, that all suppliers must sign and adhere too. Processes and Systems This is an integral part of our TMS Group Business Standards, which are executed with all suppliers, before business is commenced. These standards are also reviewed annually commencing in 2010 to reflect significant changes in business and social compliance policies and procedures. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our actions are part of a continuous process and executed under the TMS Groups Compliance Program. Continuations of unannounced audits, training and education, supported by collaborative relationships with our suppliers have ensured there are no violations or abuses in this area. Measurable Results or Outcomes Zero instances of infractions in these areas from our suppliers. There have been zero cases prior to participation in the Global Compact, and since our affiliation in 2005. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Environment: Our Commitment The TMS Group is committed and proactive in partnering with suppliers to implement measures to improve their environmental sustainability. Processes and Systems TMS Group internal and BSCI audit verification processes require suppliers to provide environmental risk assessments and minimizing measures. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year For 2011, TMS will continue to develop semi-annual supplier training, education and environmental management practices that support environmental friendly policies, with a target of 75% participation from the global supply base. Measurable Results or Outcomes 100% of suppliers met or exceeded local environmental standards and introduced Eco-friendly polices and programs which reduce carbon footprints and sustain natural resources. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environment : Our Commitment The TMS Group firmly believes in promoting greater environmental awareness and responsibility with our employees and suppliers. Processes and Systems In 2010 the TMS Group continued the momentum of the “Green Campaign” within all regional office locations. For 2011, continued education and awareness will be provided regarding the concepts of “Think globally, act locally” for environmental conscienceless in the workplace and home. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Employee education and training is provided regarding the concepts of “Think globally, act locally” for creating environmental consciousness and practices in the workplace and at home. Measurable Results or Outcomes An overall reduction by 25% of wasteful energy consumption and carbon footprint impact. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Environment: Our Commitment The TMS Group strongly encourages it’s suppliers to seek and implement innovative technologies that minimize the operational impact on the environment and reduce carbon footprints. Processes and Systems Create supplier awareness for the usage of alternatives to fossil fuel sources, and the reduction of their overall carbon footprint. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The implementation of this program was postponed from 2010 until 2011. Develop pilot deployment plan with suppliers 2011-2012. Measurable Results or Outcomes Initial target of 10% supplier participation in pilot plan, on a global basis. PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, 10 INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Anti-Corruption: Our Commitment The TMS Group’s commitment, and polices against all forms of corruption are clearly stated in every aspect of the organization beginning with employment terms for hew-hires, and is extended to our Business Standards, internal audit processes with suppliers, and the adopted BSCI Code of Conduct, that all suppliers must sign and adhere too. Processes and Systems The TMS Group Compliance and BSCI audit standards are implemented. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our actions are part of a continuous process and executed under The TMS Groups Compliance Program. Continuations of unannounced audits, training and education, supported by collaborative relationships with our suppliers have ensured there are no violations or abuses in this area. Measurable Results or Outcomes Zero instances of infractions in these areas from our employees or suppliers. There have been zero cases prior to participation in the Global Compact, and since our affiliation in 2005. Communication of COP to Stakeholders TMS Group will communicate this progress through established formal and informal communication processes to all stakeholders and ensure the widest dissemination.
