2010 KORAIL S u s t ai n a b ili t y R e p or t TSR TMR TMGR TCR East Sea about this report 2010 KORAIL Sustainability Report ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Characteristics of the Report Please use the following contact This is KORAIL’s third sustainability report covering the company’s economic, information if you need more social, and environmental policies and performances. To ensure its accuracy, it information about this report or have has been reviewed by an impartial third party (page 92~93). Going forward, KORAIL any questions about it. will incorporate readers’ opinions about this report into its future management • Home Page http://www.korail.com activities. You can download both the Korean and English versions from KORAIL’s • E-Mail sustainability@korail.com home page, http://www.korail.com. • Telephone 82-42-615-3202 • Fax 82-2-361-8278 •D epartment in Charge of Production Customer Value Management Office, Writing Standards Management Innovation Department We used the G3 guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) in writing this report, with specific reference to its requirements for the logistics and transportation industries. It satisfies all the requirements of the GRI G3 Level A+ level indicators. Scope and Time Period of Report KORAIL has published a sustainability report every year since 2008. Most of the data in this one cover the period between January and December of 2010. We have also sometimes used data from 2008 and 2009 for purposes of comparison. If a set of data do not belong to the year 2010, we have made specific note of that fact. Instances in which data could not be collected, as well as projects that began after 2010, have been identified as such. The currency used is the Korean won (₩), and quantitative data are measured in km, tons, and TEUs. When necessary, other units of measurement have been placed next to a numerical value. This report is limited to KORAIL’s management activities in Korea. A Railroad System To Be Proud Of Creating A Happier and Healthier Future Through Advanced Railroad Management KORAIL is a recognized leader in determining how the future of Korea will unfold. One of our goals is to help the country develop into a global leader in the field of railroad transportation. KORAIL is making constant improvements to its facilities and its customer services. Another of its primary goals is to enhance its role as a globallyoriented, environmentally friendly and state-run enterprise that all its customers can trust and respect. contents KORAIL OVERVIEW 08 CEO’s Message 12 Sustainability Management Highlights in 2010 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management SUSTAINABILITY 34 KORAIL Sustainability Management 36 Definition of Stakeholders 37 Materiality Analysis 39 Core Performance Indicators Economic 40 Economic Performance Performance 42 Key Economic Performances 43 Operating Performance for Each Business 47 Stabilized Management of Economic Performance Social 48 Social Performance Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 S  ocial Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities Environmental 72 Environmental Performance Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 82 Safety Management 88 Quality Management APPENDIX 92 Verification Report 94 GRI Index 98 Memberships in Associations and Groups / Major Awards in 2010 YE S TE R D A Y RailROADs that lead the way to the future 20 km per hour was the speed of Korea’s very first train. The 33.8 km-long Seoul to Incheon line, which opened in 1899, wasn’t just a new and exciting mode of transportation. At that time, railroads were a primary means of introducing people to new products, new ways of doing things, and new ways of thinking. Without them, modern life as we know it would not have been possible. The Korean economy started to grow in company with its railroads. They also contributed dramatically to the growth and spread of Korean culture. T O D A Y Leading the way to success Automobiles have ruled the world for a very long time, and coping with traffic has become more and more complicated every day. Many people began to think that the era of trains was over, but KORAIL didn’t. Instead, we laid the groundwork for new and innovative developments. As a result, Korea has grown into a leader in the global railroad industry, becoming only the fifth country in the world to operate a high-speed train system and the fourth to manufacture high-speed passenger cars. KORAIL’s role in creating a new era in the railroad industry has produced enviable results. For example, KTX’s total number of passengers surpassed the 200 million mark in 2009. In addition, we have been able to develop our very own, independentlygenerated technologies, which we used to build the KTX-Sancheon train. TO M O R R O W Helping to build a better future Even though our trains go very fast, our passengers always feel relaxed riding in them. Even though they have a long and honored tradition, our trains use some of the world’s most advanced technologies. They are also one of the easiest ways to achieve environmentally friendly, green growth. At KORAIL, we are constantly making innovations to increase the efficiency of our operations and offer our customers greater value. For example, we are building railroad stations that satisfy the real needs of people. We are also improving our metropolitan rail services to make them even more pleasant and efficient. By taking these steps, we will firm up our position as a globally-oriented transportation and logistics company, making Korea a world leader in the development of state-of-the-art railroad technologies. CEO’s Message We will continue to realize sustainable growth by sharing the value and vision of railroads with stakeholders. To our many stakeholders around the world First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to you for your steady and constant support of KORAIL which prepares further 100 years to provide the world’s best green service under the theme of “the world’s best national railroad.” Since the first train whistle blew in Korea in 1899, KORAIL has been a driving force behind the development of the national economy and a trusted and reliable means of transportation for the Korean people. Now we have evolved into a modern-day, environmentally friendly transportation company that offers customers world-class service and always fulfills its corporate social responsibilities. KORAIL is committed to sustainability management and the protection of the environment. In addition to joining the UN Global Compact in 2007, we have been publishing an annual sustainability report outlining our economic, social and environmental performances. Countries around the globe have started building railroad again. This is happening because the world is focusing on lowcarbon, green growth and energy savings as a means of addressing such pressing environmental issues as global warming. As you may already know, trains emit much fewer CO2 emissions and consume much less energy than cars, on a comparative basis. KORAIL will continue to offer Koreans and visitors from around the world the comfort and benefits of a world-class railroad. Our goal is to make railroad the most popular means of transportation in Korea. We will do this by harnessing our many strengths and by pursuing change and innovation ceaselessly. Our company began operating the KTX-Sancheon train six years after the introduction of the first KTX bullet train. We also completed the second phase of the Seoul-Busan High-Speed Railroad, meaning that people can now travel anywhere within Korea in two hours or less. In addition, we expanded the reach of our service area by opening the KORAIL Airport Railroad, the GyeongJeon Line, and doubletracking the Gyeongchun Line. We also signed a MOU for railroad transport and implemented the “Green Mileage” program, which offers incentives to companies according to their transportation performance. In addition, we began offering a door-to-door delivery service, and added environmental standards to our charter of customer service. In addition, we raised our on-time ratio to 97% from 96%, and shortened the time needed to buy a train ticket from five minutes to three. All of these improvements illustrate our commitment to offering a world-class service that cannot be replicated anywhere else. 8km Huh, Joon-Young KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report President & CEO 9km CEO’s Message In order to further its goal of offering customers a constantly increasing range of services, KORAIL is turning its stations across the nation into local community centers that will take the initiative in enhancing local cultures. Many of our stations are already being used as cultural and artistic spaces, including Seoul Station, with its Open Concert Hall. Honorary stationmasters have been named at thirty-one stations that we no longer operate, helping to turn them into community and cultural hubs. In addition, we are creating a “green travel” culture by developing ecological and cultural train travel programs. These include a rail cruise, “Haerang,” “Naeilro,” a Sea Train, a Bike Train, a Music Café Train, and a Wine and Cinema Train. We are also promoting railroads as a popular means of transportation through the GLORY (Green Life of Railroad Yearning) campaign, in which stations, local governments, and representatives of local residents participate. The purpose of this effort is to promote green growth and help to ameliorate environmental problems. It also helps strengthen the economies of local communities across the nation. KORAIL is putting its utmost efforts into turning stations across the nation in cultural spaces for local communities and centers to enrich local residents’ lives. In order to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities as a state-run company, KORAIL is taking steps to flesh out the central government’s policies. We are also committed to strengthening our operational capabilities through innovation and “outside the box” thinking. Another positive step that KORAIL took was to select five hundred interns and hire 126 of them as full-time workers in an effort to help reduce youth unemployment. We have also made rail travel simpler and more enjoyable by equipping our cars with nursing rooms, diaper-changing spaces, and special seating for pregnant women and families with babies. As a result, the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family gave us an “AA” grade in its 2010 Family-Friendly Company Certification System. KORAIL has also formed mutually beneficial relationships with its business partners. This includes signing agreements for win-win growth and fair trade with 874 of them for the first time among state run companies. In addition, we are following the central government’s suggestions for improving our structures. As a result, we are reducing our number of ticketing offices and restructuring stations with low profitability. We are also making improvements to our human resources management and compensation systems, including instituting a performance-based annual salary system and introducing a maximum wage level. In addition, our management and labor people managed to carry out conflict-free collective bargaining for the first time ever. This resulted in the signing of a mutuallyagreeable contract that includes the institution of a “time-off” system. We will continue to work our hardest to become the world’s best railroad company, leading the way in the global railroad market by constantly innovating our businesses and faithfully fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities. First, we will concentrate on increasing our profitability. This will include adding to our sales by strengthening the connections among our various services, using social networks to promote our activities, and expanding our railroad network and logistics infrastructure. In addition, we will create profit-enhancing, life-related and cultural spaces by facilitating the evolution of our stations into privately financed, multi-functional buildings that harmonize with the development of areas near them. We will also continue with our strategy of entering into overseas high-speed rail projects. 10km Secondly, we will continue to achieve cost reductions and make our human resources management operations more efficient. We will pursue the latter goal by consigning our non-core businesses to other operators and making improvements to our attendant service system. We will achieve the first one by increasing the efficiency of our train operations. This will include changing the operating system for our conventional trains and enhancing our cargo transport system. Thirdly, we will create a friendlier image of railroads by fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities and adding to the satisfaction levels of our customers and employees. We will also build positive and constructive partnerships with smalland medium-sized enterprises. In addition, we will make our facilities more accessible for the disabled and carry out specialized social contributions programs through the GLORY campaign. Other steps that we will take include making our services safer and more efficient. We will do this by implementing an advanced safety management system and improving and adding to our safety-related facilities. We will also hire more people who face significant barriers to employment. In addition, our working environment will be made warmer and more welcoming through the expansion of our employee benefits systems. This will include the Voice of KORAIL (VOK) System, which handles customer complaints about our services and employees. In addition, we will strengthen our foundations for sustainable growth through the GLORY campaign and by making improvements to our business structure. This will include promoting trains as a convenient and reliable means of transportation by making the customized GLORY campaign more community-friendly. We will also continue to nurture the development of Global KORAIL-Certified Railroad Professionals who will take the lead in advancing our future. In addition, we will keep on developing advanced railroad technologies, such as next-generation, high-speed train operation systems. We will also streamline the business structures of our subsidiaries, strengthening their competitiveness by rationalizing their operations and encouraging them to focus on their core businesses. In addition, we will create more harmonious labormanagement relationships by encouraging labor and management to work together for their mutual self-interest. Our excellent and reliable railroad system is a source of pride for all Koreans. In addition, providing the country with an advanced railroad transportation industry will result in a happier and healthier future for all of us and our descendants. Railroads are an extremely efficient means of realizing the development of a regionally-balanced national economy. In its bid to become a world leader in a new “golden age” of railroads, KORAIL is placing a premium on sustainability management and winning the trust of its customers and stakeholders. As a global transport company that is leading the way in the field of low-carbon green growth, we will become an acknowledged trailblazer in the world’s railroad industry. In closing, I look forward to your continuing support and encouragement going forward. Thank you. KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report June, 2011 President & CEO Huh, Joon-Young ✽ KORAIL supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anticorruption. 11km Sustainability Management Highlights in 2010 1 GLORY Campaign GLORY stands for “Green Life Of Railway Yearning.” The aim of the “Glory Movement” is to promote green growth in Korea by encouraging more people to take the train. This will also lead to increased growth in local economies. KORAIL’s headquarters and twelve regional administrative centers are taking a leading position in forwarding the organization’s aims. 2 Launch of KTX-Sancheon Operation The “made-in-Korea” KTX-Sancheon, the world’s fourth bullet train, began operations on March 2, 2010. Its ultra-streamlined nose maximizes energy efficiency by minimizing air resistance, allowing it to reach speeds of 300 km per hour in a little over five minutes. In addition, its repair and maintenance functions have been made easier and more energy efficient through the use of an aluminum alloy in its cars and motors. 3 Revision of Customer Service Charter KORAIL revised its Customer Service Charter to ensure that its standards are more environmentally friendly and in agreement with the Korean government’s green growth policies. This included a commitment to raise our on-time ratio to 97% from 96% and to reduce the maximum time needed to buy a ticket from five minutes to three. 4 A Harmonious Labor-Management Relationship KORAIL signed a collective agreement with the Korea Railroad Workers’ Union that rationalizes its operating practices and respects the rights of both management and labor. It includes a two-year wage freeze, reduces the number of full-time employees seconded to the union office to fourteen from sixty-four, changes their status from paid to volunteer, and establishes 33,000 hours as the upper limit for the time-off system. In keeping with this spirit of harmony and mutual respect, KORAIL has introduced a number of mutuallybeneficial activities, including town hall meetings, and a task force whose mandate is to make improvements to the overall operating system. In addition, communications were strengthened by enhancing the roles of the company’s support and main business departments. “We will strive to upgrade our train service to the maximum by establishing this win-win labor-management model,” said Huh Joon-Young, president of KORAIL. 12km Awarded Highest Grade in Sustainability Management Survey 5 KORAIL obtained a grade of “AAA,” the highest rating possible, in the 2009 KoBEX SM for two consecutive years. It was awarded by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. In addition, KORAIL ranked first in the “railroad and subway” category in the 2010 Korea Sustainability Contest conducted by the Korean Standards Association under the aegis of the Global Reporting Initiative. We also won a prize for the excellence of our sustainability report (in the “public/NGO” category). Travelers can now go anywhere in Korea by rail in two hours, thanks to the Completion of Second Phase of Seoul-Busan High Speed Railroad and Airport Railroad 6 completion of the second phase of the bullet train project linking Seoul and Busan. It runs seventy-four trips every weekday, and eighty-six trips on weekends. Several new stations were built to make the service more userfriendly, including ones at Osong, Gimcheon (Gumi), Singyeongju, and Ulsan. Another plus for customers is that KORAIL has not raised its fares for this improved service. In addition, the completion of the KORAIL Airport Railroad project has added dramatically to the convenience of overseas travelers. Named Best-Ever Customer Service Provider 7 KORAIL earned the highest-ever score in a Ministry of Strategy and Finance survey measuring customer satisfaction with public organizations. A total of 136 organizations were included in the study. Win-Win Partnerships and Fair Trade 8 In November 2010, KORAIL held a signing ceremony to celebrate the completion of KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report win-win relationships and fair trade agreements with 874 of its partner firms. KORAIL has been offering its suppliers practical business supports since establishing its GLORY Win-Win Growth Center in October, 2010. This includes purchasing products from small companies and enhancing its contracts and regulations. 13km Company Summary ● Purpose of KORAIL was founded to contribute to the growth of the Korean railroad industry and enhance the nation’s Establishment economy. Pursuant to the Basic Law on Rail Industry Development and the Korea Railroad Corporation Act, it is tasked with improving the professionalism and efficiency of the country’s railroad management. KORAIL is a public company, owned in its entirety by the government of Korea. KORAIL is engaged in the following businesses. First, it carries both passengers and freight. It is an intermodal freight carrier, meaning that it encompasses other forms of transportation. It is also involved in the production, sale, maintenance, and leasing of rolling stocks and other railroad equipment, as well as the development of property and other assets near its stations. In addition, it performs maintenance and repair operations on rail facilities that have been commissioned by the central government, local administrations, and public organizations. Main Business Areas of KORAIL Bu sin ess du ca ti Tra ona nd T re raining ck side ntu development, Ve on sE GrowthBu Seeking sea s sin Bu Business eted ver ns Multifac ess po gy O rt ns olo , Roll , ingstock Sales Tra chn it, ine / Te en t, Overseas ss dal Tra •S opm •O tation vel Area De cti vel P rmo Basic ver ru ss nst e sea ortal, Int S Business s Hi C o ail gh-Speed Railroad Passeng er R v Se rvic er il S itan Ra fC o ou ew sin g er Metropol ith Re ra served Seatin to vic il T por e• l Ra g ans KTX/C ice onventiona re • Tr • xp Logistics nt Co n ndE h ain vention o a re ers al/Express Metr Wa and an d Stee ing l, Loading and unload Passenger Rail Service Metropolitan Rail Service Logistics Multifaceted Business 14km ● change over past 111 years Number of Number of Train Speeds Stations Trips per Day 20km/h 7 4    305km 652 3,227 ● ● Corporate Status Company History Sep. 1899 Korea opened its first-ever railroad, a 33.8 km-long General Status line running between Noryangjin and Jemulpo. (As of December 31, 2010) Sep. 1963 Korea National Railroad established as a subsidiary Company Name KORAIL (Korea Railroad Corporation) of the Ministry of Transportation Date of September 1899 (KORAIL was founded on January 1, 2005) Establishment Corporate HQ 242 Jungangno, Dong-gu, Daejeon City, Korea President & CEO Huh, Joon-Young Corporate HQ 5 headquarters, 8 offices, 2 units (61 depts) 12 (2 institutes, 2 officies, 2 centers, Affiliated Organizations Organization 6 works officies) 12 (77 depts), 3 rollingstock maintenance Regional HQs depot (9 depts) Aug. 1974 Seoul subway lines from Seoul to Suwon and from Total Number of 29,958 Guro to Incheon opened Employees Jun. 1992 Construction of Gyeongbu High-Speed Railroad Total Assets 19,812.3 billion won started Total Liabilities 9,658.0 billion won Apr. 2004 KTX (Korea Train Express) service launched Total Sales 3,682.5 billion won Jan. 2005 Establishment of KORAIL Net Profit 380.8 billion won Operations and Facilities (As of December 31, 2010) Total Rolling Stocks 18,410 (including 1,110 KTX cars) Number of Routes 88 Oct. 2006 Hosted UIC Asia Meeting Total Route Length 3,557.3 km (High Speed: 368.5 km) * Apr. 2007 Recorded 100 millionth KTX passenger Total Track Length 8,426 km (Main Tracks: 6,285.9 km, Side tracks 2,140.1 km) ** May 2008 Hosted regular UIC meeting and WCRR (World Congress on Railroad Research) gathering 652 (80 managing stations, 538 subordinate stations, Number of Stations Aug. 2009 Vision of becoming “The World’s Best Railroad” 30 signal stations, 4 signalbox) Number of 266 (39 crew office, 29 rollingstocks, 107 civil engineering and announced Business Sites architecture facilities, 91 electrical engineering and signaling Nov. 2009 Hosted General Meeting of UIC Asia KTX 172 Mar. 2010 Operation of KTX-Sancheon line started Conventional Trains 425 Nov. 2010 Second phase of Seoul-Busan High-Speed Number of Metro 2,331 Railroad project completed Trips per Day Freight Trains 299 Total 3,227 KTX 30 million passenger km Conventional Trains 22 million passenger km Daily Capacity Metropolitan Trains 38 million passenger km KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Freight Trains 25.7 million passenger km Dec. 2010 Double-tracked line between Samnangjin and ✽ This is the total length of KORAIL’s 88 routes, counting double-tracked routes as singleMasan completed tracked ones. Double-tracked line between Seoul and Chuncheon ✽✽ This is the total length of all of KORAIL’s tracks (main, side, and industrial line tracks). completed The lengths of sections with doubled and quadrupled tracks have been doubled and quadrupled. KORAIL Airport Railroad completed 15km Management Values ● Vision and Midto LongKORAIL is committed to protecting the environment and helping people lead happier and healthier lives. Term Business Strategies The company’s new vision, “The World’s Best Railroad,” is designed to reflect its three main goals: offering its stakeholders the world’s very best railroad services, fulfilling its social responsibilities on the foundation of management self-sufficiency, and becoming a global comprehensive logistics company. It was announced in August, 2009. In 2010, the company reflected such variables in its operating environment as low-carbon green growth and increased investments in railroads. This was done by improving its midto long-term business strategies connected to its corporate vision. At the same time, we established the company-wide GLORY Campaign to help bring our vision to fruition. Green Network, VISION Making People’s Lives Richer MISSION World’s Best Railroad Shared Core Values Focus on Customer-Oriented Leading Changes Profitability Management Policies Revamping Customer For the Best Sustainable Performance Organization Satisfaction Railroad Service Growth Oriented Four Strategic Vision Announcement Directions •Adding Future Growth Engines •Establishing Best Management System •Expanding Value for Stakeholders •Strengthening Global Competitiveness GLORY Campaign Strengthening Culture and 01 lifestyle-related business 07 Customer Satisfaction Harmony among Workers, 02 Entering into Comprehensive 08 Management, and Customers Logistics Business 03 Expanding Technology Business 09 Environmental Management 12 Strategic Hiring and Nurturing First-Class Optimizing Operations of Tasks 10 Human Resources 04 Subsidiaries Establishing Performance05 Securing Core Technologies 11 Oriented, Responsibility-Based Management System Maintaining Zero-Accident Safety Enhancing Managerial 06 System 12 Efficiencies 16km ● GLORY campaign The goals of the GLORY (Green Life Of Railway Yearning) campaign are twofold: to create a railroading renaissance by promoting the Korean people’s use of railroads, and to expedite the development of the country’s railroad industry. The latter goal will be achieved by changing employees’ attitudes toward their jobs and improving their work processes. KORAIL has developed an effective and efficient support system for sustainable and company-wide GLORY activities and a national green life campaign. It is carrying out various aspects of the GLORY Campaign that reflect the characteristics of each of its operating departments. realizing the World’s Best Railroad through the GLORY campaign Let’s Take the Using Freight Train Train Service GLORY Exchanging Multifaceted Railroad Business Technologies Building local Activity Models Building Support Systems and around Station Masters Strengthening Publicity Major Tasks The inaugural ceremony of the GLORY Campaign HQ Reinforcing Roles Strengthening Building a Building Support Implementing KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report of Stations as Bonds with Local Sustainable Systems to PR Activities by Gathering Places Communities Organization through Strengthen the Communicating Systematic Customer GLORY Campaign with Participants Management in the GLORY Campaign Carrying out the company-wide activities for achievement of 5 major tasks The Railroad Promotion Campaign 17km k o r a i l o v er v i ew 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business areas 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management Building the Organization KORAIL established a nation-wide organization to further the GLORY Campaign in September 2010. It includes a central headquarters and about one hundred local units spread across the country. The goal is to put our green life campaign into practice more systematically. GLORY Central Organization Representatives GLORY Operating Office 21 GLORY Consultants (KORAIL) GLORY Logistics KORAIL Seoul Airport Regional Railroad HQ s 5L Busannit oca Western Gyeongnam lU lU Metropolitan Regional HQ 9 L oca nit 5L s s Regional HQ oc nit al lU Un oca its L 11 Eastern Daegu 9 Local l Units Metropolitan Regional HQ Units 10 Loca Regional HQ 13 Steering Committee 5 Loc its al Un al Un 8 Loc its Gyeongbuk Gangwon s 6L Regional HQ Regional HQ nit oc al alU Un oc its 7L 7L oca nits al U 8 Local Units l Un Loc Jeonnam Chungbuk Regional its 10 Regional HQ HQ Gwangju DaejeonRegional Jeonbuk Chungnam HQ Regional Regional HQ HQ Member Organizations of GLORY Campaign (Unit: Number of Member Organizations) Media Organizations 74 Public Organizations 257 Educational Organizations 133 Companies 505 Women’s Organizations 131 Social Organizations 269 Others 300 Total of 1,669 organizations and 148,293 people (as of March, 2011) 18km Main Business Areas Characteristics of the The railroad industry is an advanced, technology-intensive business sector comprising Railroad Industry rollingstocks, electricity, facilities, signals, information, and operations. In order to increase corporate value as network industry and a social overhead capital industry, it requires flexibility in operation—such as automation and computerization. Railroads are rapidly growing in importance as environmentally friendly and extremely energy efficient modes of transportation due to environmental and energy crisis in the world. As such, they have a great potential to contribute to economic growth and a healthier environment. One of KORAIL’s most important roles is to assist in the creation of “green values” in support of the central government’s low-carbon and green growth policies. ● Passenger Rail The passenger rail service is KORAIL’s most important business area and passenger HQs is in charge of Service this area. Its nation-wide network (including the KTX, Saemaul, Mugunghwa, and commuter rail lines) consists of 368.5 km of high-speed track and 3,557.3 km of conventional track as of the end of December, 2010. KTX trains run 172 trips a day on weekdays (218 on weekends), while our conventional passenger trains run 425 trips a day on weekdays (421 on weekends). The KTX began operations in 2004. Its total number of passengers exceeded 200 million within five years. It is a highly influential means of transportation that changes people’s lives and creates new cultures. The KTX-Sancheon is a “made in Korea” train using independently developed technology and featuring a unique design and enhanced amenities with safety and cutting-edge technology. It began operating in March, 2010. Its highly advanced technology has enabled KORAIL to take the lead in the overseas railroad market. The coverage area of the KTX grew dramatically when the second phase of the Seoul-Busan High Speed Railroad project was completed in 2010. When that happened, connections between the conventional railroad and the KTX were improved to offer riders more convenience. A KTX line map The KTX-Sancheon train KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report 19km k o r a i l o v er v i ew 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business areas 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management ● Metropolitan Rail The Korean people’s use of trains as an everyday mode of transportation is increasing as a result of everService higher oil prices. Besides saving them time and money, KORAIL’s metropolitan rail service is safe and environmentally friendly. This service connects cities and is at the heart of the Seoul metropolitan mass transit system. KORAIL operates twelve metropolitan rail lines, totaling 478.9 km of service line. They accommodate 2,331 different trips, and carry 2.6 million passengers every day. The ten urban lines include the Gyeongbu Line (running for 98.8 km between Seoul and Cheonan), the Gyeongin Line (27 km between Guro and Incheon), the Gyeongwon Line (42.9 km between Cheongnyangri and Soyosan), the Jungang Line (71.2 km between Yongsan and Yongmun), the Gwacheon Line (14.4 km between Namtaeryeong and Geumjeong), the Ansan Line (26 km between Geumjeong and Oido), the Bundang Line (27.7 km between Suseo and Bojeong), the Ilsan Line (19.2 km between Jichuk and Daehwa), the Janghang Line (19.4 km between Cheonan and Sinchang), and the Gyeongui Line (46.3 km between Seoul and Munsan). The company opened the Gyeongchun Line, which runs for 81.3 km between Sangbong and Chuncheon, in 2010. We also operate a 4.7 km-long line between Siheung and Gwangmyeong. It is reserved for shuttle trains that connect to the high-speed railroad. In addition, we launched a new express service on the Gyeongchun and Ansan lines. Other enhancements to our metropolitan rail service included adding more express services to existing routes and increasing the number of weekend express services for passengers using the Gyeongbu The opening of the Gyeongchun Line and Gyeongin lines. In addition, we are planning to launch a double-decker express train, complete with reserved seating, in the second half of 2011 for the first time in Korea. Expansion of Metropolitan Rail Service (Unit: km) 2008 329.4 2009 395.4 Transporting 2.6 million passengers a day 2010 478.9 21.1% 20km ● Railroad logistics has played a pivotal role in enhancing Korea’s competitiveness in terms of both economic Logistics growth and the balanced development of the nation. Every day, KORAIL puts 299 trains into operation and handles over 110,000 tons of freight. It has 132 stations that are equipped to deal with freight cargo. In 2010, KORAIL began developing a “green logistics” strategy as part of its response to the central government’s “low-carbon green growth” policy. Our goal was to establish an environmentally friendly logistics system and add to our overall efficiency. We also promoted the increased use of railroad as a dependable and cost-effective mode of freight transport by providing 2.5 billion won in subsidies and a three won per kg cost reduction to companies that chose to use railroad transport. In addition, we spearheaded an across-the-country campaign to promote the use of our GLORY Freight Train Service by establishing a logistics headquarters and regional action groups in collaboration with logistics companies, transport firms, and opinion leaders. We made the paradigm of our marketing strategy market-centered such as development of diverse products and the expansion of the flexible fare system. Our goal was to create new demand in low-demand hours on the foundation of market surveys and analyses of customer needs. With the aim of overcoming limits of railroad logistics, we expanded the stable Door-to-Door service (Block Train: 18 to 31 times, Shuttle Cars: 234 to 275) in time by connecting BT with shuttle trucks. Fright train In addition, we launched a door-to-door delivery service via main railroad and entered the stevedoring business, with both operations being looked upon as future growth engines. In addition, the company contributed to the advancement of the national logistics system by obtaining a right to manage railroad transport center (a year-on-year increase of 58.8 billion) within Busan Port emerging as a new container market within the Busan Metropolitan area and therefore, realizing a new business model connecting railroads and ports. Our campaign to become a global general logistics company also includes formulating a master plan for future logistics operations. Railroad management center in Busan port Logistics Business Portfolio in 2015 Core Railroad Transport Businesses n latio ting Re por Sup International Logistics Brokerage General Supplementing Relation Semi-Core Warehousing Logistics Businesses Sup Stevedoring plem enti ng R elat ion Door-to-Door Deliveries KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report New Equipment Operations Businesses Harbor Terminal 21km k o r a i l o v er v i ew 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business areas 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management ● Multifaceted Business The term “total service” encompasses all our rail transport-related services. KORAIL is using the concept to illustrate its strategy of diversifying its profit structure and developing new growth engines. Station area Development KORAIL is planning to develop its station spaces into customeroriented, cultural and life-related spaces that will enhance customer satisfaction and add to its profitability. The establishment of a law on development of areas near stations in October, 2010 shortened periods of projects subject to urban management plans and made integrated multi-purpose high-density development possible. KORAIL will add to the value of its assets by developing its properties near Yongsan Station and Seoul Station. Moreover, the company will offer advanced cultural and life-based services by continuing the A birds-eye-view of the Yongsan railroad traffic card business, steady development of multi-purpose stations and station theme park International Business District projects by the end of 2012. ● Overseas and The establishment of viable overseas operations is essential to the development of railroad companies Technology Businesses that are in business of creating the advanced technologies. KORAIL has been contributing to national policies and the national economy by pushing for the Official Development Assistance (ODA) project. and participation in high-speed railroad projects in Malaysia, Libya, the United States, and Brazil since 2007. In order to lay the groundwork for participating in overseas projects, the company expanded its global business center to include the Overseas and South-North Korean Business Team, the International Affairs Department which is handling matters related to overseas offices and International Union of Railways and the Overseas Business Development Team (the Brazil Business Group and the Libya Business Group). From 2008 to 2010, the company nurtured a total of 163 global KORAIL Certifed Professionals. We also operate an advisory committee on the international railroad business. In addition, we are promoting the development of our technology business based on our advanced railroad operating technologies. This includes commercializing the technologies that were used to produce the KTXSancheon high-speed train and our world-class on-time operating ratios. Participation in International Railroad Projects Number of Completed Projects: 3 Number of Projects in progress: 6 Malaysia: Technical Consultation on Electric Car Maintenance Brazil: High Speed Railroad Construction between Rio and Sao Paulo and Repair (KRW 1.85 billion) U.S.A: California High Speed Railroad Construction Pakistan: Exporting used Rollingstock Libya: Railroad Staff Training (KRW 2.34 billion) Indonesia South Sumatra: Railroad Construction Sri Lanka: Railroad Project Libya: Tripoli Subway Construction (KRW 0.66 billion) Bangladesh: Rollingstock Training On-Time Ratios of High-Speed Trains by Nation (Based on 2009 UIC data) Korea U.K. France Belgium Italy 99.8% 92.5% 79.0% 85.6% 90.3% ✽ The on-time ratio refers to the number of times trains arrive at their destinations no more than fifteen minutes late. In Korea, the standard is five minutes. 22km Organization & SUBSIDIARIES ● Organization KORAIL’s national headquarters consists of five headquarters, eight special offices, and sixty-one departments. Its affiliated organizations include two institutes, two departments, two centers, and six offices. There are also twelve regional headquarters, with 77 departments, rollingstock maintenance depot consisting of three special offices, and nine departments. The company is an efficient customerand performance-oriented organization with a wide variety of core capabilities. Two of its main goals are the advancement of railroads as a whole and solid, steady, and sure sustainable growth. Because of the growth of its business due to the completion of the second phase of the Seoul-Busan High-Speed Railroad and the double tracking of the Gyeongchun Line, KORAIL decided to establish an organization to specialize in railroad safety and operational efficiency. In addition, it reduced the likelihood of risks and strengthened its internal accounting control processes by integrating the accounting work carried out by each region into a single and centralized facility. Organizational Chart Board of Directors President & CEO Audit Committee Auditor Audit & Inspection Office Public Relations Office Customer Value Management Office • Planning & Coordination Office • Transport & Safety Office • Finance Management Office Vice President • Global Business Center • Personnel & Labor Office Business Passenger Metropolitan Logistics HQ Development & Engineering HQ Transport HQ Railroad HQ Investment HQ Rolling Stock Office Civil Engineering Office Electric Engineering Office KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Regional HQ (12) Agencies Seoul, Western Metropolitan, Eastern Research Institute, Information Technology Metropolitan, Gangwon, Chungbuk, Office, Human Resources Development Institute, Daejeon-Chungnam, Jeonbuk, Railroad Traffic Control Center, Seoul Information Gwangju, Jeonnam, Daegu, Gyeongbuk, & Telecommunication Office, Special Train Busan-Gyeongnam Operation Office, Maintenance Equipment Works Office, HSR Civil Works Office (2), Rolling Stock Maintenance Depot (3) HSR Electrical Engineering Works Office (2) Accounting Integration Center 23km k o r a i l o v er v i ew 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business areas 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management ● Subsidiaries KORAIL’s six subsidiaries are tasked with creating synergies in such areas as lower costs and increased efficiency. In addition, the company has established a series of midto long-term business plans. It is implementing them through an integrated management process that is connected to company-wide strategies to cope with the introduction of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS). In order to enhance its global competitiveness and offer its customers the ultimate in high-class services, KORAIL and its six subsidiaries have drawn up a midto long-term plan to realize win-win growth through life-related and cultural businesses, a general logistics service, and joint overseas projects. We will implement strategies befitting the character of our subsidiaries by devising shopping mall business strategies, entering into the hotel business, convenience store business, developing measures to enhance the tourism business at our customer centers, and formulating a strategy to integrate attendant services and sales. Station Shops and Advertisements Air por Number of employees: 361 tR Capital: KRW 2 billion ailr KORAIL’s investment stakes: o Ma ad C b : Ca er o tics 100% ees nag ons KO pital f em loy lion gis : p mp 7 bil kes: Lo em truc RA IL’s KRW loyee of e . ta en er RW 7 ent s t tion a s est 931 b : 411 inv mb K Nu pital: vestm Nu nd 88 men illion .8% t st Ca IL’s in 2.1% m ake 9 RA 78 s: KO KORAIL’s Subsidiaries Nu : 47 mb pi v ees on er Ca s in . 3% C o ies s ’ KO apita f em loy IL 7 Tra 9 li RA ilit air p mp 7 bil kes: RA IL’s l: KR loyee in S KO Fac Rep of e . sta inv W 2 s: erv W1 bil 946 ric ck est er t ice ect sto mb l: KR tmen 51 ment lion s , El ling % Nu sta ta es ads Rol kes Tou Number of employees: 1,188 : rs, ilro e, Le Ra nanc Capital: KRW 7.2 billion KORAIL’s investment stakes: isu e re, int 89.5% Ma Commissioned Station Management, Development of areas near stations 24km Service in trains Sales inside stations Attendants’ service Railroad logistics Repairing train cars Tourism and leisure by train Building and operating the airport railroad Development of areas near stations Integration Plan for KORAIL and Its Subsidiaries KORAIL Tourism Development KORAIL Networks StrengthenCreating Strategic Cooperation ing Global high qualKORAIL Logis KORAIL Competitiveity service KORAIL Retail ness mechanism Company-wide Business Planning KORAIL Tech KORAIL Airport Railroad ● Overseas Office KORAIL has established an office in France. Its purpose is to conduct technology exchanges, participate in training programs with the Société Nationale des Chemins de fer français (SNCF), and procure parts for KTX more efficiently. It also analyzes and reports on European railroad policies, business information, and trends in railroad technology. In addition, it is tasked with building cooperative relationships with international railroad organizations, such as the UIC. France • Participating in technological exchanges and training programs with SNCF and procuring parts for KTX France • Forming cooperative relationships with international railroad organizations, such as the UIC • Analyzing European railroad policies, business information, and trends in railroad technology KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report • Conducting research on overseas materials for KORAIL and providing support to company headquarters 25km CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ● Structure of Board of KORAIL’s management system is open, transparent, and responsible. Its Board of Directors (BOD) consists Directors (BOD) of seven executive directors, including the president, along with eight non-standing directors with extensive experience and expertise in railroad technology and policies. The chairman of the BOD is the most senior nonstanding director. One of his / her main responsibilities is to guarantee the independence of the BOD. The BOD ensures fairness in its decision-making by having more non-standing directors than executive directors. The president has been appointing the BOD’s internal executive directors since December 2009, due to the revision of a law regarding the management of a public organization. The Minister of Strategy and Finance appoints external directors through the recommendations of the Executive Recommendation Committee and the Public Organization Management Committee. Board of Directors Board of Directors Audit Committee A regular BOD meeting Non-Standing Directors Executive Directors • Controlling and supervisioning functions • Execution of management policy • Number of Directors: 8 • Number of Directors: 7 Sub-Committee An on-spot BOD meeting Management Sub-Committee Business Sub-Committee Technology Sub-Committee Meetings of the BOD are held on every fourth Thursday, and their results are reported at the next meeting. Directors’ experience of employees’ work The BOD met eleven times in 2010. Its attendance rate was 95.9%. 26km Executive Directors and non-standing Directors (As of December 31, 2010) President of Secure Net Co., Ltd; Traffic Review Officer in the Public Security and Traffic Bureau of the National Police Agency; Huh, Joon Young President & CEO Twelfth Chief of the National Police Agency; Head of the Planning and Management Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade; Korean Consulate-General to Hong Kong General Secretary of Committee to Investigate Pro-Japanese Anti-National Acts; Policy Director of the Grand National Party; Policy Park, Won kwan Auditor Research Fellow for the Grand National Party Executive Directors Railroad Policy Officer of the Aviation and Railroad Administration of the Ministry of Land; Director of the Busan Aviation Sim, Hyeog Yun Vice President Administration Office of the Ministry of Construction and Transportation; Director of the Civil Aviation Safety Authority under the Ministry of Construction and Transportation Senior Executive Director of Passenger President of the Daejeon Branch Office and the Southern Gyeongbuk Regional Office; Head of the High-Speed Railroad Project; Lee, Cheon Se Transport HQ Director of the General Rail Division Senior Executive Director of Metropolitan Jo, Seong Yeon Head of Information Technology Group; Head of Railroad Information Group Railroad HQ Head of Busan and Gyeongnam HQ; President of Busan Branch; Head of Logistics Business Group, and Manager of High-Speed Lee, Keon Tae Senior Executive Director of Logistics HQ Railroad Sales and Marketing President of the Northern Seoul Metropolitan Branch Department; Head of Audit Office; Director of Personnel and Labor Relations; Kang, Byoung Soo Senior Executive Director of Engineering HQ Staff member of Office of Nuclear Energy of the Ministry of Science and Technology Professor in the Department of Medical Social First President of Daejeon Metropolitan Rapid Transit Corporation; Vice-Mayor of Political Affairs of Daejeon Metropolitan City; Kim, Kwang Hee Welfare, Woosong University (most senior Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Daejeon Congress Operating Committee external director) Professor of Graduate School of Public Chairman of the Globalization Committee of the Korean Society of Public Enterprises; Visiting Professor at Duke University; Kim, Jun Ki Administration at Seoul National University Manager of Public Organization Management Evaluation Group non-standing Directors Vice President of Seoyeong Engineering Co., Research Fellow at Daehan Construction Policy Research Institute; Head of Seoul Urban Railroad Design Department; Lee, Mun Hee Ltd. Manager of Seoul Water Management Division; Head of Seoul Audit Team Chairman of the Korean National Police Bae, Moo Jong Auditor of the Police Mutual Aid Association; Director of the Jeju Regional Police Agency; Official in the Presidential Secretariat Veterans Association Funeral Service Company Advisor to Seventeenth Presidency Preparation Committee; Professor at Kyungwon, Hanyang, and Myeongji Universities; Lee, Dong Sung Chairman of Alt Plus E&C Member of the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission; Director of the Ministry of Construction and Transportation President of Euijeongbu Right Railroad Head of Planning and Inspection HQ at the Korea Transportation Safety Authority; Head of Planning and Coordination HQ at KORAIL; Paeng, Jung Goang Company Head of the Seoul HQ of the National Railroad Administration. Member of Standing Committee of the Third Korea Tripartite Commission; Chairman of the Korean Labor Economic Association; Kim, Jae Won Professor of Economics at Hanyang University Senior Researcher at the Korea Development Institute Head of Daegu Branch of the Seonjin Lee, Jong Hoon Director of the Daegu Branch of the Angeon Accounting Firm; President of Youngwon Trade Jamaica Accounting Firm Attendance Rate of BOD Members (Unit: %) 2008 94.9 2009 93.6 2010 95.9 KORAIL also operates a Management Strategy Committee. Its function is to facilitate the handling of agenda items before they come before the BOD. It discusses agenda items that will come before the BOD with relevant company departments and determines whether any of them will be problematical. This enhances the efficiency of the BOD by reducing the revision rate of agenda items that come before it. Meetings of BOD and Management Strategy Committee KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Category Times Items Key Items •Replacing the right of repurchase with real estate trust in second land purchase contract for development of Yongsan International Business District (draft) BOD 11 34 •Investment into underground parking lot for Gumi Multicomplex Station (draft) •Plan to develop lot near Yeongdeungpo Sation (draft) Management Strategy 22 62 •Review of discussion items for BOD Committee 27km k o r a i l o v er v i ew 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business areas 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management ● Compensation and Directors are remunerated in accordance with regulations included in BOD resolutions. Remuneration Evaluations for executive directors and non-standing directors are based on their rank-based. The upper limit for the remuneration of directors in 2010 was KRW 1.3 billion but the actual total was KRW 1 billion. Directors’ wages include a basic salary, a performance-based bonus, and a retirement payment. The basic salary is based on guidelines set by the Minister of Strategy and Finance in compliance with the Public Organization Management Law. Payments of performance-based bonuses are made to the president of KORAIL in accordance with his contract and made to executive directors except for the president within a 100% range in compliance with results of management evaluation and results of management performance evaluation set by the president. The payment of performance-based bonuses for the company’s executive auditors is based on regulations contained in the Public Organization Management Law. Non-standing directors are paid KRW 30 million a year as allowances for their activities such as attending BOD meetings. ● non-standing Non-standing directors are all specialists in their fields such as economics, management or laws. Since Director System KORAIL’s president is barred from becoming the chairman of the BOD, the most senior non-standing director has been serving in that post since February 2010. Non-standing directors discuss company matters and make decision regarding them. They also determine the makeup of the Management SubCommittee, the Business Sub-Committee, and the Technology Sub-Committee. Because of their expertise, KORAIL’s non-standing directors play a major role in ensuring the company’s success. They visit the company’s work sites and attend lectures on the work to understand more about the railroad business. We secure reliability of policies and contribute to producing good business results by reflecting suggestions of external directors on management policies through major activities to participate in management meetings and official events. ● Audit Committee The revision of the Public Organization Management Law in December 2009 made it obligatory for semimarket-type, state-run companies whose total assets stand at KRW 2 trillion or more to have an audit committee. The Audit Committee consists of one executive director and two non-standing directors. One of the two external directors serves as the chairman of the Audit Committee. In addition, one of the two nonstanding directors should be an accounting and financial expert who is able to accurately audit the overall management of KORAIL. The Audit Committee carries out audits of KORAIL and its subsidiaries, reports the results of general and special audits to the BOD, surveys of business and assets of KORAIL and its subsidiaries and asks for reports on business and approves appointment of non-standing directors. 28km Major Deliberation and Audit Committee Resolution Matters Reporting violation against the laws and the articles of incorporation BOD Demanding BOD stop illegal acts CEO Requesting directors and subsidiaries to report business status Ensuring independence Audit Committee Appointing chairman Guaranteeing fairness and objectivity Approving appointments of, changes in, and dismissals of external auditors One executive auditor Two external auditors Mapping out annual audit plan Establishment of ethical regulations and legal compliance Business Departments Audit & Inspection Office Regulations on Audit Committee and establishing, revising, or abolishing elements of auditing standards ● Specialized KORAIL has established 3 specialized sub-committees. When specialized knowledge is needed, the BOD Sub-Committees transfers its deliberative function to the relevant one. Specialized Sub-Committees Management Business Technology Sub-Committee Sub-Committee Sub-Committee Personnel organization Personnel organization Personnel organization Three non-standing directors / Three non-standing directors / Two non-standing directors / Relevant executive directors Related executive directors Related executive directors Major functions Major functions Major functions Establishing company’s business plans, Profit-related matters, such as new New technology-related matters, such as including goals and strategies businesses, sales, and transport HR development and R&D Future KORAIL revised operation regulations, built an operation system and strengthened nonKORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report standing directors’ specialties in consideration of change in the business environment Plan to make the BOD contribute to business activities. Moreover, the company will make more suggestions by raising the attendance and presentation rates and strive to secure self-controlled responsibility-based management by supplementing its weakness and sharing successful cases with others. 29km ETHICAL MANAGEMENT ● Ethical Management Ethical management is essential for KORAIL to realize its goal of stable and sustainable growth. The company has increased its efforts to revamp its organization on the foundation of anti-corruption and integrity management solutions, and beefed up its ethical management system and competitiveness. All of KORAIL’s management activities are based on the voluntary observance of its Code of Ethics. In addition, it is planning to establish a “voluntary review index” to reward employees who display exemplary ethical behavior. Core Strategies for Ethical Management nt Tr an me Co-exi sp age ic se rvices sten ce ar en an publ an coo d sh t M rth y pe ar o tw wo havior Signing en ra e t qual Offerin us rth l be agr em ive ugh e ag ica ee g re ledge me hro ty t grow an liab y th Tru le in e now th a M nt eri st s’ k pa nd f sp s an dt ee rtn ro tion t Offeri d p rela in-win ng t r RY w rai LO enhanc nin nG with ee mp g s o trade s m loy KORAIL’s Ethical air r fir e Management System n tri paig Con bu trib cam u ent Y tin OR gt Soc em iall Oper ol gM unit ies atin ag re e tu op en tin mm gs yC on an h envi Cons co p na rien oug ns ta ro ron e r oc al gram oci tions thr ratio f m lM en ving ibu sa Prom tal lyntr co ties otin al tivi gG ac L nd Env nt iro me nm age an KORAIL’s Ethical Management System Improving Improving Encouraging Employees KORAIL Supervisory to Think about Business Charters Organizations Ethics Creating Stakeholder Value for Needs Stakeholders Transparent Management Onand off-line training in KORAIL Ethical Charter ethical behavior Committee Change in Coping with Business changes in Leadership for Ethical management Environment KORAIL Code of Ethics operating Ethical Behavior checking system environment KORAIL Code of Conduct KORAIL ombudsman Customized school on ethics Survey on Increasing Employees’ Value of Ethics KORAIL Guide on ethical Ethical managementFestival to promote management specialized department employees’ ethics 30km ● Operation KORAIL advocated sustainable management, transparent management and ISO26000 by strengthening Organization a supervising role of ethical management to eradicate corruption and operating an anti-corruptionspecialized organization. We will become an exemplary state-run company that always fulfills its corporate social responsibilities. ● Transparent Management Committee The Transparent Management Committee evaluates KORAIL’s anti-corruption regulations and activities. It is composed of seventeen members, including the chairman (the most senior executive director), the heads of the company’s various regional headquarters, and the head of the Vehicle Management Group. In 2010, the council reviewed eight cases at three meetings. 1st Meeting 2nd Meeting 3rd Meeting Appointing members of Four items such as reporting Four items such as assessing Transparent Management plan to assess individual integrity of employees Committee and discussing integrity in sectors vulnerable to direction of committee corruption ● Ethical Management KORAIL is building a world-class ethical network by adopting the guidelines of the UN Global Compact. Program President Huh took office as a director of the UN Global Compact Korea in April, and presented the results of its activities to the UNGC’s Leaders Summit 2010 in June. In addition, the company reflected ten principles in the four sectors of the UNGC such as human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption on its GLORY campaign. We expanded the meaning of “corruption” to include violations of the Code of Conduct. We attempt to prevent corrupt activities through constant monitoring. KORAIL is developing a strong anti-corruption and ethical culture through various ethical policies and programs, such as the Clean KORAIL Festival. In addition, ethical behavior has been made an important element of its employee evaluations. Employees attended special anti-corruption lectures and expressed their will for integrity four times under the CEO’s declaration on enhancing integrity. 2,300 employees took part in twenty-three lectures on ethical behavior by an executive auditor. The company ran a customized school for employees’ strong integrity for 4,453 employees of 20 units. The company strives to enhance the ethical behavior of all its employees— most particularly those who are in the positions that make them vulnerable to corrupt activities and members of the executive. As a result, the company’s overall ethical behavior score stood at 8.90, while that for executives was 9.86. Overall Ethical Behavior Score (Unit: Points) 2008 9.31 2009 8.93 2010 8.90 KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Ethical Behavior Score of Executives (Unit: Points) 2008 9.4 2009 9.61 2010 9.86 31km k o r a i l o v er v i ew 14 Company Overview 16 Management Values 19 Main Business areas 23 Organization & Subsidiaries 26 Corporate Governance 30 Ethical Management 33 Risk Management ● Ethical Education and KORAIL developed a cyber ethical management course in October 2010. Its content is custom-tailored to the Ombudsman System reflect the company’s business activities. 1,407 employees enrolled in it. There is one program for KORAIL’s employees, and another for its partner firms. The company saved 420 million won thanks to the operation of this program. It also developed an Ethical Management Checking System to evaluate the level of ethical behavior of its employees in their work-units. This includes a monthly ethical level check and feedback on weak sectors. KORAIL introduced an ombudsman system in 2006—a first for a Korean state-run company. It operates as a third-party verification system to evaluate subcontracted work and product procurements. In 2010, the company enhanced the transparency of its major businesses by promoting the ombudsman’s activities. In December, the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission selected KORAIL as an excellent company in the “ombudsman system” category. KORAIL Ombudsman Activities in 2010 • Detail of Activities activities (ti al Spec s) i me ot checks ( 3 -sp ti • Results On-t s) he me omplaint nts to system gc me 4 s Reviewin imes ) Impr s (t 1 gge stions (item ove ms) Su s) (ite 24 38 Ethical Management Checking System Future KORAIL has practiced ethical management with a strong focus on promotion of corporate ethics and internal corporate capabilities. KORAIL has checked its level every Plan year. To this end, we devised measures to promote our social corporate responsibilities such as making grounds for organization and systems and developing its KORAIL-CSR diagnosis index after devising detailed CSR strategies. Furthermore, we will push for differentiated ethical management by reflecting evaluations of our ethical management on our business plans for next year. Cyber Ethics Education 32km RISK MANAGEMENT KORAIL operates a company-wide risk management system to analyze and assess risks and to achieve integrated risk management and always checks the KORAIL Information System by operating a constant monitoring system, “Manrigyeong.” The company saved 2.1 billion won in costs and took administrative measures. To make this happen, we analyzed a huge amount of business information in real time [monitoring the KOVIS (KORAIL Vision & Innovation System) containing asset and article management, management of employees’ work attitudes, purchase contracts, profit management and railroad fare information] and conducting audits of core risks and exceptional cases. Financial Risk Management System Members of KORAIL find risks through CSA (Control Self Assessment), devise improvement measures and control them on their own. The company conducted stage-by-stage evaluations to secure objectiveness on this. In addition, with an eye toward reinforcing the operation of the internal control system, the company evaluated the status of the internal accounting management system. The company found matters to be improved by conducting evaluations through the internal accounting evaluation system and a manual. The company also received a review of this from an external accounting firm. System to Evaluate Internal Accounting Management System BOD Reporting status of operations Reporting results of evaluation (one or more times a year) (Auditor reports once per year) Internal and external evaluation of Operating Internal Accounting Management System Internal Accounting Management System •Internal Accounting Manager: Carrying out approving •Internal evaluation of Internal Accounting processes and reporting status of operations Management System by auditor •Reviewer: Reviewing results of evaluations •External evaluation of Internal Accounting •Tester: Evaluating effects of operations Management System by accounting firm •Assessor: Evaluating effects of design •Internal Control Department: Distributing evaluations by departments and other units Suggesting improvements and opinions after reviewing Formulating plans for improvement, and managing results KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report ✽ Constant Monitoring System (Manrigyeong): A system which reports any exceptional cases (a sign of irregularities) by inspecting a huge amount of computerized data from information systems such as the KOVIS: KORAIL Vision & Innovation System (KORAIL’s ERP) completely and monitoring core risks in trade, processes and systems of all entities to be audited. KORAIL’s financial risk management (FRM) System is designed to manage financial risks systematically. It can carry out simulation analyses and derive an optimal financial structure in response to changes in economic circumstances, such as financial risks. 33km SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Railroads have been making our lives easier and more convenient for the past hundred years. They will continue to do so for centuries to come. Korea’s railroads make the nation richer and more powerful. They also add to the happiness and security of its people by helping to make the environment greener and cleaner. ●P  lanning and Coordination Office Establishing, coordinating and promoting strategies as ecofriendly railroads companywide and making efforts to communicate with BOD and relevant organizations. ● Passenger transport HQ Managing passenger transport business, core profit source for KORAIL. Pushing ahead with various cooperative projects to turn stations into centers of communities by holding wide array of cultural projects. ● Customer Value ●F  inancial Management Management Office Office Pushing for strong companywide business innovation such as management of corporate social responsibilities and enhancing Making efforts for efficient roles of railroads as eco-friendly use of resources through ERP means of transportation to and offering timely business make KORAIL fulfill its social information by building advanced responsibilities. accounting system. ●Business Development & investment HQ Seeking to develop stations and areas near stations and railroads and push for multifaceted business such as distribution and advertisements to diversify railroad profit-making structure and to promote win-win growth through management of business of subsidiaries. ●personnel & labor office Establishing and pushing for strategies to develop human resources for future of KORAIL and building sound labormanagement relationships by expanding employees’ benefits and abiding by Basic Labor Law. ● Transport & Safety Office Building various safety systems for safer and more convenient railroads and striving to expand railroad network for convenience for customers. One way that KORAIL engages SustainabILITY in Sustainability management is Management by taking the lead in fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. Definition of Stakeholders ● KORAIL defines its stakeholder groups in order to realize sustainable growth with all of them. Its key stakeholders can largely be divided into five groups: customers, employees, governments, subsidiaries and partners, local communities, and the mass media. All employees understand all of KORAIL’s major issues with all stakeholders via various communication channels and create sustainable value by reflecting their opinions on business activities. Relationships with Internal and External Stakeholders Employees, BOD, Customers, Labor Union Local Community, NGO/Mass Media Change / Responsibility/ Balance Support Pa Wi rtn nust er Win sh Tr ips Strategic Network Management e Co nc op ta erat sis ion As Government, Alliances/ Subsidiaries, National Assembly, Cooperation Partners, Competitors Related Organizations, International Domestic Railroad Railroad Organizations Organizations Major Stakeholders Two-Way Communications Channel Value Customers Customer Representative System, VOC, Customer Evaluation System, corporate Offering trust-based public services blogs, survey of public organizations, monitoring of services, TV commercials Instilling pride in employees and building CEO’s message / online chat room with CEO, live broadcasting of GLORY meetings, Employees a system in which employees respect one labor-management relationships, “If I were a CEO” Community, junior board another Coexistence and shared prosperity Business Weekly meetings with CEO, network of Small and Medium-Sized Business through equal and cooperative relations Partners Administration, Clean Call System and Ombudsman System and fair trade Local Contributing to local communities though Social contribution activities, web sites, open forum, 100-people railroad forum CommunitY donations and voluntary services Governments Turning traffic system into a railroadand Related Government inspection of the company’s administration oriented one and creating a railroadOrganizations friendly environment 36km SUSTAINABILITY Evaluation of Significance ● KORAIL’s sustainability report is an important communications tool with its stakeholders. Because of this we undertook a significance evaluation to ensure that we dealt with the most important issues first. This evaluation dealt with the company’s rules, relevant norms and laws, direct and indirect economic effects, benchmarking of overseas advanced enterprises, and media analyses. Planning and Collecting Examining and Identifying Issues Reflecting Issues Report Verification Stakeholders’ Opinions Analyzing Issues in 2010 in Report • Collecting opinions on •A  nalyzing key items in •Analyzing KORAIL’s vision • Determining structure • Ensuring accuracy and 2009 sustainability report GRI, ISO26000, SA8000 & midto long-term of report and items to be reliability of report via (sharing them with taskand internal and external management strategies included in it third-party verification force team consisting of materials containing and identifying issues those in charge in their evaluations of KORAIL respective sectors) • Analyzing issues in which stakeholders are interested in, and surveying employees Survey of Employees Benchmarking Internal and Other Related Norms Companies and Laws issues Direct and ANALYSIS OF Indirect MEDIA Economic Effects Internal External Issues Issues Internal Issues: Major policies, visions External Issues: Domestic and foreign KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report and strategies that have a measurable circumstances and public thinking Corporate impact on overall railroad transport. that have a meaningful impact on Stakeholders Management policies and visions. Activities 37km One way that KORAIL engages SustainabILITY in Sustainability management is Management by taking the lead in fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. Raising Major Issues KORAIL analyzed various matters of significant interest to its stakeholders, as well as the effects of its business activities. We identified major issues in seven sectors: corporate governance, human rights, labor, the environment, fair and open operations, customers, and community involvement. Customers Corporate Governance Fair and Open Operations Human Rights • Fair marketing / ads •D ecision-making processes and • Prevention of corruption • Guarantees of human rights • Enhancing customer safety structure • Encouraging subsidiaries and • Dealing with employee grievances • Establishing system to handle partners to fulfill their social • Protecting rights of marginalized customer complaints responsibilities groups and banning discrimination 1 2 3 4 • Recall and compensation • Protecting consumer information Labor Environment Social Contributions • Offering employment-related • Opening environmental information • Supporting volunteers business information to general public • Promoting and supporting education • Fair compensation and equal • Anticipating environmental accidents • Supporting efforts to solve opportunities for employees • Managing pollution environmental and poverty problems 5 6 7 • Banning unfair dismissals • Enhancing resources efficiency • Promoting differentiation of local • Improving working conditions • Sustainable purchases economy and offering opportunities to • Guaranteeing activities of the labor • Coping with climate change local residents union • Supporting local organizations’ law • Strengthening safety and health observance programs • Supporting education and training Survey of Employees Corporate Governance ● 82 80 78 73.4 Survey of Employees KORAIL conducted a sur76 Social Contributions 74 Human Rights vey of all its employees to assess their awareness of the 72 73.2 70 73.4 meaning of and need for sustainability management and 68 their opinions on issues surrounding it. The results of 66 64 the survey were reflected in the evaluation of significance 62 and strategies to expand employees’ awareness of sustainability management to push ahead with sustainability management in the future. 68.6 80.7 Labor practices The Environment 78.1 Fair and Operations (e.g. rooting out corruption) 38km SUSTAINABILITY Core Performance Indicators ● KORAIL manages core performance indicators in the economic, social, environmental, and safety sectors through a Balanced Score Card (BSC) and KOVIS (KORAIL Vision and Innovation System). INDEX 2009 2010 2011 Goal ● Business Total length of railroads (km) 3,377.9 3,557.3 3,815.2 Economic Expansion Double track ratio (%) 43.9 49.6 52.4 Corporate Value International credit rating (Moody’s) A2 A1 A1 Per-capita sales (unit: millions of won) 113 121 146 Innovative Debt ratio (%) 88.8 95.1 100.9 Management ROE (%) 3.49 1.92 3.5 Creative Overseas business sales (unit: 1 million won) 2.5 1.65 84 Management ● Public Service Customer Satisfaction Index 88.1 92.6 95.2 (PCSI) (point) Social Customer Satisfaction Ratio of On-time Passenger Train Operation (%) 98.3 98.1 98.5 VOC Processing Satisfaction Index (point) 75.5 72.7 81.0 Integrity Index (scored out of 10 points) 8.93 8.90 9.10 Stronger Managerial Attendance rate of BOD (person, %) 93.6 95.9 96.1 Transparency Public disclosure rate (%) 88.2 90.5 91.2 Purchase of products from small and medium8,810 7,387 8,402 sized companies (unit: 100 million won) Stronger Purchase of tech. developed products 149 188 326 Partnership companies (unit: 100 million won) Purchase of products developed on condition of 279 114 120 their purchase (unit:100 million won) Social volunteer work (time per capita) 9.32 12.67 13.25 Social Purchase of products made by the disabled 11 12 16 Contribution (unit:100 million won) Activities Purchase of products made by companies 542 520 503 whose CEOs are women (unit:100 million won) Proportion of disabled employees (%) 3.50 3.1 3.2 Human Right Proportion of female employees (%) 8.10 8.2 8.3 HR Development Education time (per person) 89 85 87 ● Soil clean-up work (unit: millions of won) 767 909 2,248 KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Environment Purchases of environmentally-friendly products Environment 72 103 90 & Safety (unit: 100 million won) Proportion of electrification rate (%) 55.9 60.4 62.7 Operational accidents (case/1 million km) 1.981 1.616 1.599 Safety Industrial accidents (case) 76 63 65 39km Economic Performance KORAIL is more than just a mode of transportation. ● Railroads strengthen regional cultures and sustain regional economies. Innovations to logistics and transportation, and the globalization of Korean technologies, are one of KORAIL’s most essential functions. S TABIL I T Y INDICATOR S Classification 2008 2009 2010 Current ratio (%) 90.03 72.52 78.81 Debt ratio (%) 73.78 88.82 95.11 Debt dependency ratio (%) 36.69 39.45 41.80 Pro f i ta bi l i t y In dicators Classification 2008 2009 2010 Operating profit margin (%) △ 20.31 △ 19.44 △ 14.36 Ratio of net profit to net sales (%) 14.15 18.38 10.34 ROA (%) 3.21 3.49 1.92 G r owt h I n d i cators Classification 2008 2009 2010 Sales growth rate (%) 1.71 △ 2.83 4.36 Total asset growth rate (%) 12.62 16.25 6.45 Key Economic Performances KORAIL will lay the foundation of sustainable growth pursuing profitability and public interest. Summary ● As the government promotes low-carbon green growth, increasingly the business structure. In addition, with the introduction of the IFRS, we more and more people have positive views of railroads. In line with an are building an efficient management system at a group level for win-win increase in investment into railroads such as the expansion of the highgrowth between KORAIL and its subsidiaries. speed railroad networks, it is necessary that KORAIL should enhance its efficiency and improve its business a great deal. KORAIL posted KRW 3,682.5 billion in operating profits and KRW 4,211.2 billion in operating costs, KRW 308.8 billion in net profit, chalking up KRW According to such change in the business environment, KORAIL is 528.7 billion in operating losses. engaging in a strong innovation drive in order to enhance the effects of strategies and reinforce its role as an environmentally-friendly means The company improved the profit and loss structure by completing the of transportation. We are making steady efforts to be the world’s best second phase of the high-speed railroad and changing the operating railroad company in order to earn more support from customers and system around the KTX line. As a consequence, the ratio of sales cost the general public by building a growth structure with strong potential improved by 5.5%p to 109.4% while the operating loss improved by KRW for growth while pushing for managerial efficiency and improvements to 157.4 billion, a new record high. The debt ratio stood at 95.1% despite the fact that the original goal was 99.8%. KORAIL’s Midto Long-Term Road Map 2010 2011 2015 Export of technologies Investment in Technical overseas projects support Passenger traffic Railroad + business Railroad + Rental Rented Car + (KTX + Conventional Car + Bicycle + Bicycle + Metropolitan) Bus + Airplane Global composite Current [Maritime] life service KORAIL Coastal areas /Overseas business [Land] Railroad Home delivery transportation + Warehouse Special Airplane industry Total logistics transportation transportation business service Privately funded Development stations of sites along General cultural and Development railroads life-related business of areas near stations Muticomplex stations 42km Operating Performance for Each Business Economic KORAIL will become the world’s best railroad company Performance by upgrading our strategies. Transport Business ● KORAIL is geared toward offering better transport services such as ● Passenger Rail Service Business changing the transport system with the KTX system at the center and KORAIL expanded the area of the KTX service due to the completion of is making endeavors to promote its business by making the transport the second phase of the Seoul-Busan High-Speed Railroad. On average, business efficient. In 2010, sales of the transport business rose 6.7% year KTX trains run 172 trips on weekdays, 218 days on weekends per day on year to KRW 2,803.6 billion. This figure accounted for 76.1% of total and transported 134,000 passengers a day (a 30% increase from the year sales of KORAIL. Main railroad trains transported 112,094,000 passengers before). (KTX: 41,349,000 passengers and conventional trains: 70,745,000 passengers) while metropolitan rail service dealt with 948,832,000 In addition, KORAIL conducted marketing actively such as developing passengers in 2010. Thus, the number of total passengers stood at tourism packages with local themes in cooperation with local 1,060,926,000 while a total of 39,217,000 tons of freight were transported. governments. As a result of diversifying revenue sources by operating travel centers and posting tour managers at major stations and developing various tourist programs, the company earned KRW 31.9 Market Shares by Types billion in profits from tourist package sales. Saemaeul Airplanes 1.9% In particular, sales of ‘Naeilro’ tickets for teenagers who want to travel 3.7% Mugunghwa 6.0% to any stations on the KORAIL network, increased 2.4 times compared to Total Railroad the previous year. ‘The First KTX Experience’ package created demand for 35.7% unsold seats during weekdays and resulted in KRW 900 million in profits Passenger cars KTX and 100,000 passengers. 45.2% 27.8% By developing customized railroad tourist programs for foreign tourists, Express bus the company enjoyed KRW 2.47 billion, up 200% from a year before. We 15.4% also promoted sales of a rail cruise program, ‘Haerang’ and inked KRW 860 million, a year-on-year increase of 425%. ✽ The figure is the combined market share of the Gyeongbu, Honam, Jeolla, Janghang and Jungang Lines. Tourist Package Performance-Transport profits ✽ The market share of the KTX is 27.8%, ranking second after passenger cars. The market share of (Unit: KRW 100 million) the entire railroads stands at 35.7%. 2008 174 2009 229 Sales of Transport Business (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2010 319 2008 27,880 Tourist Package Performance-Passengers 2009 26,281 (Unit: Thousand persons) 2010 28,036 2008 964 2009 1,431 Sales by Train Services 2010 1,966 (Unit: KRW 100 million) Conventional Metropolitan Freight Type KTX Trains Railroad Train Sales 11,387 6,125 6,607 3,917 Portion (%) 40.6 21.8 23.6 14.0 KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  ● KTX Gwangmyeong Station ●● KTX-oriented railroad operation system ●●● Haerang, a rail cruise program won the excellent product prize from the JATA 43km E c o n o m i c Per f o rm a n ce 40 Economic Performance 2 Key Economic Performances 43 Operating Performance for Each Business 47 Stabilized Management of Economic Performance KORAIL increased its profits by KRW 37.3 billion by managing seats ● Metropolitan Rail Service Business efficiently through the YMS (Yield Management System). In addition to KORAIL has realized faster and more convenient service by expanding profits from the transport business, we generated KRW 250 million in operations of express trains and varying patterns of the operation. In additional profits. particular, the company increased convenience in the mass transit system by expanding the metropolitan rail service such as the opening of the double track of the Gyeongchun Line. The company varied the metropolitan express train service (Express A and Express B) and actively responded to a sharp rise in demand for express train services such as launching an express service on the Ansan Line. We improved the connectivity of this service by preparing a flexible train operation system in consideration of the patterns of customers such as increasing the number of trains on weekends, extending operating time, operating late-night trains between Seoul and Incheon and building an efficient railroad-connected traffic system. Transport volumes and profits of the metropolitan rail service have steadily increased every year thanks to our operation of various theme trains such as the Go Go Train, tours of Palmi Island in Incheon, City Tour and Experience Tour connected to tourist infrastructure and local events in areas near stations and joint marketing with local governments. Moreover, we generate about KRW 3 billion in additional profits by pushing ahead with the multifaceted business by utilizing metropolitan rail service infrastructure such as station-naming marketing, producing special commemoration tickets and offering service to take care of trains cars of other organizations. Furthermore, we are putting our efforts into building the base for sustainable growth such as pushing for a private railroad project such like a light railroad. Passengers of Metropolitan Railroad Service (Unit: Thousand persons) 2008 905,879 2009 912,586 2010 948,832  Experience Train ● ●● Go-Go Train of the Jungang Line ●●● Bicycle Train 44km Economic Performance Logistics Business Expanding International Starting Stevedoring Equipment Launching Railroad Transport Entering Stevedoring Business Logistics Service and Activating Management Business at Service for Door-to-Door in Busan New Port Transport Business Busan Container Yard Delivery Packages •Expanding logistics brokerage •Entering new business such as •Operating 4 pieces of •Advancing into railroad delivery business through ties with stevedoring and warehousing stevedoring equipment at Busan business through strategic ties international forwarding •Enhancing railroad transport Jin Container Yard with big private door-to-door companies by directly managing railroad delivery companies (KORAIL: •Activating Korea-Japan container yard railroad transport / Door-to-door integrated multi-modal railroad delivery companies: increasing transport and shipping business sales) •Making foray into international logistics business in connection with railroad transport ● Logistics Business KORAIL endeavors to evolve into a global general logistics company In addition, KORAIL cut down on costs by KRW 7.8 billion annually by by expanding from the current transport-oriented logistics business improving freight cargo stations, decreasing railroad lines operated at a structure to new logistics businesses such as the logistics brokerage, deficit and operating freight trains in consideration of transport demand. warehousing, stevedoring and railroad-based home deliveries. The The company was able to reduce KRW 200 million in costs a-year by company built and expanded railroad logistics facilities in order to elevating the on-time ratio by 2.4%p through close relationships between create new demands in 2010. It also improved and expanded logistics the national headquarters and regional headquarters. Our B/T (Block base stations. In addition, we will strive to cope with the ever-changing Train) service handled 326,000 TEUs, 539,000 tons of general freight and logistics environment and secure new growth engines by railroad-based enjoyed KRW 40 billion in sales. On the strength of such diversified efforts, connection between ports and inland container depots. the sales of the logistics business reached KRW 329.4 billion won in 2010. By responding to the government’s policies for low-carbon green growth, freight Transport Performance (Unit: Thousand ton) we will make efforts to promote eco-friendly railroad-oriented logistics business. We pushed for a project which gives subsidies (KRW 1.75 billion 2008 46,806 from the government and KRW 750 million from KORAIL) to companies 2009 38,898 which use railroads instead of roads to transport their freight. Together with this, we introduced a green mileage system which turns railroad 2010 39,217 freight into CO2 emissions and changes the CO2 emission into mileage.  ● Container Transport Train KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report ●● Container Loading 45km E c o n o m i c Per f o rm a n ce 40 Economic Performance 2 Key Economic Performances 43 Operating Performance for Each Business 47 Stabilized Management of Economic Performance Multifaceted Business ● Profits of the multifaceted business come from renting KORAIL A birds-eye-view of the development of northern areas near Seoul Station assets, such as conference rooms, distribution, advertisements, overseas business and commissions for recharging traffic cards. In 2010, KORAIL’s multifaceted business posted in KRW 107.7 billion in operating profits, up 17.4% from the previous year and accounted for 2.9% of KORAIL’s total sales. Sales of Multifaceted Business (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2008 2009 2010 Sales 819 917 1,077 Portion 2.5% 2.6% 2.9% The establishment of a law on the development of stations and areas near stations in October 2010 shortened periods of asset development projects and made high-density development possible. KORAIL changed its organization with projects at the center to push Our strategy for win-win growth with our subsidiaries contributed to for projects quickly and laid the foundation for sustainable growth by generating profits, too. Sales of subsidiaries added up to KRW 646 bringing in specialists in property development and feasibility studies. In billion, up KRW 23.1 billion thanks to the activation of the KORAIL Airport the overseas business sector, we diversified profit sources by advancing Railroad and an increase in the distribution business. PCSIs of all our into overseas markets such as a Libyan consulting project, participation subsidiaries rose thanks to the group’s efforts for customer satisfaction in the high-speed railroad project in Brazil and America and Sri Lanka such as operation of the CS Management Conference between KORAIL Consulting. We will pave the way for the expansion of our multifaceted and its subsidiaries and service monitoring, contributing to stronger sales business by making a foray into the low-risk consulting sector in the short of the multifaceted business. We aim to post KRW 1.5 trillion in sales in term and expanding its areas to highly profitable business models such as 2015 by promoting win-win growth with our subsidiaries and devising BOT/Consignment in the middle term. strategies to maximize profits from the further development of our assets. In addition, we will steadily develop new venture business such as the world’s first system to mass-produce multi-branch type ties for railroads and a railroad theme park connected to the Trout Festival in Hwacheon in Gangwon Province. Furthermore, the company intends to contribute to generating profits by activating use of idle properties through asset surveys and inducing business sectors which can pay high rents. Furthermore, we will create more profits by developing new business models such as the railroad transportation card (GLORY Card), the TCR international multi-modal transport business and rental car business.  ● GLORY Rail Bike ●● KTX character goods shop ●●● Pension with themes 46km Stabilized Management of Economic Performance Economic We will strengthen its managerial stability and practice responsibility-based mgt. by Performance responding to the future pre-emptively and improving financial structure. Pre-Emptive Financial Risk Management & Financial Budget System Strengthening Responsibility-Based Management with Divided Accounting Practices h) Optimize rowt d fin ● KORAIL minimized financial risks by establishing an accounting n (G anc integration center to cover business support tasks, which had been l Pla ial m cia anc ial plan • Mana gem a scattered to separate business units, regional units and subsidiaries. The fin en Syste t plan t g na m •E dge ma r RP stem iency) Performan SSC (Shared Services Center)-based integrated operation of the center led g Sy bu tic -lo ng nin (Effic to accounting standardization and the blocking human errors, a decrease Fin • Shor an an t-te te Pl m ce-B of 7.3%p in error rates of preliminary slips (17.2% to 9.9%) and KRW 790 • Midt rm ste ent o Sy million in costs. a Financial s em Budget System ed ility) (Stab On the other side, we expanded the scope of risk management to check m • Performa ge • Cos mittee ent tM Ma na t Com risks of business partners by tightening standards on financial institutions an men a m nce M g ge for our financial management. The company also endeavored to manage age ana na System g g risks and conflicts by improving the ERM organization to divide roles for • Fina M na stem ent t Sy n c ia l Ri a business departments and functional units. • Financia sk en et System l Risk Ma em ent Budg Ma em n fitability) Pre-Emptiv (Pro eR ● KORAIL is the leading public corporation in Korea to produce financial ent isk em statements through accounting practices by business sectors, in 2010. KORAIL evaluated business performances by producing financial and income statements by business sectors and assessing its financial ● External economic uncertainties such as foreign exchange and interest conditions in accordance with accounting separation. By doing so, the rates continued in 2010 because of a financial crisis in Europe and a company laid the foundation for responsibility-based management delay in the global economic recovery. A new ERP system is required with systems by business sectors. the introduction of changes in the accounting environment such as the introduction of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). KORAIL consigned a research project to an accounting firm to secure the reliability of its accounting division and prepare rational accounting division KORAIL has built a financial budget system in order to cope with the measures. The company divided its business into five sectors – the passenger future preemptively and realize the vision of becoming the world’s best rail business, the metropolitan railroad business, the multifaceted business, railroad company and in 2015, re-formulated a midto-long-term the logistics business and the consignment business. financial plan which aims to maintain its assets at KRW 27.2 trillion and its debt ratio below 120%. We began to build an IFRS-based financial system Dividing accounting by business sectors was a preparation for the in November 2009 in preparation for the full implementation in 2011. introduction of the IFRS accounting standards. This decision is expected to We finished all operation preparations by redesigning the ERP System, serve as a base for responsibility-based management, dealing with public reflecting individual conditions on the IFRS and building a connected disclosures by business sectors and elevating efficiency of asset use. system in November 2010. Accounting Integration Center Road Map to Build Integrated Management System Old New 2013~2015 • Operating integrated accounting Stabilization • Shortening settlement period 2012 • Building integrated accounting Development • Conducting consolidation KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report 2011 • Reviewing integrated accounting Building System • Selecting and using one accounting •Scattered → 12 HQs •Decreasing tax risks firm only •Overlapped work •Reinforcing internal accounting control •Enhancing quality of accounting 2010 •Promoting HR efficiency → Control by National HQ Laying Foundation • Individual Accounting System 47km Social Performance KORAIL sets high standards for helping others. ● Our commitment to competent, open, and honest management ensures that our customers will reach their destinations safely and on time, that a healthy and harmonious corporate culture will be kept in place, and that our level of service will continue to surpass any and all expectations. S u sta i n a ble Cu stomer Movin g Man agemen t Classification 2008 2009 2010 Public Enterprise Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) (points) 82.8 88.1 92.6 Satisfaction Index of VOC (points) 85.4 75.5 72.7 CS-related Education (time/persons) 81/2,292 138/4,584 236/8,854 ✽T  he VOC satisfaction point system was changed in 2009. Now there is a maximum score of twenty points and a minimum one of zero points. E m p loy ee S atisfaction Man agemen t Classification 2008 2009 2010 No. of disabled employees / Employment ratio (persons, %) 785/2.4 732/2.3 931/3.1 Organizational Culture Index (points) 72.74 72.15 75.59 Training budget / Employee Education (KRW 100 million / persons) 132/124,613 90/100,739 75/90,796 S h a r i n g M a n agemen t with local commu n ity Classification 2008 2009 2010 Purchase of products made by the disabled (KRW 100 million) 11 11 12 Companies with women CEOs (KRW 100 million) 421 542 520 Social Volunteer Service per person (hours) 14.03 9.32 12.67 Sustainable Customer Moving Management We will share the value and vision of railroad with our customers. We will become the company loved by our citizens. Establishing A Customer-Oriented Management System ● KORAIL always places its customers’ welfare before its own. As proof We have established a customer service-oriented management system of this, customer satisfaction has been made our number one priority that transforms our words into action to offer travelers the finest possible among our four major strategies for achieving our goal of becoming a service in terms of public service and transportation. It includes a CS Task world-leading railroad service provider. Force and a CS Specialization Team that operate under the aegis of the Office of Customer Value Management. CS Management System Securing Strongest Service Competitiveness Goal in Public and Transportation Sectors Strategy Optimizing VOC Collection and Constant Service Quality CS Management System Expanding Use of VOCs Management •Activating Customer •Operating Various VOC •Constant Monitoring Plan Spokesperson System Channels •Revising Service Charter •Operating CS Management •In-Depth Analysis System (Upgrading standards) Conference •VOC Improvement Tracking •Self-Controlled Customer •Establishing CS Capability and Management Management Management System •Rebuilding VOC System •Utilizing Service Certification System Organizations Organizations in Charge of CS: Customer Value Management Office (managing), CS-Specialized Unit of Each HQ (executing) Specialized Organizations: Executives’ Discussions on VOCs, Ombudsman System, Group of Advisors and Improvement Task Selection Committee Evaluation System Customer Satisfaction via VOC Service Quality Evaluation Customer Satisfaction VOC Information System Service Monitoring PCSI, NCSI, KCSI, PT-CSI Surveying Cycle: Every Month Surveying Cycle: 3 Times a Year Surveying Cycle: Every Quarter 50km Social Performanc Enhancing Customer Service Skills ● KORAIL endeavors to improve its customer service competencies in Positive calls a number of ways. This includes monitoring our front-line employees’ (Unit: Instances) work performances, analyzing and updating our CS training courses, and 2009 3,007 offering our employees CS educational sessions. Workers who exhibit excellent CS skills are rewarded for their abilities. 2010 4,135 As a result of these efforts to improve our customer service skills, 4,135 Critical calls out of total 64,451 VOC calls praised the kindliness and competency of our (Unit: Instances) employees, an increase of 1,128 from the previous year. In contrast, 3,855 people complained about our employees, 619 fewer than the year before. 2009 4,474 2010 3,855 Building the optimized CS Training and cooperation System Subsidiaries g nin trai •Creating self-directed CS training ternal Ex plans Customer Value Business HQ Management Office Training by HR Development Institute •Designing CS problem-solving •Developing service managers, CS courses coaches, and in-house CS lecturers • D  evising annual training •Service Specialist System and •Supporting specialized educational plans database management Re facilities (such as broadcasts) • Offering CS training courses •Coordinating roles between po •Managing service guidelines and • Offering e-learning courses rti HR Development Institute and ng training manuals related departments Off g plans t tan er rainin in ba ul •Establishing task force team ck ed t Fee ect Suppo d dir rting lfHR se ntent on al co Co ion ns cat du ge CS Training System Training by Service Academy Business Sites • Expanding roles of each • D eveloping self-directed business site training plans • Consulting on human and • Utilizing in-house CS spefacility services Dev ort cialists elopin g annual supp plans s • Supporting Orientation for regional HQ KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report at each unit Eva / lua ces ting ervi Sup quality of on-the-spot s ion portin t g cooperative educa 51km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities Utilizing Voice of Customers (VOC) ● Service Certification Program ● KORAIL’s VOC operations have been especially designed for the Employees at KORAIL who possess outstanding service skills become railroad business. Voice of Customers is used to help KORAIL understand mentors for other workers. The company uses its unique Service its customers’ needs better and apply what it finds to make improvements Certification Program (SEP) to ensure that these high-performing to its management activities and service quality. We have added more employees are working at an appropriate level. Their duties as mentors VOC channels so that we can hear from more customers. This helps us to include giving their fellow workers on-the-spot training, laying resolve any problems that customers are experiencing with our services the foundation of increasing service capabilities through volunteer in an effective and efficient manner. participation breaking from previous “top-down”service education. There are four overall KORAIL employee levels: Beginner, Green Ribbon (basic skills), Blue Ribbon (general skills), and Gold Ribbon (professional skills), VOC Analysis SYSTEM with employees moving up the ladder based on their work evaluations. Thanks to the invaluable service that these workers provide in their role as mentors, KORAIL hopes to raise the customer service skill sets of all Regular Analysis Analysis by Sectors its employees. • Daily: Completed cases, type and • Passenger service: KTX, Saemaeul, classification & friendliness/unfriendliness Mugunghwa • Weekly: Weekly statistics, status of major • Metropolitan rail service: Metropolitan The SEP program began in 2009. In 2010, 9,111 employees were classed VOC improvement tasks Metro, transfer system as Beginners, 1,932 as Green Ribbon, and 386 as Blue Ribbon. • Monthly: Increase in use of VOC, • Logistics: Freight transport service delay rates & analyses of causes • Business: Consignment service in • Quarterly: Types of analyses, statistical collaboration with subsidiaries. KORAIL Four-Step Service Certification Program results, analyses & feedback • Technology: Rollingstocks, electricity, • Yearly: Collecting by types or channel and facilities analyses & feedback Analysis by Regions Analysis by Issues • VOC analyses by each managing station • Collecting and analyzing VOC Gold Ribbon • Analyses of VOC by each regional HQ regarding specific issues (e.g. strikes and abnormal weather conditions) Blue Ribbon In 2010, we widened our communication network even more by opening a Twitter account for KORAIL (@korail1899) and our CEO (@jyh0267). Some Green Ribbon other changes that we have made to the VOC program include GLORY KORAIL, a smartphone application of reserving and issuing railroad tickets, and offering Wi-Fi at all our stations. Beginner VOC Channel Type Channel Main Content Knowledge and decision-making capabilities Gold Ribbon at service manager level Internet Home Page VOC, customers’ suggestions, releasing (Customers’ Corner) information, ombudsman and letters Customer Center Accepting VOC by phone & information on Specialized knowledge and performance Blue Ribbon capabilities in terms of service skills (Call Center) train services Participation by Customers Customer Representative Complaints and suggestions Customer Satisfaction Handling visiting people for civil petitions and Basic knowledge in terms of service, plus the ability Green Ribbon to carry out Moment of Trust (MOT) service tasks Center accepting complaints. Accepting customers’ demand for Mobile Phone (SMS) improvement in train service Beginning stage of CS program acquiring Surveying cause of customer satisfaction & Beginner knowledge of assigned tasks CSI, Monitoring dissatisfaction External Survey Focus Group Interview Finding items to be improved SNS, Blogs and Media Collecting inconvenient points in train use CS Supporters Finding and reporting faults in services Participation by Employees Suggestions Receiving opinions directly from customers and making suggestions 52km Social Performanc ● Customer Representatives Program Status of VOC KORAIL’s customer service-focused management activities begin with keeping in tune with its customers and communicating with them. The Type 2008 2009 2010 Customer Representatives Program is a good example. In it, a team of Number of cases collected (cases) 54,040 51,573 64,451 representative customers evaluate the quality of KORAIL’s services. Their Satisfaction Index (in points) 85.4 75.5 72.7 opinions are then reflected by the company through policy changes and Response time (in hours) 20.1 22.2 21.5 system improvements. Delays resolved (in %) 0.5 0.4 0.2 The Customer Representatives Program has become a model for our ✽ The VOC satisfaction point system was changed in 2009. Now there is a maximum score of twenty points and a minimum one of zero points. customer-focused management system since its launch in 2007, and 1,134 people from various backgrounds were selected for membership in the fourth group in 2010. They made 4,054 suggestions, and we ● Expanding the Role of the Ombudsman System received another 1,588 online. Of these, 784 were selected and 729 were The restructuring of the KORAIL Ombudsman System’s website in January implemented. 2010 extended the office’s activities from matters relating to corporate ethics to include customer satisfaction, guaranteeing the recognition Main Activities of Customer Representatives Program of customer rights and interests. In 2010, the company received thirtyeight suggestions and proposals for improvement from the ombudsmen. Type 2008 2009 2010 They were incorporated into the company’s operations through five field Meetings and conferences at local 36 55 60 inspections and three special activities. The ombudsmen’s suggestions headquarter and proposals are linked to the VOC System. Advisory and volunteer activities 29 48 65 Service monitoring 730 4,054 ● CS Support Program The goal of KORAIL’s CS Support Program is to ensure high-quality customer service. All of the company’s employee participate in it, helping to mitigate the possibility of service-related errors and deficiencies before Opinions and improvements through Customer Representatives Program (Unit: Instances) they occur and demonstrating their awareness of the importance of customer satisfaction to the company’s success. Number of opinions 1,588 Number of improvements Operation result of CS Support System in 2010 729 1,243 Cases reported se Type Ratio (%) (number) incre 1,137 ses ca Total 4,994 100 633 Facility Stations 2,360 47.3 96 se services Trains 1,994 39.9 ses incre 31 65 ca Employees’ Poor 134 2.7 services Praiseworthy 33 0.7 System improvement 360 7.2 Other 113 2.2 2008 2009 2010 KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  The inauguration of the fourth-term ● customer representatives ●● The certificate as a company with an excellent ombudsman system ●●● CS supporters 53km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities Activities to Improve Customer Values Railroad Facilities Management System for Enhanced Customer Satisfaction Enhancing Convenience Facilities Facilities for infirm and elderly people ce Pla en n • Free WiFi service ni ies • A  udio guiding device for the visually challenged • Guidance automation Con it ng • Elevators and escalators fac ve ni il Scope of Facilities for Customer Satisfaction Ensuring customer safety ch Improving facilities to reflect customers’ needs ul ys and Res hats ris s rin and ea •E  xpanding use of safety doors g Res anal • Environmental Design Committee •B  uilding systems to monitor operators • Checking and improving general status ● G-BEST Project ● Multimedia Services As part of its customer service program, KORAIL launched a Global One of KORAIL’s most important activities is the building of a ubiquitous, Best (G-BEST) Project. Its goal is to ensure that customer value remains high-end multimedia environment. This includes expanding its WiBro the company’s highest priority. In addition, we have made our customer service to include all of the capital area’s subway lines, providing wireless service strategies more efficient and systematic. We have also enhanced Internet services throughout the KTX trains and in the cafeterias of the the quality of our customer services by categorizing customers according Saemaeul and Mugunghwa ones, and making wireless Internet and DMB to their needs and completing the sixty-six sub-tasks that are included broadcasting services available to every rider on the KTX-Sancheon. in the twelve projects that make up our four core operating strategies. We also provide free Wi-Fi services at 116 stations, and provide a laptop As a result of these efforts, KORAIL scored 92.6, the highest mark ever computer rental service at major ones, including Seoul and Busan. achieved, in the Public Enterprises Customer Satisfaction Index. Convenient Excellent Happy Customized railroads living spaces travel services Expanding Spreading the Creating demand for Reflecting voices distribution 5S Campaign tourist-focused trains of customers channels, such as company-wide (Haerang, etc.) in business smartphones strategies  ● Building free wi-fi networks inside stations ●● “GLORY KORAIL,” a smartphone application ●●● A facility for customers on wheelchairs 54km Social Performanc ● Services for the Underprivileged KORAIL is expanding its public roles by supporting underprivileged Facilities for the Physically Challenged people in society. Specifically, the company is operating train services for residents in remote rural areas and giving discounts to weak people Facilities Stations Number in society such as disabled people, senior citizens and children and increasing convenient facilities for them. Audio guiding devices 177 4,133 Braille blocks and leading passages 391 391 Convenience Facilities: Restrooms and elevators for disabled Elevators 196 685 people, etc * Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs Wheelchair lifts 69 169 Railroad stations Airports Bus stops Ferries Touchable maps 428 428 92.4% 89.4% 49.6% 22.7% Breastfeeding rooms 118 122 Separate restrooms for disabled males and 385 385 females Discounts for Underprivileged People Type KTX Saemaeul NuriroㆍMugunghwa Remarks 30% 30% •Mugungwha: 30% Enforcement ordinance of Senior Citizen Welfare Law (Ministry of Health and Welfare) Senior Citizens (Mon to Fri) (Mon to Fri) •Commuting: 50% (Oct. 1, 2004) (1 to 3 Grade) 50% 50% Enforcement ordinance of Disabled People Welfare Law (Ministry of Health and Welfare) Disabled Mugunghwa or lower: 30% 30% Including one guardian per disabled person (for disabled people in 1 to 3 Grade) People 50% (4 to 6 Grade) (Mon to Fri) (Mon to Fri) Since Jan. 3, 2006 (30% for disabled people in 4 to 6 Grade) Children 50% 50% 50% Children: Between 4 and 13 years old 75% discount for seat reservation Free of charge Infants •Since Apr. 1, 2004 (KTX, one guardian per person) (Two infants per adult)) •Since Jan. 10 (Expanded to conventional trains and two infants per guardian) Law on Compensating and Supporting People of National Merits •Law on Compensating and Supporting People who Contributed to National 50% for all trains People of National Merit Independence (Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs) (6 times are free of charge) •Law on Compensating and Supporting People who Contributed to May 18 Democratization Movement (Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs) ● Environmentally Friendly Train Stations KORAIL’s Environmental Design Improvement Committee consists of a team of outside environmental design experts. It is tasked with improving the overall railroad environment by ensuring that all of the company’s facilities are in harmony with the surrounding natural environment. In 2010, KORAIL made 167 different improvements at 139 of its stations. This included renovating the restrooms at Seoul Station and background color improvements to the underground parts of Yeongdong Station. Going forward, KORAIL will establish formal standards governing the area of KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report environmental design and put a comprehensive design plan in place.  ● Environmentally designed facilities ●●Renovating the restrooms, Seoul Station 55km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities ● Safe and Punctual Train Operations ● Cultural Services KORAIL’s 2010 train punctuality rate was 98.1%, a decrease of 0.2%p from KORAIL sponsors a wide variety of cultural events at stations across the year before. This reduction was due to the construction of new KTX the nation. It is also leading in the development of a reading culture by way stations and other railroad improvements, as well as slower train building special “reading zones.” In addition, we operate themed and speeds in places where anti-vibration equipment was being installed. cultural experience trains. In October 2008, we introduced the Haerang Rail Cruise, a hotel-type, high-end tour train, enabling travelers to enjoy The company makes every attempt to shorten the time needed for the convenience of lodging and cultural events at the same time. construction operations that result in train slowdowns. It has also taken steps to limit factors affecting the accuracy of its train schedules, We also operate “Cafe Trains” and the “KTX Cinema,” a mobile railroad including the establishment of a consultative body on its train operations theatre. This is part of our attempt to position our trains as comprehensive and holding discussions with the Korea Rail Network Authority. cultural spaces that create added value, rather than a simple mode of transportation. Train On-Time Ratio (Unit: %) 4 types of Cultural Events Type 2009 2010 2013 2015 Achievements Achievements Goal Goal KTX 98.3 98.1 98.7 98.9 •Open concert hall inside Seoul Station 1 Happy •Add more musical performances on the Internet Conventional Trains 97.4 97.3 97.8 98.0 KORAIL •Year-round regular performance groups, including operas and jazz Completion of KTX-Gyeongjeon Line (1 hour and 34 minutes 2 faster) Educational KORAIL •Customer communication events Reducing Reducing running times of Completion of second phase conventional trains (The Junof Seoul-Busan High-Speed Travel Time by gang line reduced its times by Railroad (32 minutes faster) Train Type a maximum of 45 minutes) 3 Cultural •Invitations to cultural performances, Reducing the running time KORAIL and discounts (musicals, and the movies) Reducing the running time of freight trains of freight trains (Reduc(Reducing running times on ing running times on the the Gyeongchun line by a Jungang Line by 33 minutes) maximum of 50 minutes) 4 Welcoming •Operate Culture Love Point System for people Increases in Speed KORAIL Service Line living in rural and remote areas (in terms of average daily transport volumes) KTX Gyeongbu Line 13.2% compared with the pre-commencement KTX Gyeongjeon Line 63.3% ● Lunch Box Reservations/Delivery Service KORAIL provides travelers who reserve in advance with a customized Jungang Line of 26.9% lunch-box service, enabling them to enjoy a high-quality, properly-cooked Conventional Trains meal at their convenience. Gyeongchun Line of the 445.5% Metropolitan Rail Service  ● Cultural performances at stations ●● The lunch box reservation system 56km Social Performanc Achievements of Customer Service System ● KORAIL recently revised its Customer Service Charter. In order to keep As a result of these efforts, the satisfaction rate of our customers has pace with the central government’s low-carbon, green growth policies, the been improving continuously. In addition to our above-referenced, recordcompany adopted a wide range of environmentally friendly programs. We breaking score of 92.6 in the Public Enterprise Customer Satisfaction also set a goal of exceeding the service standards set by many overseas Index (PCSI), we received marks of seventy in the National Customer railroad companies. This includes raising our on-time performance ratio Satisfaction Index (NCSI), 67.5 in the Korean Customer Satisfaction Index from 96% to 97% and lowering the time needed to purchase a ticket from (KCSI), and 75.9 in the Public Transportation Customer Satisfaction Index five minutes to three. (PT-CSI). Most of these scores were higher than those received the year before. Customer Service Highlights Item Implementation Standards Result YoY Change Safety •Railroad accidents/casualties per 1 million km to be reduced by 10% or more 1.62 Achieved 0.36 ↓ •Operate at least 97% of trains without any delays. KTX=5 minutes or less; Conven*KTX: 98.1% *KTX: 0.3%p ↓ On-Time Ratio Achieved tional trains = 10 minutes or less *Others: 97.3% *Others: 0.1%p ↓ •Operate trains 100% as planned, except for extraordinary circumstances such as Reliability 100% Achieved No change accidents or natural disaster 1.9 minutes on •Ensure more than 95% customers can buy tickets in three minutes or less Achieved 0.2 minutes ↑ Convenience average •Maintain telephone response at CS Center above 80% on average 79.2% Not Achieved 3.7%p↓ •Maintain a comfortable atmosphere and resolve customers’ problems in passenger Comfort 98.62 points Achieved 0.91 point ↑ cars •Customer compliments regarding excellent service 4,136 instances Achieved 1,129 instances ↑ Friendliness •Responding to customers’ calls in a positive and proactive manner 95.6 points Achieved New •Gathering customer opinions via the Internet, postcards, telephone, and fax 64,451 instances Achieved 12,880 instances↑ VOC •Compensating customers for ideas 75 instances Achieved 13 instances↓ •Results of customer satisfaction surveys 92.6 points Achieved 4.5 points↑ •Compensating passengers for KTX delays exceeding twenty minutes and other 118,289 instances Achieved 48,138 instances↑ delays exceeding forty minutes with cash or fare discounts Compensation for •Compensating passengers for a subway train delay of over one hour, or the last poor service 505,000 won Achieved 370,000 won↑ operation is delayed by more than thirty minutes •Returning money to customers when double-booked No such case Achieved No change Environmental •Reducing number of diesel-powered trains and adding more electric ones Five units scrapped Not Achieved New Friendliness (New) •Improving facilities to reduce pollution Eight completed Achieved New •Reserving 10% of seats for elderly or infirm travelers 19.51% Achieved 0.17%p ↑ Social Contribu•Participating in more than 3,000 social contribution activities per year 8,353 instances Achieved 5,920 instances ↑ tions •Holding over 1,000 customer appreciation events a year 1,564 events Achieved 338 ↑ KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  ● Removing conventional ticket gates ●● Customer satisfaction and service education ●●● The KORAIL Call Center 57km Employee Satisfaction Management Increasing satisfaction through fair evaluation & reward and communication & harmony Employment Information Equal Employment Opportunities ● The total number of KORAIL employees in 2010 was 29,958. 99.4% ● In compliance with Articles 2.8 and 6.2 of its Code of Ethics, KORAIL of them hold permanent positions, and the average length of their prohibits discrimination based on gender, educational background, employment is seventeen years. The average salary of a KORAIL age, religion, family background, place of birth, or physical disabilities. employee is KRW 58,450,000, while the starting salary of an employee Our recruitment practices are geared to achieving a proper social who has graduated from a university is KRW 21,840,000. Both of these balance, reserving a certain proportion of jobs for women, the physically rates are similar to those offered by other state-owned enterprises. challenged, and people who fall within the protected category. Our recruitment competitions are open to everyone, regardless of age, place Employee Breakdown of birth, or educational attainments. In order to enhance the fairness and (Unit: persons) efficiency of our hiring processes and ensure that we continue to attract Classification 2008 2009 2010 top-notch applicants, we have developed a “KORAIL-Way” competency interview program. By combining it with other professional recruitment Regular 30,910 30,586 29,958 tools, such as presentations and in-depth interviews, we are able to make Contract 1,084 447 196 employment decisions that benefit us as well as our workers. Female managers Employment (second-class or higher) 14 11 16 Average length of service ● Recruiting Interns 13.4 16.5 17 (in years) In 2010, KORAIL recruited a large number of interns. This was done to Total 31,994 31,033 30,154 fulfill our responsibility as a publicly-owned enterprise to help reduce the Women 3 2 25 unemployment rate among young people. It also enabled us to find and Physically challenged 0 0 0 hire candidates who would best answer our employment needs. 126 of Hiring Employing local residents 1 2 55 the 500 interns that we initially selected were later taken on as regular Practices employees. Natural Science and 7 4 58 Engineering graduates Total 10 9 103 ● Employing Women Change jobs Changing job rates (%) 0 0 2.6 KORAIL prohibits gender-based hiring and is committed to providing equal employment opportunities to both men and women. As of the end of 2010, 8.23% of our employees were female, significantly higher than ● Workplace Human Rights the 5.67% required by statute. We have been making a concerted effort KORAIL faithfully abides by all relevant labor-related legislation, including to increase training, self-development, and promotional opportunities for the central government’s Labor Standards Act and the International our female employees since 2005. In 2010, 95 of them (3.8% of the total) Labor Organization’s policies prohibiting child and forced labor. The same were employed in management positions, and 440 (9.2 times more than applies to human rights and work conditions. Our policies on sexual the previous year) were offered promotions. harassment are outlined in Chapter 2, Article 8 of our Code of Ethics and have each employee attend an anti-sexual harassment class for one or ● Employing the Physically Challenged more hours a year. We have also established a grievance system to deal KORAIL had 931 physically challenged employees in 2010, 0.1% higher with employee problems and/or complaints regarding employment, safety than the legal requirement, 3%. We carry out job suitability evaluations to conditions, and work benefits. ensure that severely disabled employees are offered work that is customtailored to their abilities. ● Employing Older Workers KORAIL is committed to carrying out the requirements of the Act on Aged Employment Promotion. In 2010, we had 2,246 aged employees. This represented 7.4% of our total workforce, 1.4% more than the statutory minimum which is 6%. ● Hiring of Science and Engineering Majors and People from Outside the Capital Area In accordance with governmental requirements, KORAIL is continuously increasing its employment ratio of science and engineering graduates and applicants from outside the capital area. In 2010, 39.1% of our workers were in the former category (11,735 people), while 41.9 % were in the  Hiring interns as regular employees ● latter one (12,564 people). ●● Expanding the number of female employees 58km Social Performanc Fostering The Development Of Highly-Skilled Human Resources KORAIL believes that workers who can function comfortably in an strategies to foster the development of creative, talented, and globallyinternational environment are the most important element in becoming a oriented workers by implementing sound and fair HR principles and “world’s-best” railroad service provider. As a result, we have duty-based, evaluation systems. performance-based, and skills-based human resources development Training Program by Competencies Global Abilities Desirable role model Creative and Globally Competitive Specialized Workers for other Innovative Workers Workers employees International railroad Participants Director / Manager Senior specialist Leadership abilities Global Abilities Work abilities •Suggesting corporate vision •Ability to collect (A total of forty-eight) •Strategic thinking international information •Problem-solving Curriculum •Drive to finish work •Forming international •Collecting and analyzing •Good judgment relationships information •International negotiating •Strategic planning power •Improving processes, etc. Leadership Work abilities abilities Candidates Candidates Candidates Participants Senior All Employees Junior or lower Leadership abilities Global Abilities Work abilities •Problem-solving •Drive to finish work •Global knowledge •Knowledge of rules and Curriculum (J Class) •Foreign language abilities regulations Leadership abilities •Good judgment (J Class) KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Shared Abilities 59km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities ● Nurturing Talented Employees ● Status of Training and Education KORAIL has defined four key competencies that all its new employees In 2010, the number of employees receiving training came to 95,060, a must possess, and has developed a human resources development decrease of 6% compared to that of 2009. The average training period system to help develop their abilities. It includes needs-based job and average cost per person was 89 hours and 25,000 Korean won training and processes for establishing training plans and enhancing respectively, totaling to 7.5 billion Korean won. skills development, allowing every employee to study independently at his or her own pace. It also results in unbiased evaluations of employee KORAIL developed and is now applying an e-HRD system through which performances, creating a feedback loop that KORAIL can leverage to employees can assess their capabilities on their own. Employees can also attain its long-term goals. receive support for evaluation of their studies and achievements from this system. Regardless of time and place, all KORAIL employees will be able to evaluate their study methods, establish their job training systems and develop their self-competency development plans. Creative and Innovative Training by Year Goal-oriented, challenge-seeking, passionate, committed to customer satisfaction and the promotion of the Classification 2008 2009 2010 corporate value of KORAIL Number of participants 124,613 100,739 90,796 Training hours per person (Those who completed course / average number of 89 89 85 participants×4 days×7 hours) Global-Oriented Profile of an Training costs per person (1,000 won) 412 300 250 Ideal KORAIL Open-minded, able to learn languages Employee easily, comfortable living and working outside of Korea Courses by Competencies Leadership Global Work Common Compulsory Electives Being dispatched to Global work in their non-regular KORAILSharing Expert Strategic workplaces Certified core values, leaders Railroad CEO course Specialized labor-manPossessing a sense of responsibility, Type overseas Power coaching and basic agement reexpert in their field, driven to excel of project work lations, green Course Productive Conflict management managers, abilities growth, and leaders Strategic decision-making cyber foreign customer language Problemsolving service Independent studies Strategic planning Professional leaders Communications KORAIL’s Human Resources Development System 1 2 3 4 Business Environment Work and Abilities Design Applying Results Training System Analysis Work and Abilities KOVIS System Analyzing Job Training System Corporate Culture Requirements Career Development Evaluation of e-HRD System training System Capabilities Modeling and Management Strategies Diagnoses Learning Road Map LMS System Implementation 60km Social Performanc Performance Based Evaluation KORAIL’s employee evaluations are based on each worker’s abilities system, allowing talented employees to progress in their careers at an and job performance. Evaluations, compensation, promotions, and appropriate rate of speed. Employees who are underachieving are obliged appointments within the organization are all independent of the seniority to undergo retraining. Performance-Based Human Resources Management ✽Reeducation of Low Performers: A total of 54 people ✽First reeducation (29 people): Nov. 2 to Dec. 24, 2009 / Second reeducation (25 people): Apr. 5 to May 28, 2010 ✽Number of high achievers in evaluation of reeducation who were assigned to duties: 12 people ✽Reassinged to the staff position in HQs: 42 people PerformanceBased Human Open Recruitment Workplace Changes Resources Management •Hiring employees for senior positions •Establishing policies on workplace changes (second class or higher) Personnel Transfer System Personnel Management and Promotions •Entrusting Department heads with full power •Promoting low-ranking employees to top-ranking over the company’s personnel matters Workpositions based on their performances place Changes •Offering regular and special promotions of high achievers ● Positions and Salaries Based on Job Performance Changes to Salary System KORAIL’s employee compensation system is based on a worker’s job performance. Furthermore, in order to increase the relevance of the operating Old New system, it has eliminated the nominal annual wage system and increased the portion of annual performance-based remuneration by 30%. Base salary 49.5% Base salary 49.5% Duty-related remuneration 22.7% ● Competency-Based Personnel System KORAIL revised work performance rating system reflecting the Allowances 3.5% Duty-related remuneration 17.0% importance and difficulties of works. By linking it to the MBO , KORAIL has Employee benefits 6.9% been able to develop a comprehensive, competencyand performanceOther allowances 3.5% Performance-related remuneration 2.5% based personnel system that takes such factors as the employee’s Annual performanceAnnual performance-based motivation, strategic and decision-making abilities, and communication 14.9% 30% based remuneration remuneration and presentation abilities into account. Performance-Based Salary System Roadmap 2009 2010 2011 2012 Institutionalizing Implementing Expanding Use of Advancing PerformancePerformance-Based Performance-Based Performance-Based 성과연봉 Based Remuneration 14.9% Remuneration System Remuneration System Remuneration System System KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report •Preparing measures to strengthen •Implementing duty-related remunera•Expanding duty-related remuneration •Expanding duty-related remuneration duty-related remuneration tion system (second class or higher) system (Supporting departments) system (All employees) •Reforming remuneration system •Expanding annual salary system to •Implementing annual salary system for •Implementing annual salary system for •Introducing maximum salary system employees belonging to the third class employees belonging to third class or employees belonging to third class or (second class or higher) or below (stationmasters, assistant below (All supporting departments) lower (All employees) •Introducing retirement pension system managers) •Improving maximum salary system •Introducing maximum salary system (second class or higher) •Implementing maximum salary system •Implementing flexible work system (employees belonging to third class or (second class or higher) below) •Introducing flexible work system •Matching duties and remuneration (abolishing ranks ) 61km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities Welfare System ● Employee Benefits Package KORAIL’s employees are entitled to a wide range of benefits package. They Employees’ Satisfactions Satisfaction about Retirement are included in a comprehensive, midto long-term package that both Pension and Promotion of about Benefits Employees’ Workouts labor and management have agreed to. •Optional employee benefits system •Retirement grants Selective Employee Benefits KORAIL is integrating and managing •Using trains free of charge •Four medical insurance options all kinds of employee benefit packages in a rational manner by pushing •Family events, donation for disaster •Support education expenses for a selective employee benefit system. In addition, KORAIL secures victims •Support sports events •Collective insurance for employees •Support club activitie transparency of budgets for employee benefits and offers employee •Medical expenses, expense benefits by reflecting needs of employees on them. In order to reflect for materials used in funeral employees’ opinions on the program, KORAIL regularly carries out services Employee surveys of employees on employee satisfaction. Benefits Management Program Retirement Grant System As KORAIL became a government-run Satisfaction about Satisfaction about company, its workers with over 20 years of employment will be paid Financial and Work Facilities for Employees Supports retirement grants (including pension) for public service personnel. In addition, KORAIL offset disadvantages against workers with less than •Housing for employees •Operate mutual aid associations 20 years of employment by applying an exception to the Public Worker •Housing for train crews •Operate a scholarship committee Retirement Pension Law to guarantee pensions for them. •Training centers, resort facilities •Provide company uniforms to •Dormitories for employee’s children employees •Workplace child-care facilities In order to introduce the retirement grant system launched on December of 2005, KORAIL asked consulting firms for consulting on the introduction of the system from January to March of 2007. In the periodical labormanagement meeting in the second quarter of 2007, KORAIL suggested membership to the defined-benefit pension plan to those who want it after the introduction of the retirement pension plan. In 2010, the company Year-by-Year Retirement Provisions expanded the retirement pension system to cover stationmasters and (Unit: one million won) other employees belonging to the third or lower classes with a goal to 2009 8,609 expand the system for all employees to guarantee stable retirement 2010 6,974 lives for them. We aim to expand the system to cover all employees by stabilizing the retirement pension process by the end of 2012. total 15,583 Establishing A Midto Long-Term Employee Benefits Plan 2010 ~2011 2012 ~2013 2014 After Advancement of Employee Laying the Foundations Expansion Benefit System •Laying foundations for employee benefits with •Expanding facilities for employee benefits •Expanding employee benefits steadily focus on non-budget projects •Improving employee benefits system •Increasing workers’ satisfaction with employee •Laying the groundwork for family-friendly •Obtaining family-friendly (S Grade) certificate benefits system management •Integrating employee benefits mainly for interest of families  ● A company athletic meeting ●● Activating club activities for employees ●●● Opening a training center in Naksan 62km Social Performanc Industrial Safety and Health ● Management of the Central Industrial Safety and ● Safety Management System & National and InternaHealth Committee tional Certification of Industrial Safety and Health The Industrial Safety and Health Committee is responsible for all matters Management System relating to safety and health. KORAIL’s efforts to create a pleasant working In order to efficiently manage a database regarding industrial and environment include keeping track of its employees’ periodic health transportation safety, health, research and the environment, KORAIL reports. KORAIL abides by the convention of the International Labor established the Safety Management System in June 2010 and is currently Organization such as creating a pleasant working environment through operating it. Furthermore, for more efficient and scientific management regular check-ups of employees’ health. The Industrial Safety and Health of the system, KORAIL is seeking to obtain national and international Part of KORAIL’s Transportation Safety Office deals with major issues certification of the system to enhance global awareness of KORAIL’s regarding safety and health in order to maintain the level of employees’ railroad business to prepare to advance into overseas markets. The safety and health at the highest level. numbers of industrial disasters significantly decreased thanks to the efficient management of the industrial safety and health through the Safety Management System established in 2010. Work-Related Accidents (Unit: cases) 2008 82 2009 76 2010 63 Industrial Safety and Health Process Chart Legacy System Industrial Accident Safety Survey KROIS HR Education Log Prevention & MGT Education of Safety Education MGT Managers Resources / Accident-Free Activities of Safety Industrial Safety & Facility MGT Management Managers Health CMT Protective Gear Ledger Industrial Accident Correction Orders from Honorary Industrial Protective Gear Accident MGT MGT Public Offices Safety Supervisor Industrial Accident Application and Safety & Health Central Industrial Safety Approval Practice Guidance Sign & Health CMT PM (vehicles, electricity, Safety Facility MGT facilities) Process Safety MSDS MGT Work Area Agent (risk factor) Questionnaire MGT Workplace MM (material / purchase Partner Firm MGT Safety MGT MGT) Work Environment Musculoskeletal Risk Evaluation Legally Senior Survey Disorders Member KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Appointment Report on Health Diagnosis Legally Senior Member Partners MGT Finding & Post-Diagnosis Health MGT Report on Performances Health MGT Selecting Subjects Management Agency of Health MGT Agency Vaccination Protocol Management Post-Diagnosis Management Interview 63km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities ● Industrial Safety and Health Education ● Supervision of Railroad Operators Conventional education of maintenance supervisors, as defined by Article In order to reduce the possibility of accidents, KORAIL’s train-based 31 of the Industrial Safety and Health Law, has been changed into cyber employees are required to undergo physical aptitude tests. If they fail education. From 2007 to 2010, 19,082 people had taken this four-week them, they are either removed from their jobs or transferred to others. training course. KORAIL also tests each of its train crews for sickness and fatigue and alcohol levels to ensure that they are capable of operating a train. Number of People Who Have Completed Cyber Training The company also supervises employees with less than six months’ (Unit: persons) experiences, transferees who have been at their new jobs for less than 2008 5,023 three months, and workers with history of accidents and less than two years’ experiences. In 2010, three employees were assigned to other 2009 4,790 duties as they failed the tests. 2010 4,611 ● Strengthening Competencies of Safety Managers, Attendant Service Suitability Test Health Administrators, and Maintenance Supervisors The safety managers, health administrators, and maintenance Reporting for duty before beginning of work supervisors that are stationed at KORAIL’s twelve regional offices and nine affiliates hold biannual two-day workshops to meet the statutory requirements for training in the areas of industrial safety and health Checking trains to board Signing the work schedule ● On-Site Safety Supervision KORAIL has been operating a Safety Ombudsman’s System since March 2009. Its purpose is to help staff members report unsafe operating Suitability Test conditions and ask for repairs. This allows the company to learn what is happening in the field and increase its safety levels. KORAIL received Fatigue, disease, soberness and mental problems fourteen field responses to its 2010 Work Safety Plan, and put six of them into practice of them. In addition, the company studies cases in which accidents might have happened in order to take preventative measures. Classification Cases Received Disseminating Judgment and measures Illogical practices and cases Safety Ombudsman 14 cases were received, and 6 which need authoritative System were put into practice Suitable – Allowed to work Unsuitable – Not allowed to work interpretation Cases in which accidents could 7,217 cases were received Near-Accident Cases have happened Evaluation & attendant service Compliance with Education in taking PDA & regulations situation room walkie-talkie  An industrial safety workshop ● ●● An industrial safety workshop ●●● Crew members 64km Social Performanc Labor and Management Relation ● Current Labor Union Situation KORAIL’s employees are members of the Korean Transport Workers’ involved in organizing the labor and management councils and setting Union. They are obliged to join it as soon as they are hired, and temporary up meetings. In addition, it is represented on 158 company committees, workers may also join if they wish to. The union’s membership in 2010 gaining knowledge of management issues and seeking to improve mutual was 22,678, 75.7% of the company’s total employee base. understanding. KORAIL created a Labor and Management Co-Existence Roadmap in July Labor and Management Purpose of Establishment Cycle Consultative Group 2010. Its purpose is to facilitate the development of a labor-management culture that is mutually respectful and free of hostilities. Work System Improvement Discussing to change work system When necessary Task Force Discussing employee benefits In order to reach this goal, labor and management meet in small groups Employee Benefits Committee When necessary issues and trade jobs so that each side knows what the other one’s day is like. Industrial Safety and Health Discussing safety and health When necessary Labor and management both hope that this will lead to an increased Committee matters Labor and Management Promoting employee participation understanding of each other. KORAIL has contributed to the increase of Once every quarter Conference and cooperation communication through “face-to-face meetings and dialogues.” Protective Gear Selection Selecting protective gear, such as When evaluating Committee safety shoes and safety helmets products Central Labor and Management Conference Clothing Selection Committee Selecting uniforms and work When necessary After the restructuring of its organization in September 2010, KORAIL clothes revised regulations on the operation of the Labor and Management Council. Its primary goal has been to improve 20 regional Labor and Meeting with Representatives of Labor and Management Management Councils. KORAIL has enjoyed increased profits and Representatives of labor and management, acting in partnership, improved working conditions thanks to the work of these bodies. work together on collective bargaining issues and hold formal and informal meetings to deal with problems that might impact on KORAIL’s Labor and Management Consultative Group operations. This body acts as the voice of employees working in the field, ensuring that their concerns are reflected in KORAIL’s management plans. It is also labor and management relation Road Map Basic Directions for Achieving Changing Employees’ Consciousness Face-to-Face Communications Labor-Management Harmony and Improving Corporate Structure 2010 2011~2012 After 2013 Building Trust through Enhanced Building Partnerships through Building Cooperation through Trust Communications Cooperation •Promoting legitimate union activities •Strengthening communications and building trust •Building a corporate culture befitting a world•Establishing communications programs •Enhancing labor-management harmony class company •Pushing for trust-based PR strategies •Managing risks from change in business •Partnerships based on mutual labor•Laying foundations for joint labor-management environment such as conflicts among laborers management participation and innovations projects and effects of social media •Improving system for recruiting managers •Strengthening specialized negotiation power KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  Regular collecting bargaining agreement ● ●● Meeting with labor union leaders ●●● A Regional marathon race 65km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities ● Establishment of Mutually Beneficial Culture ● Advanced Labor-Management Communications KORAIL has been instrumental in creating a working environment KORAIL is working hard to strengthen two-way communications with that encourages dialogue and is mutually beneficial to both labor and its employees as part of its commitment to open and transparent management. The management and laborers of KORIL signed a collective management. bargaining agreement and a collective salary agreement without any conflicts between the two. In addition, KORAIL went down in history as the Old [Developing Communications Channels] first Korean state-run enterprise which agreed on the Time-off System •Official home page, blogs, Internet cafes, 18 home pages by Internet with employees. function, home pages of regional HQs Work System •Grievance system, electronic counseling system, chat room with CEO May 14 • Signing Mutually Beneficial Collective Bargaining Agreement Hard-copy •Newsletter (KORAIL with People), posters, messages, and bulletins communications •Good faith bargaining (201 meetings), sensible conclusions (e.g. removing provision to limit management’s right to corporate management including personnel management Video •In-house broadcasting and videos •Simplifying items in collective bargaining agreement (reduced from 187 to 155) •CEO’s on-spot management and executives’ experiencing Face to Face employees’ work •Collective bargaining, Labor and Management Conference, Industrial Safety and Health Committee November 15 • Signing Conflict-Free Salary Agreement Labor Union •Workers’ Benefits Committee, Clothing Selection Committee, Protective Gear Selection Committee •Signing salary agreement without conflicts and strikes •Freezing salaries for two years to abide by government guidelines New and Improved [Faster and strengthened two-way communications] •Forming collaborative relationships , executives’ experience of Two-Way November 15 • Agreement on Time-Off System employees’ work on the spot, small group meetings •Launching Twitter service, real-time broadcasts of CEO’s •Exemplary cases among government-run companies Speed messages Full-time workers in office of labor union: 64 to 14 (unpaid) Offering Balanced •Phone meeting, weekly review of personnel management and Exemption limit: 33,000 hours per year Information Alibaba ● Leading Way to Advanced Communication With its many offices and businesses throughout the country, KORAIL is Employee Satisfaction establishing the system to strengthen communication focused on hearing from the employees. Particularly, KORAIL is reorganizing the existing channels of communication to create one that goes both ways in order to instill open and transparent management. ● Thanks to its commitment to improved communications channel, the satisfaction level between labor and management at KORAIL has increased dramatically. This has become a driving force behind a sensible On-the-Spot collective agreement and the first conflict-free collective wage agreement Management since KORAIL became a government-run company. Activities 5,438 employees from 271 units Labor-Management Harmony Index (communication sector) Communications Open-Minded Meetings with Employees Lunch Meetings 400 employees (10 times) 84.2 79.3 Junior Board Camps 250 employees (11 times) 77.5 74.0 75.4 74.8 Innovations Festival and Music Festival 1,600 employees (2 times) 71.7 71.9 Athletic Meets 800 employees (Once) Special Lectures 630 employees (6 times) 2008 2009 2010(1sthalf) 2010(2ndhalf) 66km Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership Social KORAIL will create equal partnership with partners and take the lead in Performanc practicing win-win growth and fair trade. Characteristics and Sustainability Trust-Based Management Management Issues of Partners ● KORAIL’s partners refer to companies in charge of ticket sales, ● KORAIL is making diversified efforts for win-win growth with partner services, purchases and asset lease. KORAIL is doing its utmost to ensure firms by opening its information as much as possible and establishing transparency from bidding, processing to follow-up and to provide equal a transparent communication system. Since laying the institutional opportunities to everyone. Particularly, we want to help those companies foundation for transparent management, KORAIL has been realizing its that are headed by either disabled people or women by increasing vision for win-win partnership by holding meetings with partners regularly purchases from them and ultimately contributing to the activation of the and operating a computerized support system to promote purchases of national economy. products and from small and medium sized companies. In 2010, the portion of purchases of SME products compared to the total ● Taking Lead in Win-Win Growth purchases reached 52% (738.7 billion won) and contracts with companies KORAIL is taking the initiative in win-win growth with small companies managed by women and disabled CEOs totaled KRW 5.32 billion, a 3.8% such as promoting fair trades. The company improved subcontract share of the total number. KORAIL is advocating mutual growth and practices between big and small companies by expanding a direct benefit by actively carrying out strong cooperation with SMEs. payment system for construction and service contracts to product purchase contracts. In August 2010, the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission picked this case as an exemplary case of institutional improvements. The company founded the GLORY Win-Win Growth Center which operates online and offline help desks for small companies and reflected five cases of the help desk service on its business. KORAIL held a ceremony to sign an agreement on GLORY win-win growth and fair trades with 874 companies such as affiliates and partners for the first time as a Korean government-run company in order to promote win-win growth. In addition, we are leading the way in protecting weak people in society (non-regular workers) by guaranteeing the lowest limit rate of 87.7% (special new clause) in the bidding system for subcontracts for manual labor services (cleaning) which resulted in an effect of an 8% increase in salaries (about 4.7 billion won and 140 new jobs) in Jan, 2011. Main Components of GLORY Win-Win Growth and Fair Trade Agreement Providing financial supports to partners and Carrying out contracts on basis of sincerity easing payment conditions and honesty Providing technological supports, helping to Improving quality control processes, cutting improve product quality and protect KORAIL Partners costs, and logistics innovations ownership of technologies Expanding support for smalland medium-sized Abiding by integrity agreement and others companies in terms of education and training KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  ● A meeting with partners ●●Appointing KORAIL ombudsmen ●●● Integrity Quiz Competition 67km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities ● Actively Opening Information to Public ●Open Bid and Electronic Procurement System KORAIL is committed to transparent and voluntary opening of information KORAIL is enhancing its procurement processes for everything through precise and timely official notices on its business activites. In it purchases. In keeping with our commitment to openness and order to prevent mistakes in public notification, KORAIL has created a transparency, we have established an electronic procurement system, monitoring system by task and divided duties of employees by announced encouraging price competitiveness and opening the market to new items. suppliers. We have been applying prior screening criteria since 2008 to After analyzing our public announcement system, we improved the determine who will be given the right to bid on our contracts. In addition, system (home page) to offer information to people in a better manner. we deduct points from companies that fail to observe our bidding terms and conditions. Place of Compared Classification Announcement Announcement to 2009 ● Supporting Smalland Medium-Sized Businesses (SMEs) Business Results Corporate home A total of 78 items Double KORAIL operates a support system for SMEx. This enables them to add Announcements page • 3 9 items such as the status of to their technological capabilities will helping us to purchase high-quality our business operations products at low prices. By providing supports in terms of capital, market Integrated ALIO System (Ministry of 1,076 items cases opportunities, technology, personnel, product purchases and information were registered 1.7 times release regarding bidding results, KORAIL helps to strengthen the SME Announcements Strategy and • Recruitment and business sector and contributes to the advancement of the national Finance) bidding information economy. One extremely positive result of our support system is the rise DART System in our purchases of goods produced by disable people and women by e-Announcements (Ministry of Financial and A total of 56 items 1.5 times technical innovation • Status of big business groups Supervisory etc. Services) KORAIL is engaging in a variety of projects such as an artificial reef People 190 cases project, KTX Passenger Movies Car and Wine Train, thus strengthening Opening requesting were opened 1.3 times cooperative network with small and medium-sized companies by carrying information • 210 decision notices, out joint research and product development and sharing the results with information opening rate: 91% them. In 2010, through the establishment of the GLORY Mutual Growth Center, KORAIL has expanded the department in charge of mutual growth with SMEs and have signed contracts with 640 SMEs. SME Business Supports Classification 2008 2009 2010 2011 Goal Buying products from SMEs (Unit: 4,494 8,810 7,387 8,402 100 million won) Purchase of technical products (Unit: 143 149 188 326 100 million won) Purchase of products developed with 133 279 114 120 option to buy (Unit: 100 million won)  ● The Electronic Supply System ●● Signing an agreement for GLORY win-win growth 68km Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities Social We are engaging in various and practical community-friendly social Performanc contribution activities through our nationwide railroad network. Vision and Organization for Social Contribution ● KORAIL was Korea’s first state-owned enterprise to engage in railroad network. Our increased aid to the socially disadvantaged is a corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. These activities are carried specialized and fortified social contribution activity linked to the GLORY out by a volunteer group of KORAIL employees. We have strengthened campaign of KORAIL. By carrying a wide range of CSR activities, KORAIL our CSR management processes to enhance the effectiveness of our CSR is positioning itself as a people-friendly enterprise that is contributing to activities and the development of joint programs based on the national economic and cultural development of local communities. Social Contributions Vision Mission Green Network That Creates Happier and Healthier Lives Strengthening Corporate Social Responsibilities to Become the Vision World’s Best Railroad Core Value Donating Talents Sustainability Social Contributions Building Social Developing and Partnerships with Sharing Contributions Operating Programs Specialized Groups accomplishment Infrastructures Strategy •Systematic resources •Developing company•Strengthening •Strengthening strategic management and wide programs partnerships by publicity enhancing efficiency of •Developing joint business sector •sharing resources labor-management •Building strategic accomplishment of CSR •Revamping organization programs partnerships with and building evaluation and strengthening media firms system support activities Slogan Creating A Happier World through Railroads Organization Team Leader (Vice President) Management Committee Secretariat KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Volunteer Squads at HQ Local Volunteer Squads Working-Level Committee Working-Level Committee 547 groups, 111,071 man-days, 379,813 hours and 1,095 million Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 won in financial support) 69km S o c i a l Per f o rm a n ce 48 Social Performance 50 Sustainable Customer Moving Management 58 Employee Satisfaction Management 67 Trust-Based Management for Better Partnership 69 Social Contribution-Practicing Management for Communities Current Situation of Social contribution Activities of KORAIL Social Contribution Corps ● Cooperative Network for Social Contribution Activities of KORAIL KORAIL is committed to achieving mutual growth with stakeholders Social Contribution Helping Farm Villages Corps by strengthening its corporate social responsibility programs. After establishing its CSR program in 2005, the company created a separate •Times 380 department to carry its activities and set up a cooperative network with Happy Train •No. of Beneficiaries 2,479 •Total Hours 35,277 NGOs to develop efficient and effective programs. •No. of Participants 4,947 •Times 226 •No. of Beneficiaries 9,256 Since establishing social contribution-practicing management as a •Total Hours 20,118 corporate culture in 2008, KORAIL has recognized hours of employees’ •No. of Participants 2,256 Cultural Exchange social contribution activities as working hours as well as kept track of •Times 282 results per volunteer groups and supported external internal social KORAIL Village •No. of Beneficiaries 26,162 contribution programs. •Total Hours 9,511 •Times 291 •No. of Participants 1,653 Cooperation with NGOs •No. of Beneficiaries 4,244 •Total Hours 22,884 •No. of Participants 3,001 Establishing Relationships with NGO Cooperative Project 2010 Results Social Welfare Organizations Joint Collection and Total amount collected: Korea Council of •Times 4,576 Management of KORAIL Love 18,952,850 points Volunteer Organizations Visiting place for Volunteer Work •No. of Beneficiaries 237,084 Points (Used: 35,488,000 points) •Total Hours 192,856 44 stations across the •Times 302 •No. of Participants 70,090 Community Chest of Operate collection boxes nation, nationwide. A total of Korea within station buildings •No. of Beneficiaries 2,921 7,642,360 won was collected •Total Hours 10,544 Number of participants: •No. of Participants 2,257 Fundraising through videos Post-Disaster Recovery Work Good Neighbors 5,489. 36,496,345 won was in KTX trains collected •Times 9 . Training and Education •No. of Beneficiaries 2,204 ● Revenue Raising Program •Total Hours 820 •No. of Participants 138 KORAIL’s specialized social contribution program begins with the “Making •Times 96 •No. of Beneficiaries 4,445 a Happy World with the Railroad” program. Since January 2006, KORAIL’s •Total Hours 1,933 employees have been running an “one account, one thousand won” •No. of Participants 468 Blood Donation program called, “the KORAIL Love Fund” which employees donate money to monthly from their paychecks. •Times 731 Delivering Donations •No. of Beneficiaries 701 •Total Hours 5,116 Social Contribution Activities •No. of Participants 1,708 •Times 50 •No. of Beneficiaries 1,150 Classification 2009 2010 •Total Hours 379 •No. of Participants 279 Environmental Activities Participants (persons) 80,373 man-days 111,071 man-days Hours of activities 285,176 379,812 •Times 1,432 Financial and Material •No. of Beneficiaries 52,821 KRW 1,077 million KRW 1,077 million Support •Total Hours 80,375 Love Fund KRW 860 million KRW 654.49 million •No. of Participants 24,275 Matching Grant KRW 267 million KRW 387.95 million Accumulated Love Points 43 million points 35.48 million points ● Buying agricultural products directly from farmers ●● An environment protection campaign (clean-up of Daecheong Lake) ●●● Delivering free coal briquettes to marginalized people 70km Social Performanc Social Contribution Programs Social contribution • Through the creation of a social contribution portal, KORAIL shares results with othProgram through ers and quickly provides support. In July 2010, throughout major stations, KORAIL organized the Railroad Network “Happiness through the Railroad Bazaar” and with 42 volunteer groups in December, KORAIL carried out the “Love Sharing” campaign” throughout the country, thus fulfilling its social responsibilities to the fullest. In addition, members of the company’s labor and management planted more than 10,000 flowering plants on the side along the Honam Line, creating a flower path for the enjoyment of travelers. We also invited a wind instrument orchestra comprised of disabled people belonging to the South Chungcheong Province Southern Center for Disabled People to play at a joint labor and management concert. GLORY Happy Train • GLORY Happy Train is one of our most important CSR programs. It involves “Love Points” that are donated by KORAIL’s employees and customers and then are given to the underprivileged so that they can enjoy train travel too. We run this program once or more times a month. In 2010, KORAIL organized a total of 226 Happy Trains, giving 9,256 people a chance to travel by train. KORAIL Village • This distinctive program highlights the rich human resources available at KORAIL. Project This program helps the underprivileged and sole-support senior citizens living near the railroad by improving their surroundings and making their lives easier. A total of 2,968 volunteers participated in 2010, carrying out such activities 286 times. Helping Farm • This new, ongoing KORAIL program brings farmers, the National Agricultural CoopCommunities erative Federation, and businesses together to raise profits. Participants help the farmers during the busy spring and fall seasons, and also repair houses belonging to sole-support seniors. The program also includes the “one organization, one rural community” support activity that helps bring locally-produced agricultural products to market, helping to raise farmers’ incomes. Visiting Programs • KORAIL has created a variety of programs for employees to visit people in need. This includes female migrant workers, sole-support senior citizens, and people who are suffering from financial, emotional, and/or physical problems. Cultural and Sports • KORAIL also offers cultural and sports activities to the disadvantaged, providing them Activities with emotional support and growth. Volunteering for the • KORAIL also carries out a host of environmental protection activities. They include the Environment “one organization, one mountain, one river” program, “Focus on Collecting Waste Materials,” “Time to Preserve the Railroad Environment” and “Maintaining Station with Automation Systems.” All of our employees are committed to protecting the environment and helping KORAIL continue in its role as an environmentally friendly, green company. Other Activities • We collaborate with a number of non-profit organizations in such areas as disaster relief, teen-aged volunteers, blood donations, and environmental protection. KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report ● KORAIL Village ●● Helping homeless people ●●●Helping a farming village 71km Environmental Performance Railroads are more environmentally friendly than any other mode of transportation ● The energy you save taking KORAIL from Seoul to Busan instead of driving is the same as planting eleven pine trees. To fulfill its great potential to help save the earth, KORAIL will put its words into action by continuing to develop green infrastructures that will deliver green and clean growth for everyone. E c o Fri e n d ly Man agemen t Classification 2008 2009 2010 Proportion of electrification rate (%) 54.5 55.9 60.4 Soil purification projects (Million Won) 767 909 2,248 Average daytime above-ground noise (dB) 59 59 59 Average night-time above-ground noise (dB) 57 57 57 Amount of waste water / flow rate of passenger car waste water (ton) 323,527/66,412 298,107/54,374 281,250/36,859 Expenditures to improve water quality (Million Won) 619 895 61 Amount of waste discharge (general/designated) (ton) 4,017/707 2,647/1,002 1,520/1,161 Expenditures to improve solid waste environment (Million Won) 337 87 25 Indoor air quality management at railroad stations 63 63 64 (Number of locations) Purchases of eco-friendly products (100 Millions Won) 72 103 90 S a f ety M a n agemen t Classification 2008 2009 2010 KTX on-time operating ratio (%) 96.7 98.3 98.1 Operating accidents (cases per million km) 2.155 1.981 1.616 On-site accidents (cases) 82 76 63 Vehicle failure ratio (cases per millions km) 0.089 0.083 0.076 Track electricity failure ratio (cases per 1,000 km) 4.293 3,797 3,058 Eco-Friendly Management In tandem with the era of low-carbon green growth, sustainable eco-friendly railroad is making Korea green. ECO-RAIL 2015 Strategy ● Railroads are a sustainable and highly energy-efficient mode of The company announced its “ECO-RAIL 2015” vision for the development transportation, and KORAIL has been working hard to increase its overall of a green, eco-friendly railroad network, along with policies to support share of Korea’s total transportation market. One of our major goals is that goal, in August 2009. To achieve this, it is engaged in three strategic to take the initiative in pursuing the central government’s policy of lowtasks (Eco-Design, Eco-Operations, and Eco-Investments) and sixteen carbon green growth. detailed ones. ECO-RAIL 2015 Strategy Roadmap Green Growth Vision ECO-RAIL 2015 Basic Direction Enhancing Korea’s Increasing modal share economic competitiveness Building a base for of railroad by enhancing and decreasing social sustainable growth through customer convenience and costs by building a environmentally friendly increasing access to and transportation system management speed of trains centering on railroads Strategic Goals Reduce CO2 emissions by 10%, Improve speed of trains, from 0.667 million tons to 0.600 million tons from 150 km/h to180~200 km/h Double modal share of railroad, Create a maximum two-hour travel time from 15.4% to 26.2% by 2019 between major cities Strategic Agenda EcoEcoEcoDesign Operation Investment •Convenient connections •Low carbon and high efficiency •Eco-friendly policies and Strategic Direction and transit-oriented •Increasing customer investments developments (TOD) convenience •Increasing investments in •Elevating speed •Creating green environment railroads competitiveness •Building transportation system •Increasing number of ecocentering on railroads friendly and energy-efficient •Contributing to development of facilities national economy through job creation ✽ TOD: A transit-oriented development (TOD) is a mixed-use of residential or commercial area designed to maximize access to public transport. Often including features that encourage transit ridership, they have been adopted by such regions as Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the U.S., and the U.K. 74km Environmental Performance ECO-RAIL 2015 Strategy •Building multi-function stations (6 stations) Eco-Design Innovating connection and •Expanding general transportation plazas and parking lot (36 stations) transfer systems •Expanding railroads for ports and industrial complexes (seventeen routes) •Equipping stations with pollution-free energy sources, such as natural Eco-stations lighting and geothermal heat (6 stations) •Launch of express service on Gyeongchun Line in second half of 2011 Express train service (KORAIL considers expanding express services to other lines in future) •KTX-Sancheon (500 cars) Developing new-concept, eco-friendly Expanding use of electric•Electric Multiple Units (EMUs: 398 cars) infrastructures powered passenger cars •Electric locomotives (159 cars) •Electric Car (794 cars) Elevating train speeds by introducing KTX-Sancheon, EMUs and Increasing train speeds high-speed freight trains. •Increasing speeds on main lines to 180~200 km/h •Elevators, escalators, and moving sidewalks in stations Eco-Operation Making facilities more (146 stations) convenient •Screen doors (159 stations) Saving energy •Saving energy [saving 94,323 kl of diesel oil (236.1 billion won)] •Increasing number of shuttle vehicles from 234 in 2009 to 318 Enhancing door-to-door in 2012 delivery service •Increase number of B/T trains from 20 to 40 Using environmentally •Adopting LED lighting (2,226 passenger cars) friendly technologies, such •Improving ventilation systems (2,206 passenger cars) as LEDs •Building third-party-verified inventory systems to measure volume Achieving a truly green management Adhering to greenhouse gas of CO2 emissions rules and regulations •Building an environmental management system, reducing volume environment of CO2 emissions by 10% •Planting eight million+ trees near rights of way and stations Creating a greener •Recycling 6 million liters of lubricants environment •Installing 140 artificial fishing banks •Other environmental protection activities •Concentration on train operation at station (250 sites) Modernizing operation •Building technological support system for electric facilities (366 sites) facilities •Modernizing railroad electric facilities (2,410 sites) Operation Facility •Expanding the length of the metropolitan railroad from 395.4 km Eco-Investment Modernization to 723.2 km Adding to investments in operating stock, such KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report •Expanding length of railroads from 3,377.9km to 4,058.9km in 2015 as expanding railroad •Increasing Proportion of electrification rate from 55.9% to 73.1% investment in electrification and double tracks Building an environmentally friendly •Implementing policies to promote railroad transport—including Promoting railroad transport investing in eco-friendly and energy-efficient railroads and doubling transportation system overall share of total transportation market Developing eco-friendly •Developing eco-friendly, energy efficient trains trains •Developing LNG engines and systems for trains 75km E n v i r o n me n t a l Per f o rm a n ce 72 Environmental Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 86 Safety Management 92 Quality Management Investment plans, by year Current Agendaa 2009 2010 2011(p) 2012(p) 2013(p) 2014(p) 2015(p) Total Innovations to connection and 1,913 5,155 3,916 11,900 9,128 8,004 4,583 44,595 transfer system Adding to number of next-generation electric trains 4,252 5,022 4,926 5,510 9,094 11,213 5,842 45,859 [1] Sum of Eco-Designs: 6,161 10,177 8,842 17,410 18,222 19,217 10,425 90,454 Making facilities more convenient 1,763 1,304 662 2,827 338 291 7,185 Building a greener environment 56 94 85 85 85 85 85 575 Participating in carbon emissions trading system 16 16 32 Application of eco-friendly technologies, e.g. LEDs 60 83 162 69 109 34 34 551 [2] Sum of Eco-Operations Sum 1,895 1,497 909 2,981 532 119 410 8,343 Increasing railroad investments, e.g. electrification 20,939 16,329 20,181 26,749 38,034 41,659 49,695 213,586 Expanding metropolitan railroad network 13,094 11,699 16,020 13,868 14,853 24,049 33,983 127,566 Adding to high-speed railroad network 17,626 18,487 24,239 38,909 40,273 38,404 9,057 186,995 [3] Sum of Eco-investments: 51,659 46,515 60,440 79,526 93,160 104,112 92,735 528,147 Total 59,715 58,189 70,191 99,917 111,914 123,448 103,570 626,944 Eco-Design Implementation Performance Results Details of Implementation 2009 2010 1) Construction of Eco-Stations •Natural lighting (number of stations) 1 •Building station complexes (100 million won per station) 3,700/1 •Building traffic plaza (100 million won per station) 16/2 5.8/2 2) Innovations to the connection and transfer systems Eco-Design •Bicycle parking spaces (100 million won per unit) 29/1,253 20.2/2,014 •Comprehensive logistics system (100 million won) 1,864 1,429 •Investments in the introduction of KTX Sancheon (100 million won per car) 1,889/60 2,790/130 •Investments in the introduction of EMUs (100 million won per car) 430/32 3) A  dding to number of next-generation electric trains •Investments in the introduction of EL (100 million won per car) 713/56 •Investments in the introduction of electric trains (100 million won per car) 1,933/104 1,519/120 1) E  nergy-saving operations, e.g. more economical driving 86 141 (100 million won) •Elevators, escalators (100 million won) 1,382 819 2) Making facilities more convenient •Screen doors (100 million won) 381 485 Eco-Operation •Planting flowers and trees (100 million won per 10,000 trees) 43/121 82/789 3) Building a greener environment •Environmental protection activities (100 million won per site) 13/16 12/26 4) Investing greenhouse gas emissions management system 16 15.7 •Adopting LED lighting (100 million won per car) 32/640 49/652 5) A  dopting eco-friendly technologies, e.g. LEDs •Improvements to air conditioning systems (100 million won per car) 28/60 34/100 •Developing a comprehensive logistics system 0.7 6) Enhancing door-to-door services •Developing an e-logistics system Eco-Investments 10 7) Increasing investments in railroad, e.g. electrification •General rail construction projects (100 million won) 20,939 16,329 Eco-Investment 8) E  xpansion of metropolitan railroad network •Metropolitan railroad construction projects (100 million won) 13,094 11,699 9) Expansion of high-speed railroad network •High-speed rail construction project (100 million won) 17,626 18,487 10) D  evelopment of clean trains, e.g. hybrids •Investments in R&D (100 million won) 0.5 11) Implementation of the policy for encouraging companies to •Events to form social consensus (events) 4 1 transport their cargoes on railroads instead of roads 76km Environmental Performance Environmental Management System Company-wide environmental management activities ● KORAIL is in full compliance with all laws, rules, and regulations ● Responding to Climate Change pertaining to environmental conservation, such as the Framework Act on KORAIL is making a sustained effort to deal with the problem of climate Environmental Policy, the Clean Air Conservation Act, the Water Quality change and promote energy efficiency. One of our most important plans and Ecosystems Conservation Act, and the Soil Conservation Act. As part is to reduce CO2 emissions by gradually replacing our diesel locomotives of these duties, the company analyzes and evaluates all the environmental with cleaner-running and energy-efficient electric ones. In addition, we impacts of its operations, and makes improvements when and as will increase our number of KTX operation, which boasts the lowest CO2 necessary. We have also instituted a system that allows for the constant emissions levels among any of our trains. By the year 2020, the company monitoring of our CO2 levels. In addition, we have published an instruction plans to be actively engaged in the development of hybrid locomotives that run booklet for our employees, outlining what prompt and proper responses on alternative sources of energy, such as liquefied natural gas and electric they should make in the event of an environmental emergency. batteries. By doing so, we will become leaders in the field of low-carbon, green growth, helping to reduce the social costs of traveling within Korea. Our environmental protection activities follow the recommendations of the “Plan-Do-Check-Action” (PDCA) cycle outlined in environmental management system (EMS) model. In addition, all our operations relating ● Energy Efficiency to environmental management are carried out through conservation As part of the initiative to improve public agencies [KORAIL is conserving efforts based on the outcomes of environmentally-friendly measures. energy by using lighter-weight rollingstocks] and making improvements to their heating, cooling, and lighting systems. In addition, KORAIL holds Environment-related investments, by year company-wide contests to gather ideas from its workers about better (Unit: KRW million) energy conservation activities. Then we put them into practice. Classification 2008 2009 2010 2011 (plans) In January 2010, KORAIL adopted a “Lessen Energy Use By At Least 10%” Soil 645 241 0 0 program. It resulted in electricity savings of 19%, compared to its goal, Water quality 620 895 61 700 much of which came from placing high efficiency light bulbs in our 852 Air 50 0 318 35 passenger cars and 1,412 stations. Waste 337 87 25 0 Soil purification projects 767 909 2,248 3,073 Going forward, KORAIL plans to use more low-cost, off-peak-generated electricity. We will also develop self-contained, renewable energy power ✽ Waste: KORAIL installed waste storage facilities at nearly all stations and other business sites by using existing storage facilities with steady investment. generation systems in every new station, and continue with our campaign to reduce electricity use in our offices. Energy Consumption by Train Type in 2010 (Unit: MJ per passenger-tonne-km) Conventaional Metropolitan Freight Classification KTX Trains Electric Trains Trains 2008 0.170 0.519 0.190 0.465 2009 0.172 0.561 0.193 0.486 2010 0.163 0.532 0.205 0.473 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Train Type in 2010 (Unit: gCO2e per passenger-tonne-km) Conventaional Metropolitan Freight Classification KTX Trains Electric Trains Trains 2008 22.05 47.37 24.59 42.67 2009 22.29 52.08 26.96 44.92 2010 21.17 49.80 26.51 43.77 KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Energy Use by Type Classification 2008 2009 2010 Diesel Oil (kl) 244,081 217,057 209,492 Electricity for 1,836,013 1,856,523 1,965,212 Electricity Train Operation (kwh) Other Use of 261,515 280,603 312,015  Electricity ● Coping with climate change ✽ Energy use did not include use of fuels for heating and cooling buildings and company vehicles, (producing Green Start stickers) machinery and facilities. 77km E n v i r o n me n t a l Per f o rm a n ce 72 Environmental Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 86 Safety Management 92 Quality Management Number of Trains by Year Wastes and Recyclable Materials (Unit: tons per year) Classification 2008 2009 2010 11,000 Workplace wastes (General) 4,017 2,642 1,520 Workplace wastes (Designated) 707 1,002 1,161 9,000 Recyclable wastes 745 768 806 Freight Cars (7,949) 7,000 ✽ These data do not include construction waste and old railroad ties, whose volume and numbers fluctuate every year. (Old railroad ties belonged to the Korea Rail Network Authority) 4,000 2,000 Electric Cars (2,088) Recycling Processing Performances (Unit: tons per year) Passenger Cars (1,313) Paper Plastics Cans Glass Other 1,000 KTX (920) (942) (726) 500 Diesel Multiple Unit (500) Diesel Locomotives (388) Trains 210 Trains 56 Trains 61 Trains 55 Trains 2 (241) (223) Stations 1,061 Stations 275 Stations 382 Stations 442 Stations 334 Electric Locomotives (179) 0 EMU (32) (0) 2009 2012 2015 2020 Trains 384 Total 13,368 15,055 16,279 18,072 Stations 2,494 Introduction of Energy-Saving Electric Trains ● Recycling Used Oil Used oil from our trains’ engines and other machinery is refined using Classification 2009 2010 2011 After 2012 KORAIL’s specialized purification technology. It is then used for heating, EMUs 32 366 lowering the company’s energy use and reducing its costs significantly. KTX-Sancheon 60 130 50 250 Going forward, KORAIL will try to limit its oil use to products that can be Electric locomotives 160 187 used over and over again. Any oil that cannot be recycled this way will be Electric car 128 120 98 418 refined and turned into heating oil. Reused Oil Use in 2010 ● Recycling Wastes KORAIL’s waste reduction efforts include recycling waste-water, analyzing Supplying refined Selling used oil Savings heating oil the sources of the waste, and designating specific times for garbage collection and disposal. We also ensure that our wastes are stored Volume 698,000 liters 884,700 liters 97,270,000 won according to their type and condition, and only for as long as their legal storage periods are in effect. Most of our industrial waste is handled by companies that specialize in that business. We also manage and train the staff members of outsourcing company.  ● Improving lighting instruments ●● Using solar heat (Jeongdongjin Station) ●●● Using sunlight (Guro Station) 78km Environmental Performance Involving Interested Third Parties to Improve Managing for Soil Pollution the Environment ● Procuring Environmentally Friendly Products ● Most soil pollution from railroads occurs at their fueling facilities. It is KORAIL is committed to reducing environmental pollution at all levels, mainly caused by oil contamination. from production to consumption to final disposal. Our first priority is to purchase products that are environmentally friendly, safe to use, and KORAIL employs a wide variety of methods to reduce soil pollution at each superior in quality. In 2010, the company’s ratio of eco-friendly products to of its work-sites. This includes installing fiber-reinforced plastic (FRP) oil total purchases was 79.2%, and it is striving to increase its procurement pans, roll pads, and/or paved concrete to keep oil from falling onto the and use of them through continuous PR and educational activities. At the tracks. The company also replaces contaminated soil and gravel on its other end of the scale, KORAIL sells eco-friendly products featuring its tracks to lessen the possibility of soil and water contamination by oil or character image “KTX-mini.” Made from 100% pure cornstarch, they are heavy metals. This is done on a regular basis. completely biodegradable within two years of being put into the ground. We also mitigate the problem of soil pollution by running regular tests on ● Providing Environmentally-Related Information facilities that could cause soil pollution at each work-site, and continually KORAIL provides information about its environmental management managing contaminants by running periodical analysis of the pollution activities at its website, www.korail.com. In addition, information regarding level of subterranean water in underground basins. The presence of our environmental management policies and activities are published in an unused railroad facilities is also reported to local governments. environmental management report. It is also available for viewing on the website. Soil Purification Processes ● Environmental Council KORAIL’s Environment Advisory Council, comprising environmental groups, outside experts, and NGOs, meets twice a year. Its goals are to Design analyze both domestic and foreign environmental conditions, provide information concerning the current status of the company’s environmental policies to interested parties, and inform the public about the Design continuity Ground stability environmentally friendly advantages of traveling by train. The knowledge that the company gains from the Environmental Council’s expertise is Construction methods verification Investigation into facility planning reflected in its subsequent activities to protect the environment. tests ● Environmental Education for Workers KORAIL carries out a wide variety of environmental education activities. This is done to develop an increased understanding of environmental issues among its workers and executives, heighten their interest in environmental protection, and foster the development of personnel with Soil Purification and Remediation a deepened understanding of environmental issues. Courses to develop expertise in such matters as environmental conservation and green growth are offered both in-house and outside the company. Contaminated underground water Extraction system Purification by means of water processing and cleansing agent Environmental Education in 2010 injection system Number of Course Remarks Employees Courses at KORAIL Green Internal 7,598 Growth School, etc. National Institute of External Indoor environmental Strategy, Monitoring, and Verification KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report 25 Environmental Human (Offline) management course, etc. Resources Development Basic environmental National Institute of External administration course, 934 Environmental Human Soil contamination Underground water (Cyber) Efficiency assessments etc. Resources Development levels quality confirmations Total 8,557 Follow-up guidelines Monitoring 79km E n v i r o n me n t a l Per f o rm a n ce 72 Environmental Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 86 Safety Management 92 Quality Management Managing for Noise and Vibrations Managing for Water Pollution ● In order to minimize noise and vibrations that occur when they are ● KORAIL tries to prevent water pollution before it occurs. It does this in transit, KORAIL forbids its trains from whistling except in emergency by conducting regular checkups of the condition of waste-water that has situations. In addition, the company is strengthening its tracks by using been released from its work-sites into nearby water systems. long welded rails and elastic rail fasteners. Going forward, KORAIL plans to replace its diesel locomotives with electric ones to reduce the level of Water pollutants that occur near railroad work-sites include waste-water noise and vibrations. resulting from rolling stock inspection and maintenance operations, as well as sewage water from toilets. This water is either treated in-house or In cooperation with the Korea Rail Network Authority, KORAIL is also by outsourcing companies. installing environmentally friendly walls along its rights of way. They are equipped with superior soundproofing capabilities that reduce the level KORAIL is also taking steps to reduce its water usage. This includes of noise and vibrations from its trains. To make traveling by rail more conducting resources conservation campaigns and installing wateraesthetically pleasing, these walls are then planted with ivies, roses, and saving equipment. Treated water is reused in toilets and for landscaping. other climbing-type plants. Water Usage and Recycling (Unit: 1,000 m3 per year) The Ministry of the Environment has been installing railroad noise measurement devices since 2004, as part of the central government’s Classification 2008 2009 2010 program of reducing railroad noise. They have been placed at 34 Water supply usage 5,635 6,110 6,027 locations in metropolitan areas at which high noise levels are likely to Groundwater usage 297 261 254 occur. Because of the company’s ongoing program of reducing noise and Industrial water usage 105 91 106 vibrations, the current average noise level is only 1 to 2 decibels. Heavy water usage 68 57 90 Number of Noise Measurement Points Per Region Wastewater and Sewage Water from Railroad Work Sites (Unit: m3 per year) Seoul Classification 2008 2009 2010 YoungMetroHonam Daejeon Gangwon nam Waste-water 323,527 298,107 305,050 politan Region Region Region Region Area Sewage water from 66,412 54,374 36,859 passenger coaches Number of measurement 8 9 8 5 4 points Average number of train operations per day and 616 164 60 255 58 location in 2010 (trips)  ● Building soundproof walls and planting trees near railroads ●● A drill to cope with environmental accidents ●●● Water quality management (operating environmental facilities) 80km Environmental Performance Managing for Air Pollution Managing for Harmful Chemical Substances ● Railroad-based air pollution includes rough and fine dust caused ● Harmful chemical substances that are used in KORAIL’s operations by varnishing and inspecting rolling stocks, as well as exhaust fumes include sulfuric acid from storage batteries, chemicals used for treating from cars in transit and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). KORAIL is striving waste-water, and varnish that is used for treating the outside of its to minimize the volume of pollutants at all its work-sites by installing rollingstocks. These substances are managed according to regulations devices to control air pollution and insisting that its locomotives’ engines concerning the safe handling of toxic materials. be turned off when they are not being used. The use of these harmful chemical substances is recorded in a Material The company also carries out regular inspections of its facilities, Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). This is done to keep the company’s executives measures the volume of air pollutants, and installs state-of-the-art and workers informed, and to prevent accidents arising from their pollution control facilities through environment management regulation improper use and/or handling. The company also conducts training and environment review. In addition, we are participating in a central sessions on the dangers and toxicity levels of these materials. government pilot project to reduce exhaust emissions by converting heavy-duty locomotives into LPG-powered ones. The manager responsible for all KORAIL train stations that are larger  ● Eco-friendly character goods●●An than two thousand square meters is required to inspect the quality of the environmental protection campaign air in their waiting rooms and to report the results to the relevant regional government. As of 2010, the quality of the air at sixty-four of these stations under KORAIL’s management (twenty-nine above-ground, thirty-five below) was within the statutory limits. The company is also continuously improving the quality and efficacy of its air purifiers, ventilation ducts, and air filters. In addition, we minimize dust levels by operating “cleaning task forces” at all our stations. Fine Dust Densities in 2010 (Unit: μg per m3) Ilsan Line Gwacheon Line Gyeongbu Line Sunae 98.6 Suseo 99.2 Daehwa 66.3 Beomgye 84.6 Suwon 77.9 Seohyeon 114.1 Daemosan 114.4 Juyeop 122.0 Pyeongchon 103.1 Yeongdeungpo 109.7 Imae 84.0 Gaepo-dong 101.6 Juyeop 122.0 Indeokwon 115.8 Bundang Line Yatap 76.3 Guryong 67.6 Underground Stations Madu 131.7 Government Complex 123.5 Jukjeon 72.8 Moran 81.9 Dogok 88.1 Baekseok 118.6 Gwancheon 98.4 Ori 107.7 Taepyeong 85.8 Hanti 103.9 Hwajeong 126.5 Seoul Grand Park 106.3 Migeum 106.3 Gyeongwon Univ. 87.0 Seonneung 109.5 Samsong 96.6 Seoul Racecourse Park 113.4 Jeongja 103.2 Bokjeong 106.2 Seoul 51.9 Yongsan 50.3 Daegok 81.0 Wondang 78.6 Gwangmyeong 78.0 Yeongdeungpo 89.5 Bucheon 78.0 Bupyeong 78.0 Juan 78.0 Jemulpo 78.0 Suwon 87.4 Anyang 86.2 Pyeongtaek 64.2 Daejeon 32.9 Cheonan Asan 32.4 Ground Stations Busan 106.1 Dong Daegu 72.9 Daegu 56.0 Gumi 38.2 Guri 48.2 Deokso 60.4 Donong 80.8 Mangu 52.8 Yangwon 51.1 Yangjeong 52.2 Jungrang 40.4 Cheongryangr 71.3 Hoigi 48.8 Wonju 72.9 KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report Ilsan Line Gwacheon Line Gyeongbu Line Bundang Line Ground Stations Average 107.91 Average 103.21 Average 95.17 Average 93.80 Average 65.40 81km Safety Management Safety is core value of railroads and the best service for people. KORAIL will practice the world’s finest safety mgt. through specialized and systematic mgt. Safety Management SYSTEM ● The company is committed to maintaining a “world’s-best” safety level the safety of its facilities and equipment. Through this, KORAIL is carrying by establishing enhanced and systematic safety management processes, out its mission of being a “green network creating a richer future.” raising its workers’ awareness of health and safety issues, and ensuring Goal Develop a Scientific and Effective Safety Management System to Mitigate the Possibility of Accidents Establish Strategic Tasks collaborative Increase safety Increasing safety safety management of facilities and management capabilities rollingstock system •Develop safety management •Preventive management of •Failure prevention system system accidents caused by employee •Managing dangerous areas •Build safety management errors •Enhance on-time operating information system •Enhance safety management ratio •Safety Inspection and evaluation capabilities & activities •Build & maintain collaborative •Communications activities system operative Railroad On-site On-time Performance indicators Failure rate accident rate accidents operating ratio Measurements and analyses Analyze railroad Analyze causes of Analyze on-time Analyze failures accidents on-site accidents operating ratio •Trains and crossings •Electricity for rollingstock •Employee mortality •KTX/Conventional trains deaths and injuries and facilities and injuries •Month/quarter/year •Month/quarter/year •Month/quarter/year •Month/quarter/year 82km Environmental Performance Midto Long-Term Safety Management Roadmap Organization and Management ● Safety is the first principle upon KORAIL’s mission of establishing a ● As part of its goal of developing a world-class safety management green network that contributes to the creation of a fruitful life. To that system, KORAIL has begun setting company-wide goals that define who end, KORAIL is doing its utmost to be the world’s best railroad in safety is responsible for managing various safety activities. These goals are part management by (1) constructing a systematic safety management of the “agreement concerning responsible management” that is signed by system, (2) improving employees’ safety management capabilities, and (3) its CEO and department heads. Departmental management assessment improving facility and rollingstock safety performance. indexes are included with them. As a result of the company’s efforts to enhance safety communications at the management level, 7,217 cases have been reported to the potential AS WAS~2009 accident system, with another fourteen being forwarded to the company’s safety ombudsman. KORAIL has also formed an advisory committee to Establish an efficient safety management system deal with the advancement of railroads through safer transportation. Its opinions will be reflected in the company’s policies. Establish an emergency response system ● Lay foundations Standardize safety inspections and improve their Organization of Safety Management System for safety quality management Develop a workforce with expertise in managing for railroad safety Increase safety level of railroad tracks Chief Safety Manager (President) AS IS 2010~2011 Head of Transport Safety ● Dept. Increase quality of safety management operations Expand safety management Continue adding to safety facilities system in place Business safety management personnel and raise its (Director of main headquarters, efficiency Enhance KORAIL’s risk management skills team leaders) Divisional safety management personnel (Directors of regional headquarters, chief of each division) TO BE 2012~ Allow safety management practices to take root Safety team leaders Safety strategy counsil ● Ensuring “world’s best” safety operations Take safety management to a higher level Optimize conditions for train operations Stations, business sites Aim for lowest possible level of industrial accidents KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  ● A drill to restore accident-hit railroads ●● Dealing with railroad troubles ●●● An anti-terrorist drill 83km E n v i r o n me n t a l Per f o rm a n ce 72 Environmental Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 86 Safety Management 92 Quality Management Safety Management System ● In 2009, KORAIL adopted the world-recognized Environment, Health & consists of systemic, scientific and explicit safety management support Safety (EH&S) system developed by SAP, a German company. This year, activities, with a focus on prevention. As a result, we now have a worldwe put the finishing touches to our Safety Management System (SMS). It class, efficient, and effective safety management program in place. Flow Chart Showing SMS Monitoring Procedures No Submitting Reporting Making Yes Finishing Checking Yes plan to Need to matters Storing checking Checking making corrected Filing report persons in correct? needing documents plan corrections parts charge corrections No Mapping out plan and Checking submitting it to persons in again charge Emergency Response System for Disasters ● In the event of an emergency, KORAIL has devised a fast and efficient relevant institutions and placed equipment for rescue and recovery in system to expedite response and recovery activities and protect the lives appropriate locations. and property of the public. We have also established a text messaging (SMS) system to inform our KORAIL has the capability for an immediate response to emergency workers and executives about disaster situations on a 24/7 basis. In situations. It has completed preparations for the operation of a 24-hour addition, we liaise with and provide information to a country-wide disaster response center. It has also cemented a general plan for emergency management system consisting of seventy-one other disaster control response, manuals that designate plans of action placed in secure institutions. Both the media and the public can receive information locations and maps organized to facilitate response in emergency through Audience Response System (ARS) services. situations. KORAIL has also formed cooperative relationships with Information on storm and flood damage Information on Train accident Pan-Government conditions in Disaster Providing realdata mountainous Anti-Disaster areas cooperation time information Network system • 14 state-run companies • 18 government organizations Government Traffic service information information 84km Environmental Performance ● Measures to Deal with Earthquakes ● Measures to Cope with Torrential Rainstorms and KORAIL has begun a program of reinforcing its facilities to ensure that Typhoons they are earthquake-resistant. This includes evaluating buildings to see KORAIL updated its response system for torrential rains and/or typhoons if they are earthquake-proof, and strengthening them in stages. KORAIL in March 2008. This included modifying our procedures for dealing with also has in place a system to detect earthquakes around high-speed natural disasters and preparing response measures that kick in when railroads. KORAIL will stay informed of earthquakes as they happen in floods occur. In addition to checking rainfall volumes in real time through real time, allowing the immediate shutdown of moving trains through the an automatic precipitation warning system, we have established an affected area. emergency mobilization network in tandem with private firms and other concerned institutions, such as the Korea Meteorological Administration. In 2010, KORAIL conducted three mock trials to measure its level of We have also published a manual outlining what steps are to be taken preparedness for an earthquake. They were carried out in tandem in the event of flooding. In addition, we operate a permanent emergency with a number of outside institutions. We will repeat this exercise in response center. the Gangwon-do and Daejeon in May of 2011. The mock trial that will be conducted in Gangwon-do will presuppose that there has been an ● Anti-Heavy Snow Measures earthquake and a tsunami in the East Sea. In collaboration with local KORAIL is operating joint snow removal teams under the leadership of governments, we will participate in trial exercises ranging from mock stationmasters. broadcasts and evacuations to rescue and relief efforts and recovery The team begins to operate with a heavy snow warning issued. Moreover, operations. the national and regional headquarters have snow removal teams to support the joint snow removal teams. Step-by-step Operating Standards, by Earthquake Magnitude Anti-icing devices were installed at spots vulnerable to freezing coldness Red alert Yellow alert such as doors and electric devices of electric trains and facilities were (Over 65 gal) (40~65 gal) also improved. We also installed an automatic heater at switching equipment which High-speed Conventional High-speed Conventional lines lines lines lines decides directions of trains to ensure safety of trains despite heavy snows. Upon Warning Operations Operations ● Anti-Heat Wave Measures suspended suspended Regional heat waves due to global warming have a negative impact on railroad facilities. Sweltering heat warps rails or expands overhead contact line by elevating If earthquake is 30 km/h 90 km/h 30 km/h confirmed or less or less or less the temperature of rails. This presents a serious danger to train operation. The company is checking equipment to monitor railroads and overhead contact line to cope with any accidents from torrid heat and repairs any Shortly after 90 km/h 65 km/h vulnerable spots quickly. Moreover, KORAIL installed rail temperature start of vehicle or less or less operation measuring devices on high-speed railroads which send rail temperature Normal operations, if no to controllers in real time. The controllers slow down or stop high-speed problems are detected After operating trains depending on the railroad temperature for safety. 170 km/h 65 km/h at 90 km/h or less or less or less After measurements Normal Operations Normal Operations and inspections KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report  Repairing railroads ● ●● Weather observation facilities  ●●● Turn out heating system 85km E n v i r o n me n t a l Per f o rm a n ce 72 Environmental Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 86 Safety Management 92 Quality Management Safety Management Based On Accurate Risk Analysis of Disaster Survey and Operation of Assessments Safety Review and Assessment Programs ● KORAIL developed the preventive and scientific Safety Management ● KORAIL has established a Safety Investigations Team under the direct System (SMS) based on risk managements, a first for a Korean railroad control of the vice president. Its role is to institute measures to prevent operation company. To this end, the company assessed risks of recent accidents from reoccurring through thorough investigations of ones that railroad accidents and devised measures to mitigate high risk factors. Our have happened previously. The company also operates a joint investigation risk assessment analyzed risk factors by dividing fatal railroad accidents group comprised of both in-house and external specialists. Its function by accident types and causes of accidents by railroad workers, trains and is to determine the precise causes of accidents and ensure the reliability railroad facilities, systems and procedures and the environment. and transparency of KORAIL’s accident investigations activities. The We calculated risks by turning annual frequencies of accidents and company evaluates its safety management standards by carrying out damage from the accidents into casualties. We classified risk factors comprehensive reviews, and awards workers with extra points for model which are 1 or higher into high risk factors and devise measures to lower cases of safety management. This provides everyone with an incentive risk levels and reflected them on our safety plans. to achieve our safety performance goals, and raises our employees’ awareness of the need for safety at all times. Furthermore, we have an excellent emergency response system and are conducting thoroughgoing safety investigations, establishing an advanced As a result of these analyses and management of railroad accidents, safety culture, regular monitoring of safety and cooperative activities with KORAIL’s accident rate (which is modeled on the UIC’s standards) stood at external organization. 197 in 2010, 39 less than in 2010. This means that we are outperforming the railroad operating systems of many advanced countries. Risk Factor Analysis Checking system composition and operation conditions Operating Accidents: Train and Crosswalk Accidents Cases / Train mileage (Unit: millions km) Confirming risk factors 2008 0.232 2009 0.193 Checking safety walls 2010 0.156 Developing train accident scenarios Accidents to people: Passenger and non-passenger fatalities Estimating Risks Cases per train mileage (Unit: millions km) Checking frequency of accidents and Railroad System Risk Assessment assessing results 2008 0.953 2009 1.033 Risk List Management Measuring safety levels and judging controllable risk levels 2010 1.009 Setting and assigning safety goals Accident Rate of Major Overseas Railroad Operators (Casualty risk – passenger/public/employees) As of 2009; data taken from the UIC (Unit: Accidents per million km) Switzerland Korea France Japan Prioritizing risk controls (Producing risk profiles) 0.036 0.092 0.135 0.250 Devising Safety Measures Reviewing safety measures (Producing safety report) Calculating VPF of risks or costs of safety measures ● A railroad temperature sensor ●● A device to check approaches of trains Judging risk-decreasing effects N (costs of measurement < decreasing risks) Y Confirming safety measures : Proving Risk Assessment Activities (Risk analysis, risk calculation, safety level analysis, studying feasibility of safety measures, risk list management) 86km Environmental Performance Advanced Safety System for Accident Prediction and Control ● High-Speed Railroad Advanced Operating Safety System ● TRPS (Train Radio Protection System) This system detects dangerous elements on high-speed tracks in real The TRPS System provides instant warnings about dangerous situations, time and delivers the information to the Railroad Traffic Control Center, such as train malfunctions or derailments, to all trains operating nearby, which controls the operation of all our trains. The system includes and stops them automatically. So far, it has been installed on 1,352 of our an obstacle and rockslide detector, an earthquake detector, an axle trains, including 92 on 46 KTX trainsets. temperature detector, a repair person-crossing device, a tunnel detector, a rail temperature detector, a dragging detector, and a turnout heater. ● Train Safety Operating Information System / On-Board Signaling System ● High-Speed Comprehensive Rail Monitoring and ConThe Train Safety Operating Information System provides detailed trol System information about tracks currently in operation (including stations, This system monitors any intrusion into our major facilities 24/7. This forthcoming curves, turnout, crosswalks, dangerous places, etc), using information is sent to the high speed rail control office at the Railroad the GPS service and a monitor in the driver’s cab. It adds to the safe Traffic Control Center, whereupon the center takes the appropriate operation of trains, allowing them to travel faster and enhancing their action-including changes to train operations or dispatching personneloperations in many other ways. KORAIL has built a database covering depending on the on-site situation. about nine tracks, with a total length of 1,590 km. ● CTC (Centralized Traffic Control) ● KTX Axle Temperature Analysis System The Railroad Traffic Control Center monitors the status of our trains This system is installed on high speed tracks and monitors the and controls them automatically in accordance with our computerized temperature of a train’s wheel axel in real time during train operations. scheduling data. The CTC monitors the status of our train operations in When temperature goes up, it notifies the train engineer and Centralized real time, enabling KORAIL to take quick and definitive action to guarantee Control Center. KORAIL uses a non-contact thermometer, which enables the safety of our operations. the company to reduce the time needed for inspections. This reduces train delays a great deal. ● ATC (Automatic Train Control System) Data concerning our railroad operations are transmitted to trains through rails. If a train exceeds its mandated speed limit, the ATC System automatically reduces its rate of travel. ● TLDS (Track Circuit Detection System) The TLDS information system monitors the status of our track circuits in real time. It prevents the re-occurrence of specific problems by reproducing and analyzing previous ones that have been monitored and recorded by the system. It is currently operating at 73 locations on our high-speed lines. The Railroad Transportation Control Center KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report 87km Quality Management KORAIL will actively construct an advanced system by securing new railroad infrastructure technology. Quality Management System Parts Malfunctions Requiring Advanced Technologies Requiring High-Quality Service Quality Improvements and Reductions in Malfunctions Activation of Quality Allotment Practice of the Securing Technological Improving Rollingstock System System Customer Service Charter Independence and Learning Offering Customer Service Time Value Spatial Value ● Structure of Human Resources Management for an Advanced Railroad Network KORAIL has added to its efficiency by introducing an automated The company has also automated its inspections and inspection devices inspection and management system that makes train inspections less for underground tracks in the Seoul metropolitan area. In addition, we time-consuming. The company also boosts its productivity by consigning have put an advanced, low-cost, high-efficiency maintenance system both simple and repetitive tasks and more specialized ones to outside in place. It monitors and analyzes our high-speed track circuits and operators. the operating status of our safety system in real time, using a functions detector.  ● An environment-friendly turnout ●● KTX_OBCS ●●● A cabin of the KTX-Sancheon Train 88km Environmental Performance Quality Management System for an Advanced, World-Class Railroad ● Sustainable Quality Management System After the introduction of KORAIL’s quality management system in 2000, in a row. We were also named an excellent company in terms of quality company-wide quality improvement activities were expanded nationcompetitiveness for eight straight years. wide. One result was that KORAIL has been given the President’s Award for its quality allotment system for eleven consecutive years. Another In particular, KORAIL established quality improvement activities led by was that the company produced Korea’s sixteenth master craftsman. In the national headquarters as voluntary on-site quality management addition, we added to our reputation as an enterprise that offers highestthrough education programs. Providing our employees with incentives for quality transportation services and enhances customer satisfaction by superior quality improvement activities and sharing our quality analysis winning the grand prize in the National Productivity Contest for four years data with them are dependable ways of increasing their performance. Securing Advanced Technolgoy to Produce Better Train Cars Improvements through Team Activities Approval of Reliability Material •Development of technology, such as testers Human •Sharing knowledge with one another Technology •Improving systems Technology •Human resources exchanges Team •Modernization of inspection facilities Team: •Activities to increase knowledge and make suggestions Awarding Prizes for Excellent Improvement Activities ● Prevention of Train Malfunctions Train Car Malfunction Rate KORAIL has established a zero-malfunction system as part of its data(Unit: Cases per million km) based prevention activities, and carries out preventive maintenance activities by train type to realize its goal of zero malfunctions. This 2008 0.089 enhances the comfort and safety of its customers. 2009 0.083 2010 0.076 Zero Malfunctions System Aiming for Zero Malfunctions Establishing Malfunction Monitoring Malfunction Prevention Feedback on Performance Analyses, Reaching Goals Prevention Plan Activities and Correcting Malfunctions •Analyzing causes of malfunctions •Monitoring operation of trains •Analyzing malfunction statistics once •Planning to decrease number of •Improving performance of •Improving dangerous places in real per month malfunctions components that break down time •Eliminating causes of malfunctions •Intensive rollingstock maintenance •Preventing aged rollingstock from •Holding meetings of Zero Malfunction •Setting malfunction prevention goals breaking down Promotion Committee KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report ● The National Quality Management Contest  ●● KTMSYS ●●● ktx-Sancheon 89km E n v i r o n me n t a l Per f o rm a n ce 72 Environmental Performance 74 Eco-Friendly Management 86 Safety Management 92 Quality Management ● Checking Quality of KTX-Sancheon Train ● Modernization and Automation of Equipment for More The reliability of the primary components for the KTX-Sancheon Advanced Railroads high-speed train was checked and proved by experts at companies, The purpose of KORAIL’s advanced railroad maintenance equipment colleges, and research centers through long-term test operations of and automated inspection system is to ensure the highest possible level the domestically produced Korean-type high-speed G7 Train under the of quality and safety. The company keeps its facilities operating at peak management of the Korea Railroad Research Institute. We are making performance by hiring and training expert maintenance people and efforts to ensure the high quality of the advanced train by forming an designing advanced maintenance equipment to maximize efficiencies in engineering committee in collaboration with the engineering company. Its a rapidly changing industry environment. This allows us to replace olderpurpose will be to correct malfunctions caused by poor work in the early style, labor-intensive, manual-type inspection tasks with more specialized production period. devices. Data on our facilities is measured by test vehicles and measuring instruments. It is then inputted and managed through KOVIS. ● Decision-Making and Automatic Inspection Systems for Any and all instances of malfunctions, accidents, and maintenance work Advanced Track Management are reported to all our employees to enhance our company-wide safety The KTMSYS (Korea Track Maintenance System) is an advanced method management system. for repairing railroads. It helps to prevent accidents in a timely manner in terms of both costs and working conditions by monitoring rail Old Improved conditions, managing the data in an integrated system, and predicting •M ore scientific Electric the deterioration rate of rails and other material. By deploying it, we can Facility measurements optimize our maintenance operations, reducing their costs by 20% and Technology •R educing labor costs Support (by one billion won) creating 10 billion won in import replacement effects. System ● Railroad Safety Green Campaign •A utomation of KORAIL has created a better environment (including reducing noises Remote checking meters from its operations) by turning areas near its facilities into green zones. Measuring •R educing labor costs System (by 350 million won) This was done in 2010, with the aim of improving the overall operating environment and coping with risk factors, such as illegal facilities on or near our rights of way. We are also building a green safety network in •P reventing collaboration with private companies and local governments. Precise sophisticated facilities X-Ray from breaking down Diagnoses •R educing costs by five million won per disconnected switch •Fulfilling corporate social responsibilities as a company that grows Win Private Companies with the communities in which it operates •Giving back to society (social contributions activities) •Reforesting to enhance the environment Win Local Governments •Providing rest places for residents Green Communities 3Win •Ensuring safer train operations by creating green zones along rights Win KORAIL of way •Establishing roles of state-run companies as green growth company •Creating a comfortable travel environment by ensuring safer train CustoPassengers operations mers •Building cultural spaces by creating a pleasant station environment 90km APPENDIX 92 Verification Report 94 GRI Index 98 ISO 26000 Checklist 100 Memberships in Associations and Groups / Major Awards in 2010 Third Party’s Assurance Report Dear Readers of KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report ● Foreword The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been engaged by KORAIL to verify the contents of its 2010 Sustainability Report (the Report). KORAIL is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the verification scope stipulated below. ● Our independence With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any other KORAIL business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. ● Verification scope KORAIL described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. The verification process was designed to provide readers with the following information; • Verification of the economic section: Review whether financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from KORAIL’s 2010 Financial Statements Audit Reports and Annual Reports as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors • Verification of environmental and social section: Review whether environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately. ‘”Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are appropriately reflected in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we based our evidence gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. ● Verification standards KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. 92km ● Verification process and In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess KORAIL’s conclusion internal processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. • Surveyed KORAIL’s sustainability related media information during the reporting period • Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data • Assessed internal documents and materials • Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and interviews, we held several discussions with KORAIL on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for improvement and revisions have been reflected. • Economic performance We compared the Report with KORAIL’s 2010 Financial Statements and found that the financial data presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2010 Financial Statements. • Environmental and social performance We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. ● Recommendation for We hope KORAIL’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with improvement stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. • Improve the materiality test process by understanding stakeholder’s expectations and reflecting them • Enhance the internal communication to improve the sustainability performance and the reporting quality • Develop the manual to manage and report sustainability performance data KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report June 9, 2011 Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments Inc. CEO Ki Ho Park 93km GRI Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Reson for Further Description Page Reported Disclosure Omission Explanation 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 8-11  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-11, 42  2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 15  2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 19-22  Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 23-27  subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 15  Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 24-25  operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 14  Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 2.7 19-22  beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 15  2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 15  2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 98  3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided C2  3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) C2  3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) C2  3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents C2  3.5 Process for defining report content 36-37  Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 C2  suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for 3.7 C2  explanation of scope) Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between C2, 24  organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information 3.9 C2  in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of C2  business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 C2  methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 94-97  3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 92-93  94km  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Reson for Further Description Page Reported Disclosure Omission Explanation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 27-29  responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 26  For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest 4.3 27  governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 27  highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including 28  social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 26, 28  Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 29  body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 16-17  economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 26-29  opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect 4.10 26-29  to economic, environmental, and social performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 75-78  organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 4.12 31  which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in 4.13 98  projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 36  4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 36  Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 36-38  stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 36-38  organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs)  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Reson for Further Description Page Reported Disclosure Omission Explanation KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 39-42  EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 39, 73-76, 79  39, 49, 58-59, LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA  62-63 HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 58  SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO 30, 39, 49, 69  PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR 54, 57, 86  95km GRI Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Reson for Further Description Page Reported Disclosure Omission Explanation Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to 41-46  capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 19  EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 62  EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 45  EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 58  EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation  Not applicable Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at EC7  Not applicable significant locations of operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EC8 55  for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 78  EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 78  EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 77  EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 77  EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 80  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of EN11  high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12  areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 77  EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  Not material Will be reflected later EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight  Not applicable EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 81  EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 80  EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 78  EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 81  EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 75-76  EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category  Not applicable Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance EN28  Not applicable with environmental laws and regulations Social_Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 58  LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 58  LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 58, 65  Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified LA5 58, 66  in collective agreements Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related LA7 63-64  fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 63-64  members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 60  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, LA13 27, 58  age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 60  96km  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Reson for Further Description Page Reported Disclosure Omission Explanation Social_Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights HR1  Not material clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights HR2  Not applicable and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3  Not applicable that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 58  Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 65-66  may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 58  contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR7  Not applicable measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Social_Society Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts SO1  Not material of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption  Not applicable SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 32  SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 31, 32  SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying  Not applicable Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SO8  Not applicable with laws and regulations Social_Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 50-57 ◐ improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant PR3 56  products and services subject to such information requirements Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 57  communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9  Not applicable provision and use of products and services ●Explanations on Items not Reported EC6 KORAIL has not promoted any purchase preferential policies to specific regions and has granted the same bidding conditions through its electronic notice system. EC7 KORAIL has established overseas corporations in three countries. However, all the employees in those countries have been dispatched from Korea, and no locals have been hired so far. Thus, this matter is irrelevant EN11, EN12 According to the Railroad Structure Reformation, KORAIL is responsible for the operation of the railroad and the Korea Rail Network Authority is responsible for managing the facilities. EN19 KORAIL has no emissions of ozone-depleting substance. KORAIL 2010 Sustainability Report EN27 As KORAIL is engaged in the service industry, it does not have any recyclable products. EN28 There is no case of fines or violation of regulations. HR1 KORAIL currently does not have a set rate for key investment agreements that include articles on human rights but will, in mid-and long-term, promote investment agreements that include articles on human rights. SO5 KORAIL has not announced its opinions on public policies, and has not taken part in establishing and lobbying for public policies during the period of the Report. SO8 KORAIL has neither been fined and nor received any non-financial sanctions as a result of violating any laws and/or neglecting its roles during the period of the Report. PR9 KORAIL has not violated any laws and/or rules relevant to the supply of products and services, and has not been fined as a result of any such violation during the period of the Report. 97km Memberships in Associations and Groups / Major Awards in 2010 In 2010, KORAIL made a concerted effort to listen to the voices of its various stakeholders concerning both in-house and external issues. One of our responses was to become a member of more associations and groups, both at home and abroad. We also reflect VOC suggestions and opinions in our management activities. The success of our efforts is demonstrated by the many awards and accolades we have received from various sectors. Memberships in Domestic Associations and Groups UN Global Compact Korea Public Innovation Forum Korean Association of Public Korean Society of Network Enterprises Transportation Seoul Association for Korean Association for Public Railroad Industrial Korean Society for Railroads Public Administration Administration Committee Knowledge Management Asia-Pacific Travel Korean Management Society of Korea Association, Korean Standards Association Association Korea Chapter Audit Innovations Forum for The Institute of Internal Korean Productivity Center Korea Logistics Association Public Institutions Auditors Organization of Consumer Korea Railroad Engineering Affairs Professionals Technology Association International Korea-China-Mongolia Korea-Russia Railroad International IC Railroad Exchange and Exchange and Cooperation Cooperation WCRR (World Congress on Coordinating Council for Korea-Japan Railroad Railroad Research) TransSiberian Transport Exchange and Cooperation EURAIL SPEED (Iinternational (International Coordinating (Ministry of Land, conference on high-speed Council of TransSiberian Infrastructure, Transport, and trains) Railroads; KORAIL became a Tourism, JR Kyushu, and JR SGS Testing Korea Co., Ltd. permanent member in 2003) East Japan) Major Awards in 2010 •The KTX brand rose to 34th place from 49th in 2010 (the Brand Stock Top Index) •Ranked first in the Korea Sustainability Index of the Korea Sustainability Contest / Won the KRCA (Korean Readers’ Choice Awards) prize (the Korean Standards Association) •Received citation for promoting an environmentally friendly industry and contributing to low-carbon green growth (Ministry of the Environment) •Selected as best organization in the evaluation of information access management (Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs) •Selected as an excellent organization in the National Ombudsman Program (Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission) •Selected as an excellent state-run company for customer satisfaction (Ministry of Strategy and Finance) •Won Presidential Prize in the National Teamwork Management Competition for the eleventh straight year •Won an AA grade, the highest level possible, in the 2010 Family-Friendly Management Certification System (Ministry of Gender Equality and Families) •KORAIL’s Human Resources Development Center was selected as a green education center (The Green Growth Committee) •KORAIL Tourism Development won the Grand Prize at the 2010 Culture and Tourism Awards (Society of Culture and Tourism Research) 98km *Green Life Of Railroad Yearning This report is printed on eco-friendly paper using soybean ink. 242 Jungangno, Dong-gu, Daejeon City, Korea 300-720 Telephone : +82. 42. 615. 3201 Facsimile : +82. 2. 361. 8278 Homepage : http://korail.com E-mail : sustainability@korail.com
