We Build Tomorrow HDEC Sustainability Report 2011 1 Report Overview As part of its efforts to help preserve the environment and fulfill its social responsibility, HDEC has for many years been pursuing sustainable management. The aim of this 2011 Report on Sustainable Management is to provide an integrated account of HDEC’s efforts and activities related to sustainable management coupled with its financial performance, so as to allow stakeholders to check the company’s achievements in both financial and non-financial respects. Integrated Report The 2011 HDEC Report on Sustainable Management combines the company’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances together. This is in large part in order to Economy report how the company’s efforts for sustainable management affect not only the company’s own growth, but the sustainable growth of our society at large. This report, in other words, not only describes what activities and performances HDEC has led in economic, environmental, and social arenas, but also shows how those activities and performances affect and influence one another. In particular, the company’s environmental and social achievements have been converted into monetary terms (KRW) so as to clarify their links Society Environment to the company’s economic performance. HDEC remains committed to communicating the results of its sustainable management to all stakeholders by providing an integrated account of the company’s economic, environmental and social activities and of how those activities affect the sustainable growth of society at large. Format This report on sustainable management, published for the second time this year (2011), has been created following the G3.1 guideline of the Global Reporting Initiative. Reports of similar formats will continue to be published every year. The report also reflects the ten principles of the UNGC as well as the main ISO 26000 agenda. This year’s report contains detailed descriptions of HDEC’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances that took place at the headquarters and offices both at home and abroad from January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010. The statistical data from the previous three years have also been included so as to allow a view of trends and patterns in quantitative changes. Verifying the Report HDEC submitted its Report on Sustainable Management to an independent third-party to have the report’s reliability verified. The third-party verification was conducted in accord with the AA1000AS (2008) standard, based on the three principles of AA1000APS (2008). The report also received a grade of A+ in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) check. You can view the HDEC Report on Sustainable Management on the company’s website at www.hdec.kr. Should you have any queries or comments, please contact us at the following contact information. We welcome diverse opinions and feedbacks from stakeholders! HDEC Planning Headquarters, HDEC Building, 140-2 Gye-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea (Postal Code: 110-920) Tel. +82 2 756 2240 Fax. +82 2 746 4856 e-mail: sr@hdec.co.kr. Icons Used in the Report The 2011 HDEC Report on Sustainable Management report various company activities according to the guidelines on sustainable management provided by the GRI, ISO 26000, UNGC, and so forth. Part of the information contained in the report is also provided online at the company’s official website. The letter ‘I’ used in this report indicate information that has been compiled according to the ISO 26000 guideline, while the letter ‘U’ indicate the guideline provided by the ten principles of the UNGC. ‘www’ indicate that more detailed information can be found on the company website. 2 Overview ofProgress : Our Performance at a Glance The table below lists the aims and results of major activities of HDEC’s sustainable management practiced in the year 2010, while also suggesting the company’s future aims in this area. Each item was selected as a result of the content importance analysis. Please refer to the company website for more detailed information. Aims met Aims not met In progress Growth and Profits Generated Management Stability Eco-friendly Technology Eco-friendly Item (p xx) (p xx) Development (p xx) Construction (p xx) Creating sustainable economic Pursuing greater stability in Securing early ecoMinimizing harmful values by encouraging the growth patterns by ensuring friendly technology, effect on the growth of new industries and transparency in the high-performance new environment by making pioneering new markets management structure, materials, highall processes “greener.” Approach overseas. proactive risk management, efficiency facilities, and and ethical management other sources of future system. growth. • Increase in the company’s • Risk factors removed through • Grounds prepared for • Active response to value and investment risk management. expansion into the climate change. potential. • Enhanced transparency in new green industries. • Proactive Effects on • Increase in return to the management. • Enhanced environmental risk HDEC shareholder. • Increase in the company’s competitiveness management. • Sustained investment and value and investment through technological • Improved company other sources of growth potential. strengthening. image. secured. • Sustained, high returns on investment. • Sources for further • Environmental • Proactive risk management for each project executed. growth secured by performance improved • Re-investment in the created economic results. joining the eco-friendly in a sustained manner. Anticipated market early. • Effects of construction • Increased profit through fair competition. Benefits for on the environment Stakeholders • Fair allocation of economic values created. managed and shared. • Stakeholders’ opinions reflected in the decision-making by the management. • Revenue: 10 trillion KRW • Creating a system for reports • Encouraging open • Establishing green • Orders secured: on risk management and innovation. purchasing. • Net term profit: x% handling. • Commercializing • Creating a system for • Expanding the scope of secured techniques response to climate Goals for 2010 ethical management. and technology. change. • Strengthening reporting regarding the site and ecological environments. • Revenue: 10 trillion KRW • A system for step-by-step risk • Open innovation active • Green Purchasing • Orders secured: 18.3 trillion management and handling – 20 projects in Standard established. KRW created. progress. • Greenhouse Gases Activities and • Net term profit: 5.3% • HDEC Green CSR, a code of • 7 new technologies Inventory established. Results in 2010 ethics, enacted. already • Exemplar Green commercialized and 6 Management System more in progress. recognized. Evaluation • Revenue: 11.4 trillion KRW • Reinforcing risk management • Expanding green • Improving the stability • Diversifying markets system for climate change. businesses. of the systems. overseas. • Strengthening the CSR • Increasing investment • Managing and Future Goals committee. in developing ecoimproving refined • Providing training on friendly technology. environmental communicative ethical indicators. management. 3 Employee Capacity Product Safety and Mutual Cooperation Strategic CSR Development Responsibility (p xx) (p xx) (p xx) (p xx) Developing programs that can Fulfilling social responsibility by Strengthening customers’ trust Establishing main themes for cultivate world-class leaders of seeking mutual growth with by ensuring product safety and strategic CSR activities. construction, while reinforcing business partners. quality. Establishing a systematic individual employees’ capacities Creating grounds for mutual Quality assurance and organization and processes. depending on their positions and growth by supporting business improvement monitored and Developing HDEC’s own tasks. partners. conducted in accord with global unique CSR activities that standards on safety and can contribute to local environmental responsibility. communities. • Efficient HR management. • Seeking measures for mutual • Applying standards on safety • Maximizing the company’s • Reinforcing future growth. and environmental performance through competitiveness. • Establishing a fair and responsibility. strategic CSR activities. • Cultivating global talents. transparent culture of business • Operating on-site safety • CSR activities to be partnership. management system. connected to the • Creating a quality assurance construction industry at system. large. • Making performance • Expanding training • Reducing disasters through • Contributing to the growth of evaluations fair. opportunities for business thorough preand post-event local communities. • Encouraging employees to partners. management. • Systematic, sustained become global talents. • Making terms of business • Securing new technology activities. • Providing various fringe and equal with excellent partners. through quality improvement. • Improving transparency welfare benefits. • Creating a world-class safe through specialized environment system. management. • Strengthening internal • Providing training and financial • Operating HDEC’s own quality • Establishing the strategy communications. support for business partners. assurance system. and vision for CSR activities. • Strengthening information and • Strengthening communications • Promoting company-wide safe • Providing mileage benefits training networks. with business partners. management system. for employees contributing • Expanding systemic support • Improving quality through • Distributing HES manual. to CSR activities (45,374). for employees. satisfaction surveys. • Green Tree of Hope launched (providing support of 3.4 billion KRW). Education on post-retirement Fair trade culture established. Safety management promoted Global CSR activities support expanded. Support for business partners and education provided. launched. expanded. Quality improvement now linked Various CSR events Lowest-price bidding system to customer satisfaction services. developed, reflecting improved. construction as theme. 4 Table of Contents Ⅰ. WE BUILD TOMORROW 1. Report Overview 2. Overview of Progress : Our performance at a glance 3.Chairman’s Message 4. CEO’s Message 5.Company Overview 6.Core Management Principles and Values 7.HDEC Projects 8. Stakeholder Relations 9.Discussions with Stakeholders 10.Importance Analysis Ⅱ. WeCreateEconomicValues 1.Economic Value 2.Stability 3.Public Interest Ⅲ. We Conserve Environmental Values 1. Integrated Environmental Management System 2.Flow of Material Goods 3. Eco-friendly R&D 4.Eco-friendly Design 5.Eco-friendly Materials 6.Eco-friendly Transportation 7.Eco-friendly Construction 8.Eco-friendly Maintenance 9.Eco-friendly Removal IV. We Promote Social Values 1.Employees and Board Members 2.Corporate Culture 3.Mutual Growth 4.Quality Assurance 5.Safety Management 6.Customer Satisfaction 7.CSR Programs 5 Chairman’s Message “Hyundai Engineering & Construction (HDEC), now a member of the Hyundai Motor Group, is facing a new opportunity to take a further leap into the future. I urge you to continue to support us with your interest and attention so that HDEC may become a leader of the global construction industry.” 6 Dear supporters of HDEC, It is my pleasure to have this occasion to communicate with you about our commitment to sustainable management. The year 2010 will serve as an important turning point in our company’s history. It was the year in which HDEC became the first company in the Korean construction industry to record an annual revenue of 10 trillion won. In the same year HDEC was named as a leader of the construction industry category in the Dow-Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World, a worldrenowned authority on systematic sustainable management and related activities. All these were results of focusing on realizing sustainable management across all areas of our businesses and activities in an effort to enhance our future competitiveness and discover new sources of growth, despite the rapid changes in the construction industry worldwide. HDEC will not satisfy itself with these achievements alone, however. It is now take a new step forward into a greater, better future. By joining the Hyundai Motor Group in April 2011, HDEC has established itself as one of the three key sources of the entire group’s growth, along with automobiles and steel production. Now a globally recognized leader in the field of construction and engineering, capable of generating high added values in all areas of construction including plant building, power provisions, civil engineering, architecture, housing and nuclear plant building, HDEC is ready to take on the world. By maximizing the synergy it has with the Hyundai Motor Group, HDEC will continue to focus on growth externally, while seeking sustainable management internally. The year of 2011 will see yet another phase in HDEC’s glorious growth that will result from our commitment to sustainable growth and achieving maximum synergy with other companies within the Hyundai Motor Group. We will continue in our march toward becoming the unsurpassed leader of the worldwide construction and engineering market. I hope this Report on Sustainable Management conveys well the kind of dreams and visions HDEC has to all its supporters and stakeholders for creating a better future. And I ask you to continue to support us with your interest and encouragement. Thank you. Chung Mong-goo, Chairman Hyundai Motor Group 7 CEO’s Message “Through maximizing the synergy HDEC has with the Hyundai Motor Group, we will seek to become an undisputed leader of the construction market worldwide.” 8 Greetings to all! It is my great pleasure to reach and communicate with you like this through the publication of the 2011 Report on Sustainable Management. Despite continued hardships and difficult external factors throughout its history, Hyundai Construction & Engineering (HDEC) has continued its trajectory of growth undeterred, and is now Korea’s best and unsurpassed leader of construction. Its history attests to the almost infinite potential and competitive power it has. Having recently joined the Hyundai Motor Group, HDEC is now intending to use this year as a stepping stone for its further growth. By becoming one of the core sources of the entire group’s growth and prosperity and continuing investment, HDEC will also seek to establish itself as an undisputed leader in the construction market worldwide. To this end, HDEC has established its official vision for its global expansion. It is as follows: First, HDEC will become a provider of general engineering services. Whereas its history up to now has focused mainly on construction, HDEC will in the future focus on becoming a provider of general construction and engineering services, from planning via engineering to operation. It will seek to diversify its business portfolio especially overseas by pioneering new markets, while seeking to lead the international construction and engineering industry by establishing an optimal management infrastructure. Second, HDEC will create and maintain organic ties of cooperation with related industries. HDEC will create and maintain organic ties of cooperation with other related industries in order not only to harness its traditional leading position in design and construction, but also to expand its reach into a wider range of related services, including resource development, real estate development, transportation infrastructure development, facilities maintenance and operation, and so forth. At the same time HDEC will continue to strengthen its ground for green growth by expanding its participation in creating the infrastructure for electric cars, building recyclable energy plants, and engaging in other environmental projects. Third, HDEC will lead the way for future technology and industrial fusion and convergence. HDEC will lead the way for developing the next phase of industries in which various unit technologies of different sectors and industries are organically integrated and converged with one another. As an integrated mediator of industries with the capacity to operate such technological fusion and convergence effectively, HDEC will serve as a catalyst for the growth of new industries, including resource development and energy saving projects. Based on all these efforts, HDEC will create the ground for a better life for all humanity. ‘Humanity’ will indeed become the ultimate guiding value of all of HDEC’s new efforts in creating better grounds of living for all clients around the world, as the company continues to create and shape a better future by working and growing with all stakeholders. As a leader and creator of a better tomorrow for everyone, HDEC will continue to challenge the global market with its creativity and originality, and fulfill its responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. Please continue to support us with your interest and encouragement. Thank you. Kim Chang-hee, Vice-Chairman and CEO Hyundai Construction & Engineering Company Limited (HDEC) 9 Company Overview In 2010, HDEC, under its goal to become the global leader of its field, focused on plant building, civil and environmental engineering, architecture, housing, nuclear power plant building, and real estate development as the main areas of its business, especially in the regions of the Middle East and Asia. It employs a total of 6,408 employees around the world, spread over six offices within South Korea, and twenty-one offices and sixteen companies abroad. Having recently joined the Hyundai Motor Group, HDEC will continue its journey in 2011 toward becoming a world-renowned global leader of its field by maximizing its synergy with the other member companies of the group. Global Network ` Overseas Office Overseas Company Overseas Project Employees by Region Revenue by Region (In 1M KRW) M.E./ M.E. / Korea Asia Others Total Korea Asia Others Total Africa Africa 5,510 716 179 3 6,408 4,824,438 3,837,602 1,068,000 274,518 10,004,558 Organization 10 Core Management Principles: “Together for a Better Future” HDEC newly joined the Hyundai Motor Group in April 2011. The recent membership will enable HDEC to become a leader in international construction market by maximizing its synergy with the Hyundai group and securing sustained investment and growth as the company adheres to the core management principles and values of the Hyundai group. Management Vision: “Bringing humankind closer to achieving its best dreams by creating a new future through creative thinking and ceaseless risk-taking.” Core Principles: • Responsibility to promote growth of the company so as to ensure wellbeing for all employees, their family members, and the employees of business partners and their family Unlimited members. Responsibility • Responsibility to ensure top-class quality for all products and services so as to protect the safety and happiness of customers and clients. • A company DNA structure designed to pursue unlimited growth and development. Realizing • An entrepreneurial spirit that refuses to settle down with the status quo and that always Potential seeks to pioneer new areas of business despite risks. • Creating high added values at the fundamental levels by turning even small potentials into reality. • Making contributions to improving the quality of life for all humankind by ensuring that the Humanity best-quality services and products are provided to an ever-increasing number of people around the world. • Becoming an active corporate citizen of the global village by responding actively to environmental concerns and increasing participation in activities that share greater wealth with others. Five Core Management Values of Hyundai Motor Group: The core values of Hyundai Motor Group shape the activities that its members pursue and the decisions they make. These five values are based on the group’s success DNA that is optimized to realize the future visions of its members. By sharing and internalizing these core values with the group, HDEC will put those values of challenging and collaboration into practice on a daily basis, while creating a creative corporate culture that respects customers and talents. 11 HDEC Projects The business portfolio and range of projects in which HDEC is involved is indeed far and wide, encompassing plant development, power infrastructure building, civil and environmental engineering, architecture, housing, nuclear power development, real estate development, and so forth. Plant Development The Plant Development HQ is capable of providing optimal, most efficient plant development experience, based on the world-class technology it possesses as well as its worldrenowned reputation. As an early pioneer of overseas development and construction that has helped usher in today’s era of international competition, HDEC will continue to do its best to ensure maximum satisfaction for all clients by ensuring quality in all its services. Electricity Based on its extensive experience and network of developing major power plants both at home and abroad, HDEC is now leading the way for freshwater hydro-power plants around the world. In its self-understanding as a “Total Power and Utility Provider,” HDEC engages in active marketing targeting countries in Africa, South and Central America, and East Europe, while at the same time paving the ground for future industries by participating in developing new U (ubiquitous) cities and developing new and recyclable sources of energy, such as the sunlight and wind power. Civil and Environmental Engineering Based on its extensive experience and expertise accumulated in over 130 sites in across twenty countries over time, HDEC is now a leading provider of civil and environmental engineering services around the world, especially in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. The company will continue to harness and expand its position in the global market by diversifying its business portfolio overseas and securing original technologies in new fields of growth. 12 Architecture The architectural portfolio of HDEC will continue to evolve as it seeks increasingly to realize the state-of-the-art spaces hitherto imagined only in which man, information, nature, and technology harmonize. To this end HDEC will enhance its capacities in the architecture for green buildings, ultrahigh skyscrapers, and complex development projects and pioneer new markets overseas, consolidating its competence and reputation as a world-class leader of international architecture. Housing Housing today is not only about creating basic functional shelters against the external environment, but is about creating spaces in which human spirits reside and which represent our ways of life. Under its philosophy of “realizing all the values to be embodied by housing,” HDEC continues to provide customized designs, green smart designs, longerlifespan housing, and other forms of living spaces in which ‘history and culture harmonize for the wellbeing of all human residents.’ Nuclear Power HDEC was the first to open the chapter of nuclear power in Korean history by constructing the first-ever nuclear power reactor in the land in the 1970s. In 1979, it had its technology and skills in nuclear power development certified in 1979 by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the world’s most prestigious authority on the subject. We live in an age and a world in which concerns and demand for nuclear power are rapidly increasing simultaneously. HDEC will continue to provide reassurance by developing best-quality, most safe nuclear power plants around the world. 13 Stakeholder Relations HDEC began to publish its reports on sustainable management last year so as to collect and analyze better feedbacks and opinions from stakeholders both inside and outside the company on its economic, environmental, and social responsibility and performances. At the same time, HDEC sought to enlarge stakeholders’ participation in these matters by inviting them to discussions and other events. Who Are Stakeholders? Expectations: Expectations: Ensuring fight against corruption, green growth, workplace safety Developing professional capacities, providing fair rewards and evaluations, encouraging a happy Channels of Communication: working environment. Public hearings, press releases, interviews. Channels of Communication: Junior Board, meetings with the CEO, surveys. Expectations: Government, Employees the press, and Board Expectations: CSR activities, preventing associations, members environmental degradation, etc. Improved quality, distinct product and supporting local community’s service designs, convenient services. growth. Local Hyundai Customers society E&C Channels of Communication: Channels of Communication: -Customer service call center, customer Local CSR activities, meetings and center, customer satisfaction surveys, discussions with the locals. Shareholders Business partners Hill State Stylers. and investors (suppliers and contractors) Expectations: Expectations: Enhancing the company’s Fair business, support for business competitiveness, reforming its governance structure, maximizing partners, creating synergy and mutual values for shareholders. benefits through cooperation. Channels of Communication: Channels of Communication: Shareholder assemblies, investor-relations meetings. “Hi Partner” system, partner satisfaction surveys, training and workshops. Collecting and Investigating Opinions Primary Groups Secondary Groups Tertiary Groups Participants Means of Investigation Participants Means of Investigation Participants Means of Investigation 6,408 Surveys * 200 business Surveys Governments and the Laws employees partners* press and Board Interviews Discussions Media members * Suppliers and contractors listed as Company newspapers “Exemplary Partners.” Satisfaction surveys Local societies Surveys 100,000 Surveys Discussions Shareholders and Surveys customers investors Hill State Stylers Investor Relations (IR) Related organizations Media activities and associations Official Websites Discussions * There is a wide range of different types of survey targeting different groups of stakeholders. The survey on stakeholders’ views about HDEC’s sustainable management took place from May 2011 to June 2011. 14 Discussions with Stakeholders . HDEC held for the first time in its history discussions with various groups and representatives of stakeholders in 2011 on the economic, social, and environmental issues affecting the company. The invaluable opinions and feedbacks provided by the discussion participants about the company’s sustainable management will continue to guide HDEC’s future activities. Cho JunCho Bong-hyeon, Yang Chun-seung. Jang Ji-in, Chair hyeon,President Vice-CEO HSBC Senior Director, KoSif CDP Korea Committee Construction Securities Association of Korea Ko Sun-hyeon, Cho Wook-hwan, Lee Seok-jin, Secretary Choi Hyeok-jun, CEO Director CEO Anti-Corruption & Civil Lime Glove Eco Frontier HQ Samwoo E&I Rights Commission Aim and Procedure: Main Issues of Discussion: In order to incorporate stakeholders’ opinions and concerns more actively into its management, HDEC held discussions with various 1. Activities and Achievements of HDEC’s Sustainable Management as representatives of stakeholders on the economic, environmental, Viewed by Outsiders: and social issues affecting the company. The discussions were Economic (in terms of feasibility, profitability, and public interests); organized and run by the Korea Productivity Center, an authority Environmental (general environmental management and responses on sustainable management, so as to ensure the autonomy and to climate change); diversity of views represented. Social (ethical management, human rights, labor activities, local communities, mutual growth) 2. Main Issues and Alternatives in Sustainable Management for HDEC Main Agenda: and Construction Industry in General: HDEC sought to identify the issues in construction industry in 1) Economic general and sustainable management that do or could affect the 2) Environmental company. The participants exchanged a wide range of opinions 3) Social that enabled HDEC evaluate its own past and performances, while allowing the company also to identify various future opportunities 3. Suggestions and recommendations for sustainable management. and risk factors. Future Plan: The opinions and suggestions raised in these discussions with stakeholders will be actively incorporated into the policies and activities of HDEC’s sustainable management. Their results and achievements will be reported by publication of the Reports on Sustainable Management. The economic, environmental and social issues identified and discussed in these meetings have indeed been regarded as crucial factors in the analysis of the importance of various company activities. Some of the results obtained have already been included in this report. Other areas that need further observation and improvement will be reported in subsequent reports. HDEC will remain open and welcoming to a diverse range of opinions and feedbacks from our stakeholders and respond actively to the issues and concerns they raise. 15 The sustained growth of HDEC will take the following as preconditions. It is true that domestic construction is not as much favored by investors as First, the company must be ready to respond actively to the changes in overseas construction. This is because the certainty each domestic the construction market. The higher the national income becomes, the construction company has for domestic businesses and their profitability is not lower the demand for new construction and the higher the demand for as high in general. In order to dissolve away these doubts and worries about maintenance. We need to pioneer new markets accordingly. domestic businesses, we need more thorough reviews of the profitability of the order balance. Second, instead of taking up all and any orders from overseas, we need to become better at identifying the more profitable ones and selectively To enhance HDEC’s market value in the long run, it needs to invest more in enter the world market. At the same time we must improve our profitability our workforce and differentiate its strategy for entering overseas markets. The also by improving our efficiency. These would be the main ways in which core assets of any construction company can be found in the workers it HDEC can continue to grow. employs. Now that it has joined the Hyundai Motor Group, HDEC needs to make greater investments into attracting more and better workforce, while developing different tactics for entering overseas markets such as that of North Africa. “HDEC must be ready to “To enhance HDEC’s market respond actively to the value in the long run, it needs to changes in the invest more in its workforce and construction market in differentiate our strategy for order to sustain its entering overseas markets.” growth.” “HDEC needs to provide “As a representative construction accurate and reliable company in Korea, I hope HDEC information in response would display leadership fit for its to the demands from name in responding to the global social-responsibility trend in managing climate investors (SRIs).” change.” What the social-responsibility investors demand from companies is that, The U.S. federal government made it mandatory as of February 2010 that first, they disclose important information about their economic, social and companies disclose the risks they pose to climate change in the SEC. At the environmental activities and impact. A company can enhance its value same time pressures from international organizations to include information on and appeal for investors by ensuring the accuracy and reliability of these climate change in the IFRS Accounting Guideline are also increasing. In types of information it discloses about itself. Another important factor is October this year, the ISO14053 will be effectuated, requiring companies to the company’s governance structure. The main issues associated with adopt material flow cost accounting (MFCA) and other systems of governance structure arising in the SRI area is the company’s ability to environmental accounting. incorporate not only shareholders’ demands, but also the expectations of Environmental accounting systems provide strong tools for environmental all its stakeholders into its decisions. HDEC needs to communicate to its management, requiring companies to identify not only their environmental costs stakeholders how their expectations and demands are reflected in the and investments, but also to quantify their original environmental costs and the company’s governance structure. This, in turn, calls for a greater role for savings they can expect by reducing pollution. Construction industry is in dire the CSR Committee. need to adopt systems like these. I hope HDEC would set and lead the environmental management trends for construction industry by adopting environmental accounting systems of its own. 16 Even though HDEC’s sustainable management results have been What all suppliers and contractors wish in working with large corporations regarded favorably internally, the company’s achievements are not well is to have assurances of fair transaction, stability in supplies and services known to the outsiders in large part because the company did not actively required, and the appropriateness of the size of orders and demands engage in external communications, disclosing information about its from large corporations.As Korean construction companies increasingly sustainable activities and making policy recommendations to the work overseas, suppliers and contractors in Korea face increasingly hard government. times. HDEC needs to consider its movements overseas more carefully In order to facilitate its external communications on the subject, I suggest and cautiously, while working on developing a system of cooperation that that HDEC develop its own sustainable management performance index. is fairer and more beneficial for its business partners. Transparency in The qualitative and quantitative indicators of the company’s transaction must also be enhanced by simplifying the procedures and environmental management will make it easier for outside stakeholders to customs in purchasing raw materials, placing orders for contracting, understand its activities and achievements, while also enabling the distribution of goods and services, and so forth. company to incorporate those indicators into establishing its intermediate and long-term management strategies and improvement activities. In other words, such an index will help the company fine-tune its environmental management better with its overall management strategy. “HDEC needs to fine-tune “The more businesses HDEC its environmental takes up overseas, the more management better with emphasis is placed on ensuring its overall management mutual growth and benefits in strategy.” the relationship between HDEC and its business partners.” “HDEC needs to engage “The CSR Committee attests to in more bilateral the genuineness and depth of communications with its HDEC’s commitment to its employees about its social responsibility.” ethical management.” HDEC complies with most of guidelines and principles on ethical HDEC is already operating a range of appropriate and effective CSR management, following major domestic accounting standards, fighting programs based on its clarion vision, slogan, and road map about its against corruption, and establishing more autonomous management systems. I suggest that HDEC expand the scope of its efforts to ensure future activities. The CSR Committee in which every Board member is a ethical management, by communicating the CEO’s commitment to ethical member attests to the genuineness and depth of the company’s management and transparency while educating employees about the commitment to its social responsibility. company’s code of ethics. However, HDEC can still do better by developing more strategic CSR In the process, HDEC must actively seek continuous feedbacks from employees and Board members and honest opinions about the ethical programs in which it can display and affirm its value as a unique dilemmas the company has faced or is facing, making greater efforts to company. In addition, HDEC needs to engage more actively in global find solutions for these ethical issues company-wide. These efforts will CSR activities and communicate their achievements better. HDEC could help make HDEC’s risk management better, helping it become a more also encourage the volunteerism of its employees by providing companyreliable, trustworthy company for its customers. wide incentives and so forth. 17 Importance Evaluation In order to identify the main areas and issues of sustainable management to be included in its report, HDEC held internal meetings on strategy as well as interviews with employees and Board members, sought to benchmark precedents in the construction industry, conducted media analysis, and organized discussions with stakeholders. The issues derived from those activities were then subjected to importance evaluable by external surveyors and internal assessors before finally being included in the report. Importance Evaluation Process External Internal Benchmarking, Interviews Discussi Business global Importance Media analysis with Surveys ons with impact standards and Matrix employees experts identified guidelines Step 1: Deriving Issues Step 2: Measuring Interest Step 3: Deriving Main Issues •Identifying issues of sustainable •Measuring people’s interest in the issues and their • Identifying evaluation results and their impact management; activities in the identified areas: on the main issues; •Creating an issue pool. Collecting opinions from employees, Board members, •Identifying main issues based on evaluation. external stakeholders and experts. •Identifying need for improvement and alternatives. Main Issues Identified in Importance Evaluation Analyzing Benchmark Models and Global Standards and Guidelines: Type Description In order to identify major issues of sustainable management, HDEC conducted • Models: 10 construction companies at home and abroad; an analysis of the models to be benchmarked 10 DJSI members at home. Benchmark • Main Areas of Benchmarking: as well as globally used standards and Models Construction industry: environment, climate change, public safety and health, etc. guidelines. Korean companies: support for business partners, CSR activities, stakeholder participation, etc. Global Standards and • ISO 26000, UNGC, GRI 3.1, DJSI Guidelines Media Analysis: Env.5% Area Main Article Contents Other In order to measure external stakeholders’ • Securing an order for building facilities for a nuclear plant; 17% Econ • Securing construction orders at home and abroad; interest in each potential issue of sustainable omic Soc. • Meeting the targets for revenue and overseas orders, etc. management, HDEC analyzed a total of 23% • Winning the Minister of Environment Award for Green Life Competition; 1,148 articles concerning HDEC (including Envir • Realizing green offices and sites; overlapping contents) featured in Korean onme • Promoting eco-friendly, energy-saving, carbon-reducing designs; daily newspapers, business dailies, Internet ntal • Signing Green Partnership agreements with business partners. news systems, etc. from January 2010 through December 2010. These articles Econ. Socia • Creating a fund for mutual benefits and growth with business partners; • Interns’ volunteer activities (supporting starved children, inheriting traditional revealed the important activities of HDEC as 56% l culture and customs, signing an MOU for greater support for artists). perceived by external stakeholders. 18 Surveys Survey on Sustainable Management Activities (in points) External Internal Economic Environmental Social HDEC conducted surveys in May 2011 5.8 5.6 5.4 involving internal and external stakeholders 6.8 6.8 6.7 about their perceptions regarding the levels of HDEC’s sustainable management activities. Respondents were asked to evaluate the Economic Environmental Social level of HDEC’s involvement in economic, social and environmental activities. The • 재무적 안정성 • 에너지 절감활동 • 기부 및 봉사활동 Good • 국가경제발전에 기여 • 온실가스 감축 노력 • 지역사회 발전 참여 issues identified in these surveys were then subjected to importance evaluation. Need for • 신사업 기회발굴 노력 • 환경을 고려한 연구개발 • 근로자 및 협력업체의 인권보고 improvement • 수익에 대한 공정한 배분 • 생태환경 보호 노력 • 협력업체와의 상생 Business Impact Factors of Business Impact Evaluation In order to measure the internal importance of Factors of Evaluation Description the identified issues of sustainable management, they were subjected to a Financial Impact Short-term project goals, intermediate and long-term business impact evaluation as well. Factors management goals that could affect the business were identified Business Management Vision Management philosophy, core values, Green CSR Declaration along with the needs for improvement. Impact Core Performance Indicators Relevance to performance indicators. Business Risks Financial and non-financial. Importance Matrix The issues identified in importance evaluation were finally analyzed from both the internal and the external perspectives before deciding which issues would be included in the report. Changes were noteworthy, in comparison to the previous year, in the areas of workplace safety management, ecofriendly technology and governance structure. Internal impact was also increased for the area of corporate social responsibility. Importance of antidiscrimination and greater equality in employment decreased, however. CSR CSR Using raw materials and energy Eco-friendly technology and architecture Protecting ecological diversity Mutual growth with business partners Eco-friendly Financial performance Anti-discrimination Support for business partners technology and Governance structure products Workplace safety Employment and training Interest of stakeholders Fair competition Customer participation management Contribution to national economy Anti-discrimination Advanced environment management system Quality assurance Industrial water usage Risk management Anti-discrimination Greater equality in Workplace safety employment management Main issues from previous year Main issues for 2011 Report. Internal Impact 19 Our Management Approach Principles & Policy As a world-class provider of general engineering solutions, HDEC seeks to create better grounds for living by leading the way for future technology and industrial convergence based on the organic relationship it has with other related industries. To this end the company has successfully globalized much of its business structure, its position in new industries, and its management infrastructure. The company is also seeking to ensure greater stability in its management activities by establishing an advanced system of ethical management and ensuring company-wide risk management. In addition to continuously creating new economic values, HDEC will also pave the grounds for a better future everyone, growing together with stakeholders and society at large. Key Issues & Activities Roles & Responsibilities Advanced business structure and enhanced business Economic portfolio; Each HQ and dept.: secures orders and carries out construction. Value Enhancing global competitiveness through continuous Planning HQ: establishes midto long-term plans and business goals. R&D investments. Financial HQ (Office of Finan. Mgmt.): ensures autonomy and Enhancing the autonomy of governance structure by qualifications of the Board and committees. appointing independent directors; Planning HQ (Office of Mgmt. Planning): provides training on ethical Expanding ethical management through the Green CSR management and operates cyber auditing systems. Stability Declaration; Financial HQ (Office of Finan. Mgmt.): manages financial risks and the Enhancing risk management and reporting systems risk reporting systems. through proactive risk targeting. Work sites: non-financial risk management. Public architectural works and construction of social Development HQ: manages and executes social projects. Public infrastructure; Planning HQ (Office of Mgmt. Planning): establishes and implements Interest Investment into local communities; investment plans for local communities. Fair distribution of values to stakeholders. Financial HQ (Office of Acc’ting): pays taxes and other costs. Key Performance Data Area Item 2008 2009 2010 Remarks Economic Performance Revenues and net profits (KRW) 7.3T/5.1% 9.3T/4.9% 10T/16.2% Economic New orders and order balances (KRW) 16.4T/41.7T 15.1T/47.6T 18.3T/48.4T Value R&D investments (KRW) 89.8B 151.9B 229.4B Debt ratio (%) 181.49 167.64 152.90 Stability Own capital ratio (%) 35.53 37.36 39.5 Credit rating (based on company bonds) A+ AAAAInvestments in local communities 4.9B 7B 6B (KRW) Public Domestic employment 70,850 persons 73,310 persons 75,990 persons Interest Domestic production (KRW) 12.7T 13.2T 10.8T 20 HDEC ceaselessly generates new economic values. Economic Value It continues to grow by encouraging new industries, pioneering new markets overseas, achieving innovations in cost management, and improving processes. Growth Construction Capacity Evaluation For two consecutive years since 2009, HDEC again topped the list of By securing a new source of growth in new industries and high-addedcompanies with most competence in general construction capacities, value orders overseas, and diversifying its business portfolio, HDEC’s assessed and published by the Ministry of Land and Maritime Affairs. The avenue has grown by 7.8% from that of the previous year. construction capacity evaluation considers each company’s construction performance, management conditions, technological competence, newness to the market, and so forth. HDEC was rated at the top, with its Revenue value assessed to be 10.22 trillion KRW. In 2010 HDEC achieved an annual revenue of 10.46 trillion KRW in total, R&D Investment a 7.8 increase from the previous year. The increase in the amount of The continued growth of HDEC is also a direct result of the company’s revenue generated overseas was enough to offset the decrease in the ceaseless efforts to secure the world’s best original technologies. The currency (i.e., the won-dollar ratio decreased to 1.156.26 from 1.276.40), company’s Technology and Quality Development Center has been enabling the company’s revenue to grow by 7.8%. In the dollar, this researching new construction techniques, new processes, ways to means a growth of 25.3%. The revenue generated at home amounted to integrate on-site IT assistance, and measures to ensure quality and 4.971 trillion KRW, a 2.9% increase from the previous year. process assurance. HDEC also seeks to become a leader in the HDEC expects to continue its trend of growth by securing orders for international market by developing new technologies to be massive infrastructureand energy-related projects in Asia and the commercialized, while providing integrated IT assistance based on the Middle East, respectively. HDEC will continue to expand its overseas EPC that encompasses quality assurance, process assurance, and business basis by diversifying its business portfolio in foreign markets, project management. All these efforts allow HDEC to maximize its while carrying out a strategy to secure actively the massive public synergy with the Hyundai Motor Group, adopt incubating, generate new projects occurring in these countries. sources of future growth, and build a global-standard EPC support system. The amount of investment the company made for its R&D New Orders increased by 51% from the previous year, which had a dramatic effect on the company’s overall enhanced competitiveness in the international The number of orders HDEC was able to secure in 2010 grew at a record market. level, allowing HDEC to generate a new revenue of 18.3555 trillion KRW in new orders alone, a 16.9% increase from the previous year, Profitability notwithstanding the recession in the domestic construction market. The amount of revenue from new orders is an important indicator of how well In considering what economic values it creates, HDEC considers not only the company will fare in the future. The amount of overseas orders HDEC continued growth, but the need to ensure improving profitability over time. secured in 2010 amounted to 12.7682 trillion KRW in revenue, a 130.1% The ceaseless innovations in cost management and internal processes increase from the previous year. have helped company fare better in terms of profitability measured by all The exponential growth in this area represents the various great efforts indicators. The operating income in 2010 was 584.3 billion KRW, a 39.4% HDEC has been making in recent years to ensure its continued growth, increase from the previous year; the net profit was 530.4 billion KRW, by securing projects in the Middle East, and diversifying its profitanother 16.1% increase from the previous year. Thanks to such generating model and business portfolio in response to the rising demand increases, the net profit ratio of the overall revenue was 5.3%, while the for nuclear power, offshore work, environmental projects, new and dividend rate for shareholders was 14.7%. recyclable sources of energy, and complex development abroad. 21 Main Indicators of Growth and Profitability Area Item 2009 2010 Remarks Revenue increase rate 27.6% 7.8% ↑ Growth and Activity Net profit increase rate 22.3% 16.2% ↑ Total asset increase rate -0.6% 11.1% ↑ Profit-revenue ratio 7.8% 10.5% ↑ Profitability Operating income rate 4.5% 5.8% ↑ Net profit rate 4.9% 5.3% ↑ Revenue (In 100B KRW) New Orders & Order Balance (In 100B KRW) Construction Capacity Worth (In 100B KRW) 107 179 10 Domestic 101 New domestic orders Performance evaluation 49 8 20 43 Abroad New overseas orders 16 Technological capacity evalu 24 Domestic order balance 23 Management evaluation 368 305 Overseas order balance 28 Newness evaluation 72 316 49 51 128 48 50 45 93 101 38 56 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 Net Term Profit (In 100M KRW) Change in Revenue by Business Area (%) HDEC has steadily diversified its business portfolio over the years so as to secure sources of 27 23 21 continued growth and business overseas. The 31 29 proportions in revenues 5,304 50 represented by plant 4,556 development, electricity and 47 nuclear power are steadily 45 3,735 increasing, compared to 2007 until which the 20 company continued to focus exclusively on housing. 2008 2009 2010 2007 2009 2010 Plant, electricity, Housing Civil and Other nuclear power environmental engineering 22 Stability The continued growth of HDEC’s economic value is based on stability ensured in its transparent governance structure, advanced risk management, and ethical management systems. The company will continue to enhance the stability of its financial structure and management transparency. Governance Structure Committees HDEC makes great efforts to protect and ensure healthy stability in its The Board may install and operate committees to handle more in-depth governance structure, by promoting the values of Value-Creating deliberation of issues assigned to them by the Board. As of the end of Management, Global Future-Oriented Management, and Sustainable 2010, there were three committees: The Committee for the Nomination of Management under the supervision of an autonomous Board, which External Director Candidates; the Auditing Committee; and the CSR allows the company to maintain balance between the interests of Committee. shareholders, customers, employees, etc. Board Committees Board of Directors The HDEC Board of Directors makes important decisions concerning the Auditing Nominating operation of the company. The Board sets the basic direction in which the Board of Directors Committee Committee company should aim, and bears responsibilities for all areas of operation based on its decisions. The scope of the Board’s main activities -Board transparency encompasses: (1) strategy building; (2) auditing; (3) risk management External -Decision-making efficiency Acc’ting CSR (including environmental and social risks caused by climate change, and -Maximized values for Committee Auditing shareholders water shortage, etc.); (4) finances and accounting; (5) overseeing major changes in the organization; (6) appointing the CEO and other members of the Board; (7) deciding rewards for the CEO and other members of the Board; and (8) ensuring that the company fulfill its social responsibilities. Auditing Committee:The Auditing Committee is to comprise of three or Board Structure: The CEO also serves as the chair who presides over more directors. Currently it has four external directors. Their the Board meetings. A separate committee of auditing, comprised of responsibilities include: auditing the company’s accounting and financial independent directors, ensures transparency of the Board’s activities. activities; and auditing business accounting and other tasks with respect The Board consists of three in-company directors and four external to other directors. The committee may establish its own internal directors. It complies with the Articles of Incorporation, which rules that measures to control access to necessary management information, “members of the Board who have special interests in a given issue demanding reports from other directors on the company’s activities and submitted to the Board’s decision may not exercise their votes lest their financial state, and collecting opinions and testimonials from related interests conflict with the interests of the company.” Board members and other third parties as necessary. Committee for the Nomination of External Directors:In order to Board Operation: The Board decides on issues mandated by laws and ensure the autonomy of its Board, HDEC includes four directors from the company’s Articles of Incorporation, as well as on issues assigned to outside in its Board structure. An external director must: not have worked it by the shareholders’ assembly and other issues concerning the basic for HDEC or any other related company; not have formed or maintained principles and policy of management. The Board also assesses the special relationships of interest with the company; or not have engaged in validity and legality of the company’s actions. The Board may be any financial transactions with the company in the last five years. He or convened regularly or provisionally. Regular Board meetings take place she must also have expertise on the related industry or area. The every quarter, while provisional meetings may be summoned whenever committee, consisting of four external directors, nominates candidates for necessary. In 2010, a total of 12 Board meetings were summoned to the positions of external directors, who are then to be elected by the deliberate and decide upon main issues of management. The average general shareholders’ assembly. rate of attendance by external directors is 98%. CSR Committee:The committee decides on the issues of the company’s Evaluation and Remuneration: The 2010 HDEC Articles of economic, social and environmental activities for sustainable growth. Incorporation include terms and conditions for the Board’s selfConsisting of all the registered directors of the Board, the committee assessment and evaluation by third parties. Accordingly the Board must consults and seeks advices from stakeholders on these areas of concern, assess itself and submit itself to third-party evaluations of its while enhancing the company’s strategic performance in these areas. performances. The results of the performance evaluation are then Every year, the committee reports the company’s yearly performance in reported to shareholders and form the basis of remunerations for the economic, environmental and social areas to the Board and use the Board members. information to set anew or revise the company’s CSR plans. 23 Share Structure Of all the shares issued by HDEC, 34.8% are owned by the Hyundai Motor Group, as of April 1, 2011. Shareholders’ suggestions and opinions concerning the company’s management are subjected to in-depth review and deliberation, and may be incorporated into the company’s policy and management. Board Meetings 2008 2009 2010 No. of meetings held 14 12 12 Attendance rate (%) 97.9 100 98 Board Structure Name Title, Position Committee Membership Board President; Chief Executive Officer Committee for the Nomination of External Directors Internal Director Kim Chang-hee Vice-Chairperson (President); CSR Committee. Auditing Committee; Director, Central Region Committee for the Nomination of External Lee Seung-jae Branch of the National Tax Directors; Service CSR Committee. Auditing Committee; Director, North Seoul Committee for the Nomination of External Park Sang-ok District Prosecutors’ Office Directors; External Directors CSR Committee. Auditing Committee (President); Professor, Dept. of Law at Committee for the Nomination of External Shin Hyeon-yun Yonsei Univ. Directors; CSR Committee. Auditing Committee; Professor, Dept. of Committee for the Nomination of External Seo Chi-ho Architecture and Directors; Engineering at Konkuk Univ. CSR Committee. Non-standing Director Lee Jeong-dae Vice-Chair, HMG 24 Risk Management Business Risks: HDEC also monitors and analyzes the construction With the rising significance of overseas projects for HDEC, so is the market around the world so as to manage and prepare for risks importance of risk management increasing. HDEC continues to make associated with economic ups and downs, material supplies, and other great efforts to ensure thorough and advanced risk management that is aspects of business. Predicting the demand for potential projects, vital to the stability of its businesses. assessing the capacities of contractors, and the financial conditions of investors are all forms of risk management. The HDEC Dispute Management System also enables the company to respond Risk Reporting systematically and professionally to various legal risks inherent in projects. The system provides case studies of different types of risks HDEC defines, identifies and analyzes various types of risks that need associated with disputes, develops solutions, and contacts internal constant monitoring and prediction. Defined risks are categorized into experts on the disputes at hand. ‘high’, ‘medium’, and ‘low’, based on the analysis and quantification of their relative severity, likelihood of occurring, consequences, and so forth. Each level of risks has its own risk reporting system. High risks are Proactive Risk Management: HDEC risk management encompasses all immediately reported to the Board. phases of a project, from bidding to facilities removal and disposal. Responses to all types of possible risks are undertaken by relevant Risk Management and Response departments and other organizational structures. The system allows HDEC to respond to and handle possible risks proactive, thereby HDEC divides its risk management activities between financial and nonminimizing financial and non-financial damages associated with them. financial risks. Financial Risks: HDEC has a separate system for managing various financial risks, including fluctuations in the currency exchange rates and oil prices. The importance of such risk management cannot be overemphasized as HDEC is taking on more and more projects overseas. HDEC has in place plans to reduce risks associated with currency exchange rates in bidding, raw material purchasing, and contracting and subcontracting. It has also established an intranet so as to enable realtime, effective monitoring of exchange rates across various nations. Risk Response and Reporting System Board of Directors Risk Management Committee CFO CEO Low Medium High Bidding Project secured Construction Completion Areas of Risk Management Financial risks Risks in liquidity, exchange rates, raw materials and resources, and costs. Non-financial Risks in securing orders/projects, implementing projects, on-site safety, contractors and subcontractors, national conditions, market conditions, risks local conditions, and the environment. 25 Ethical Management Improving Compliance: HDEC also strengthened its systems for All employees and business partners (suppliers and contractors) of ensuring compliance with the rules of ethical management by accepting HDEC share a strong commitment to certain ethical values, which are relevant queries and reports of complaints. A hotline incorporating the reflected in the company’s policies and code of ethics. HDEC introduced telephone, the fax, and the Internet was installed so as to receive and integrate all the complaints and reports. Depending on their relative the Green CSR Declaration in 2010, incorporating its core values more seriousness, some reports were classified for special report to and clearly. review by the management and the Board in due process. Strengthening the System of Ethical Management More Education for Ethical Management:HDEC also sought to strengthen each individual employees’ commitment to the company’s In 2010 HDEC sought to strengthen the system of its ethical ethical management, especially by incorporating new contents into the management through various efforts. The Green CSR Declaration was SPIRIT training program. The company also provided enhanced training adopted and strengthened, while continual training and information were contents in terms of sustainable management, sexual harassment, and provided. Ethical management was enhanced not only with respect to dealing with lower organizations. employees and Board members of HDEC, but also with respect to business partners. Introducing New Rewards: HDEC introduced new rewards for exemplary employees and Board members who make contributions to Practicing Ethical Management the company’s ethical management. 400 employees and Board members received awards in various categories of ethical management. The HDEC Green CSR Declaration: In order to establish ethical award-winning employees were also given preferential treatment in management on a more comprehensive scale, HDEC enacted the new performance evaluation and personnel decisions. Green CSR Declaration, expanding the scope of its ethical concerns to the company’s responsibilities owed to sustainable management, the environment, and stakeholders. In doing so the company expressed its strong commitment to its social responsibilities. Expanding the Scope: HDEC’s ethical management is practiced in HDEC Green CSR Declaration collaboration with all the stakeholders relevant to its projects. They include not only the employees and Board members at the company and its offices, but also investors who have invested, whether directly or Sustainability Environment Stakeholders indirectly, in the affiliates and business partners of HDEC. HDEC always seeks to ensure transparency and trust in its relationship with these stakeholders. • Products and •Environmental • Shareholders services management •Employees and Board Diagnosis of Company-wide Ethical ManagementHDEC at the same system •Transactions and members time also conducted a diagnosis of its company-wide ethical competition •Products and •Customers management. In the process of identifying various obstacles to genuine service procedures •Internal control •Business partners ethical management, the company succeeded in creating a shared ethos •Construction sites •Protecting main and stronger commitment among its employees to its ethical values, •Local communities assets and •Responding to thereby finding ways to improve its ethical practices. In the survey information climate change targeting all the employees in June 2010, the respondents answered that, while the company’s commitment to and strategy for ethical management are indeed admirable, the company could still do better in terms of the actual practices, system and culture. 26 2010 Cyber Education for Ethical Management Ethical Management Education (people) As part of its efforts to establish ethical management company-wide, HDEC provided cyber education for all employees and Board members in August 2010 so as to strengthen their commitment to ethical 5,426 4,808 values and help entrench a stronger culture of ethical management. The activity also proved to be an occasion on which participants shared greater understandings of HDEC’s CSR activities, sharing, 4,473 and green management. HDEC will continue to strengthen its ethical management by providing more opportunities for its members to learn about it, by holding meetings with the CEO, collecting employees’ feedbacks on the CEO’s approach and commitment to ethical management, and leading them to engage in greater 2008 2009 2010 depth with various ethical dilemmas HDEC has faced. * Members of business partners not included. Employees and Board Members’ Assessment of HDEC’s Ethical Management 4 Basis for Ethical Management HDEC employees and Board members gave lower ratings to the internal aspects (employees and internal management) of ethical management than to its external aspects. Environment, Clients and 3.5 Based on this self-diagnosis, HDEC has strengthened the ethical Safety Customers compliance system, enlarged opportunities for education and training, and introduced new rewards for exemplary ethical commitments and 3 behavior. Business Internal: 3.66 National and Partners Enhancing Internal Local Communities External: 3.77 Capacity Employees and Internal Management Integrated Cyber Monitoring (“Hotline”) The Office of Auditing at HDEC not only monitors the offline sites of HDEC projects and activities, but All “Cyber Reporting Service” stakeholders on the HDEC website also monitors the feedbacks it receives regarding the company’s activities from all stakeholders. The Green CSR Declaration and rules of ethical practice are all displayed on the official company website, clearly communicating the rules and values of ethics all employees must comply with in carrying out Employees Reporting internal corruption their jobs and roles and reaching clients, customers and business partners beyond the company. Business HDEC intranet for business The various channels of online reporting were merged together in 2010 into the Integrated Cyber partners partners Monitoring Office or the Hotline. Stakeholders, including customers, business partners, employees and Board members can now report the incidents of corruption and unfairness they observe as well as suggest new ideas that can help the company improve. This online channel will facilitate the company’s greater innovation and ethical status, while making it easy for reporters to see how their Hotline: claims and reports are handled and processed. In 2010 the new hotline received various reports, including two reports concerning corruption. The http://www.hdec.kr/sustainability/ethic_app two incidents were processed duly according to the company’s rules of conduct. Other matters were eal.asp reviewed by relevant departments and offices and were reflected on subsequent steps taken to improve the company’s practices. 27 Indicators of Stable Management Whereas the debt ratio of HDEC reached 780% in 2001, the company 2008 2009 2010 has steadily transformed itself since 2002 into a profit-generating Liquidity ratio 120.8 116.2 133.8 structure, lowering the debt ratio down to 181.5% in 2008, to 167.4% in 2009, and finally, to 152.9% in 2010, thanks to the realization of visible Debt ratio 181.5 167.4 152.9 profits. As of the end of 2010, the amount of total cash the company Own capital ratio 35.5 37.4 39.5 possessed was 457.8 billion KRW, as non-debt-based management was virtually actualized. Credit Rating June 2008 September 2009 June 2010 In ratings by the three major credit rating agencies working within Korea, HDEC received an AAfor company bonds and A1 for corporate Company bonds A+ AAAApromissory notes. These ratings reflect the significant improvement in the Corporate company’s management and financial structures, achieved by the high promissory A2+ A1 A1 brand value of Hill State, the company’s construction performance and notes technological capacity, the enhanced ability to handle fluctuations in Note) rated by Korea Ratings Corp., Korea Investors Service, and Korea economic circumstances thanks to the diversified overseas business Information Service. portfolio, the great number of overseas projects and orders the company has secured, and the ability to realize good non-operating income by reducing financial and other types of costs. As HDEC continues to reduce financial costs thanks to the decreased interest rate on its company bonds and corporate promissory notes, and the improvement in domestic and international financial conditions continues, the company can now expect to enhance its business capacity, improve its reputation abroad, and increase its value by benefitting from the enhanced stability of its financial structure. Summary Balance Sheet Summary Statement of Income and Loss 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Current assets 5,281,577 6,010,105 5,599,445 Sales revenue 65,235 85,537 89,584 Fixed assets 2,862,233 3,081,176 3,393,135 Maintenance expenses 2,673 3,060 4,619 Total assets 8,143,810 8,091,281 8,992,580 Non-operating income 6,013 5,910 6,023 Current debts 4,372,216 4,311,171 4,185,010 Non-operating 5,335 4,223 4,799 Fixed debts 878,500 754,411 1,251,669 expenses Total debts 5,250,716 5,065,582 5,436,679 (Interest cost) (812) (658) (430) Capital 555,486 557,273 557,273 Corporate tax 1,745 1,309 1,763 Capital surplus 807,468 828,181 828,181 Net term profit 3,735 4,566 5,304 Capital adjustment (2,805) (4,042) (5,098) Sales cost ratio 89.7% 92,2% 89.5% Other comprehensive 446,023 156,286 223,998 Operating income ratio 6.6% 4.5% 5.8% income and loss Surplus earnings 1,086,921 1,488,001 1,951,547 Income ratio before tax 7.5% 6.3% 7.1% Total capital 2,893,093 3,025,699 3,555,901 Net profit ratio 5.1% 4.9% 5.3% 28 HDEC continues to fulfill its corporate social responsibility, by Public Interest investing into continuous improvement of social infrastructure, ensuring fairer distribution of the economic values it generates, and creating ripple effects and benefits. Social Contribution Ripple Effects HDEC makes its contribution to the growth of our society by carrying out The ripple effects and benefits HDEC creates in continuing its activities its main role in developing and maintaining social infrastructure and that are usually long-term in nature also create opportunities for multiple ensuring greater fairness in the distribution of economic values it economic actors to participate by opening up new employment and generates to all its stakeholders. chances for production. Infrastructure Investment Creating Jobs at Home As a leading construction company in Korea, HDEC continues to invest in infrastructure for the social good and public interest, thereby enabling A company may create new jobs and generate employment either Korean society and economic to generate added values. The new directly, indirectly, or through other intermediaries. Because business projects of infrastructure HDEC has taken up include: the Ganghwa Wind partners participate in HDEC’s purchase of goods and services in Power Plant; the Daegoksosa Double-lane Subway; the Seobu Express securing raw materials, designs and the labor for construction, HDEC’s Underground Road; the Southeastern Distribution Center; and the activities generate larger demand for related industries, and indirectly underground construction of the Jemulpo Road to Seoul. create new jobs. All these benefits add up not only to the economic benefits HDEC creates, but also to the public interest it serves. Distribution to Stakeholders HDEC also seeks to fulfill the responsibilities it owes to stakeholders and In 2010, the Industrial Chart and the Appendix on Employment published society at large by seeking to ensure greater fairness in the distribution of by the Bank of Korea detailed the direct and indirect employment effects its economic values to employees and Board members, business of HDEC. The report showed that in 2010 HDEC generated new jobs for partners, shareholders, local communities, and the nation. 75,990 persons within South Korea. Purchasing and Manpower: HDEC paid out a total of 7.326 trillion KRW Production Inducement at Home in 2010 in the form of buying manpower, services and goods. This represents 73.5% of the yearly revenue. The effect on production inducement refers to the increase in the overall production in other industries corresponding to each 1 KRW increase in Labor Cost:HDEC also paid out 653.8 billion KRW in the form of wages the production of the construction industry. The effect on added value and rewards for its Board members and employees. These include the creation refers to how much the added values of other industries increase manufacturing costs, selling and administrative expenses, development in correspondence to each 1 KRW increase in the values added costs, non-operating expenses, severance indemnifications, and other generated by the construction industry. welfare and fringe benefits. In 2010, HDEC significantly contributed to the Korean national economy Taxes and Other Capital Expenses: HDEC also paid 203.5 billion KRW by inducing the generation of added values worth 3.8199 trillion KRW in to the government in taxes, and 121 billion KRW to the market, including total and production worth 10.863 trillion KRW in total. dividends for shareholders. 29 Creating Economic Values Revenue: Sales, assets sold, and returns on financial investment = 10.0046 trillion KRW Distributing Economic Values Administrative Labor Cost: Taxes: Capital Local Expenses: Wages, severance Corporate, income Expenses: Investment: Cost of goods and indemnifications, and local taxes: Dividends and Contributions to services fringe and welfare interests paid out local growth (manpower) benefits for purchased employees 653.8B KRW 203.5B KRW 121B KRW 6B KRW 7.3626T KRW Surplus Economic Values =1.6575 trillion KRW Correlation between Corporate Performance and Employee Competence Compared to other industries, construction industry is especially prone to the effect of employees’ capacities and competence on the amount of revenues it can generate. In order to analyze this connection between the increase in revenues and the increase in the number of employees, HDEC has compared its employee record and performance from 2001 through 2010 to those of its competitors in the same industry over the same period of time. The comparison showed that, while the number of employees HDEC employed over time did not significantly increase, its performance fared significantly better than the performances of other companies. This attests to the superior capacity and competence of HDEC employees. HDEC will continue to enhance its competitiveness by hiring more talented people and enhancing the capacities of its employment, thereby contributing to the national economy as well. HDEC Employee Revenue Company A Employee Revenue 6000 12000 6000 9000 5000 10000 5000 8000 7000 4000 8000 4000 6000 3000 5000 3000 6000 4000 2000 4000 2000 3000 1000 2000 1000 2000 1000 0 0 0 0 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 Company B Company C Employee Revenue Employee Revenue 6000 9000 4500 7000 8000 5000 4000 6000 7000 3500 4000 6000 5000 3000 5000 2500 4000 3000 4000 2000 3000 2000 3000 1500 2000 2000 1000 1000 1000 500 1000 0 0 0 0 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 *Source: HSBC Securities 30 Our Management Approach Principles & Policy With the launching of the Green CSR Declaration HDEC has also established and implemented systems of environmental management according to its midto long-term strategies. It is paving the ground to respond better to customers’ changing demands by researching and developing new and better eco-friendly and energy-saving technologies. It has also reformed and improved the related processes, including the Green Purchase Guideline and the Standard Green Purchase System. In addition the company has created a systematic organization applicable to both the offices and construction sites for environmental management, continuously reducing and preventing environmental pollution associated with each phase of construction from site paving to the completion of projects. Firmly believing that green management is directly relevant to the company’s sustainability and growth, HDEC will continue to lead the way to become an advanced green company by adhering to global environmental standards. Key Issues & Activities Roles &Responsibilities Integrated Establishing and implementing Field Assistance HQ (Office of HSE Innovation): responds to demands for low-carbon Environmental environmental strategies; green growth and climate change. Management Preparing infrastructure for green Field Assistance HQ (Office of HSE Innovation): handles implementation of the ISO System management. 14001, OHSAS, and KOSHA. Technological Developing new green technologies and R&D HQ (Office of R&D): develops green technologies and businesses. Development businesses. R&D HQ (Office of R&D): establishes the roadmap for technological development. Developing and implementing eco-friendly Design R&D HQ: develops eco-friendly technologies and facilities. designs and facilities. Materials / Purchasing and developing eco-friendly Purchasing HQ (Office of Purchasing): operates the green purchase system. Transportation materials. R&D HQ (Office of R&D): develops high-performance eco-friendly materials. Saving energy used in transportation and Transportation Field Assistance HQ (Office of HSE Innovation): preventing pollution. Optimizing the efficiency of using Field Assistance HQ (Office of HSE Innovation): controls greenhouse gas emissions materials and energy; and energy usage. Construction Protecting the surrounding ecology; Field Assistance HQ (Office of HSE Innovation): promotes the adoption of green Managing waste materials. technology on sites. Operation Saving energy and recycling materials. R&D HQ (Office of R&D): develops energy-saving techniques. Field Assistance HQ (Office of HSE Innovation): establishes and manages controlling Strict handling of harmful substances and rules and standard. Removal waste. On Site: handles and reduces waste materials and harmful substances. Key Performance Data Area Item 2008 2009 2010 Remarks Environmental Achievements Raw Material Amt. of recycled frame materials used (M3) 25,947 48,106 19,450 Direct energy used (TJ/100M KRW) 0.009 0.009 0.013 Energy Indirect energy used (TJ/100M KRW) 0.024 0.018 0.018 Greenhouse Emission (TCO-2e/100M KRW) 8.8 7.9 8.0 Gases Water Amount used (ton/100M KRW) 39.6 81.4 48.0 Waste Amount generated (ton/100M KRW) 13.1 28.8 9.0 Material Recycling rate (%) 22.3 6.3 2.3 Investment In environmental preservation (100M KRW) 719 256 297 31 In order to minimize its impact on the environment, HDEC enforces Integrated strict principles and systems of environmental management in all its Environmental business activities, following the three main strategies. Management System Environmental Management In addition, the Office of Purchasing, the Department of Safe Environmental Management, and the R&D Center perform their roles to Principles support the company-wide activities for environmental management. The on-site organization is headed by each related department and is based HDEC strictly adheres to various rules and regulations on environmental on the on-site supervision and monitoring by environmental managers, protection both at home and abroad. Where necessary, it also leaves all supervisors, and agents. its environment-related activities documented so as to make it easier to control and limit its impact on the environment. HDEC voluntarily ISO14001 supports and endorses all international environmental initiatives relevant In 1996 HDEC became the first construction company in Korea to acquire to its business activities. Internally, it has established environmental the international certificate of environmental management system, management strategies shared across the entire organization and ISO14001. In January 2009, the company overhauled and renewed its implemented in all its practices. In conducting its business HDEC always system according to the new ISO14001:2004 standard. seeks to improve its processes and techniques so as to ensure Each year the company reviews and renews the ISO14001 certificate by environmental protection. It pioneers new markets abroad and enhances having its management assessed by independent parties. Internal its competitiveness by adopting advanced green technologies. experts also conduct evaluations of projects on sites around the world. Responding to Climate Change These internal experts of the company operate according to due HDEC’s carbon management system enables the company to control procedures of review and assessment at work on each site. Domestic carbon emissions and reduction in a systematic, effective manner. sites are reviewed every quarter, and overseas sites twice a year. Climate change raises a number of new concerns and risks that could be Performance Evaluation Process fatal to the company’s operations around the world, so HDEC manages All project sites of HDEC are given itinerary visits and evaluations by the those risks by employing appropriate strategies. In addition, the company Department of Safe Environmental Management at least once a year to also operates a water control strategy in response to water shortage have their impact on the environment checked. Incidents of abuse or around the world, which enables the company to maximize efficiency in misuse of the environment are reported to the company for corrective managing water while maintaining its operations around the world. measures. To ensure objectivity and impartiality of evaluations, external reviews by third parties are also conducted. Environmental Management System Education for Environmental Management HDEC seeks to enhance employees’ and Board members’ understanding and knowledge about environmental management and issues by Organization engaging them in a variety of activities. The company provides The environmental management organization is largely divided between environmental education on new sites, legally mandated training for the corporate office part and the site part. The organization is presided managers, environmental education concerning harmful and risky over by the CEO and serves as the control tower for the company’s materials and situations, environmental education for business partners, environmental management. It meets twice regularly a year so as to environmental education for different positions and employees, training evaluate and review various environmental concerns and conditions, for on-site managers, ISO14001 training, and so forth. By providing while ensuring environmental management company-wide. customized training for each different type of job and position, HDEC ensures that its environmental policy is thoroughly implemented at all [Organization for Environmental Management] levels. (Office) (Sites) 32 Strategies for Environmental Management [ Achievements] First in Korea to Have Green Management Systems (GMS) Certified The three main strategies for HDEC’s environmental management HDEC became the first company in Korea in February 2011 to have its applied throughout its company activities are: the Green Research & Green Management Systems (GMS) officially certified. The GMS Business Development strategy; the Green System strategy; and the Green Project Management strategy. Certification Project is part of the government’s efforts to encourage lowcarbon, green growth at the corporate level. It is a new management Green R&BD certificate regime that combines the existing environmental management HDEC ensures the sources of its continued green growth by researching system (ISO14001) with the resources/energy management certificate and developing new green technologies and businesses. The company’s system (ISO40001), the international standard on greenhouse gas Vision 2015 has suggested five new sources of growth (environment, new or recyclable energy, nuclear power, offshore development, and emissions (ISO14054), and the international standard on corporate complex development), as well as the five core products (green homes, social responsibilities (ISO25000). green buildings, offshore facilities, LNG/GTL, and super-high skyscrapers), thereby guiding the company’s investment and research on In order to secure the certificate HDEC’s Committee on Green green businesses and recruitment of relevant skills and employees. The Management has been working since April 2010 to enforce and expand new technology development projects are connected to the Business HQ the company’s Green Management Manual across the entire company, and HMG and are subjected to early commercialization. including all the offices, departments and project sites. HDEC seeks to Green System reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by the year HDEC has established the Committee on Green Management, the 2018, two years earlier than the announced governmental plan. In infrastructure for green projects, and the company-wide Green addition the company will realize the Zero Energy House by 2010, which Management System so as to enhance its reputation for green growth. eliminates the need for extra energy. To this end the company is The Committee, launched in April 2010, has been meeting regularly from operating its Greenhouse Gas Inventory System and the Hyundai June onward, seeking to establish specific measures for environmental Environmental Goods Standard for all the goods and services it management. It shares new green techniques with all divisions and purchases. Furthermore the company will continue to provide enhanced departments, providing an integrated guidance on the company’s activities. HDEC has also joined international organizations and secured environmental training and education for all its employees and business certificates of its environmental management system by establishing partners. strategies for integrated management of its environmental, energy-saving, greenhouse-gas-reducing activities along with its CSR programs. With the recent certificate HDEC will continue to do its best to create a new paradigm on green growth that corresponds to the overall Green Project Management governmental aim of growth policy. HDEC implements green management on all tis project sites by systematically reducing the amounts of greenhouse gase emissions, expanding green outsourcing, and ensuring the green operation on dayto-day basis. In 2001 the company launched its Greenhouse Gas Inventory System in response to the government’s greenhouse gas and energy policy by having third-party reviews and approval ready. The company also enforces integrated management of waste materials on each site and the distillation and treatment of the surrounding water and air. Since January 2010, the company has been operating the Hyundai Environmental Goods System (HEGS) that certify eco-friendly materials and services provided by business partners. Since July, the company has been conducting a Green Campaign so as to strengthen employees’ commitment to green principles. [Three Main Strategies for Environmental Management] Vision “Becoming a World-class Green Pioneer by 2015” Strategy 1. Green R&BD 2. Green System 3. Green Project Management Tasks 1) Developing green technologies; 3) Green Management Committee; 6) Systematic reduction of greenhouse 2) Developing green businesses. 4) Green management infrastructure; gases; 5) Enhancing green reputation. 7) Expanding green outsourcing; 8) Green project operation. 33 HDEC will consolidate its green management policy and become a Material Flow leader of green development around the world by enforcing rigorous green policies in all the seven phases of its activities. These phases are: R&D, design, material purchasing, transportation, construction, operation, and removal. Strategy INPUT  Enhanced green R&D. Eco-friendly Expanded efforts for developing green businesses. R&D Encouraging open innovations. [ Eco-friendly R&D Investment] Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Investment 100M KRW 159 91 154 Proportion % 18 6 7  Developing eco-friendly design techniques. Eco-friendly Ensuring efficiency in design and facilities. Design [Amounts of Materials Used]  Enforcing the HEGS. Amt, 2008 2009 2010 Eco-friendly Rebar ton 334,084 366,728 195,121 Developing eco-friendly, high-performance Ready-mixed m3 386,548 331,380 1,688,205 Material materials. concrete Cement ton 136,515 101,216 89,003 Purchasing Sand m3 340,470 261,014 440,530 Aggregate m3 272,634 354,685 717,921 Ascon ton 46,844 59,788 87,734 LO2 liter 720,000 1,079,126  Reducing energy used in transporting and Smaller lump kg 2,272,523 2,933,082 749,525 shipping. coal Eco-friendly Timber 1M KRW 27,649 11,196 59,278 Operating eco-friendly vehicles. Transportation [Amount of Rebar Recycled] Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Amt. used 10,000m3 2.5 4.8 1.9 Proportion % 9 14 3 [Amount of Industrial Water Used]  Efficient usage and reduction of resources used. Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Water supply 10,000t 159.9 270.7 236.1 Eco-friendly Protecting the site and surrounding ecology. Surface water 10,000t 11.8 54.8 1.1 Construction Rigorously controlling waste materials. Underground 10,000t 18.0 39.1 7.0 Rain water 10,000t 1.2 Systematically reducing greenhouse gas Recycled 10,000t 42.7 emissions at all levels. Total 10,000t 189.7 408.5 244.2 [Amount of Energy Used]  Optimizing energy efficiency. Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Eco-friendly Minimizing need for maintenance. Diesel TJ 278.38 317.52 478.06 Gasoline TJ 36.55 35.38 26.04 Operation Kerosene TJ 49.45 54.61 42.26 (Total oil) TJ 364.39 407.52 546.36 LNG TJ 28.84 26.92 55.79 LPG TJ 9.99 6.36 5.83 (Total gas) TJ 38.83 33.27 61.62  Minimizing environmental impact and Lignite TJ 12.24 35.67 accidents. Local heating TJ 0.09 0.53 0.34 Eco-friendly Electricity TJ 1,127.39 909.24 907.69 Strict control of removed facilities and Removal (Total) TJ 1,127.48 922.01 943.70 harmful substances and waste. (Grand Total) TJ 1,530.70 1,362.80 1,551.67 34 OUTPUT 2010 Achievements 2011 Plan 21 patents registered.  Collaboration between the Green Management Committee 120patents in application. and Technological Cooperation Committee to be expanded. 3new environmental techniques. New markets in recyclable energy and environment-friendly 3new construction techniques. services. XXutility models in application. Diversifying approach and XXprograms registered. participation in governmental projects. Increased investment in R&D for the environment and energy. [ Green Purchases] HEGS complete.  Improving and consolidating the Amt. 2008 2009 2010 HEGS process. Amt. purchased 100M KRW 195 260 142 Increasing the amounts of green purchases.  Installing emission-reducing Enhancing training for devices to all on-site vehicles employees and drivers. and equipment. [ Amounts of Waste Materials Generated and Recycled] Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Generated ton 622,855 1,447,754 460,022 Recycled ton 138,792 91,882 10,513 Recycled rate % 22.3 6.3 2.3  Third-party certification of the  Enhancing overseas Greenhouse Gas Inventory greenhouse gas emission System. control. Targets for greenhouse gas [Amount of Sewage] Improving the GGIS. reduction established. Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Habitats for 3 species restored. Discharged ton 724,115 1,236,606 Developing and commercializing Developing energy-saving household energy-saving system. systems for larger housing units and entire cities. [ Greenhouse Gas Emissions] Amt. 2008 2009 2010 Direct emission tCO2-e 80,385 68,256 79,856 Indirect emission tCO2-e 337,183 330,582 329,092 (To be added later)  (To be added later) 35 HDEC ensures the development of more eco-friendly technologies Eco-friendly R&D and techniques step by step according to its midto long-term R&D plan and strategy. The company ensures minimization of the amounts of energy used and environmental impact from the R&D phase and onward. R&D Roadmap for which is rising rapidly around the world. By 2015, HDEC also seeks to achieve at least 70% of the energy-saving targets it has set for itself in building green homes and buildings. By 2020, it will meet those goals in Focusing on ‘Creating New Spaces,’ ‘Building Green Cities,’ ‘Green full, leading the way for complying with government energy regulations. Energy,’ and ‘Water and the Environment’ as the four main areas of its R&D, HDEC has established and been following its 2015 roadmap phase Green Energy by phase. Areas of R&D related to the production and application of energy are the Creating New Spaces development of new or recyclable sources of energy, smart grids, IGCC, and CCS. By participating actively in governmental projects and Creating new spaces requires the development and refinement of various cooperating fully with related industries, HDEC will secure new technologies and techniques, including those for building super-long technologies and clean sources of energy in preparation for the depletion bridges; designing and building underground spaces like underground in oil sources and climate change. cities and tunnels under the sea; designing and building floating harbors and other marine spaces like the FPSO; eco-friendly burial and landfill Water and the Environment techniques; eco-friendly and high-performance materials; and building R&D related to water and the environment focus on general techniques new structure models for bridges, tunnels, etc. As the demand for for recycling water, restoring polluted soil, and turning waste materials massive civil architecture and engineering projects will continue to rise into resources. HDEC will secure water-recycling techniques by 2015 worldwide, HDEC ceaseless prepares for the future by developing and that will help it process water at high altitudes, improve water quality commercializing these various new techniques and technologies. standards, find markets for recycled water, and achieving an economy of Green Cities scale in this area. The soil restoration technology will be perfected by establishing the standard soil cleanness model and optimizing the soil Building state-of-the-art, green cities requires the development of various washing system. The project of creating resources out of waste materials related techniques and technologies, including those for building is also in the phase of early commercialization, as HDEC encourages its skyscrapers, zero-energy facilities, and eco-friendly construction and bio-gas projects in response to the government’s low-carbon green innovation systems. Until 2013 HDEC will continue to focus on growth policy. developing and securing new technologies for skyscrapers, the demand [Four Core Areas of R&D]  Super-long bridges  Water treatment Underground structures Bio-gas Marine structures Soil restoration New eco-friendly materials New construction models Water/ Creating New Spaces Environment Core Areas Green Green Cities  New, recyclable energy Energy  Skyscrapers Smart grids Green buildings Combined marine energy  Green homes IGCC, CCS 36 Open Innovation Organization for R&D Open Innovation refers to the open R&D processes in which the The R&D Headquarters at HDEC is the main center and driving force of company seeks to secure and utilize various sources of innovation both the company’s eco-friendly innovation. The R&D HQ handles the inside and outside the company, no longer restricting its inspiration to the development of new technologies and techniques as well as quality and internal resources and assets it already possesses. HDEC also actively procedure control and assurance. It is Korea’s large corporate research promotes technological collaboration with agents and institutes outside center in the construction sector. The Committee on Technological so as to accelerate internal innovation and develop new techniques and Cooperation, comprised of members from each HDEC headquarters, the technologies by combining brilliant ideas from both the inside and the Office of Planning and Budget, and HMG, establishes midto long-term outside. The company also seeks to maximize values it creates by R&D roadmaps. seeking marketing channels both inwardly and outwardly. Working not Technological Development Process only with the major members of HMG such as Hyundai Engineering, Hyundai Steel and Engineering Industries, Hyundai Design Agency, and The internal technological development process at HDEC consists of four Hyundai City Corporation, but also with world-renowned research phases intended to ensure maximum effectiveness and efficiency in R&D. institutes, advanced construction companies, and small or medium The ideas suggested by each division or department is subjected to companies with excellent technologies, HDEC steadily enhances its market and demand analyses. Only the ideas whose feasibility are technological competitiveness. The company also actively participates in ascertained by these tests are put into development. Technologies and various governmental projects, helping the nation secure newer and techniques whose development and verification are completed are then better technologies. transferred to the Business HQ to be put into practice. [Main Collaboration Projects] Type Project Title Working with Period Governmental “Developing New Designs for Smart Highway Pavement@ Korea Road Corp., etc. 2008 ¬ 2011 Projects “Developing Techniques for Natural Riverbed Restoration and Strengthening” Korea Institute of Construction Technology, etc. 2008 ¬ 2014 “Developing Technology for Optimal Treatment of Soil Contaminated by Seoul City University, Hanyang University, etc. 2009 ¬ 2012 Hazardous Heavy Metals through Soil Washing” “Developing Techniques to Verify the Integrated Process for High-Pressure Research Institute for Advanced Technology, etc. 2010 ¬ 2013 Thermal Hydrolysis of Organic Sludge” “Localizing Filtering Devices for Turning Bio-gas into Auto Fuel” Korea Gas Corporation, etc. 2010 ¬ 2012 “Developing the Suspension Bridge Cable System with High-Strength Steel POSCO, etc. 2009 ¬ 2014 Cables” “Developing Installation Techniques and Equipment for Suspension Bridges” Daelim Industries, etc. 2009 ¬ 2011 “Developing the Technique for Predicting Amounts of Settlement on Sea Korea Institute of Construction Technology, etc. 2009 ¬ 2015 Bedrock” “Developing the Pumping Technique for Accelerated Construction Pohang Industrial Science Research Center 2009 ¬ 2014 Assistance” Universities “Developing a System for Turning Bio-gas into Energy” Inha University, etc. 2009 ¬ 2012 and Research Institutes “Developing Offshore Structures for New Marine Spaces” Korean Register of Shipping 2009 ¬ 2013 “Developing the Household Energy Saving System” Gyeongwon University, etc. 2010 “Developing Multilayer Tidal Power Generator and the Wave Dissipating Inha University, etc. 2010 ¬ 2011 Structure for Current-based Power Generation” “Developing the Design and the System for Controlling Oscillations in HighDankook University, etc. 2010 ¬ 2011 rise Buildings” Small and “Developing High-Performance Concrete for High-rise Buildings” GangwonRemicon, etc. 2010 ¬ 2011 Medium Businesses 고성능 숏크리트 및 타설 자동화 시스템 개발 Geotech Engineering, etc. 2009 ¬ 2012 “Developing Techniques for Building the New-Model Complex Bridges” RC Korea, etc. 2008 ¬ 2010 “Developing the Circulation Unit for Exchanging Waste Heat “ Honeywell Korea, etc. 2010 “Developing the Technique for Low-carbon, High-temperature Curing” Hidea Solutions 2010 Abroad “Research on Improving Different Grouting for Under-sea Tunnels” Rocscience, etc. 2009 ¬ 2011 37 Major R&D Achievements of 2010 Area Title Description Eco-Friendliness Creating New High-Performance, Ecominimizing environmental impact in the dredging zone and • Minimizes the amount of dredge floating on water. Spaces friendly Dredging Standard analyzing and optimizing the efficiency of dredging based on the ubiquitous monitoring system. CO2-Reducing, Low-Heat A technique that produces CO2-reducing, low-heat concrete. • Reduces CO2 emissions. Concrete • Reduces temperature disparity and hydration heat. Green Cities Building Energy A technique to analyze the patterns of energy consumption and •Predicting CO2 emissions. Consumption Analysis predict the energy usage in a given building using a precise • Finding optimal designs. Technique simulation program. TEEM System Controlling the facilities so as to minimize energy consumption and •Saving heating and air-conditioning energy. optimize the indoor environment using various control algorithms, • Monitoring energy consumption and the indoor while providing a total household energy solution along with energyenvironment. and environment-related information to the resident. • Providing useful information (weather casts, etc.). • All-automated energy-saving program. HERV System An optimized air-ventilation technique that saves energy and •Saves energy in circulation. realizes a pleasant indoor environment using the indoor pollution • Ensures pleasant indoor environments. detector that checks and controls indoor pollution and temperature. Technique for Proving A technique that measures and proves whether the harmful • Improves the quality of indoor air. Eco-friendliness of pollutants emitted by materials applied to finish an indoor • Improves residents’ satisfaction by ensuring pleasant Finishing Materials environment fall below maximum standards. indoor environments. Low-carbon, HighCures concrete rapidly using an electric heating fan, while at the • Reduces CO2 by 50% or more. temperature Concrete same time reducing the amount of carbon dioxides generated. The • Saves energy by 50%. Curing Technique wireless thermometer system monitors the curing process of concrete constantly so as to ensure quality and minimize the period of non-working time. Green Energy Next-Generation A technique to create active carbons out of low-grade materials and • Improves heating efficiency. Technique to Gassify refine them. • Reduces emissions of harmful substances. Coals • Facilitates collection of carbon dioxides. Hybrid Geothermal Heating A hybrid system that provides both heating and air-conditioning, • Utilizes unused energy by using heat pumps. and Air-Conditioning using the water tank and heat from the ground as sources of heating. System Water / System for Creating BioA technique that generates bio-gas energy from organic waste •Produces bio-gas through anaerobic digestion. Environment gas from Organic Waste materials through anaerobic digestion and processes the digestive • Isolates carbon and high-concentrate methane liquid. through the refining process. • Removes high-concentrate nitrogen through ammonia stripping. Soil Restoration Technique Restoring soil quality and optimizing polluted soil by removing oil • Removes harmful environmental risks. based on Soil Washing and other heavy metals from soil through soil washing. • Increases efficiency in land usage. Technique for Treating Treating organic sewage containing high-concentrate nitrogen, • No need for external sources of carbon. Organic Sewage and through such processes as solid-liquid separation, ammonia • Ammonia separated from the sewage can be used to Collecting Nitrogen stripping, and membrane installation. create high-quality liquid fertilizer. Technique to Control Restoring riverbed ecological systems by preventing the • Creates riverbed ecological spaces. Sedimentations on transformation of riverbeds into land. • Restores aquatic ecology. Riverbeds 38 Economic Benefits Type Development Progress Application • Optimized delivery of high-concentrate Procedural Internal • Measuring temperature in XX tunnel in solutions; Optimization Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation North Gyeonggi-do. •Controls dredging moisture content. • Facilitates construction and improves Product Collaborative durability. Innovation Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation • Reduces construction costs. • Predicts and analyzes energy Procedural Collaborative • Predicting energy consumption of the consumption. Innovation Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation KCC Architectural Environment Lab unit. • Optimizes facility capacity. • Anti-freeze simulation of external airconditioner device for Hill State I in Paju. • Saves heating cost and energy. Product Collaborative • To be applied to collective housing Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation Innovation starting in the latter half of 2011. • Saves air-conditioning and air-ventilation Product Collaborative • To be applied to collective housing Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation costs and energy. Innovation starting in the latter half of 2011. • Optimizes internal environments of Procedural Collaborative •Paju Hill State site. green homes. Innovation Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation •Seongbuk Hill State site. • Saves winter concrete cost by 20%. Procedural Collaborative •Yeongjong Hill State site, Incheon Innovation Test / Planning Development Evaluation Application • AID Reconstruction Site, Busan • Reduces the non-working period in winter times. • Can be converged with fuel cell. Procedural Collaborative Innovation Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation • Enables economic production of hydrogen. • Improves system efficiency. Product Internal • Underground heat exchanger installation. Innovation Test / Application • Reduces the length of the underground Planning Development Evaluation heat exchanger. • Reduces the initial installation cost. • Increased profitability thanks to the Product Collaborative •Cheongna Waste Water Bio-gassification, increase in the amount of bio gas Innovation Test / Application Incheon Planning Development Evaluation generated. • High-quality fuel obtained from refined bio gas • Minimized sludge and odor during processing. • Minimizes the amounts of waste Procedural Collaborative • Unsanitary landfill sites reform. generated, while optimizing processing Innovation Test / Application Planning Development Evaluation • Oil-polluted soil restored in Daejeon. facilities. • Fluoride-polluted soil restored in Fukuoka. • Reduces maintenance cost by Product Internal •Cheongna Waste Water bio-gassification, minimizing the necessary biological Optimization Test / Application Incheon Planning Development Evaluation processing facility. • Waste Water Bio-gassification, Kimhae • Facilitates maintenance through automation of all steps of processes. • Upgraded technology for downstream Product Internal • Han River Bore 6, Yeoju District ecology. Innovation Test / Planning Development Evaluation Application •Palmii Stream Test Bed, Chuncheon • Optimized maintenance. •Daejeon-Anyang River designs. 39 From the design phase of each of its project, HDEC seeks to ensure Eco-friendly Design maximum economic values and eco-friendliness, by incorporating the needs for energy saving, reduction in the amount of water required, ecological concerns, and a pleasant living environment. Water Recycling Energy Saving Design The Technology & Quality R&D Center at HDEC currently has various plans for developing water-saving techniques and devices. It has so far In order to reduce the amount of energy used and the generation of introduced a wide range of integrated recycling techniques and devices, pollutants related to energy usage, HDEC ensures high energy efficiency including the high-pressure filter, the ammonia stripping technique, and in the designs of all its projects, including houses and buildings. the technique for obtaining high-concentrate liquid fertilizer compounds from sewage, and so forth. High Energy Efficiency In 2007 HDEC became the first construction company in Korea to adopt carbon-free designs in apartment housing. By 2012, HDEC plans to Designs for Ecology provide apartment housing that saves up to 50% of energy compared to the housing standard. By 2020, the company seeks to realize its goal of reducing energy usage by 100%, by relying on energy generated by new In order to minimize any negative impact its project might have on the and recyclable sources. surrounding ecology, HDEC always makes sure that it thoroughly In order to ensure actual benefits of energy saving and reduced amounts preview areas of possible environmental concerns and seek various of pollutants, HDEC applies various techniques to its designs, including alternatives based on opinions and advices from internal and external optimal and high-efficiency insulation and insulators, high-function experts. These are only some of HDEC’s efforts to protect ecological window frames, devices for circulating waste heat, and so forth. Ecoenvironments and minimize environment-related complaints. friendly designs are applied not only to the internal living environment, but Topography to exterior considerations as well, applying no-carbon-emitting sunlightHDEC supplements parts of land that have been dug up or distorted in based systems to the street lamps and so forth so as to reduce the any other way by adding more soil or green plants. The company also amount of carbon emissions. installs fertile soil reservoirs around its project sites so as to prevent the New and Recyclable Sources of Energy loss of fertile soil from those sites due to necessary soil-removing works In addition, HDEC is already applying various new or recyclable sources involved in construction as well as to provide pleasant landscaping works. of energy to its housing and building projects, such as the sunlight, the In order to prevent the destruction of the ground structure HDEC also small-scale wind power generation systems, geothermal systems, fuel applies other various techniques, such as changing the road directions or cells, natural light systems, etc. The company steadily develops higheradjusting the structures of bridges. efficiency and improved energy systems that provide top-quality lighting Water Quality and other services in Korea. Bridges are designed with considerations of preventing possible water pollution caused by installing them. Separate rain-collecting lines are installed around bridge building sites so as to minimize the leakage of Reducing Amounts of Water Required polluted water into the surrounding land in times of heavy precipitation. These projects are built with eco-friendly environments. Water-blocking membranes are also installed so as to minimize pollution of agricultural In order to reduce the amounts of water used, HDEC applies various land surrounding project sites. techniques and facilities to its projects from their design phase onward. Animals and Plants Water Saving Facilities Preliminary investigations of the surrounding ecological habitats for The conventional 9-liter toilets in the apartment housing were replaced native animals and plants are conducted, and designs are modified with the more efficient 6-liter toilets, while each household was also accordingly if they are likely to disrupt these habitats in any significant installed with water gauges. Intermediary water supply systems were also way. HDEC also always gives priority to eco-friendly materials to which installed so as to recycle wastewater and sewage. Over 108 such water the natural ecology can adapt well. In order to prevent destruction of the saving facilities, highly user-friendly systems, intermediate water supply local forestry, systems, and pressure-reducing valves have been installed over the last 3 years. 40 new trees are planted and damaged trees are recycled. Landscaping [Energy Saving Design: Case Study 1] always involves connections to the surrounding natural ecological Energy Clock, Enabling Real-Time Monitoring of Energy Usage structure. In order to minimize damages to the surrounding habitats of fish and other aquatic organisms, small escape routes are installed for Hill State IV in Keomdan, Incheon, became the first project site of the living animals; ecological marshes are created; or else, artificial HDEC to have an energy clock installed. An energy clock is a system botanical islands are created. that allows you to monitor on a real-time basis how energy is used throughout the household, by lighting apparatuses, heating systems, gas appliances, hot water, and so forth. The system is expected to help residents save significantly on the amount of energy they use, by Designing Pleasant Living Environments showing them their energy consumption patterns by season or appliance, and the amounts of energy costs incurred thereby. Modeled after automobile meters, energy clocks allows you to check the Indoor Air Quality amount of energy you have used in one glimpse, within just one or two From ensuring minimization of pollutants generated to incorporating both seconds. The device is expected to help save energy by at least 5 ~ natural and machine-aided air ventilation in the flat design, HDEC 15% in the future. ensures that the quality of indoor air is taken care of from the design phase onward. Even during construction process itself the company ensures that materials are stored in well aired areas so as to allow for maximal natural ventilation. After construction is completed, the indoor air quality is assessed according to the given process that quantifies the concentrations of pollutants found in air. All these help to ensure a pleasant living environment. Air Ventilation Cities become islands where heat is trapped during hot seasons. Aware [Energy Saving Design: Case Study 2] of this, HDEC is currently researching how to better arrange different units in multiunit housing projects so as to maximize the amount of TEEM (Total Energy and Environmental Management) System ventilation and air currents, applying natural ventilation systems to its As part of its efforts to ensure sustainable, low-carbon, green growth, housing projects. In designing apartments and other buildings, HDEC HDEC has successfully developed the TEEM system, an automated considers topographical structures and wind directions native to the area system that provides integrated energy saving effects while at the so as to allow for maximum amounts of wind. same time maintaining the indoor air quality at its most pleasant. Insulation Combining the ‘integrated heating control technique’ (which automatically controls temperature in 0.1℃ unit) and the ‘allOptimal insulation systems are applied that are customized to the overall automated optimized ventilation control technique’ (which detects and energy consuming patterns of the building as well as the residents’ adjusts indoor and outdoor environments), the TEEM system helps lifestyles. Connected to the control system, these insulation designs help you to save energy by 20% in terms of heating and air-conditioning, to maintain the most pleasant mixture of indoor temperatures and and by up to 75% in terms of air circulation. These translate roughly humidity levels necessary for quality indoor living. into 400,000 KRW per year saved for each household and the Noise reduction in carbon emission by 0.5t per year, which is equivalent in effect to planting 100 pine trees. This new innovative technology will Various audio-testing rooms are used at HDEC in order to find the best be applied to Hill State apartments beginning in the latter half of 2011. ways to minimize the generation and spread of unwanted noise. In these With this as a start, HDEC will try to realize its dream of reducing labs researchers study the characteristics of each different type of noises energy-dependency by 100% in the future. and seek to find noise-reducing alternatives. In order to minimize the amount of noise generated during the construction process itself, HDEC also applies techniques to control noise sources and predict noiseblocking capacities of various materials used in housing, such as the exterior materials and window frames. 41 In securing and purchasing materials, HDEC gives priority to eco-friendly Eco-friendly materials that can reduce environmental impact and pollution and save resources. To this end, HDEC also provides active support for its business Materials partners’ eco-friendly business practices. Purchasing Eco-friendly Materials Policy of Green Purchases purchasing MRO products, HDEC will also differentiate between those meeting the HEGS codes and those that do not in an effort to strengthen In order to minimize the environmental impact associated with the the enforcement of its green purchasing system. purchase and usage of construction materials, HDEC has developed and implements its Environmental Goods Purchasing Guideline, incorporating Green Purchase Record the three principles of ‘reduction,’ ‘reuse,’ and ‘recycling.’ In 2010 HDEC spent a total of 14.2 billion KRW on purchasing ecoIn addition, the company implements a separate Environmental friendly goods and materials, in 563 transactions in total. This represents Management Guideline for Purchasing Materials, which helps identify in 0.8% of the total amount of money spent on purchasing goods, or 6.3% of advance and minimize factors of environmental impact. The guideline all the transactions conducted. 59.4% of all eco-friendly materials mandates that the materials purchased be subjected to thorough review purchased were produced in the most clean environments (HEGS code of their environmental impact in all phases of handling, from shipping, 6); 26.5% carried energy saving marks (HEGS code 4); 8.1% carried warehousing and storage to usage and disposal. The review results form environment certifying marks (HEGS code 1); and 6.0% carried an important criterion for evaluating business partners. HDEC environment-friendliness certifying marks issued overseas (HEGS code encourages not only existing, but also new business partners to develop 5). HDEC will continue to increase the purchase of eco-friendly materials more eco-friendly materials. in the future, by continuously improving and updating its HEGS system and giving priority to eco-friendly materials in all phases of its activities, Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard (HEGS) including design. In 2010 HDEC developed and began to implement the Hyundai Eco-Friendly Business Partners Environmental Goods Standard (HEGS), which enables systematic management of all the data and information concerning the ecoIn order to help make the entire process of business more eco-friendly, friendliness of goods and materials HDEC purchases. HDEC has enhanced its support for its business partners to develop more eco-friendly alternatives and products. Goods qualified under this standard are those carrying environmentcertifying marks, the GR (Green Recycled) marks, the Energy Efficiency Evaluation: HDEC evaluates business partners’ green management Class 1 products, goods carrying energy-saving marks, goods carrying performances according to its Environmental Management Guideline for environment-related marks issued abroad, goods that have been Purchasing Materials. The evaluation involves documentations submitted produced in the most clean environments, goods from Green by them, as well as the media and academic information available on the Management System (GMS)-certified companies, and goods with carbon subject of environmental management. Business partners are evaluated performance certificates (HEGS codes 1 to 8). The record of goods of in terms of hazard (toxicity, difficulties of decomposition, and destructive each category is closely monitored and communicated with employees effects on the ecology); compliance with applicable laws (including the working on sites and in purchasing matters. Employees who lag behind Hazardous Chemical Control Act, the Waste Control Act, and the Fire others in terms of purchasing and using eco-friendly materials are Prevention Act); and how much of their products are required in HDEC constantly trained and encouraged to convert to any of these certified activities. For products and materials assessed to be harmful, HDEC goods. demands submission of documented proofs from the producers ensuring transparency in their ethical management systems. For companies The HEGS performance record will be used by the Field Assistance HQ producing goods to which complicated environmental laws are enforced later to assess the performance of each project site in the future. In or with which complaints are frequently raised, HDEC recommends and encourages self-evaluations of their own environmental impact. [Green Purchase Record] 260 195 6.0% 8.1% HEGS-6 : 청정생산제품 142 HEGS-4 : 에너지절약마크 부착 제품 26.5% 59.4% HEGS-1 : 환경마크 부착 제품 HEGS-5 : 외국 환경마크 부착 제품 2008 2009 2010 녹색구매량(억원) 42 Education: HDEC actively supports business partners to develop and The main areas of focus are new materials, concrete, and asphalt, In the implement their own environmental management plans in case of first area especially, HDEC is closely following the Executive Plan for the environmental accidents, while at the same time providing needed Green Growth of Construction Technology from the Ministry of Land and training and education on the subject matter. HDEC also regularly Maritime Affairs as well as the government’s policy on carbon emission communicates with business partners producing products with possibly rights in developing high-performance, latest-technology materials. environmental harms. The company provides all the assistance and support needed to help its business partners improve their environmental Process of Developing Eco-friendly Materials management and performances. HDEC operates the Committee for New Materials Review, comprised of Eco Labels: HDEC attaches eco-friendly labels to some of the materials members from each team responsible for the development of those it purchases in an effort to consolidate its green purchasing system. The materials. The company also encourages exchange of suggestions and eco labels encourage business partners to enhance the eco-friendliness opinions by launching and operating a new website drawing ideas on of their products, while maximizing trustworthiness of the materials HDEC new materials. Entrants can submit their ideas about what new materials uses in creating safer and better living spaces for consumers. or designs that have not been tried yet but could help improve productivity and performance. Those selected by the New Materials Committee are then tested and reviewed in plants and by the R&D HQ before the final selections are made. The final winners are applied to the Developing Eco-friendly Materials project sites and reviewed in the aftermath regularly in terms of their effects and performances. Aim: Eco-Friendly Materials Development Record In an effort to ensure its continued growth in the future by seizing upon HDEC has continuously worked on, and invested in, researching and the rising demand for eco-friendliness, HDEC is also researching and developing eco-friendlier materials that could minimize the environmental developing eco-friendlier alternatives to part of the materials it uses. impact of construction. In 2010, the company conducted projects in These future-oriented latest-technology materials are ways in which developing low-CO2 concrete that produces less CO2 and reduces HDEC can remain in the future material market and maximize added temperature disparities; and ultra-thin polymer composites that are values. HDEC is leading the way for innovation in the construction expected to work with superior performance in bridge pavement. The materials sector by developing eco-friendly goods itself. company intends to complete the research and development of these projects by 2011 or 2012, and apply them to various project sites of the Roadmap: company after testing. HDEC R&D HQ has developed the Roadmap for Eco-friendly, HighPerformance Construction Materials, leading the research and development of new materials with minimal environmental impact and ensuring higher quality and lower costs. [Roadmap for Eco-friendly, High-Performance Construction Materials] ~ 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Nano composites absorbing Latest-technology nano material electronic waves New Materials CO2-absorbing new material Energy Harvester Reactive Powder Eco-friendly FRP Composite High-tension/nano material Concrete Highly durable concrete for offshore and Super-strong, Lightweight concrete for offshore facilities nuclear facilities Concrete low-heat concrete Resource-recycling Low-CO2 concrete CO2-free composite concrete Room temperature Asphalt asphalt Ultra-thin polymer composite Sustainable Binder 43 그린 힐 스테이트 홍보관 [Green Life in Green Hill State] “Green home’” is a new buzzword in architectural trends and fashion around the developed world. A green home refers to an environment-friendly living space that is self-sufficient in terms of securing energy (by relying on such natural and recyclable sources of energy as the sunlight, wind power, ground heat, etc.) and minimizes carbon emissions. As a leader of living trends and cultures around the world, HDEC has introduced Hill State ‘green homes.’ The Green Hill State Center is organized around three themes: New and Recyclable Energy, Green Energy, and Smart Energy. The first thing you will notice when you enter the building is the massive tree occupying the center of the lobby. The lush green leaves are littered with tiny light bulbs resembling fireflies. The strong roots extend in three directions to reach the Hall of New and Recyclable Energy, Hall of Green Energy, and Hall of Smart Energy. The lobby itself embodies the vision of Green Hill State, which seeks to emulate the science in nature, in which we can find self-lighting fireflies in most clean environments. 그린 힐스테이트 사진 (뒷 페이지와 연결) [Hall of New and Recyclable Energy] Created to display the living room and the balcony run by energy obtained from such natural sources as the sun, the wind, water, and the earth, the Hall of New and Recyclable Energy shows what a green home would be like, running on the energy from the sunlight, ground heat, water, and so forth. The balcony is installed with the building integrated photovoltaic systems (BIPV). Installed on the window frames or curtain walls, these systems draw in as much sunlight as possible into the household so that it can be converted into the energy to be used. The system also secures visibility of the surroundings and the natural lighting needed for the indoor environment. Move into the cozy-looking living room, and you will see an intelligent lighting system consisting of a few blocks of lighting apparatuses installed on the wall in the back of the sofa. This lighting system saves energy, by fuelling lighting with the sunlight gathered by the BIPV systems. The TEEM (total energy and environmental management system) installed below the TV manages the remaining energy resources, purifies indoor air, and enables you to check the weather outside. The Hall also features a variety of energy-saving options, such as the geothermal system, the system that generates power utilizing the wind currents within the housing building, and the household fuel cell system that generates power and heat using urban gas. (사진) (사진) (사진) (사진) (사진) 44 [Hall of Green Energy] Green Lifestyle Incorporating Science and Nature into Daily Living The Hall of Green Energy consists of a kitchen and a bathroom, complete with high-performance energy-saving ideas and devices. The “nano garden” inside the kitchen allows you to grow your favorite vegetables and herbs without any soil, but using only water and nutrients. The system controls the growth of those plants using LED lighting. The intelligent refrigerator displays environment-related information of the ingredients kept within through its bi-directional monitor. The air-conditioning system maintains a mixture of the most pleasant temperature and humidity levels. The high-efficiency condensed boiler system maximizes energy efficiency by collecting and using heat wasted in ventilation. The high-insulation, vacuum-glass windows also minimize the loss of energy through windows. Another green energy item is the toilet bowl in the bathroom, which recycles water from the sink and the shower. The smart urinalysis device shows you your health conditions every morning. The highly functional bathtub, complete with a small stool inside, allows you 그린 힐스테이트 사진 to customize your bath style according to your liking. The bathtub (앞 페이지와 연결) also helps you to save water by indicating temperatures and providing better insulation. The sink also fuels a power generator, which generates electricity by using the power of the water moving in and through the sink as it automatically detects. The water supply system also helps you to save sewage treatment costs. The place is full of highly efficient, latest-technology items that will enable you to minimize the loss of water resources. [Hall of Smart Energy] Latest Technology Meets Sophisticated Sensibility for Family Safety! The Hall of Smart Energy features a wide range of smart systems and devices intended to prevent various accidents, crimes and other security risks in advance, including the Crime Prevention through Ubiquitous Design (CPTUD) system unique to Hill State, which is linked to the underground parking lot. In addition to the CPTUD system, eight other items combining latest technology with sophisticated sensibilities are found, including: the HEMS, a unique energy management system of Hill State; the intelligent CCTV control and analysis system, which automatically increases the brightness of lighting to the full when it detects movements; and the HCMS, which provides remote diagnostics and assistance for family vehicles, telling drivers when it is necessary to replace parts and so forth. (사진) (사진) (사진) (사진) (사진) 45 HDEC has developed devices and guidelines to minimize the emissions, Eco-friendly noise and dust generated by the transportation of materials needed in Transportation construction. It also provides training and education for vehicle drivers on how to save energy, thereby making efforts to ensure eco-friendliness even in the transportation phase of its activities. Guideline for Eco-friendly Transportation as well as in the 1,579 pieces of equipment (excluding the 172 As part of the company-wide energy and environmental pieces of equipment that did not require such a device since they management system it has launched in order to participate in the did not have any engines). HDEC also encourages its business worldwide efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, HDEC has partners to install these emission-reducing devices. developed the guideline for eco-friendly transportation and driving of vehicles used in construction projects. Based on this, HDEC has Protecting the Surrounding Environment also developed the Vehicle Management Guideline and distributed In order to minimize likelihood of soil erosion, water pollution, and it to all its offices and business partners, encouraging all drivers other such environmental harms caused by the operations of and managers to abide by its terms. vehicles in and around project sites, HDEC has installed water The Vehicle Management Guideline provides information on how to reservoirs, temporary grit chambers, and wheel washers. economize driving; conduct self-diagnosis and take emergency A water reservoir, installed underground to reserve rainwater, measures; inspect vehicles according to national vehicle inspection serves as a dam during seasons of heavy rainfalls so as to and repair standard; applicable laws and policies concerning air minimize risks of flooding. HDEC construction, electricity, civil pollution, water pollution, noise and oscillations; the standard for engineering, and plant sites in Korea (each with a contract value of registering and managing vehicle information within the system; the 5 billion KRW or more), as well as housing sites (each with a standard for updating and managing the amounts of fuel consumed contract value of 100 billion KRW or more) have such water necessary to the control of energy consumption and greenhouse reservoirs. All the project sites overseas (47 in total) are also gas emissions; the standard for vehicle protection and security; the mandated to have water reservoirs. In installing water reservoirs, standard for required driver training programs; and the rules of harmony with the surrounding environment, ecological spacing practice for low-carbon, green growth. HDEC incorporates into its and planning, ease or difficulties of maintenance, and the safety of evaluation of business partners how well the terms of this guideline users are all considered. Temporary grit chambers are installed so have been complied with. The evaluation, in turn, serves as a basis as to allow wastewater from which pollutants have been removed on which HDEC decides whether to continue to work with those can flow. Wheel washers are installed so as to minimize the dust business partners and how much support it would give them. kicked off by vehicles. Driver Training Activities HDEC trains vehicle drivers in terms of what to be careful of in Emission-Reducing Devices driving; how to diagnose their vehicles and take necessary emergency measures; how to maximize the economic value of In accord with the Atmospheric Environment Preservation Act, their driving by maximizing fuel efficiency, and so forth. These HDEC conducts regular inspections of all the vehicles it owns in training programs are also used to strengthen drivers’ commitment terms of emissions and discharges. In doing so the company also to environmental protection and safety. installs devices designed to reduce emissions of harmful substances. As of 2010, HDEC installed emission-reducing devices in all the 2,002 vehicles it either owned or rented, [Installing a Temporary Grit Chamber] [Installing an Automatic Tricycle 46 HDEC minimizes its impact on the environment during the Eco-friendly construction phase by ensuring efficient usage and saving of Construction resources, actively protecting the surrounding ecological systems, and strictly controlling and reducing emissions. Using Resources and Materials Water Saving: HDEC installs de-watering facilities for water from underground sources as well as rainwater-storage systems. These are Materials part of the efforts to save on the cost of water. Similarly, the amount of Material Management System: HDEC has adopted the building dust is controlled by using sprinklers instead of dust-controlling water tank information modeling (BIM) technology to ensure efficiency in using and vehicles. In such water-deprived regions as the Middle East and managing construction materials. BIM keeps all the information Singapore, HDEC operates a separate index of water usage, trying to concerning construction in databases, thereby enabling the constructor to bring its practice to consume less and less water possible as time goes by. calculate the precise amounts and costs of required materials. This helps Energy reduce unnecessary waste of money and materials. BIM also simulates completed building models in 3D, allowing the constructor to predict the Energy Consumption: In 2010, HDEC consumed a total of 1,551.67TJ of construction phase and outcome, thereby more effectively managing the energy, a 14% increase from 2009. 546.36TJ, or 35.2%, of this energy purchase of materials and inventories. came from oil, such as gasoline, diesel, and kerosene; 61.62TJ, or 4.0%, from gases such as LNG and LPG; and 35.67TJ, or 2.3%, from lignite. Recycling Materials: In order to reduce the amount of materials it uses Indirect sources, such as electricity and local heating, represented 58.5% and the related processing costs, HDEC recycles aggregate. Recycled of energy consumed or 908.03TJ in total. The amount of energy aggregateconsist of recycled concrete, cement and other pieces of consumed grew slightly from 0.027TJ in 2009 per every 100 million KRW aggregate disposed of at other project sites. In 2010, 3% of the total of revenue generated, to 0.030TJ per 100 million KRW of revenue in 2010. amount of aggregate used were those that had been recycled. HDEC also recommends recycling concrete where applicable. Its Environmental Energy Saving: HDEC requires the Energy Saving Plan in the five main Management Guideline for Purchases of Materials also emphasizes the areas of construction, machinery and facilities, electric facilities, and new priority on recycling where applicable. or recyclable energy facilities. It also requires review and approval of the Energy Performance Index, which measures the energy efficiency of Industrial Water insulators, heating devices, wind and lighting devices, and energy facilities Usage: HDEC gathers the water it needs on construction sites from the running on the sunlight, natural heat, wind, and ground heat. The sunlight surface of the earth, from underground, and from ordinary water supply power generating facilities, high-efficiency and low-noise converters, lamp sources. In 2010, a total of 2.442 million tons of water had been skirts for fluorescent light bulbs, and LED lighting are all part of the highconsumed. Whereas, in 2009, 81.4t of water was used per every 100 performance energy infrastructure put in practice in many project sites so million KRW of revenue generated, only 48t of water was used in 2010, a as to help save energy costs. 41% decrease from the previous year. 2.351 million tons (96.7%) of the total water used came from water supply For three years from 2008 through 2010, HDEC acquired the ‘Ecosources; 11,000t (0.5%), room the surface of the earth; and 70,000t Friendly Building Certificates’, the ‘Building Energy Efficiency Grades’, and (2.9%), from underground sources. There was no project or site that so forth on 33 project sites in Korea and 10 project sites overseas, thereby damaged any of these sources of water. HDEC takes all the necessary saving energy by over 20% in total. As of 2010, the total floor area of care in each project to ensure that water-drawing activities would not project sites with eco-friendly certificates is 904,611m2, representing 58% damage any of the available sources of water in the local area. of the total combined project area of 1,559,861m2. Using RecycledAggregate] [Using Water] [Using Energy] 6 0 500 150.0 2000 0.060 4.8 408.5 1552 5 1531 400 1500 1363 4 0 100.0 0.040 300 2.5 81.4 244.2 0.032 3 14% 189.7 1000 0.027 0.030 1.9 200 2 9% 0 48.0 50.0 0.020 39.6 500 1 100 3% 0 0 0 0.0 0 0.000 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 사용량(만m3) Amt. used 사용비율(%) Usage ratio (%) 사용량(만ton) Amt. used 원단위(ton/억원) In ton/100M KRW 사용량(TJ) Amt. used 원단위(TJ/억원) In TJ/100M KRW (in 10,000m3) (in 10,000t) (in TJ) 47 Protecting Project Sites and Ecological Environments Environmental Management Cost In 2010 HDEC spent 29.7 billion KRW on environmental management, a 16.1% increase from the previous year. 7 billion KRW (23.6%) was spent Compliance with the Law on air quality control; 2.2 billion KRW (7.4%), on controlling noise and Environmental Impact Evaluation: Pursuant to the Environmental oscillations; 8.8 billion KRW (29.2%), on water quality control; 11.9 billion Impact Evaluation Act, HDEC conducts mandatory environmental impact KRW (39.9%), on waste processing. The increase in the cost of evaluations in advance concerning all projects of urban development, controlling air and water quality is especially sharp. HDEC will continue to industrial development, road construction, railway and airport increase environmental management so as to preserve the ecological construction, and so forth. Even for projects for which such evaluations systems and diversity in and around project sites. are not mandatory, the company conducts impact evaluation either Managing Project Sites beforehand or in the early phase, according to the Guideline on Safety, Public Health and Environmental Management. Air Quality:HDEC has established standards on air pollutant emissions and inhibiting facilities so as to prevent air pollution and ensure the safety Third-Party Environmental Evaluation: In 2010, HDEC obtained a total and health of all its employees. These standards, to be strictly enforced of 507 cases of third-party environmental evaluation. While most of these on all project sites, mandate that the wheels of all vehicles thoroughly evaluations focused on the area of air pollution, measuring dust affecting washed and vehicles be covered, while the freights be especially covered construction sites and local quality of life in urban areas, they showed with dust-controlling covers. They also require that dust is always that the HDEC-related levels of dust decreased by 14% from the previous controlled using dust-controlling water tank vehicles. No activity may go year, even though noise/oscillations and water pollution increased by on when the wind speed is over 8m/sec. Dust-controlling walls and tents 60% and 119%, respectively, in the same period. Since the government’s are to be installed on the outskirts of each project site. Outdoor attention to environmental concerns is increasing, HDEC enforces more incineration is strictly forbidden, in an effort to minimize air pollution, dust, thorough environmental policies and rules of practice on sites. and odor. The air quality and dust levels of each project site is measured Violations of the Law:In 2010, no serious incidents of violating these and updated on the environmental database known as the TMS laws occurred, except some that ended up incurring fines. Twelve ended (Technical Monitoring System), which is also displayed on the electronic in governmental injunctions for improvement, while seventeen ended in boards on site. In 2010, the average PM-10 emissions in Korea was the imposition of fines. With the strengthening of the environmental policy 35.250m3, while the average No2 level was 0.019ppm, the H2S level and the increase in the number of civil complaints, these administrative was 0.004ppm, and no emissions of NOx, SOx, CH4 and SO2 were actions are likely to increase in the subsequent years. HDEC therefore reported. must thoroughly check all the applicable laws and enforce compliance Water Quality: Water pollution is frequently caused by oil discharged with them on sites, including those on operating facilities for controlling from used equipment, the soil and clay used in construction, the dust and noise levels. In addition to compliance with the law, HDEC will wastewater and sewage discharged from sewage tanks and treatment also seek to identify the demands and complaints of locals by holding facilities, and various chemical compounds. Depending on the type of discussion meetings, installing appropriate facilities, and using low-noise project involved and its site, the specifics of water quality control activities equipment and techniques. Internally, the company has already also differ. HDEC installs waste water and sewage treatment facilities in enhanced its environmental review activities and set up an environment each project site so as to ensure that the legal maximum BOD, COD, and taskforce for prevention and dealing with environmental complaints. SS levels are not exceeded. If the site is close to the sea or ocean, [Environmental Management Cost] 719 7.4% 폐기물분야 Waste Materials 23.6% 39.9% 297 수질분야 Water Quality 256 대기분야 Air Quality 소음진동분야 Noise/Oscillations 29.2% 2008 2009 2010 환경관리비용(억원) Environmental Management Cost (in 100M KRW) 48 the seawater temperatures, pH levels, salinity, SS, COD, T-N, T-P, Zn, Protecting Ecological Environments and Cu levels are also controlled together. As of 2010, the average waste Managing Ecological Diversity:. HDEC recognizes ecological diversity water pollution level across all the project sites in Korea was BOD as one of the core factors for effective responses to climate change, 233.20mg/l, COD 17.11mg/l, and SS 227.75mg/l. sustainable energy, improving the quality of life, and creating green HDEC operates a strict standard for the quality of water discharged from economic growth. The company accordingly enforces rigorous standards sewage and waste water treatment facilities that is based on the and rules so as to protect ecological diversity from damages around its applicable laws on sewage, water quality, and aquatic ecological project sites. From the planning phase onward, the company conducts a preservation. Different standards of water quality control apply to different scientific analysis of its impact on the surrounding ecology and seeks to types of waste water: living sewage, site discharge, leakage into find designs and techniques that would minimize impact on the underground, and other types of waste water. in order to prevent pollution topography and the ecological environment. HDEC then conducts of the surrounding environment by waste water, HDEC also installs environmental impact evaluation so as to find the healthiest and most temporary water draining structures around each site, as well as grit sustainable alternatives, and thoroughly monitors the surrounding chamber that is 1m-deep, 2m-wide, and 8m-long for every discharge ecology for any possible change even during construction. area of 30,000m2. Water pollution controlling nets are also installed Environmental Impact Evaluation Process: The evaluation consists of during the construction phase, up to half of the depth of the river. The measuring the company’s impact on the natural environment, the living nets are checked daily. After rain stops, whatever objects that are floating environment, and the social and economic environment. The ecological on the nets are removed and disposed of. HDEC also enforces other investigation examines how the planned construction and related strict measures of controlling oil discharges that are intended to prevent activities could affect the plants and animals found on land and in water pollution by oil. in and around the site. Endangered species observed in these SoilIn order to prevent soil contamination HDEC ensures that the investigations are either transplanted to healthier environments (if they byproducts of construction are not mixed with the surrounding soil, strictly are plants) or given alternative habitats (if they are animals). Designs forbidding the maintenance works or oil replacement of the equipment on may be modified and additional protective measures may be taken in site. HDEC has also been researching and developing new technologies response to the need for protecting the ecological habitats of the animals for the restoration of contaminated soil. Treating contaminated soil is and plans found in these investigations. important for increasing the efficiency of land usage and removing harmful risks to the environment. Therefore, it is important to minimize the [Environmental Impact Evaluation Process] harm associated with the dredged soil, expand the application of soil Environmental Impact Evaluation washing technology, and isolate pollutants from soil. HDEC obtained New Environmental Technology Certificate 92 by successfully developing a [Natural] [Living] [Socioeconomic] technique that washes contaminated soil by isolating and absorbing pollutants using artificially created strong vortex. Related to this, the -Weather -Land usage -Population / housing company has multiple intellectual property rights on related techniques -Topography and -Air quality -Traffic geology -Water quality -Cultural heritage for soil restoration, including six patents and two utility models. -Animals and plants -Soil quality Noise and Oscillations: HDEC systematically controls levels of noise -Waste materials -Noise/oscillations and oscillations in all phases of construction. Before construction takes -Entertainment/ place, the company organizes discussion meetings with the locals, landscape asking for their understanding. The company also conducts predictive tests for possible levels of noise and oscillations in and around the project site. The findings of these investigations are used to develop noise-reducing techniques and measures. Even after construction starts, Alternatives for less environmental noise and oscillations are regularly gauged and monitored. Local noiseimpact sought. Post-construction Environmental and oscillation-controlling facilities are installed, low-noise equipment is Alternatives are discussed Impact Evaluation plan established. used, vehicles are driven on and around the site at low speeds. And and evaluated. noise-proof walls are erected around the site so as to minimize inconveniences to the locals. General review and choice of best alternatives 49 Protecting On-site Ecological Diversity The special sites of protection In 2010, 3 of the species specially named by the Ministry of Environment HDEC chose and managed in 2010 due to special marine environmental as requiring legal protection were found within District 6 along the Han concerns and the need to protect marine resources were District __. River while HDEC was undertaking part of the government-led Four Rivers Another site for special marine preservation was District __. Development Revival Project. Along the Namhan River in Yeoju, Gyeonggi-do, the activities were restrained in District __ due to the concerns with habitats of Cheung Cheung Solomon’s seals andDanyang asters, protecting the water supply and green areas. District __ was especially classified as Endangered Species of Class II, were found. HDEC sought to close to the protected ecological area and marsh preserve designated by preserve them by relocating their habitats to an alternative site. A total of the Ministry of Environment. Impact on the ecological life in these areas 89,445 units of Cheung Cheung Solomon’s seals, which were growing in was minimized through active efforts to preserve them against the effects an area of 5,963m2, were relocated to a site with a similar environment at of construction activities. There was no area of the sea or river damaged once. Much of theDanyang astershabitats found en masse on Gangcheon by the discharge of waste water. and Samhab Islets were protected by surrounding their habitats with access-limiting ropes. 38,000 units of the plant, however, had to be In order to preserve local ecological diversity, HDEC engages in a variety relocated to an alternative site. The relocated plants were monitored and of activities, including the relocation of trees and plants, creating managed intensively for the first two or three months. Afterward, loweralternative habitats, installing artificial botanical islands, developing level monitoring agents were assigned to the new habitats to monitor the nature-like rivers and green areas, and so forth. The company also number of alive units, flowering and fruitbearing, insemination, and so forth installs a variety of escape and protection routes for small animals to so as to ensure their successful adaptation. guide their escape from the affected areas and protect them against pollution and contamination. Alternative designs are also contemplated SamhabIslet, within the same District 6 along the Han River, was also and adopted at times depending on the nature and type of projects home to a large group ofEremiasargus. Theselizardswere rounded up and involved, such as relocating the project site, adopting alternative released in an alternative area with a similar ecological environment. 210 techniques with less oscillations, reducing the size of bridge bases, etc. snakes were caught in total using the pitfall traps. Safety nets were installed along the designated areas of preservation. Catching was Protecting Endangered Species: In 2010, endangered species were especially concentrated in the months from June through September since found in Site __, and so forth. Thorough measures were undertaken to this was the period in which these lizards were most active. Each trapped protect their ecological systems. lizard was immediately released into the protected area. HDEC continues to monitor the adaptation and settlement of theselizardsthrough quantitative measures. From June through August, HDEC will also monitor their mating, egg hatching, and the density of their adult 50 Controlling Waste and Discharged Materials Waste Materials: HDEC collects data on the amounts and types of waste construction materials each year in the form of a database. The waste is usually generated during the process of dissembling and H-PMS removing existing structures. In 2010, a total of 460,022 tons of waste Integrated Data Management: The Hyundai Project Management materials were generated, a 68% decrease from the previous year. The System (H-PMS) enables HDEC to collect, integrate and manage the year 2009 saw an extraordinary increase in the amount of waste environmental data concerning each project site. Once the quality of air because the urban reconstruction projects that are part of the and dust levels in and around a given site are measured using both government’s policy were commenced in that year. fixed and mobile meters, the data are transmitted to the data collecting Disposing of Waste Materials: In 2010, 401,343 tons or 97% of the device. The collected data are then sent to personal computers and total amount of waste materials were disposed of by contracted thirdmanaged in the environmental database processing system. The parties. Only 3%, or 10,513 tons, were processed internally. Much of the system lists all the identified environmental factors of each site and the internally disposed waste materials were found in the areas of civil applicable laws on the environment. HDEC has also developed a engineering and nuclear projects. Recycling through internal disposal of system which, based on the H-PMS, enables the ser to view waste materials was especially noted on such sites as District 1 along environmental data (violations of the law, amounts of waste and the Gyeong-in Ara Boat Route; Seongdeok Multipurpose Dam; the road discharged materials, complaints raised, environmental goals of each circling downtown Gyeongju, and so forth. While HDEC can certainly do site, etc.). better to increase the rate of internal disposal and recycling, there are Setting and Achieving Targets: HDEC sets the environmental targets many legal restrictions on internal treatment of waste materials at the that suit the characteristics of each site and encourages employees and moment. In order to facilitate disposal by third-party contractors, HDEC workers to meet these targets. The set targets are updated to the Hrequires that different types of materials be disposed of differently, PMS, enabling the company to check their progress on a regular basis. according to their recyclability, availability for incineration, mixed Every site is required to measure environmental indicators in terms of contents, etc. rates of recycling waste materials, levels of fine dust and noise, rates of Each type of waste materials is disposed of according to applicable laws, isolating and discharging waste materials, and so forth. On-site with priorities assigned to the ways in which environmental impact can employees are trained regularly throughout the year to maintain their be minimized. Metallic and steel materials are collected by recyclingcommitment to environmental management. specialized contractors. Mixed waste materials are also collected in Controlling Waste Materials entirety by contractors. Asbestos, in particular, is measured, removed and disposed of by specialized business partners. Living waste that Guideline for Controlling: In order to ensure safe and efficient cannot be recycled is disposed of in the legally mandated garbage bags. disposal of various materials and a pleasant environment for the To reduce food waste, the number of food consumers on site is always workers and the locals, HDEC has developed the Guideline on accurately identified and maintained and the waste is handled by Controlling Waste Materials that seeks to minimize the amounts of specialized contractors. Waste oil cannot be discharged or replaced on waste generated and increase their recycling. The guideline requires site, except in specially designated zones. This help to keep in check the that each type of waste materials separated from one another and be increase in the amount of waste oil generated. There are special repair handled and disposed of as part of the established work process service providers who can inspect and operate waste oil storage system applicable to all sites and related offices. Each site is also facilities. The waste oil is handled and disposed of by specialized required to set their own targets to meet concerning the reduction of the contractors. Human waste is handled by temporary toilet booths and amounts of waste generated. The Guideline for Managing Contractors legally permitted sewage tanks, and its disposal is commissioned to and the Guideline for Evaluating Business Partners also encourage contractors pursuant to the municipal waste disposal regime in each business partners to minimize and recycle amounts of waste they local community. generate. HDEC collects data on the amount of waste generated each year at each site and reports the information annually to the Ministry of Employees and workers are continually trained and educated on how to Environment. separate, dispose of, and recycle waste materials generated during the construction phase. This training is necessary to prevent secondary environmental pollution. 51 Recycling Waste Materials:In order to encourage increased recycling of Special wastewater and sewage treatment facilities are always in operation in waste materials, HDEC requires that each site set up its own recycling order to keep the BOD, COD and SS levels below their legal maximums. For targets and ways to achieve those targets. Major efforts in this area project sites near the sea or ocean, the seawater temperatures, pH levels, include installing waste material collection facilities, separating waste salinity, COD and SS levels are also kept in check. materials that are to be incinerated, recycled and buried, controlling and Disposing of Wastewater: Wastewater in construction projects are analyzing the amount of waste material generated by each project, generated in the curing tanks in research labs, soil blockade works, grounding having contractors collect packaging materials, reporting illicit disposal of works, tunnel works, batch plants, and so forth. In most cases the wastewater the materials to the authorities, selecting legally permitted waste generated in these areas exceeds the legally stipulated pH, COD, SS, and collecting contractors. In 2010, 10,513 tons or 2.3% of total waste normal nucleic acid levels and therefore requires treatment before being materials were recycled. discharged. Wastewater from the curing tanks in research labs is either Reducing Waste Materials: In order to minimize the amount of waste entrusted to specialized contractors or internally neutralized and recycled as materials generated, HDEC enforces waste material handling and sprinkling water in quantities less than 100L per day. Wastewater from soil recycling targets for each project site. If two or more materials are of the blockade and grounding works undergoes the slime-collecting drainage pipes same quality, those that are recyclable are given preferences in and sediment tanks to be dried before being entrusted to contractors. purchases. Some waste materials that are recyclable are actively Wastewater from tunnel and batch plant works is treated in special facilities entrusted to specialized recycling contractors. HDEC employees and before being recycled or discharged. In 2010, all the HDEC project sites in employees of business partners are regularly trained and updated on Korea produced a combined total of 1,236,606 tons of wastewater, a 71% how to reduce and control the amounts of waste materials, by learning increase from 2009’s 724,115 tons. the rules of disposing of waste materials and the major guideline on Sewage, from the temporary toilet booths, cafeterias, shower rooms, etc. that waste reduction. are installed on construction sites, is given appropriate treatment before being Controlling Wastewater discharged, pursuant to the municipal sewage handling policy of each local community. HDEC installs sewage treatment facilities that process 50m3 or Guideline for Controlling Wastewater: Water pollution and other less per day each. These facilities are monitored daily and the quality of accidents may occur on any project site due to unexpected heavy sewage is also monitored daily. rainfalls and malfunctions in wastewater or sewage treating facilities. HDEC therefore seeks to minimize these risks by reducing the amounts In order to prevent contamination by the sand, clay or oil used in construction of wastewater generated in the first place. Once generated, wastewater is through the accidental discharge of precipitation or underground water, HDEC handled and disposed of in legally permitted ways only so as to minimize also installs temporary drainage pipes, water blockades, grit chambers and damages to the surrounding environment. Results of wastewater designated waste material storage facilities, as well as oil absorbents, treatment are recorded in the log. Temporary drainages, anti-pollution emulsifiers, oil fences, etc. walls, and grit chambers are installed so as to prevent water pollution by wastewater or sewage. Oil controlling facilities are also strictly monitored in case of any unwanted leakage or discharge of waste oil. [Amounts of Wastewater Generated and Recycled] [Wastewater Discharge Record] 2008 data updated. 1,447,754 1,400,000 1,236,606 40.0 1,200,000 35.0 배출량(ton) Amt. discharged (t) 1,000,000 30.0 724,115 24.3 25.0 재활용량(ton) Amt. recycled (t) 800,000 622,855 20.0 600,000 460,022 14.4 15.0 400,000 10.0 200,000 5.0 138,792 91,882 10,513 0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Amt. 배출량(ton) In ton/100M KRW 원단위(ton/억원) 52 discharge d (t) Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope 1 and Scope 2 are Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control categories of direct greenhouse gas emissions. These have been Greenhouse Gas Inventory System measured in terms of the amounts of oil and gas used in each project site, pursuant to the standard and equation provided by the IPCC Guideline HDEC completed the construction of its Greenhouse Inventory in 2010. and GHG Protocol. Currently only the data on domestic project sites are Since 2006 the company has been managing its greenhouse gas available. In 2010, HDEC produced direct greenhouse gas emissions of emissions on a computer system. The emissions are categorized into 79,856tCO2-e, a 17% increase from 2009’s 68,256tCO2-e. These Scope 1, Scope 2, or Scope 3, and each headquarters collects and numbers have been calculated on the basis of actually collected data on manages data on the amounts of greenhouse gas emissions. The domestic project sites. relevant data are updated throughout the day by project site on both the H-PMS and the Greenhouse Gas Inventory System. These disparate Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope 3, which includes indirect data are then combined and integrated within the system to create greenhouse gas emissions, is calculated on the basis of the data on information on monthly and yearly trends, which is then shared among all electricity and heating energy purchased from outside parties by each employees through the HDEC intranet. The completion of the inventory project site. The same IPCC Guideline and GHG Protocol were followed system enables HDEC to monitor greenhouse gas emissions from all in calculating these emissions. Again, available are only the data on project sites on a real-time basis, and to take proactive response to the domestic project sites. In 2010, HDEC produced indirect greenhouse gas industry-wide movement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. emissions of 329,092tCO2e, a slight decrease from 2009’s 330,582tCO2e. these numbers have been calculated on the basis of actually collected Calculating CO2 Emissions:. Amounts of CO2 emissions are calculated data on domestic project sites. by combining the amounts of energy used in all project sites. Energy consumed includes energy from diesel, kerosene, gasoline, LPG, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction: HDEC seeks to reduce its LNG, but does not include the amounts of energy consumed by business greenhouse gas emissions by calculating the amounts of emissions in partners. The amounts of energy consumed are updated on the the construction phase based on the LCA evaluation, and reflecting the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system and converted into results in its designs and material purchases. monetary terms based on the average energy cost per year (2008, 2009, Of the buildings HDEC completed in 2010, 79 projects (70 in Korea and 9 2010) as determined by the Energy Corporation. The calories and overseas) in total acquired eco-friendly certifications, including the Ecocarbon-emission coefficient by energy source are calculated by applying friendliness Certificate, Energ-saving Efficiency Certificate, LEED, etc. the IPCC standard. These results reflect HDEC’s constant efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through sunlight energy, wind energy, LED lighting, blocking loss of electricity in the atmosphere, and so forth. These efforts will help residents and users of the buildings reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 8,622tCO2 per year. HDEC has also established a company-wide telephone conference system so as to save the trip and energy costs associated with employees’ business trips. These efforts also help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by reducing the energy cost associated with business trips between the Seoul headquarters, project sites throughout Korea, and the Yongin research center. [CO2 Emissions Record] 500,000 20.0 417,569 398,838 408,948 400,000 15.0 300,000 10.0 200,000 8.8 7.9 8.0 5.0 100,000 0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 Total amt. 총량(tCO2-e) In tCO2-e/100M KRW 원단위(tCO2-e/억원) (tCO2-e) 53 HDEC ensures eco-friendly operation and maintenance of all its Eco-friendly buildings even after their completion, by ensuring optimal usage of Building energy and other resources required by them. Maintenance Resource Cycling Buildings Recycling Water Resources Water is not an infinite resource, and the shortages of water are emerging as urgent issues in many parts of the world. HDEC supplies all BEMS (Building Energy Management System) its housing units with water-saving features, such as water-saving toilets BEMS represent a new phase in today’s technology for realizing most and other devices. The company also installs water gauges in all efficient, optimal ways of using energy. In order to realize its vision of lowhouseholds, leading residents to save water on their own. HDEC also carbon cities and zero-energy buildings, HDEC has developed distinct makes maximum use of the wastewater reuse systems and rainwater energy management systems that set it apart from other construction systems on all project sites, and seeks to promote optimization in water companies. Following the completion of development of the energy consumption patterns by building new facilities that would provide ecoinformation system for households in 2009, HDEC succeeded in friendly refinement of river water, seawater, and underground water. developing the energy management system for households in 2010. the new system maintains optimal operation of energy-consuming facilities throughout the household, minimizing energy consumption and providing Eco-friendly Building Maintenance information on energy consumption and indoor and outdoor conditions, and is expected to help households save up to 10% in energy usage. In addition to the new system, HDEC is also currently researching energy From the planning phase onward, HDEC aims at minimizing the cost of management systems for the entire housing unit and the city. It will maintenance for its building. It develops manuals and other documents continue to invest in active research and development of vital energy necessary for efficient maintenance, while maximizing variability and management systems and other energy-saving technologies. flexibility in the design and plan in case of change in the client’s demand. Saving Energy HDEC plans healthy housing units incorporating highly functional materials and preventive technologies. Its building plans always HDEC seeks to optimize the amounts of energy and resources incorporate concerns for the environment and accompanies thorough consumed in the course of maintaining and operating buildings after their preand post-construction environmental monitoring. completion. Hill State III by the Bukhan Mountain has been named by the City of Seoul as Green Village I, i.e., an exemplar of the low-carbon, green city that Seoul aspires to become. The fuel cell, adopted here for the first time in Korea, provides heating by utilizing the electricity and heat Post-Construction Environmental Impact Evaluation generated in creating water from the oxygen in the air and the hydrogen in the gas. This will help an apartment of 165m2 in area save up to 1.03 million KRW in energy cost. In order to compare the findings of the pre-construction impact evaluation and the actual conditions of operating and maintaining completed HDEC is also active in introducing new and recyclable energy techniques buildings, and to determine whether cost-saving options adopted prein realizing its dream of zero-carbon housing and buildings. Hill State in construction are indeed appropriate, HDEC conducts post-construction Banpo is installed with the sunlight modules on rooftops so as to produce environmental impact evaluations, systematically assessing anticipated eco-friendly, low-cost electricity supplied to common facilities and changes in the topography and geology, animal and plant groups, air and households. Each household produces 297kWh or more of energy per water quality, soil, waste generation, noise and oscillations, etc. the day, which provies for at least 106,920 kWh of total amounts of energy company regularly investigates what environmental impact its facilities used throughout the year. The two small wind power generators generate have on the surrounding environment and uses the gathered data to 5.6kWh of energy per day, which is then used to light the street lamps prepare immediate responses to unanticipated changes or accidents. and landscaping works within the Hill State site, helping to save up to While the law requires that the constructor engage in such investigations 2000kWh in the amount of energy used each year to maintain these for three years post-construction, HDEC ensures that its buildings be common facilities. provided with such evaluations for a long time into the future. 54 ♠ Saving Operation and Maintenance Costs by Adopting Green Items The amounts of greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumed in the course of using a building represent over 30% of the overall amounts of greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumed. It is therefore of paramount importance to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while using the building. As of 2010, 79 of all buildings completed by HDEC (70 at home and 9 abroad) received certifications of their eco-friendliness, such as the Eco-friendly Certificate, Energy Efficiency Grade Certificate, LEED, and so forth. The list of green items applied to these projects include the high-reflection lightdistributing panels, LED lighting for each household, street laps run on energy from the sunlight/wind/LED, sunlight –based power generation, systems preventing losses of energy in the atmosphere, and the LED lighting systems for intelligent parking lots. In 2010, these green items were incorporated into a total of 13,657 households so as to help them save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The effect is roughly equivalent to the generation of 13,093,937 kWh of extra energy, 20.95 million KRW saved per year in terms of energy cost, and an annual reduction of CO2 emissions by 5,551,829kg. This last number corresponds to the effect of planting anew 1,998,659 young pine trees. [ Energy Saved and CO2 Emissions Reduced by Green Items] Effects of Applying Green Items Year # of Households Yearly Energy Generation Yearly Energy Cost Saved (100M KRW) Yearly CO2 Reduction (kg) (kWh) 2008 7,742 2,927,378 468 1,241,208 2009 2,796 2,360,070 378 1,000,670 2010 13,657 13,093,937 2,095 5,551,829 (Total) 24,195 18,381,385 2,941 7,793,707 [ CO2 Reduction Corresponding in Effect to Planting New Pine Trees] 1,998,659 trees 446,835 trees 360,241 trees 2008 2009 2010 ※ The ‘Carbon Neutralization Standard’ provided by the Korea Forest Research Institute states that the repeated emission of 1 ton of carbon dioxides each year can be neutralized in effect only by planting 360 young pine trees over an area of 1,200m2 or larger, which is roughly the size of three basketball courts combined. 55 HDEC operates management systems and rules so as to minimize Eco-friendly the environmental impact and amounts of waste generated in the Removal course of removing existing buildings and facilities. It also actively encourages recycling of waste materials. Rules of Eco-friendly Removal Removal Process Guideline on Safety Standard for Removal Works If an external specialist contractor is involved in removal, HDEC selects a contractor with proven records of eco-friendly performances. Each HDEC’s Guideline on Safety Standard for Removal Works require that selected contractor must adopt advanced techniques and latestenvironmental impact and risks be minimized in he course of dissembling technology tools and machinery so as to minimize environmental risks and removing existing buildings and facilities. The guideline has been and engage in their tasks without causing much pollution, dust, or noise developed in accord with the industrial safety standard. Each project site to the surrounding environment. The contractor is to engage in preof HDEC strictly adheres to the terms the guideline provides for the removal investigation concerning possible complaints and risks, make its prevention of environmental impact and risks in operating dissembling best efforts to reduce waste of resources and environmental impact, and machinery and tools and for safe operations of removal work schedules. assign utmost priority to the safety of workers and structures. PreGuideline on the Disposal of Removed Facilities removal investigations are necessary to establish strategies for Given the nature of construction industry, large quantities of waste correction and improvement in case of any problems or complaints that materials are generated in the phases of construction and could arise in the course of removal (including the determination of dissembling/removal. HDEC insists on eco-friendly handling and disposal whether asbestos is found). Waste materials are classified by their type of removed facilities and structures as an important principle, and so as to minimize their amounts. requires that each project site adhere strictly to the company’s guideline and standard for the separation and storage, construction, and handling of facilities and structures before and after their removal. The company Managing Waste from Removal also makes great efforts to develop a new technique to minimize the amounts of waste generated, increase its recycling, and handle and dispose of them in eco-friendly ways. HDEC requires that all the waste materials generated during construction Guideline on Handling Hazardous Substances be separated by their type and recycled where applicable. It also seeks to prevent secondary contamination by providing regular training for Asbestos is a favored material in construction because of its resistance to employees. Waste materials can be processed and disposed of in four fire. Large quantities of asbestos are therefore found in dismantling and main ways. In the first phase, contractors collect entire amounts of removing outdated buildings incorporating slates. HDEC seeks to ensure packaging materials, waste oil and waste lubricant found on site. In the safety in removing these asbestos-containing construction materials so second phase, some waste materials are stored away in the intermediary as to avoid health and environmental risks associated with the substance storage. In the third phase, trash or garbage cans are installed in the onand help protect the surrounding environment against possible harms. site offices and cafeterias so as to divide between combustible and The company consults an external specialist agency for measuring incombustible waste materials. In the final phase, contractors are called asbestos contents. In cases where the content is 1% or more, the in to collect and dispose of waste materials, and pulverize incombustible company entrusts a specialist contractor for the removal and disposal of bulky materials where necessary. Environmental management asbestos-containing materials and facilities. Pursuant to the Waste supervisors that regularly inspects project sites to determine whether Material Control Act and Section 237 of the Industrial Safety and Health waste materials are processed according to given guidelines. Act, HDEC has developed systematic plans for removing asbestos and for protecting the health and safety of employees and workers, while ensuring minimization of dust and noise levels and providing for other safety measures. These plans must be approved by the Ministry of Labor before each scheduled work can proceed. Each slate containing asbestos is removed from the building in whole, sealed in double layers, marked with asbestos labels, and relocated to safe places. All the machinery and tools used in the removal process are cleaned using vacuum cleaners. Since surrounding objects may still contain asbestos, the company ensures that the surrounding environment stay moist and any reported residues of asbestos be handled according to law. 56 Green Campaign Eco-friendliness is no longer a special trait or goal of only certain companies. “Green” and “eco-friendliness” are values that any and all companies must pursue if they are to maintain consumers’ trust in and respect for them. Since the COP15 Meeting held in Copenhagen, Denmark, at the end of 2009, advanced countries around the world like the United States, France and Japan are eagerly adopting new measures to reduce carbon emissions that are the major cause of global warming and climate change. South Korea is also duty-bound to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 5% by 2020, compared to its record from 2005. HDEC wholly agrees with the rising worldwide concern for the environment, and seeks to incorporate those concerns and ideas into planning for its Green Campaign. ■ Aims: HDEC has come to plan its Green Campaign, first, in order to awaken the public to the greater environmental issues such as global warming, and second, to fulfill part of its responsibility as a corporate citizen of the world by participating more actively in green management. This is because HDEC realizes that it cannot be an exception to the worldwide trend for greater efforts for environmental preservation, for which transnational and governmental efforts are being organized and consolidated. ■ Blog HDEC has launched a new blog on its group ware, on which employees can voluntarily record the amounts of carbon emissions they helped to reduce on every Monday, which is called the “Green Day” at the company. This enables the employees to check what green activities they did throughout the week and allows them to see what significant environmental benefits their individual efforts can produce when combined company-wide. ■Plan: Green management is a popular buzzword in today’s international business community. HDEC recognizes as a key factor for its continued and sustainable growth in the future, and has actively encouraged all its divisions and offices to research new business items corresponding to green movements. The Green Campaign is a ground to lead these green company-wide efforts and is intended to inspire all employees and Board members about the possibilities and promise of green management. In the first phase of the campaign, employees record their carbon-reducing activities on their own on the company’s blog. In the second phase, the campaign will be extended beyond the individual level, to reach all project sites. As part of the preparations for the second phase, the company also launched its Greenhouse Gas Inventory System in 2010, which converts the amounts of electricity, heating, air-conditioning, and oil used by all the activities of the company into carbon footprint. The new system helps HDEC to discover what alternatives and measures it can adopt to reduce carbon emissions in the future. In the third phase of the campaign, HDEC will seek to establish the green activities aimed at reducing carbon emissions not only with employees and business partners, but with customers resident in its Hill State apartment complexes. The Green Campaign, which started from such small steps as using personal mugs instead of paper cups for coffee, has now established itself as part of HDEC’s eco-friendly organizational culture. It will continue to pave the ground for HDEC to lead the global green movements among its business partners and customers. [Green Campaign Blog] 57 Our Management Approach Principles & Policy In an effort to cultivate talented global leaders who will help create new values for the future and set the trends for change, HDEC operates a variety programs of communication and sharing of the common ethos of the company. The company also ensures that its construction employees and leaders maintain their top-tier reputation and capacity and contribute to the sustainable quality and thorough management of all HDEC products and services. HDEC, which ensures consumers’ trust by operating quality assurance systems and complying with international standards on safety, public health and the environment, also ensures customer satisfaction by organizing company-wide efforts for customer management. By realizing mutual growth with business partners and continuous quality improvement and innovation, HDEC also fulfills its social responsibilities. Key Issues & Activities Roles &Responsibilities Employees creating Discovering and cultivating new talents Management Assistance HQ (Office of HR): provides personnel policy new values Systematic support and training programs for all employees and Board members. Labor Union: works to improve working conditions and expand Culture of Trustworthy labor-management relations employee participation. communication Enlarging channels of communication Office of HR: diversifies and enlarges channels of communication. Mutual growth with Creating a model for mutual growth Management Assistance HQ (Offices of Purchasing and Outsourcing): business partners Support and assistance for business partners reviews, evaluates and decides on the support for business partners. Field Assistance HQ: quality assurance in design, construction, etc. Quality Assurance Innovation in quality assurance Housing HQ: makes continuous efforts for quality improvement. Safety Management Enhancing safety (Office of HSE Innovation): safe environmental management. CSR: develops strategic CSR roadmaps and operates volunteer CSR Programs Strategic CSR programs and activities activities. Management HQ (Office of Management Planning): establishes the Customer Satisfaction CSRM system. Housing HQ: ensures customer satisfaction with Hill State. Key Performance Data Area Item 2008 2009 2010 Remarks Employees and Current number of employees 7272 7429 7210 Board members Avg. amount of training 131.0 hrs 195.2 hrs 264.5 hrs Safety Accident rate 0.12 0.16 0.11 Business Business partners’ satisfaction survey 79.0 points Partners Employees’ participation 3,972 hrs 5,860 hrs CSR Cumulative # of participants 1,589 2,254 3990 Customers Customer satisfaction survey 71 73 80 58 HDEC seeks to discover and cultivate passionate, creative, worldCreating New class talents and leaders who will help expand the company’s Values through potential for future growth. Employees Human Resources Ideal Employees: Those who have scored well in the internship evaluations will be HDEC seeks to lead the way for knowledge-centered management that employed as new full-time employees early in 2011. The rewards system achieves globalization for the sake of humanity, society, and the future. at HDEC is differentiated only by position and working conditions and One of our most important tasks is to discover and recruit potential does not discriminate against women. talents and help them grow into major talents to help lead the company and the industry. The types of talents valued at HDEC are creative, Diversity and Equality: HDEC provides an equal and fair opportunity for passionate, global-minded persons who are capable of handling their employment to anyone regardless of race, ethnicity, and gender. HDEC jobs with strong drives and forming cooperative networks with those they also prefers engineers found in local societies overseas in conducting its work with. By discovering and helping these talents HDEC seeks to overseas projects for the purpose of maintaining good ties wand relations entrench its position as a leader of the worldwide construction market. with the local business partners and clients. HDEC has enlarged opportunities for locals to be employed overseas, and ensures the Employees and Board Members: protection of their rights. It now employs 1,413 locals overseas. There are HDEC currently employees a total of 6,408 employees and Board also 8 employees with disabilities, 53 veterans, and 47 foreign workers members in all the offices and project sites combined both at home and working at HDEC now. These 108 persons represent the company’s abroad. (This includes part-time, contract workers as well.) of the 6,408 commitment to diversity and equality. employees, 228 are women. Construction industry has long been known Human Resources Development for the dearth of women working in the field. Yet women represent 6.63% of those working at the managerial or higher levels within the company System: HDEC seeks to cultivate and develop human resources who will organization. The number is higher than the overall proportion of women lead the future and create new values worldwide. The company working at the company. encourages a culture of continuous learning throughout its organization, providing constant training and chances for learning on the basis of its Recruiting Talents: HDEC operates internship programs as part of its education infrastructure which manages information and knowledge efforts to discover and recruit talents early. In the early half of 2010 the efficiently. In 2010, the company ran a total of 1,527 training programs, company employed 400 interns in total, including 269 fresh out of with focus on the four areas of ‘developing core talents,’ ‘developing colleges and universities. Internships provide valuable sources of income leadership capacities,’ ‘common capacities,’ and ‘job-related capacities.’ and experience for young adults who are struggling with the current HDEC’s human resources development system encompasses capacityunemployment rate and economic recession. They are also great enhancing programs for the newly employed as well as the retirement occasions for discovering great talents at an early stage. support programs for those who are about to retire. • Sharing corporate values and culture of HDEC. • Strengthening ethical commitments, dedication to customers, innovation-orientation, and sustainable management. Common Capacities • “Be a Partner” and work innovation performance enhancing programs available for various positions and ranks. HR Development Programs • Enhances capacities required of each position or rank. Leadership Capacities • Leadership programs for mid-level managers, supervisors and Board members. • Professional management and job-exchange capacities enhanced. Job-Related Capacities • Different contents by position/rank: EP, process management, quality assurance, VE, CM, PM, etc. • Intended to enhance capacities of employees working overseas or just returned from overseas. Global Capacities • Language programs, online classes, English camps, language proficiency tests. • For acquiring professional certificates/qualifications. Core Professional Capacities • Professional training in the areas of new growth / construction management. • Dispatch overseas for studying and learning. 59 Programs: HDEC systematically supports capacity and skills In 2010, 7 employees applied for leave of absence for childcare reasons. development of all employees by providing customized training programs There were five employees who returned to their posts after their for different positions and ranks. Employees can learn a variety of childcare leave of absence and have worked for more than a year. subjects in specialized self-development programs as well as professional capacity enhancement training. The higher up the employee moves within the organization (from clerk, to deputy manager, to Foreign Workers: HDEC actively benchmarks other global companies in manager, to section chief, to department chief, and finally to the Board), adopting various multicultural elements and benefits in its treatment of the greater the depth and intensity of the training programs he can workers who have relocated from overseas. In order to help them settle undertake and the greater the support for gaining relevant professional and adjust better to Korean society, the company provides living qualifications for technical, assistant, or sales positions. HDEC arrangements and other conveniences in their work environments. The encourages employees to acquire qualifications in specialized skills so as company provides dormitories free of charge and other general to enhance their professionalism. In addition, the company also engages conditions of living for foreign workers. It also makes the groupware and its employees in a variety of programs intended to share company values, other means of company-wide communication available in English so that enhance leadership and construction-related techniques, global these workers know the company’s principles and policies. Special events are occasionally organized for foreign employees, to help them communication, online classes, and self-development. experience Korean culture in greater depth and focus better on their work Fair Evaluation by having their needs and wants taken care of. HDEC operates a rational, fair performance standard for the evaluation of its 7,500 employees and Board members. Strategic performance Healthcare: HDEC tracks health and safety associated risk factors in the evaluation systems provide fair rewards and remunerations. All jobs and working environments of its employees so as to ensure a safe employees are included first in the department performance evaluation, work environment for them at all times. The company also provides and then in individual performance evaluation, before receiving due emergency measures for employees. Health and hygiene training are rewards. HDEC encourages employees to improve their performances provided and on-site facilities are inspected during the TBM, while the on their own, and provides various incentives to encourage innovations, corporate headquarters operates a nursing room to help ensure health great ideas and suggestions, and acquiring professional qualifications. and safety of employees. The company also provides medical examinations for employees and their family members on a regular basis. In-company College: HDEC seeks to develop global-standard human resources by providing them with college-level courses in affiliation with universities. The in-company “graduate school” helps employees enhance their professional skills and engage in self-development by Type of Benefit Description offering classes in value engineering, construction information, risk Funding for personal and public events (condolences or management, personnel and organizational management. The courses congratulations) on expertise development enable participants to study new techniques in construction. The Techno Academy launched in 2010 produced a total of Financial aid and scholarship for learning Funding Support 99 graduates as of the end of 2010. Fringe benefits Welfare & Fringe Benefits Loans from the Saemaeul Mutual Savings. Loans from the In-company Welfare Fund. HDEC seeks to provide guarantees for improving quality of life for all its employees and offers various welfare and fringe benefits designed on the Travel Expenses For return trip homeward after fulfilling service overseas. basis of thorough analysis of employees’ needs and feedbacks. The Commute Support 30 commute buses in operation. company provides welfare funding for individual employees to help with Childcare Support Leave of absence (including spousal support) their medical care or learning, and offers common facilities for cultural All employees given workers’ comp insurances and other recreational activities. It also provides support for employees to Healthcare Uniforms provided. take sufficient rest before returning from abroad to their posts at home. In order to encourage employees to focus on their families, the company is Support for 11 in-company clubs and associations. Other currently researching various forms of maternity and family support. Self-development, cellular phones for on-site workers. 60 HDEC is innovating its corporate culture and, enhancing relations of Culture of mutual trust, and expanding the ethos of independence and harmony Communication by strengthening its online and offline channels of communication. Enhancing Communication Channels of Communication: Labor-Management Relations: Mutual Trust Mentoring Introduced: HDEC has introduced and now actively uses its Employees at HDEC are free to join or withdraw from labor unions. As of mentoring system to provide greater support for employees’ capacity the end of 2010, of the 2,184 eligible employees, 533 (24%) had joined enhancement and self-development. Mentors who are often senior-level the union. In 2010, the union gathered together 87 times in total, to employees provide help and suggestions, while mentees who are often organize discussions, collective bargaining, helping out the poor, raising junior-level employees use those advices to set their own workand fund for charity from employees and Board members, and so forth. career-related goals. A Corporate Culture Based on Employees: HDEC has officially The Junior Board: A rich source of innovative ideas and suggestions for endorsed the OECD Guideline for Multinational Corporations and the the future of HDEC, the Junior Board has rapidly grown into a team that is International Sullivan Principle. The company also seeks to fulfill its social leading greater exchange and innovation among HDEC employees. 54 responsibility and respect its employees by adhering to the ILO Tripartite members of the Board visit 26 countries in over the span of two months Agreement and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Pursuant to the for the Junior Board Global Research Project, exploring new and Basic Labor Act, the company has strictly forbidden forced migration and potential markets and advising the Board of Directors and management labor of its employees; consults employees in question before deciding on new sources of growth. The investigative activities of the Junior Board matters of their dismissal; and notifies employees in advance regarding members around the world in new markets are published in the form of important changes in the organization. the White Paper on Global Research, shared by every employee and Board member. Handling Complaints and Suggestions: HDEC operates the Sharing Knowledge through the Intranet: HDEC’s groupware has a Committee on Handling Employee Difficulties in order to receive and Knowledge Management System which enables employees to share and process complaints and suggestions from all employees and Board exchange work-related information freely and openly. All employees also members. The “Hotline” enables employees to express their suggestions share other platforms of common knowledge and information, such as the and opinions freely. All cases received via e-mail, fax, and telephone are Idea Silo and the Closed User Group on which they can freely update reported to the Office of Ombudsmen, where they are processed their comments and suggestions. Each platform offers a page for each accordingly. department or division so as to allow better access to the information HDEC operates an online reporting system for reporting internal employees in different departments and divisions need. corruption and unfairness. The system protects the anonymity and identity of reporters. The Office of Ombudsmen seeks to resolve various complaints and difficulties raised by employees and balance interests at stake. Enhancing Internal Communication d 4,000 employees working both in Korea and overseas gathered together to watch a seminar on the future prospects of the world economy, broadcast live on an Internet channel. This shot is from a room on the 8th floor of the corporate headquarters. 61 Cultural Opportunities: As part of its efforts to widen and diversify Family Programs channels of communication, HDEC provides various cultural Family Support for Employees Overseas: HDEC hosts banquets to opportunities and venues for employees, including invitation to various console family members of employees who are working hard for the concerts, performances, and so forth. HDEC’s cultural programs for growth of the company overseas. The company also invites employees’ employees are organized around the three themes of ‘Fun,’ ‘Trust,’ and children to the skim camp, summer camp, and parental love camp during ‘Pride,’ and serve as channels of communication with the Board and vacation. These programs enable children of employees working enhancing occasions for organizational diversity. overseas to create unforgettable memories with fellow children and their families. In-company Clubs and Associations: HDEC always seeks to enlarge and diversity channels of communication between employees and the Support for Working Moms: In celebration of May as the Family Month Board as well as among employees themselves. The Internet and new in Korea, HDEC hosted an event for working moms within the company, media are actively used to communicate and share news updates on the inviting them along with their children to a fun party at the company. The progress of the company and enable both vertical and horizontal party also served as an occasion on which children learn about their communications among company members. mothers’ work at the company and developed a new sense of In addition, employees are free to create and participate in various clubs appreciation and understanding of their mothers’ careers. and associations sharing interests and hobbies. There are also study groups for employees’ self-development and exchanging their information on work and other areas of life. In-company Clubs and Associations Camps for Children of HDEC Employees HDEC employees are active in communication and socializing with one Children of HDEC employees were invited to participate during their another, organizing voluntary study groups and other common-interest vacation in various camps, in which they learned the English language, associations through the HDEC groupware and online communities. proper manners and etiquette, Korean history, and so forth. Over 850 There are various clubs within the company dedicated to improving children of employees participated in these special camps held across English skills, enhancing artistic understanding, research for Hill State, Korea, including at the Seoul English Village, the Children’s History and energy development, swimming, and so forth. These clubs are invaluable Culture School, the Etiquette School in Cheonghak Village, and the opportunities for HDEC employees to share information and participate Cyber Scientific Genius Education Center at AIST. These camps let together in various meaningful activities. children relax and learn interesting new subjects in exciting environments and helped strengthen employees’ and their families’ satisfaction with the company. 62 Employees and Board Members Statistics Number of Employees Distribution by Age Distribution by Region of Origin (%) 7,429 516 Over 50 812 7,272 864 6,617 7,210 2887 30 ~ 50 692 6518 6,408 441 Under 30 2008 2009 2010 2010 2010 Women Employees (Non-managerial) Employment of the Socially Underprivileged Turnover and Retirement People with disability Veterans 39 47 239 228 210 227 227 39 127 59 53 6.08% 50 5.93% 5.50% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Medical Cost for Full-time Employees Training per Employee (No. of hrs) Training Completion Rate (%) and Their Family Members (In 100M KRW) 12 Non-trained 11.5 264.5 9.12 Trained 10 8.31 194.0 4% 8 96% 6 131.0 with disability 3.1 4 2.84 2.72 0 2008 2009 2010 2010 2008 2009 2010 63 Mutual Growth HDEC seeks to ensure a sustainable network of distribution and supply by pursuing mutual growth and benefits with business partners and sharing responsibilities for products and employee safety. Creating a Mutual Growth Model Training for Overseas Business: HDEC currently operates the Strategy for Mutual Growth: Training Program for Business Partners’ Overseas Business, targeting HDEC has been enhancing the system of its cooperation with its 1,000 or so employees across 600 or so business partners’ business partners by sharing information with them and offering support organizations. It provides macro-level understandings of their target and assistance for them. In order to lighten the burden of capital shortage countries and other helpful tips and information on finding local labor on business partners, HDEC has been supporting the stability of their and securing materials. management and organized various discussion meetings. HDEC seeks to ensure a sustainable network of mutual growth and distribution by Financial Assistance maintaining transparent, fair business deals at all times. Mutual Cooperation Fund: HDEC has created, in agreement with other Selecting Business Partners: HDEC ensures an equal opportunity for financial institutes, a fund of 60 billion won in total to help business all candidates to participate and be considered in selecting business partners cope with temporary hardships. The fund is operated by the partners. Business partners must abide by HDEC’s terms and conditions larger company depositing a certain amount of money, which is then of environmental management and safety as part of their contracts. administered by the bank to provide low-interest loans for small and HDEC requires that business partners abide by the special terms and medium-sized businesses. In addition, as part of its efforts to ensure provisions of the Industrial Safety and Health Act and the Environmental mutual growth, HDEC has also made a special contribution of 100 million Management Act, and comply with the relevant guidelines and standards KRW to the Credit Guaranty Fund, which provides loans for all small and provided by the ISO and other international agreements. medium-sized businesses in Korea. Communication with Business Partners Supporting Business Partners Discussion Meetings: HDEC regularly organizes discussion meetings Providing Training and Education with representatives of business partners (contractors and suppliers), Ethical, Environmental and Safety Management: HDEC provides bringing together the core members of HDEC’s Board and leaders of training and education on these areas of management so as to create over 1,000 partner organizations for greater mutual understanding and and maintain a culture of transparent, fair organizational relationships communication. These are occasions in which partner organizations with its business partners. The participants in the Training for Business share their experiences and difficulties with HDEC and all participants Partners’ Transparent and Ethical Management learn about the concept can work together to find better solutions for a better future for all and scope of ethical management, sign pledges for ethical management, involved. and begin the first step toward fair and transparent relationship with HDEC. Policy for Mutual Growth Activities for Mutual Growth: -Encouraging partners to develop new technology; -Discovering and recruiting new partners; Partners’ Communication: Business HDEC -Enhancing system of cooperation for overseas projects; -”Hi Partner” (computerized network of cooperation); Partners -Ensuring partners’ compliance with the EHS standard; -Partners’ satisfaction survey; -Assisting partners’ ethical management. -Training and workshops. Future Directions: -Building and enhancing trust through fair business dealings; -Enhancing support for partners’ competitiveness. 64 Athletic Events and Workshops: The HDEC Council for Mutual Growth, organized to promote mutual trust and benefits for HDEC and business partners alike, also hosted an athletic event in which members of both sides consolidated their trust and solidarity together. Various workshops provided for business partners also enabled them to gain greater information about the industry and communicate their difficulties and problems. HDEC counts these business partners as partners in a common venture and actively encourages them to continue on until all meet their shared goals together. Quality and Technological Assistance Hangyeong Technology Awards: HDEC hosts each year the Hangyeong Technology Awards, in order to encourage and support technological research and development by business partners. Award-winning partner organizations are given preferential treatments in performance evaluation and are given support for patent application. There are 64 cases of patent, new design and utility model applications applied by HDEC and business partners together. Training for Business Partners Purchase from local contractors (in Korea) (%) Purchase from local contractors (abroad) (% Performance Evaluation ) Goods and materials Subcontracting Goods and materials Subcontracting 2010 Exemplary 2008 2009 2010 2010 2009 2010 65 Special Feature: Current State of Mutual Growth with Business Partners Current Record Area Item Description Achievements • Enhancing business partner organizations’ capacities and competitiveness by 3 workshops a year for Training for Business providing relevant local information, tips on networking, making right purchasing overseas business; 1 Training Partners decisions, etc. ethical management • Ethical management training for all business partners. training each year. Overseas Site To help enable exemplary business partners find ways into overseas markets along Held once a year for Exploration with HDEC. exemplary partners. A fund of 60 billion KRW providing financial aid and support for 680 business partner Currently helping 30 Mutual Growth Fund organizations. partner organizations. Support and Assistance 100M KRW contributed Intended to help all smalland medium-sized businesses in Korea struggling with Contribution of 100M to the Credit Guaranty liquidity crisis. KRW made. Fund Hangyeong Technology Intended to encourage and reward research and development by partner organizations. First held in 2010. Awards Separately held for each of four categories (civil engineering, construction, mechanical, Held once per year for Discussion Meetings and electricity) each category. Communication Mutual Growth Held monthly, attended by Organizes monthly discussions to promote mutual growth. Committee 15 members. Mutual Growth with Business Partners Communication with Business Partners -Supporting Overseas Site Exploration by Exemplary Partner Organizations -Workshops held by the Council on Mutual Growth HDEC selects exemplary business partner organizations and supports The HDEC Council on Mutual Growth with Business Partners held their explorations of overseas HDEC project sites and market potential. workshops to expand communication with partner organizations that Members of the twenty exemplary partner organizations were invited to a supply goods and services to HDEC. trip to the project sites in four countries in the Middle East—the UAE, 200 members of 161 partner organizations participated in the program, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Kuwait—over a period of six days. The learning about safety and quality issues and engaging in free discussions participants were given invaluable opportunities to see with their own eye and conversations with members of HDEC, airing their grievances and collaboration among various areas and categories of skills and helpful suggestions over tea and coffee. HDEC will continue to enhance engineering technology, and get a measure of the trends and prospects its assistance and support for partner organizations in the future to of the local market. HDEC will continue to support exemplary partner ensure opportunities for mutual growth for all, improving the lowest-bid organizations in paving the ground for mutual pioneering of overseas competition system, securing raw materials early, and enlarging training market in recognition of these partners as equal bearers of the common opportunities for partner organizations. adventure. 66 Quality Assurance HDEC combines latest technology with information to bring about groundbreaking innovations in quality. It will maintain clients’ trust by ensuring its rigorous quality assurance activities. Innovation in Quality Assurance QA Activities Quality Innovation Strategy Project Quality Index (PQI) measures on-site quality of HDEC’s project The QA strategy at HDEC incorporates QA at all levels of company-wide and related activities. It combines the HQRS scheme with criteria of activities by linking it to customer service. The company has adopted the evaluation across four additional qualitative areas: the H-PMS, customer satisfaction, construction quality assessment, and rewards. The PQI Project Quality Index (PQI) on its own so as to provide customer represents part of HDEC’s self-motivated efforts to ensure continuously satisfaction by quantifying items of on-site quality assurance and showing improving quality and customer satisfaction by enabling early the results in ascertainable, objective terms. identification and correction of vulnerable issues. QA System: Based on its extensive experience, HDEC has developed its own unique QA structure consisting of: the Hyundai Quality Rating On-site Quality Assessment: HDEC conducts its own quality System (HQRS); the Human Resources Management System (HRMS); assessment through its own QA scheme. On-site quality assessment the Integrated Piping Control System (IPCS), and the Cost of Poor involves the evaluation of the frames that form the basic skeletal structure Quality (COPQ), all of which apply to all phases of the company’s QA of the project. It also involves inspection of the mock-up household by the activities, from material purchasing via construction and testing to special technical team dispatched from the corporate headquarters to commissioning. determine main issues and areas of quality assurance. QA Policy: HDEC regards quality as the key to maintaining trust from its Guaranteed by International Standards: HDEC, whose quality clients. Its comprehensive QA scheme ensures optimal management and assurance and environmental management systems have been certified control of all its construction processes and activities. The effective, by the ISO 9001 and the ISO 14001, respectively, apply rigorous QA systematic and process-oriented activities aiming at improvement standards and criteria to all phases of its activities both in domestic and ensures sustainable quality and leads to greater customer satisfaction. overseas projects, from engineering and procurement via construction HDEC’s processes ensure accurate analysis of customers’ needs before and operation to testing, commissioning and maintenance. In selecting construction and thorough inspection and maintenance after construction business partners, the company also includes international standards on for complete satisfaction. Post-construction monitoring and inspections the environment, labor and safety and health issues in the contracts to be are essential to HDEC’s continued efforts to improve and innovate quality. enforced. QCS Innovation Strategy HQRS On-site Assessment Independent Companywide QA Scheme Enhanced quality and NCSI No. 1 and enhanced customer-service soft brand value power QCS Integrated QCS Global QCS capacity Innovat throughout HMG enhanced. ion CS activities applied to all Knowledge-based QA levels of company-wide Plant Electricity Civil eng. Construction Housing Nuclear power (databases) activities 2010 yearly avg. Preventive QA enhanced by linking it to CS. As of 2010, the average for all 68 sites assessed was Lev. 3.65 (“Effective The integrated QA-CS activities will help ensure greater Execution”). The scores for electricity, civil and environmental engineering, customer satisfaction in the quality of finished projects. construction and housing businesses have steadily increased over the years. 67 Product Quality Improvement Process Monitoring and Evaluation There are roughly three phases in the Business Partner Evaluation: Business partner organizations are more product quality improvement process at prone to fluctuations in the external conditions. Economic recessions can HDEC. First, quality as assessed on site often lead partner organizations to struggle with various types of is reported to the headquarters. The hardships, including financial worries that could compromise the quality headquarters then organizes an of their products and processes. All this might end up delaying or evaluation team according to its monthly compromising the overall project on site. As part of its risk management evaluation plan to determine the progress and on-site safety control, HDEC ensures that the managers on site in quality on site. understand their roles and responsibilities fully, be provided with The headquarters then updates the results of the HQRS and construction adequate training, implement the Safety and Health Management quality evaluations on the system to incorporate them into the customer Systems well, and so forth. satisfaction surveys. The Department of Quality Assurance also oversees Various criteria of evaluation allow HDEC rank partner organizations from the establishment of annual quality evaluation plans and other QA and A to E, depending on their on-site management abilities, processes, CS processes. The department then publishes annual quality analysis construction quality, safety management, materials, and postreports, thereby completing the quality review. construction maintenance. Quality Innovation through New Technology Constant Monitoring of After-Sales Services by Business Partners: HDCE’s computerized system allows for real-time monitoring and data HDEC has long sought to ensure innovation in quality by adopting and collection on the after-sales services provided by its partner applying new technology and techniques ahead of others. The state-oforganizations. The system enables proactive services and provides the-art systems help save energy and add comfort to daily lives of our criteria for evaluating business partners. 227 partner organizations customers. across 10 categories (furniture, interior décor, plumbing, wet processes, window works, electricity, facilities, etc.) are evaluated in terms of their adequacy and fastness in providing services. 68 Safety Management HDEC ensures safety in all areas of its projects and activities by strengthening its safety management systems that protect safety, health and the environment at all times. Strengthening Safety Management H-PMS integrated Information: The H-PMS enables integration and Safety Management Systems management of all data and information relating to safety control on all HDEC implements world-class standards in protecting safety, health and project sites. The system not only records and collects data on various the environment in all its practices and activities. It provides for accidents that have occurred on site, but also saves the findings of risk systematic assessments and inspections in advance according to its management processes and evaluation, enabling the company to find health, safety and environmental plans and seeks to implement the global best alternatives and corrective measures to be taken. Cases of HSE standard in is activities by constructing systems of health, safety accidents recorded immediately are used as case study materials for and environmental protection overseas. educating and training on-site and office employees both online and offline. Safety Management Policy Safety is not only a matter of a series of preand post-construction International Standards: The Office of Health and Safety ensures processes and protocols, but forms part of entrenched culture at HDEC. compliance with the international standards, such as the OHAS 18001, HDEC achieves this by spreading safety information through adequate ISO 14001, KOSHA 18001, etc., in determining the appropriateness of training and seeking measures to ensure health, safety and welfare of all HDEC’s Safety, Health and Environmental Management Systems and its employees. It traces and manages various risks associated with their effective implementation. employees’ and public’s health and safety on a regular basis so as to Findings of such assessment then form the basis of special terms and maintain a safe working environment for employees. It also has conditions included in contracts with business partners regarding established an effective safety control system that blocks and prevents environmental, labor and safety protection and management at partner safety accidents at fundamental levels. organizations. HDEC also evaluates the safety and environmental management practices of its suppliers from A to D and demands corrective measures should problems arise. Safety Management on Site: HDEC continually assesses risk factors inherent in project sites and implements appropriate training programs Safety Management Activities and practices after review and discussions. On-site safety management HDEC implements its safety management systems across all levels of its systems provides for continued improvement through daily and monthly organization and activities, enabling thorough safety inspections of onmonitoring activities. This double-track safety management system site projects and working environments. Working environments are ensures safety inspection and improvement on all project cites, leading assessed and monitored daily so as to prepare immediate responses if the virtuous circle of safety control between daily check and continuous required. The Health, Safety and Environmental Rules (HSE) are also monitoring. kept on the company’s computerized management system so as to provide for diverse and systematic measures of on-site safety measures in different regions. The areas of concern identified by HSE evaluations are corrected together by HDEC and concerned partner organizations and reported to the Department of Safety and Environmental Management. Internal and External Safety Checks Accident Prevention Rate Disaster Frequency Rate (In 10M KRW) (%) # of employees from business partner organizations 855.8 526.4 472.2 2008 2009 2010 69 There are types of accidents and natural disasters of especial focus Safety Management Training: HDEC provides safety training for new differing by season and month, categorized by their tendency to occur employees, site managers and safety managers to help protect them with especially high frequency in certain periods of the year and not in against various types of health and safety risks. Training in basic rules of others. These include fires, collapse, falls, flooding, electric shocks, safety is provided from both the corporate headquarters and on site. equipment destruction and falls, and so forth. Company-wide campaigns Disaster-prevention training is provided not only for HDEC employees, and training are conducted to provide adequate safety education in case but for all members of partner organizations working on site. Safety of these events. training is repeated twice a year for HDEC employees and members of Basic Rules of Safety: HDEC has also developed the Basic Rules of partner organizations working on the site of project development. In 2010, Safety in order to help prevent disasters and accident at all levels. the company provided additional training differing in content by the Employees are required to follow these rules in dealing with disasters subject’s job and position, allowing up to six hours of training per and accidents of major concern. Violations of these rules may result in individual. Last year’s accident rate was 0.112%, down by 65.4% from revocation of their authorities. the previous year. The number of death reported was 11. HDEC intends HSE Manuals Distributed: HDEC has also published pocket-sized HSE to enhance its safety training programs especially for civil engineering, manuals, providing ten rules concerning the HSE evaluation criteria and environmental management and plants in which accident rates tend to be safety accidents. Distributed to all employees, the manual will also be high. Death rates are regarded as one main indicator of the company’s translated into multiple languages and distributed to workers on sites health and safety control performance. Working environments will be around the world. improved to reduce these rates. Safety Events: In addition to safety inspection, HDEC sets aside every Safety Management of Business Partners: All business partners are evaluated on a regular basis in terms of their compliance with the April as the Month of Safety Check, using it as an occasion to heighten standards for environmental and safety management. Reported incidents employees’ awareness of safety issues and concerns. The number of of non-compliance are met with demands for correction. These are also events held in 2010 increased by 0.3% from the previous year. occasions meant to encourage greater compliance with health and safety rules in partner organizations, by providing them with further training in Restricting Violations of Safety Rules: Any employee caught violating those rules. Delegates from HDEC give lectures on ethical management, basic rules of safety on site will have his or her authorizations revoked. quality assurance, safety management, AS/CS, and site supervision. He or she may even be subject to legal punishment and actions should Workshops held allow participants to share site information. his/her breach of safety rules result in major safety crises. Promoting and Educating Safety Management Promoting: Since 2008 HDEC has been distributing DVDs for safety education and training of foreign workers. These DVDs train foreign workers against seasonal accidents and disasters. Preventive banners and other materials are also displayed on and around project sites to remind the workers of the importance of safety. Examples of Accidents Safety-Related Events Safety-related events, 2010 # of events # of participants 70 HDEC seeks to ensure satisfaction for all customers by providing Customer value and quality. It continues to improve and innovative its Satisfaction customer satisfaction management in customer relations. Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Enhanced: HDEC is working to enhance its Customer Satisfaction System Complete status as a leading brand by providing distinct and better customer HDEC’s view of the customer has changed over time. Earlier in its history, services. Every national holiday season delegates from the company visit it used to think of anyone who was intertwined with HDEC in terms of local centers for the elderly and seniors, sharing rice cakes with them. interests and who received ‘service’ from the company as a ‘customer.’ in The company donates health-enhancing equipment and libraries to these recent years, the Department of Customer Service extended limited, onesenior facilities and organizes charity bazaars and flea markets to enable time customer satisfaction activities to all levels of the company activities. residents of its housing complexes to participate in greater opportunities In order to strengthen its service structure and create additional values for meaningful activities. Customer survey revealed that cleaning of the for customers by strengthening the company’s reputation and quality of exterior windows had the highest demand. HDEC immediately complied, services, it has published the Hill State Customer Service Record. In thereby instantly dissolving customers’ complaints away. addition, an e-book on customer service manuals and CS promotional Impressing Customers through Care: Hill State Express Service Team materials have been developed as well, drawing in greater participation was organized to provide immediate troubleshooting and other afterfrom all employees in ensuring customer satisfaction. sales service and care upon receiving reports and complaints from Toward Integrated Customer Service customers. The team provides detailed care and right solutions for not As the main focus of its business shifted to plant and electricity only new residents in Hill State, but even those who have lived there for 1 development, HDEC has come to conduct customer surveys to manage ~ 5 years. The team will continue to provide the needed service until the customer relations and satisfaction. By integrating the databases on B2B customer is completely satisfied. Sometimes the team may visit the and B2C customers, it is now preparing fore an integrated customer customer even without receiving complaints, checking if everything is to relations management (CRM) system that will enable both advanced their liking and preventing any possible risk factors or troubles. marketing and after-sales satisfaction surveys. Creating an Integrated CRM Center: Integrated CRM is essential to Home Coming Day: Employees of HDEC’s partner organizations may visit Hill State households. These visits are conducted once a year or so accurately identifying customers’ changing needs and enable the has passed since the resident moved into Hill State as part of the company to respond to changes both internal and external. The complete Hill State service package. These agents will provide intensive emphasis in housing industry is now rapidly shifting from “productrepair services to solve reported problems and prevent their recurrence. centeredness” to “brandand customer-centeredness.” the integrated These visits will be opportunities for partner organizations to learn more CRM system will allow HDEC to identify market conditions better and about the importance of after-sales service and care. Customers will enjoy the added benefit of having their households checked and possible exercise more effective marketing activities and campaigns in problems solved even without filing a single complaint. correspondence with the consumer patterns and characteristics stored in the integrated database. Training for Customer Service Agents and Technicians Integrated Online and Offline VOC Management: HDEC actively seeks In order to enhance its customer services, HDEC continues to train all the out the voice of customers (VOC) through such diverse channels as the related agents and technicians. The company trains CS agents and Hill State website, mails to the CEO, telephone, post, and visits by technicians twice a year. Participants learn by examples of successful customers to its offices. The data collected in these areas are integrated case studies and by engaging in role plays intended to enhance their by the CRM office and incorporated into daily reports and website negotiating skills and abilities to treat customers with utmost kindness. renewal in responding better to customers. The ‘Mails to the CEO’ is a The training also enhances participants’ attitude to service, enabling them channel that allows customers to send e-mails to the CEO directly. to respond to complaints effectively. The company provides training on Replies are prepared by the executive staff. the importance of customer service and relevant coaching for technicians Customer Services dispatched by partner organizations as well. HDEC has changed its focus on customer service to better suit the changing needs and wants of customers. It has enhanced brand and customer-oriented management for residents of Hill State, providing them with distinct services. 71 Evolution in the Role of the Hill State Styler: Customer Satisfaction Survey 2008년 2008년 2009년 2009년 2010년 2010년 HDEC conducts surveys on satisfaction of customers with the company’s housing and other architectural products. in 2010, the NCSI score for the company was 80 points, raised by 7 points from the previous year. There was a noticeable decrease in complaints raised by customers, thanks to the significant improvement in general quality of products and services. By providing systematic, specialized customer care, the company succeeded in expanding and consolidating customers’ loyalty to its brand and services among both the new and existing customers. Hill State Stylers’ Activities HDEC selects Hill State stylers every year. These stylers are customers who evaluate Hill State apartments and related services. This is part of HDEC’s efforts to incorporate larger customer participation in the production and operation of Hill State apartments, viewing customers not as passive recipients of goods and services, but as smart “prosumers” capable of both producing and consuming the goods and services they want. First launched in 2008, the stylers are mainly housewives who advise the company on how Hill State products and services could be improved, from the perspective of actual residents. There are 8 stylers this year, who will meet for 30 times in total, evaluating Hill State in terms of three main areas: that is, trends, design, and customers’ needs. These members have made a total of 570 suggestions, 44 of which have already been incorporated into actual services and 119 of which are currently under review. Hill State Stylers are indispensable part of making Hill State a better place for every customer. They represent HDEC’s commitment to maximizing values for customers. Examples of Stylers’ Suggestions Put into Practice One-stop Laundry: Slipper Dryer Blow Dryer Rack Kitchen Pantry -Providing for machineA small addition to the bathtub An easy storage solution for hair dryers. Foldable shelves providing and hand-washing at the enabling the user to hang his for more convenient, same time as well as slippers dry after use. spacious storage. storage. 72 HDEC provides CSR programs under three main themes, making CSR Programs contribution to the development and growth of local communities. Strategic CSR Programs Cultural Support: HDEC also sought to preserve part of Korea’s cultural and architectural heritage, while at the same time enlarging opportunities In 2010 HDEC sought to continue sustainable CSR activities and for the poor to experience this part of Korean culture. The One-Company programs, by pursuing genuine communication with society at large in One-Heritage Project is one of the most well-known CSR projects of distinct and unique manners. To this end the company pursued longerHDEC, seeking to preserve traditional Korean architectural works. “Let’s term campaigns that express the company’s identity, rather than pursuing Share Culture and Arts” is another project that hosts performances for the one-time-only, short-term events. These activities have actually poor and the alienated. enhanced the company’s image and reputation. hdEC will continue to lead the CSR activities in Korea as an exemplar in the field. Systematizing CSR HDEC sought to systematize and consolidate its CSR programs and activities, by developing a system to manage volunteer activities of Three Main Themes employees and another system that encourages and provides guideline for different types of volunteerism. The company also began in 2010 to HDEC adopted a new strategy regarding its CSR programs in 2010, encourage volunteerism by providing CSR Mileage Points, CSR Returner seeking to realize three core themes or values in its activities: namely, Points, and operating the HDEC Social Volunteers Corps. love, hope, and culture. It sought to spread the culture of sharing through its midto long-term CSR strategy, encouraging employees’ participation CSR Systems: The CSR Mileage Points were introduced to manage in various activities and communicating actively with the local employees’ CSR activities systematically and reward exemplar cases, communities to help them grow. providing incentives in the forms of preferential treatments in performance evaluation. In 2010, the total mileage reached 45,374 Youth Scholarships: For the theme of ‘hope,’ HDEC has decided to (38,273 hours) points from all employees combined. 403 employees provide scholarships and financial aid for teenagers. The Scholarship for received bonus points in their evaluations. The CSR Returner System Children of Victims of Construction-related Accidents is the first provides up to 50,000 KRW a year for each volunteering employee. scholarship project of its kind in Korea, providing significant help for CSR Management System: HDEC has also developed a CSR family members of victims who had been killed or wounded on management system that enables individual employees to manage their construction sites. volunteer records and share their experiences with others. The system also keeps record of the expenses and costs caused by on-site CSR Helping the Poor: HDEC sought to capitalize on the advantages it has activities, thereby improving overall transparency in the execution of as a leading construction company even in designing and providing CSR budgets. programs. For the theme of ‘love,’ the company decided to help improve living conditions of the poor, providing free repair and renovation services for homes for people with disability in Seoul and Incheon. 2010 CSR Strategy 3 Main Differentiated, Providing resources and support for the underprivileged. Love Specialized Themes Projects Strategic Providing cultural and artistic opportunities CSR Culture for the culturally excluded. Programs Actual benefits for Responding the poor and the to major underprivileged. social issues. Providing financial support for education Hope 73 CSR Achievements Fundraising and Donations (In 100M KRW, %) Employee Participation and CSR Mileage (In 100M KRW, %) 24% Local Community Culture, art and physical education 4.4 4% Environment 24.9 Education and 7,990 academic scholarship 13.2 Total used amount is 3.4 billon 18.3 2,254 34% 7.3 Social 38% 1,589 Social Welfare Welfare Local Community 72.5 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Type Period Description Achievements (over the last 3 years) Repair services for homes for people with disability in Seoul Providing care and support for three homes, established as part of the company-organized volunteering program. Housing and MOU signed with the National Central Museum for the donation 120 million KRW in cost. infrastructure of a kids’ playground Apr. ~ May, Jul. ~ Agreement with local communities for improving household Sep. energy saving efficiency. Free repair and renovation services for houses of the poor. June ~ Present Green Trees of Hope Supporting 300 children of accident victims, with Organization participation from 50 employees Employee fundraising Fundraising Nov. ~ Dec., 2009 Donate Your Change Campaign 517 million KRW raised from 517 participants. Year-around Volunteerism Mileage for employees 10.7 mileage points on avg. per employee; 94.2% participation rate. Volunteerism Summer, Winter Sharing Lunch Boxes of Hope Supporting 49 poor children, with participation Holidays from 161 employees. March ~ November Guarding the Changdeok Royal Palace. 300 employees and family members. Messena activities providing cultural opportunities to the 205 performances held in total, with 150,000 Arts culturally excluded. cumulative members of the audience. Athletic 2010 Hill State Volley Ball Team 2.3 billion KRW. 46 elementary students Green Trees of Hope Tutoring on visit 64 middle-school students 87 elementary students 21 volunteers (tutors) Monthly Scholarships 108 middle-school students One-on-one free tutoring service after school. 21 students 105 high-school tudents Providing financial aid for extracurricular 29 volunteers 80 children given priority Providing mentoring on-line once a week. activities and lessons 29 students 74 CSR Activities Photos from 2010 CSR Activities 7,970 persons = The number of employees participating in CSR The Banpo Hill State building site is also home to regular volunteer works providing care for seniors living by themselves in the local area of Shinnim-dong, in conjunction with a local welfare organization. Employees provide floor heating, repair the boilers and bathrooms, replace light bulbs, and bring home-cooked food to these seniors to help make their winters warmer. 340 million KRW = The total amount of money spent on CSR in 2010 HDEC launched the Green Trees of Hope Volunteers Corps in 2010, providing care and material aid for children of victims of construction-related accidents in the areas of education, cultural experience, and emotional growth. Comprised of the company’s employees, the volunteers of the corps will provide mentoring, raise educational and learning funds, help with career search, and opportunities for cultural and artistic activities for children of 300 families registered with the organization. HDEC published the Green Trees of Hope to report on its CSR activities in this area and systematic plans for future activities. 94.2% = HDEC provided free windows and toilets and painting works on the exterior walls of a school, which had been closed but reopened Employee participation rate to hold classes for children of Korean fathers and immigrant mothers. 10.7 Mileage Points = Average mileage per employee. HDEC signed a MOU with the National Central Museum to make greater joint efforts in “inheriting the national cultural and traditional heritage.” HDEC promotes traditional Korean culture, customs and history both at home and abroad, sponsoring various exhibitions, performances, events and classes. The company has also donated an eco-friendly energy playground for children to the museum. 75
