SUSTAINABILITY 2010 REPORT Our Commitment |Table of contents – Sustainability Report 2010 Table of contents About the Report 2 Chairman’s statement 4 Commitments – what we said – what we did 5 Key indicators 7 1. About ren 9 1.1 Profile 9 1.2 Main events in 2010 13 1.3 Corporate governance model 16 2. Commitment to stakeholders 17 2.1 Sustainability strategy 17 2.2 Stakeholder engagement 18 2.3 Risk management 21 2.4 Code of conduct 23 2.5 Our partners 24 2.6 Human capital 25 2.7 Support to the community 35 3. Commitment to the future 39 3.1 Our challenges 39 3.2 Integration of markets 41 3.3 Security, reliability, quality and guarantee of supply 42 3.4 Research and technological development and innovation 48 3.5 The Energy of next generations 50 4. Commitment to the environment 52 4.1 Environmental impact 52 4.2 Climate change 64 4.3 Biodiversity 66 Appendices 71 Energy glossary 71 gri index 72 Calculation criteria 81 Assurance report 83 Contact information 86 1 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 About the Report For the sixth year running, we publish the Sustainability Report of ren – Redes Energéticas Nacionais, sgps, s.a. aa1000aps Accountability Principles Standard (ren), in which the activity developed in this field in (2008) 2010 is described. The contents of this report cover the activities of the following companies: Rede Eléctrica Nacional Aware of the importance of stakeholder engagement s.a., ren Gasodutos s.a., ren Armazenagem s.a., ren to formulate and implement a sustainability strategy, Atlântico s.a., ren Trading s.a., ren Serviços s.a. and we reviewed, in 2009, our approach to the themes of enondas, s.a., except economic indicators, which are sustainable development, applying the principles of inclusion, relevance and responsiveness. consolidated for the ren Group. Whenever reported indicators do not correspond to the referred scope, the The application of these principles, briefly presented, restriction is indicated. was reflected in the strategic pillars as well as in the content of the Sustainability Report. The information presented in this report can be • Inclusion (participation of the stakeholders in  supplemented with the Annual Report 2010 and the the development and implementation of the www.ren.pt Corporate Governance Report 2010, or it can be checked sustainability strategy): methodologies and in our website or in others websites, following the engagement and participation processes of several references marked throughout the Report. stakeholders were defined. In the definition of our sustainability strategy, we tried to include This report was prepared in accordance with the third relevant themes and stakeholders’ expectations. version of the guidelines (g3) issued by the Global • Relevance (determination of the relevant themes Reporting Initiative (gri), based on the protocols of for ren and for stakeholders): for the identification the overall indicators and on the Electric Utility Sector of relevant themes, we benchmarked peer Supplement. We adopted and comprehensively companies, analysed the main trends of the sector and considered the findings of the stakeholder responded to the requirements corresponding to the a+ engagement in 2009. application level of gri. • Responsiveness (ren’s responsiveness to relevant themes through decisions, actions, performance and communication): we tried to answer to C C+ B B+ A A+ the expectations and concerns shown by each stakeholder, individually or globally. Overall, Self-declared  the main mean of communication used is the Sustainability Report, in which we communicate Third-party the strategy, initiatives and performance achieved.  checked In the sections of this report on sustainability strategy and stakeholder engagement, detailed information Checked by gri  about the application of these principles is provided. (sR chapters 2.1 and 2.2) The gri index is in the appendices, corresponding the contents of this report to the requirements.  Statement of the Social Responsibility This document was assured by an independent body, Policy www.ren. Deloitte & Associados, sroc s.a., in accordance with pt/vPT/GrupoREN/ Sustentabilidade the isae 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements 300o) and with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative, third version (gri3) and the aa1000APS Accountability Principles Standard (2008). 2 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Throughout this report, we will make some questions to readers, with the possibility of online answer. Contributions collected will be processed and the findings will be presented in the next sustainability report, which will be published in 2011, in which we will seek to meet stakeholder expectations. We respect the commitment, which arises from joining the United Nations Global Compact initiative in 2005, of providing information about the progress of the implementation of the 10 Principles, which is shown throughout the report by this symbol. Principles of Human Rights 1 Respecting and protecting human rights 2 Stopping violations of human rights Principles of Labour Law 3 Supporting the freedom of association at work 4 Abolishing all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Abolishing child labour 6 Eliminating discrimination at work Principles of Environmental Protection 7 Supporting a preventive approach to environmental challenges 8 Promoting environmental responsibility 9 Encouraging environmentally friendly technologies Principles against Corruption 10 Fighting against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery 3 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Chairman’s statement It is with great pleasure that we publish our sixth Sustainability Report. ren has dedicated the best of its efforts to the maintenance of high service quality standards and to the minimisation of impacts on the environment and on the quality of life of local communities arising from the construction of infrastructure. We assume the commitment to face sustainable development as one of the key pillars of our activity, and we nurture this value as part of ren’s culture. Our commitment has been increasingly recognised, even internationally, of which the most recent example was the distinction of ren at the World Finance Awards as the Company of the Decade in Portugal (2001-2010), with a mention to the measures we have taken in recent years concerning sustainability. Rui Cartaxo In 2010, ren invested close to 443 M€ in essential projects for the well-being of population, for the competitiveness of companies, and for the energy 2011, following the period of consultation started last security of our country. I highlight the investments in summer. lines that transport the energy produced by new wind The year was also marked by the review of ren’s plants to the consumption centres, the reinforcement strategic plan, which, besides reinforcing core activities, of the interconnections with Spain – which provides clearly points to the use of the company’s technical skills consumers with competitive access to all energy sources to develop new business opportunities abroad. produced in the Iberian Peninsula and the capacity expansion of the Sines lng terminal, allowing Portugal I take the opportunity to renew our adhesion to the to have access to natural gas from different geographical ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact areas and the entrance of new operators in the market initiative and to formulate the desire that this report for natural gas. may show our concerns of deepening the relationship with our stakeholders. The year 2010 was also marked by the concession contract of a pilot zone for the production of electricity To them, at last, I would like to leave a word of from wave energy, with enondas. We expect this new acknowledgment for their involvement and support subsidiary to attract technical projects from several provided to ren, including in the several initiatives countries that represent this innovative area, thereby related to sustainability and social responsibility. contributing to affirm Portugal as one of the leading countries in renewable energy sources. This way, REN will continue to perform with full commitment an important role in energy revolution, which is transforming the way to produce, transport and consume energy in the world. During 2010, ren drafted a new methodological guide for assessing the environmental impact of infrastructure in the national electricity transmission grid – this case, it was applied to substations. This guiding document arose from the need to streamline the Strategic Environmental Assessment for the substations following the protocol Rui Cartaxo established between ren and the national environment Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee agency. The final draft of this Guide will be published in ren – Redes Energéticas Nacionais 4 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Commitments – what we said – what we did Regardless of other initiatives held and that are reported throughout this report, the balance of the commitments previously taken on is made as follows: Category Motivations Actions for the 2010-2012 Status Initiatives developed in 2010 triennium 1. Code of Conduct Adhesion by employees and Assessing the adequacy of the Review of the code of conduct in other stakeholders to ethical and code of conduct to the principles late 2010 integrity principles of social responsibility Strengthening the disclosure of Disclosure of the code of conduct the code of conduct to all employees ( SR page 23) 2. Technical knowledge and Maintenance of technical and Ensuring the transfer of technical viva Programme ( SR page 29) expertise in the energy sector specialised know-how among and specialised knowledge employees between ren’s employees of different generations 3. Risk management Mitigation of strategic threats Reinforcing the implementation Creation of the committee of Risk and risks of the risk management model Management ( SR pages 21) 4. Corporate social responsibility Organisation of the practices of Extending the scope of Identification and review of corporate social responsibility procedures that are common documentation procedures in a social responsibility to the Integrated Management to include aspects of Social management system by System of Quality, Environment Responsibility integrating it with the Integrated and Safety Management System of Quality, Environment and Safety Implementing the requirements Execution of a preparatory work implemented and certified in ren of the standard of social to be implemented in 2011-2012 responsibility to strengthen ren’s practices and policies in this scope 5. Stakeholder engagement Increase of employee motivation Reinforcing commitments with Promotion of skills and internal employees communication through new programmes: viva, pop, star and Roadshow ren 2010 ( RS pages 29-30) Improvement of the relationship Developing a programme of Initiatives in several areas: social, with ren’s stakeholders community engagement volunteering, sports, culture, education and environment ( SR page 35) Strengthening the relationship 4,200 owners were contacted and involvement with owners ( SR pages 24). Reinforcement of the activities related to the fulfilment of the aa1000 standard Promoting information sharing Regular academic and scientific and specialised knowledge partnerships, participation in between companies and entities working groups of organisations in the energy sector and associations about the sector, publication of scientific articles, active participation in international conferences and discussion forums 5 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 6. Climate change and resource Reduction of greenhouse Increasing energy efficiency Conduction of energy audits consumption gas emissions and efficiency of premises and operations to the facilities of Vermoim, improvement of resource Sacavém and Ermesinde consumption Technical and economic assessment of energy efficiency proposals Reinforcing the use of renewable Set-up of solar panels in two energy sources in the energy grms stations consumption of premises 1109 Seixal and 1209 Frielas ( SR page 65) Technical and economic assessment of proposals of energy efficiency 7. Communication Recognition by society and Reinforcing the communication Lectures at several events employees of ren’s sustainability of ren’s corporate social (eg. 4th Social Responsibility practices in the several aspects responsibility practices Forum, Global Compact Network of the business Portugal, National Conference on Impact Assessment) and Satisfaction of ren’s stakeholders response to several surveys Consolidation of ren’s and prizes in sustainability positioning in new technologies, and social responsibility innovation and investigation Integrating social responsibility Qualification of suppliers principles in the process of with issues related to social selecting and assessing suppliers responsibility 6 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Key indicators Economic Indicators (1) 2009 2010 10/09 ebitda (M€) 384.1 431.4 ↑ 12% 400 Staff costs (M€) 55.2 51.2 ↓ 8% 314 314 310 Ordinary dividends distributed (M€) 88.1 89.2 ↑ 1% 300 289 Total net assets (M€) 4294.1 4460.5 ↑ 4% 274 265 Million euros Capital expenditure for r&d (M€) 2.2 1.7* ↓ 23% 200 Direct economic value created (2) 314 310 ↓ 1% 100 Direct economic value distributed (3) 265 289 ↑ 9% 40 48 21 Direct economic value retained 48 21 ↓ 56% 0 2008 2009 2010 The accounting amounts reflect a change of treatment imposed by the (1) application of ifric12, a standard that sets out the principles for recognition and valuation of concession contracts. Direct economic value generated Direct economic value created is the sum of: net value added (nva) (2) (270.9 M€); net earnings not inherent in gva (45.9 M€); financial earnings Direct economic value distributed (2.2 M€); dividends from subsidiaries (3.8 M€); minus other costs and losses Direct economic value for shareholders retained (13 M€). Direct economic value distributed corresponds to costs with employees (3) and management bodies (51.2 M€); dividends paid to shareholders (89.2M€); interest payment (89.9 M€); taxes paid to the state (1.3 M€) and corporate income tax (56.4 M€); and support to the community (donations: 0.7 M€). (*) Estimated amounts. Operational Indicators 9,000 1,500 2008 2009 2010 10/09 1,248 1,267 1,296 Electricity supplied (GWh) 50,742 51,084 52,603 ↑ 3% Length of electrical lines (km) Length of pipelines (km) 8,000 Length of electrical lines (Km) 7,513 7,569 8,049 ↑ 6% 8,049 1,000 7,569 Number of substations 69 73 75 ↑ 3% 7,513 7,000 and switching stations Transformer capacity (MVA) 26,194 28,235 30,205 ↑ 7% 500 6,000 Natural gas supplied (billion m ) 3 4.5 4.6 4.8 ↑ 4% Length of gas pipelines (Km) 1248 1267 1296 ↑ 2% 5,000 0 Capacity of LNG tanks 2x120 2x120 2x120 – 2008 2009 2010 (thousands m3 (n)) Underground gas storage 66.3(4) 138.2 138.2 – capacity (million m3) Length of electrical lines (Km) Length of pipelines (Km) The indicated volume expresses the maximum capacity available for (4) commercial purposes, which is conditioned by the specific thermodynamics of storing natural gas at high pressure in salt caverns. 7 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Emissions from losses in the electricity grid (tCO2eq) Electrical losses in the grid 300,000 Environmental Indicators 268,415 250,000 2008 2009 2010 10/09 201,598 (tCO2eq) 200,000 177,667 Environmental costs (M€) 6.1 6.7 10.7 ↑ 60% 150,000 Emissions from losses in the 268415 201598 177667 ↓ 12% 100,000 electricity grid (tCO2eq) 50,000 – 2008 2009 2010 Social Indicators Number of employees 2008 2009 2010 10/09 807 Number of employees 807 746 728 ↓ 2% Donations (M€) 1.0 1.7 0.7 ↓ 58% 746 Training (number of hours per 16.7 23.1 19.0 ↓ 18% 728 employee) Turnover rate (%) 5.0 10.5 8.7 ↓ 17% 2008 2009 2010 8 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 1. About REN 1.1 Profile 1994 1996 2000 2001 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2010 Set-up of ren – Rede Legal break-up of ren Certification Launch Eléctrica Nacional, s.a., and EDP Group and iso 9001; iso of the as a subsidiary of edp concession for operation 14001:2004 and activities of the Portuguese oHsas 18001 and of ren transmission grid (rnt) connection of the Serviços for a period of 50 years first wind farm to Set-up of the rnt Enondas – Entrance of natural gas Set-up of Set-up of ren Gasodutos, Energia das in the grid through the rentelecom ren Armazenagem Ondas, s.a Portuguese border and ren Atlântico Set-up of omip and certification Set-up of ren – Redes ISO 14001 Energéticas Nacionais, sgps, ren Trading and ren Serviços ren ’s main activity is the technical management of five public service concessions in the energy sector, namely in electricity and natural gas: Transmission of Transmission of natural Reception, storage Underground storage of Exploration of the electrical energy at very gas at very high and regasification of natural gas offshore pilot zone high voltage pressure liquefied natural gas ren Armazenagem, s.a. Enondas, ren Rede Eléctrica ren Gasodutos, s.a. ren Atlântico, s.a. Energia das Ondas, s.a. Nacional, s.a. Technical and global Reception, transport, Reception, storage, Reception, injection Exploration of the management of the service systems and treatment and underground storage, offshore pilot zone to Portuguese electricity delivery of natural regasification of extraction, treatment promote the scientific system (sen) gas through a highlng and emission of and delivery of natural and technological pressure grid natural gas to the gas to fill and maintain development in Transmission of National Natural Gas security reserves electricity generation electrical energy at Construction, Transmission Network, for operational and from wave energy very high voltage (400, maintenance, as well as lng loading commercial purposes ( SR chapters 3.5 220 and 150 kV) operation and in trucks and lng The Energy of future exploration of all Construction, Exploration of tankers generations) infrastructure that maintenance, the Portuguese are part of the Construction, operation and transmission grid National Natural maintenance, exploration of all of electrical energy Gas Transmission operation and the infrastructure and the planning, Network and the exploration of the necessary for its construction of interconnections to corresponding operation maintenance of its the networks and infrastructure and infrastructure infrastructure to facilities which it is connected and other facilities necessary to its operation Concession period: Concession period: Concession period: Concession period: Concession period: renewed to 50 years 40 years starting from 40 years starting from 40 years starting from 45 years starting from from 2007 2006 2006 2006 2010 9 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 enondas, s.a. Arising from the national focus on renewable lasts 45 years and includes the licence for the setenergy sources, the Portuguese state awarded, up of infrastructure for connection to the public pursuant to paragraph 3 of the article 5 of electricity grid and the use of water resources government decree Decreto-Lei n.º 5/2008 of in the public domain, and the supervision of the 8 January, and government decree Decreto-Lei use of water resources by third parties necessary n.º 238/2008 of 15 December, the concession to to generate power from wave energy. The explore a pilot zone for power generation from concession also awards licences for the set-up ocean waves to enondas, Energia das Ondas, s.a., and operation of the activity of electrical energy a company fully owned by ren. The concession generation and its supervision. ren’s activities in the energy sector are subject to a demanding set of legal rules and regulations under the ren – Redes Energéticas Nacionais, sgps, s.a. responsibility of the Department of Energy, the Energy Services Regulatory Authority and the Authority of 100 % 100 % 100 % Competition. ren ren Serviços ren Rede Eléctrica In addition to the companies that manage the public Nacional, s.a. Armazenagem, s.a. Group’s support service concessions, four other companies are part of services Electricity transmission Underground storage REN’s corporate structure: REN Serviços, rentelecom, through the National of natural gas 100 % omip and REN Trading. Electricity Transmission Grid rentelecom ren Serviços is a unit of shared services that supports Comunicações, 100 % 100 % s.a. the companies of the ren Group since January 2008. enondas Telecommunications We are also in the telecommunications business ren Atlântico Energia das Terminal lng, s.a. since 2002 through rentelecom, a company Ondas, s.a. 90 % created to explore the surplus capacity of safety Exploration of a pilot Liquefied Natural Gas omip, telecommunications networks, which are critical zone for electricity Terminal sgps, s.a. infrastructure to the operation of electricity and natural generation from waves gas transmission systems. 100 % Operator of the Iberian Market Through a 90% stake in Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal) ren de Energia, s.a. (omip), the entity that manages the Gasodutos, s.a. 100 % electricity derivatives market, we are present in the promotion of the electricity market in the Iberian Grid of high-pressure gas pipelines of the ren Trading, s.a. Peninsula. In 2010, and in compliance with the National Natural Gas international commitments made by the Portuguese Transmission Network Operator of the state towards the reinforcement of the Iberian Market remaining Power Purchase Agreement of Electricity, the omip sgps was created, which now has contracts (Tejo Energia a stake in omip, sa. and TurboGás) The mission of ren Trading is the management of Power Electricity Natural gas Purchase Agreements for the standard production concessions concessions: Others centres of Pego and Tapada do Outeiro that were not Electricity Transport, transmission underground subject to early termination. until 2057 storage of Wave pilot zone natural gas until 2055 and reception, storage and regasification of liquefied natural gas at the Sines lng terminal until 2046 10 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Shareholder Structure major shareholders 31 DEcember 2010 Number Ownership, of shares % Free float 19.5% Capitalpor sgps, s.a. 245,645,340 46.0% Parpública sgps, s.a. 20,826,000 3.9% Treasury shares Caixa Geral de Depósitos sgps, s.a. 6,265,888 1.2% 0.7% Red Eléctrica Logoplaste, Gestão e Consultoria 45,044,826 8.4% Corporación, Capitalpor Financeira, s.a. s.a., 5.0% sgps, s.a Oliren, 46.0% Gestmin, sgps, s.a. 28,146,479 5.3% sgps, s.a., 5.0% edp – Energias de Portugal, s.a. 26,700,000 5.0% edp Energias Oliren, sgps, s.a. 26,700,000 5.0% de Portugal, s.a.. 5.0% Red Eléctrica Corporación, s.a. 26,700,000 5.0% Gestmin, sgps, s.a.. Treasury shares 3,881,374 0.7% 5.3% Free float 104,090,093 19,5% LogopIaste, gcf, s.a. Parpública 8.4% Caixa sgps, s.a. Geral de 3.9% Depósitos, s.a., 1.2% Strategic Plan 2010-2016 As a result of the draft of the strategic plan for Main strategic priorities: the 2010-2016 period, we promoted, in October • focus on the Group’s core activities; and November, a cycle of meetings including all ren’s employees. The goal was to promote internal • use and reinforcement of existing skills based on debate and the share of the principles that will value creation; guide the company’s activity in the next six years. • presence in some high-growth markets of the activity of energy transmission; • reinforcement of the integration of renewable energy sources in the electricity grid; • security of energy supply; • integrated management of electricity and natural gas transmission networks; • promotion of innovation. 11 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Mission, Vision, Values Mission To ensure transmission of Answer to all the Guarantee of Supply principles of GC electricity and natural gas without interruption and at To explore and develop the activities under concession and related the lowest cost, complying interconnections in order to ensure the uninterrupted supply with quality and safety of energy, meeting all quality criteria and creating the technical criteria, maintaining a balance requirements for Iberian markets for electricity and natural gas. between supply and demand in real time, safeguarding the Impartiality legitimate interests of market participants and combining To guarantee that all participants in energy markets – producers, the roles of system and distributors, traders and consumers – have access to networks and network operator. related infrastructure on a non-discriminatory basis and under equality of terms. Efficiency Vision To strictly perform our role and to contribute, with the best use of To be one of the most resources, to the country’s development, seeking the well-being of efficient operators of energy communities and creating value for shareholders. transmission networks in Europe, thereby creating Sustainability shareholder value within a To manage activities according to the principles of sustainable framework of sustainable development, in its economic, social and environmental aspects, by development. supporting Research and Development and fulfilling the potential of our human resources, namely through technical, behavioural and ethical training. Values 12 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 1.2 Main events in 2010 In addition to the events mentioned in the annual report 2010, the following facts were relevant: Connection of several lines to wind farms: Lomba do Vale and Terra Fria to the Frades January substation, and the Alto Douro wind farm to the Valdigem substation Certification in quality, environment and safety of ren Armazenagem and rentelecom February Conduction of seveso audits to the facilities of ren Atlântico and ren Armazenagem Use of an Emergency Restoration System (ers) of towers for the first time to avert the fall March of supports of the 220kV Carregado‐Fanhões‐Sacavém power line caused by an extreme weather phenomenon Publication of the National Strategy for Energy 2020 (cabinet resolution rcm n.º 29/2010, April of 15 April 2010) Creation of the Strategy and New Business Unit at ren sgps, s.a. to coordinate ren Group’s May strategic planning and plan new business developments Entry into operation of the Armamar substation at the central zone of the Portuguese part June of river Douro, thereby contributing to enhance interconnection with Spain and provide an outlet for renewable energy Signing of a memorandum of understanding between ren and Galp Energia for the joint July construction of four caverns for storage of natural gas Reception of ren Atlântico’s 200th lng tanker August Publication of the Sustainability Report 2009 Creation of enondas, Energia das Ondas s.a., fully owned by ren sgps, which signed a October concession contract with the Portuguese state for the exploration of wave energy in a pilot zone Organisation of the Investor Day, where ren presented its new Strategic Plan for the November 2010‐2016 period Occurrence of a tornado that caused damage in infrastructure, namely on Penela‐Zêzere’s December 220 kV line, in the council of Tomar. In spite of the fall of several towers and surrounding cables, the supply of the 60 kV distribution network was maintained 13 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Map of the National Electricity Transmission Grid at 1 January 2011 14 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Map of the National Natural Gas Transmission Network, Storage infrastructure and lng terminals at 1 January 2011 15 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 1.3 Corporate governance model In ren’s corporate governance model, the remit of the ren’s board of director is composed of thirteen  www.ren.pt Board of Directors is the management and supervision directors, of which five are executive members of the company and the day-to-day management of and the remaining three are independent. the company is delegated to the Executive Committee. The day-to-day management of sustainability The Audit Committee is responsible for supervising is the remit of the Sustainability Department of and monitoring the activity, and the Statutory Auditor ren Serviços, which must execute the strategy certifies the company’s financial statements. formulated by the Board of Directors and follow the Group’s sustainable development agenda. SUPPORT TO CORPORATE CONCESSIONS STRUCTURES EUROPEAN ENERGY AGENDA NEW BUSINESS REGULATION INVESTOR RELATIONS MARKET AND SETTLEMENTS INTERNAL AUDIT STUDIES AND COMMUNICATIONS, OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT MARKETING INFORMATION PROPERTY AND CORPORATE MANAGEMENT PLANNING AND CONTROL RESPONSIBILITY ENONDAS REDE ELÉCTRICA REN TRADING REN GASODUTOS REN ATLÂNTICO REN ARMAZENAGEM REN SERVIÇOS REN TELECOM NACIONAL CONTRACT OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL GRID PLANNING MANAGEMENT PLANNING AND SALES MANAGEMENT CONTROL SYSTEM ACCOUNTING AND EQUIPMENT MARKETING PLANNING AND TECHNICAL ADMNISTRATION MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL ENGINEERING OPERATION AND ASSET PROCUREMENT PRODUCTS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CAPITAL HUMAN MANAGER EXPENDITURE RESOURCES AND OPERATION INFORMATION SYSTEMS SUSTAINABILITY LEGAL SERVICES CONCESSIONS 16 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 2. Commitment to stakeholders 2.1 Sustainability strategy Question to Stakeholders: Do you believe ren has a clear vision of its economic, environmental and social responsibilities? The sustainability strategy formulated for the For each of the dimensions considered, an action plan 2010-2012 triennium considers seven dimensions for the 2010-2012 triennium was established, shown on for the integration of relevant themes identified by the chart of the section “our commitments”. stakeholders, as well as the main regulatory and In 2011, we will re-evaluate the relevant themes to business trends internationally. ensure the permanent adequacy of our strategy. 1. Code of conduct Economic pillar Reinforcing the adhesion of stakeholders to ethical and integrity principles 2. Technical knowledge and expertise in the energy sector Maintaining technical know-how and expertise among employees 3. Risk management Minimising threats and risks at a strategic level Reinforcing the communication 4. Corporate Social Responsibility 7. Communication of ren’s Social pillar Systematizing practices of corporate social Corporate Social responsibility Responsibility practices 5. stakeholder engagement Strengthening the relationship with stakeholders 6. Climate change and resource Environmental consumption pillar Improving energy efficiency, minimising waste in the consumption of the natural resources and creating conditions for the integration of energy generation from renewable sources 17 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 2.2. Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement and the identification of we exhaustively re-assessed the engagement processes stakeholder expectations have always been a priority considering the principles of aa1000 aps (2008). for ren. In 2009, continuing the work previously We updated the stakeholder map and undertook a new developed and given the growing importance of cycle of stakeholder engagement and identification of communication with different stakeholder groups, relevant themes. – Impact of the stakeholder on REN + + Employees Energy distributors Landowners Energy producers Shareholders Suppliers of goods ren’s impact on the stakeholder and services Regulators Official entities Financial Institutions – Once the most relevant stakeholders were identified, These themes, along with other current issues for the we developed a new consultation cycle with interviews, sector worldwide, are the basis of our strategy for meetings and working sessions to identify their sustainable development. expectations and the main themes that rule their relationship with ren. Environmental Security, Security and Innovation and Hygiene, Qualification Internal Protection and Reliability, Quality Mechanisms Techonological Health of Human and external Prevention and Guarantee of Crisis Development and Safety Resources communications of Climate Change of Supply Prevention 18 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholders Expectations response dimension of the strategy Shareholders Sustainability of earnings Improvement and efficiency of management 3. Risk management Dividends Clarity and transparency of information 7. Communication Sustained growth disclosed Increase in earnings Share price Financial institutions Creation of business opportunities Close relationship 5. Stakeholder engagement Strengthening of relationships with ren Availability of relevant information 7. Communication Reinforcing ren’s positioning Landowners / Local population Impacts and constraints caused by Disclosure of information regarding 5. Stakeholder engagement infrastructure electromagnetic fields 6. Climate change and resource Draft of opinions of construction feasibility consumption Maintenance of grid corridors 7. Communication Testing and noise monitoring Employees Career evolution and training plans Career development through promotion 2. Technical knowledge and Performance assessment Career plans expertise in the energy sector Benefits awarded Continuous on-the-job training for each position Official institutions Use of best practices in construction Information sessions of plans and programmes 5. Stakeholder engagement Network planning with concerns (pdirt and odir) 6. Climate change and resource related to territory planning and to the Project review consumption minimisation of environmental impacts Draft of technical reports and opinions 7. Communication Regulators Regulatory and tariff models Publication of monitoring reports 3. Risk management Tariff deviations Reports on quality of service 5. Stakeholder engagement Operational compliance Clarity and transparency of information 7. Communication Technical quality of service disclosed Academic institutions Creation of partnerships and closeness Establishment of r&d partnerships 2. Technical knowledge and to the business environment Integration of young trainees expertise in the energy sector Sharing of know-how 5. Stakeholder engagement Energy producers Conditions of access and connection to Electricity 5. Stakeholder engagement the transmission network Draft of the characterisation of rnt to access 6. Climate change and resource Environmental constraints and the grid and interconnections consumption territory planning pdirt 7. Communication Natural gas Publication of the programme of energy availability Adequacy of regulation Draft of the operational manual Energy distributors Connections to the network Monitoring reports 5. Stakeholder engagement Planning fulfilment Reports on quality of service Needs of infrastructure pdirt Development of the network, location, Characterisation of rnt deadlines and contracts Suppliers and Service Providers Meeting the technical capacity and Publication of a ranking of quality of service 7. Communication quality of product/service according Creation of conditions for market diversification to ren’s requirements Awards to best performance in safety Competitiveness in the cost vs. service quality relationship 19 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 medium Landowners Investors / Shareholders Energy Distributors Energy Producers Financial institutions Academic institutions Employees Regulators Official entities Suppliers and local community General meeting    Joint committees   Roadshows  Meetings and working groups        Conferences and workshops   Jobshops  Field trips  Investor Day   Investor Relations Office   Investor Channel on ren’s website   cmvm’s website   ren’s website          Information System of the Energy Market  Computer system of erse-signo  RePro System  Electronic procurement system  Centre of network control  Support Office  Information sessions     Green number  Annual report        Periodic publications (eg. ppda)  Disclosure of announcements  Processes of environmental impact assessment   ren’s Safety Award  Evaluation of supplier performance   Survey to assess perceived quality   Survey of satisfaction and organizational climate  ren tv Channel  ren Intranet  Weekly internal newsletter  Social events  Human resources portal  Periodicity  Continuous  Periodic  Occasional As a socially responsible company, we promote and actively participate in the debate about sustainability issues, mostly in the organisations and associations we are part of, namely: Global Compact Network Portugal 20 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 2.3 Risk management In the development of the activity in each business Risk management is part of processes and is assumed unit, we are exposed, at all times, to a multiplicity of and shared by the different levels of responsibility. risk factors, both internal and external. Strategic Risk FINANCIAL RISK OPERATIONAL RISK HUMAN RESOURCES COMPLIANCE SYSTEM MANAGEMENT REGULATORY CREDIT QUALITY (INCLUDING TELEC. LAWS AND REGULATION SAFETY) CONTINUITY OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE/ KNOWLEDGE/SKILLS CONSTRUCTION CONCESSION BUSINESS PLAN LIQUIDITY CONTRACTS SAFETY OF ASSETS AND PEOPLE AGREEMENTS AND IMAGE AND INTEREST RATE INTERNATIONAL REPUTATION ENVIRONMENT STANDARDS WORKING CLIMATE INFORMATION MARKET (TRADING, FRAUD AND RELATED ACCOUNTING / TAX QUALITY TELECOM, SERVICES) OFFENCES Acknowledging the need to develop a more systematic • prioritizing risks to be addressed; and harmonised risk management approach in the • aligning tolerable risk with the Group’s strategy; group, the Board of Directors decided to create, in 2010, a permanent consultative body to provide support on • improving the quality of decisions; this matter – the Risk Management Committee. The • reducing losses and operational surprises; more systematic approach aims mostly at: • identifying and managing multiple and overarching • comprehensively identifying the risks; risks; • standardising and systematising risks, identifying risk • seizing opportunities; factors and the consequences of risk occurrence; • improving resource allocation. • identifying and defining risk owners and people responsible for their control; Remit of the Risk Management Committee Approving, or submitting Promoting the systematic Monitoring the most Approving the models to the Board of Directors, assessment of significant risks given ren’s of periodic risk reporting recommendations for corporate risks business profile by the business units preventing, sharing or mitigating significant risks Roles of risk owners Giving feedback to Identifying critical areas the Risk Management Implementing required Assessing and quantifying Managing materially of risk exposure and Process by warning actions to ensure the residual risk to which relevant risks proposing mitigation about new exposure adequate risk control the company is exposed situations or failures in actions control mechanisms 21 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Internal audit Internal control is made at all levels of responsibility. • assessment of the degree of implementation of The adequacy of internal control is verified by the Audit internal control; Committee and operationally by the Internal Audit • conduction of financial, it, operational and Office. management audits in several areas of the group; The Audit Committee possesses authority in internal • control of the implementation of corrective measures control and is subject to the duties contained in both though monitoring reports; the law and ren’s articles of association. It is mainly responsible for: • support of top management in the definition and/or implementation of control and governance measures. • supervising the management of the company and The Activity Plan of the Internal Audit Office for monitoring compliance with law and the Company 2010, approved by the Audit Committee, defined and Contract; characterised the audits to be performed. These audits • auditing the accuracy of financial statements covered several activities attempting, in each one, to prepared by the Board of Directors and overseeing its cover the areas considered relevant for the Group, review; namely: • internal control • overseeing the process of preparation and disclosure of financial information; • delegation of skills • proposing to the General Meeting the appointment • procurement of the statutory auditor; • efficient use of resources • convening the General Meeting when the chairman During audits, particular attention was given to the of the corresponding board does not do it. assessment of internal control systems, to compliance with implemented procedures, to the efficient use The Internal Audit Office (gai) was set up in May 2009, of resources, to the effective control of processes, to whose mission is ensuring control of management the separation of roles and to risk assessment and risks, risks of internal control systems and governance mitigation. This way, the activity was mostly guided risks of the Group through objective, independent and to the control of risks of processes and to operational systematic monitoring. Its remit includes the following: efficiency, always taking into account the need to create • revisão das políticas de risco de gestão e de controlo information with added value. interno em vigor; In 2011, audit procedures will be maintained and for • review of current policies of risk management and the future Activity Plan of the Internal Audit Office, we internal control; highlight the following goals: Aligning Allocating Focusing audits on processes/ Covering Positioning Internal Audit resources Internal Audit as with the Group’s to areas with activities that all Group have significant companies a role that is able strategy greater risk to add value materiality 22 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010  www.ren.pt/ 2. 4 Code of conduct vPT/Investidor/ Governo daSociedade/ ren’s Code of Conduct sets out the ethical principles and CodConduta the standards of conduct that guide the internal and • Equal treatment and non discrimination external relationships of all employees, regardless of • Diligence, efficiency and responsibility their remit and responsibilities. • Reserve and discretion So that all employees know these principles and reflect on their relationship with suppliers, official entities and • Professional relationships other stakeholder groups, we launched in 2010 a plan to • Duty of loyalty, independence and responsibility reinforce the disclosure of the Code of Conduct through internal communication channels, such as the Intranet, • Compliance with legislation the ren Notíci@s news bulletin and ren tv. • Conflict of interests Complementarily, there are Codes of Conduct for • Relationship with third parties specific functions, which are provided for in the enforced • Relationship with shareholders regulation of the energy sector. • Relationship with regulators and supervisory ren defined and implemented other specific policies, bodies such as the Social Responsibility Policy, where we assume a set of commitments that reinforce, among • Relationship with suppliers other principles, the United Nations Global Compact • Relationship with the media principles, subscribed by ren since 2005. • Relationship between employees and professional improvement • Commitment of compliance • Application and monitoring • Disclosure  www.ren.pt Social Quality, Prevention Research, Responsibility Environment and of severe development Policy Safety Policy accidents and Innovation 23 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 2.5 Our partners owners is very important again under the conservation activities of electrical lines and gas pipelines. Permanent Suppliers, contractors and service providers dialogue with landowners is needed to adjust soil use in properties with the safety standards imposed by enforced Since a large part of ren’s activity is supported by external legislation. hiring, suppliers, service providers and contractors are a relevant stakeholder group that has a significant role The establishment of property managements is regulated in the reliability and quality of services provided. In by specific legislation, under which we contact affected 2010, these partners made close to 4,296 thousand of landowners, as well as other interested parties, to hours worked for ren, dedicated to construction, project agree and establish formal compensation mechanisms services and other services provided in our facilities. for the use of their properties. The use consists of the establishment of administrative property or the Aware of the importance of their contribution to acquisition of properties, in the case of construction or the company’s results, we sought to establish with expansion of electric substations or gas stations. these stakeholders a relationship that induces the improvement of their performance, based on In 2010, close to 4,200 landowners were contacted, from processes of close cooperation and communication. which 3,200 for the management of the electricity grid and the remaining of the natural gas network. Close to In this context, we promote, since 2007, technical sessions 50 properties were acquired for the set-up of electric on safety and award performance prizes, an initiative infrastructure and close to 20 for the set-up of natural intended to distinguish and encourage good performance gas infrastructure. At 31 December 2010, the database in safety and health during the construction of lines of landowners related to our infrastructure had close to and substations of the electricity transmission grid. 44,000 records for the electricity grid and 17,000 records On the other hand, we have a system of qualification and for the natural gas network, which shows the importance assessment of suppliers with demanding requirements, of this stakeholder group for ren. which includes technical and service quality features, In the most complicated situations of establishment of as well as aspects related to social responsibility, properties, other mechanisms contained in legislation are safety at work and environmental management. used, namely in the intimation process (electrical lines) Landowners and the request for the support of public authorities for work advances (gas pipelines). In 2010, ren had to use The good relationship with the owners of the land these mechanisms only 30 times in electrical lines, or crossed by our networks of gas and electricity is not only close to 1% of cases, and twice in the natural gas network, a commitment of our social responsibility policy but also or close to 0.5%. This result, which has been achieved a constant concern in the company’s activity, mostly in several years, is an indicator of the effort we make to in the construction phase and, subsequently, in the reconcile the set-up and operation of infrastructure with maintenance of the infrastructure. the legitimate interests of affected people. Direct communication with affected landowners aims at clarifying and sharing relevant information Project: Property management on infrastructure to be built, the rights and duties of landowners regarding the set-up of public infrastructure, the losses for its properties and the compensation and alternatives to improve the compatibility of the Goal: To develop a platform guided to the property operation of infrastructure with other types of operation management of electrical lines and gas pipelines, of properties. For the negotiation of properties and in the construction phase, as well as projects land acquisition, besides employees directly related to that imply the acquisition of land for the setthis area, we use service providers that represent the up of new infrastructure, which guarantees the company when contacting landowners. activities of management and organisation arising Since it is a critical area as ren’s image is at stake, from exchange of information between ren and qualified suppliers for this activity are closely followed by suppliers of external services, thereby ensuring ren employees, who assume all formal communications. necessary workflows and the record of validations/ Service providers related to the establishment of approvals. properties of electrical lines are bound to comply with a code of ethics that regulates its relationship with ren and landowners. During construction, this stakeholder group has a In addition, meetings with local authorities are promoted significant influence on the completion deadlines of in the project phase to exchange information on planned investment projects. In the next phase, which is the works for the region, so that entities may inform the operation of the infrastructure, the relationship with the population. 24 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 2.6 Human capital Question to Stakeholders: Type of contract 42 14 Do you believe ren is a good company to work for? Permanent contract The commitment of our team to sustainable Fixed-term contract development translates into the implementation of Trainees policies, management systems and activities guided to increased satisfaction and internal motivation to reach a high-return development and performance. 686 ren’s human resources policy favours training, ethics, development of potential and motivation by promoting flexibility, fostering merit, skills, participation and In the last three years, the breakdown of employees commitment and promoting focus on the company, by geographical region has remained constant, with which is completed by social benefits in the fields of approximately 70% of employees in the Lisbon area, study (including advanced training), health and social and the remaining in the North/Centre area (22%) and assistance. in the South area (8%). This year, there was a 0.5% fall in the number In 2010, there was a change in the breakdown of of employees compared to 2009, regardless of employees by professional category due to the the continuation of staff renewal. There were 63 standardisation of professional categories in the departures and 48 admissions. sectors of electricity and natural gas. The breakdown At 31 December, 94% of ren’s 728 employees had of employees by category is, as a result, significantly permanent contracts. different than the one presented in 2009. Breakdown of employees by gender in each professional category 100% 80% 80% 95% 76% 86% 24% 20% 20% 14% 0% 5% Top Senior Managers Middle Highly Trainees/ Men Management Managers managers skilled and apprentices Women qualified workers In 2010, the programme for staff adjustment and next five years, close to 12% of ren’s employees are manager rejuvenation was completed, which led to 40 expected to leave due to retirement. In the next ten pre-retirements. This programme was started in 2008 years, this number should rise to 36%. and was performed in a trustful environment. In the 25 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 When compared to the previous year, the number of departures went down by 20%, which led to a decrease in the overall turnover rate from 11% in 2009 to 8.7% in 2010. Turnover rate 9.1% 8.4% 6.8% 7.0% 3.8% 3.7% 2.1% 2008 1.8% 1.4% 1.4% 1.0% 0.9% 2009 0.5% 0.3% 0.3% 2010 Men Women < 30 years 30 to 50 years > 50 years Age average 44.9 44.58 As in previous years, the age structure of employees had 44.2 a slight rejuvenation, with average age decreasing to 44.17 years. The predominant age group is the one from 30 to 50 years, with close to 51% of employees. 2008 2009 2010 Breakdown of employees by age group and professional category 357 260 76 <30 years 30 to 50 years 11 24 9 0 >50 years 0 4 Top management Senior managers Remaining Development and personal evolution and motivation of employees, along with an increasingly higher level of satisfaction. To ensure the fulfilment of our mission, which is focused Our team is composed of 55% of employees with higher on technological areas, we require highly qualified staff, education qualifications, which reflects a 5% increase which makes the Group’s human resources policy very compared to 2009 and reinforces the trend of previous demanding. This policy is guided towards the upgrade years. 26 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Academic qualifications 225 175 86 59 45 26 34 20 Men 18 19 1 12 4 4 Women PhD Master’s degree Graduation Bachelor’s Secondary 9th grade 6th grade 4th grade degree School In 2010, training sessions reached 14,118 hours, the decrease of 18% in the number of training hours, which contributed to the promotion of professional the number of participants increased by 21% to 2,442 development and personal accomplishment. In spite of compared to the previous year. 11,376 12000 25 21.1 Training hours per employee 10000 19.6 20 Training hours 16.9 15.8 8000 15 10.5 6000 10 4000 5 2000 1,224 930 Total number of hours 368 221 0 0 h/employee Senior Managers Middle Highly Trainees / Managers managers skilled and apprentices qualified workers During 2010, all ren’s employees participated in training sessions, which translates into a participation rate of 100%. 5000 1400 4,373 4500 1,228 1200 4000 Number of participants 3500 1000 3,188.6 Training hours 3000 800 2500 2,214.5 1,879 600 2000 1500 394 400 368 1,090 1000 670 513 157 200 500 94.5 147 59 74 36.5 7 47 2 18 0 0 Environmental Management Languages Safety Technical Office Behavioural Computer skills Quality QES Training hours Participants In addition to external training, we promoted 33 training year running, we joined the Novas Oportunidades – courses with internal resources, we awarded eight Aprender Compensa initiative, with eight employees financial grants to external training and, for the third signed up. 27 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Acknowledging performance Following the commitment we assumed in 2009, programme, the new tool of Performance Management with the launch of the Eficiência A+ project, to adopt of ren’s Employees. The system arises from the new processes and policies of human resources integrative policy of Human Resources and covers all management, we implemented, in 2010, the star ren’s areas. Goals of the STAR programme Promoting the Reinforcing Identifying the communication continuous strengths and channels between Assessing the improvement of Fostering motivation aspects to be middle managers performance and performance by through the developed, providing and teams by contribution of assessing and differentiated key elements for implementing each Employee with differentiating acknowledgment the determination processes and tools predefined criteria employees according to support guidance, of the contribution of the Training and (goals and skills) to their productivity monitoring and of each Employe Development Plan of and to results feedback of each Employee obtained performance The star programme is composed of three stages, which • identifying the potential of each employee by take place in two annual cycles: definition of goals, supporting decisions on career and promotions; interim evaluation and final evaluation. In March 2011, • supporting decisions concerning salary increases; the first cycle of application to the star programme will be completed, which corresponds to the performance • supporting decisions on the award of annual bonuses evaluation of 2010. and their differentiation. However, the application of these measures depends The impacts of the star programme are: not only on the final assessment of the Employee’s • supporting the preparation of the Training and performance but also on the results achieved by the Development Plan of each employee; Department, the Branch, the Business Units and ren. Compensation and Benefits Currently, there are distinct realities associated with attribute a set of benefits to employees with Permanent contracts established under the Collective Work contract (QP in Portuguese) and Fixed-term contract (CT Agreement (act in Portuguese) and the Individual Work in Portuguese), illustrated as follows: Contract (CIT in Portuguese). In both situations, we Benefits ren–Eléctrica act link ren Gasodutos/Atlântico/ ren Serviços /Trading/ Armazenagem cit link sgps cit link QP CT QP CT QP CT 1. Work accident insurance       2. Personal accident insurance    3. Health plan       4. Life insurance  (1) 5. Pension fund  6. Electricity at lower prices  7. Summer camps    (1) It does not cover all employees. 28 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 In 2010, the benefit of summer camp was extended to Since 2009, all Contracts of Employment, including Fixedemployees of Permanent Contract and Individual Work term contracts, assumed the designation of Individual Contract. Work Contracts, in accordance with law Lei 7/2009. Communication and internal satisfaction welcoming Integration * Employee’s first day First three months at ren Training/information sessions on Business Units Welcome email Internal cohesion, by sharing the mission, vision and and ren’s core tools and values, has strategic importance for ren. trips to facilities. Acknowledging the importance of the welcoming moment of new employees for their future integration Welcome meeting with and the creation of internal cohesion, we implemented, the Human Resources Department (delivery of in 2010, the viva programme, in which all employees Breakfast with the Chief the welcome kit) who joined ren that year participated. This programme Executive Officer (for includes a set of actions to be implemented in the entire permanent employees) company, with the maximum duration of three months, Welcome lunch with the to support and ease the quick integration of new middle manager employees in their position and at ren. * The integration sessions are organised for groups every three months and may include Employees who have been at ren for a while but did not have the opportunity to participate in the viva programme. The viva programme was, without a doubt, an Participation in the viva programme allowed advantage in my integration in the ren Group, me to accelerate my integration process in since it provided me interaction and contact ren’s team and gave me the chance to know with the new employees in a relaxed and casual ren’s Mission and Goals as well as its values environment and at the same time allowed me and ethical principles. This programme to get to know in detail each one of the Group’s was also an excellent opportunity to know business activities. Overall, it was a very good better the Group’s business activities, visit initiative that contributed to welcome in a fun the places where they are developed and and assertive way those who, like me, chose increase my network of internal contacts. ren to give a new course to their career. Fátima Soares Ricardo Loureiro ren sgps, Internal Audit Office ren Trading, Sales 29 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Also in the area of internal communication, the pop – Personal Opinion Programme was also important. Launched in June 2010, this programme provides the opportunity to all employees to express their opinion on several subjects about the company and aimed at: 1. Compensation 5. Procedures 9. Commitment and Benefits and Rules • preparing the General Satisfaction Index of ren’s employees; • diagnosing ren’s strengths and weaknesses through 10. Strategy/ 2. Training and employees’ opinion on a set of organisational Development 6. Communication Mission aspects; and Values • analysing, in accordance with chosen segmentation, which are the groups that have a more favourable 3. Performance 11. ren’s opinion and a less favourable opinion; 7. Leadership Organisational Management Set-up • drafting a brief set of recommendations that allow the increase of motivation and the overall satisfaction 8. Infrastructure of employees, thereby reinforcing the development 4. Teamwork and and Working of ren’s human capital. Cooperation Conditions The surveys were mostly filled up online, reaching a participation rate of 81.7%, which is a representative result. 77.9% of participants are happy to work at ren ren 2010 roadshow “Information is knowledge” was the motto of We consider these initiatives are important because the encounters we organised with all employees “an organisation today cannot live without exchanging in October and November, which were aimed at ideas” that “promote an overall vision”, according to presenting the drivers of ren’s Strategic Plan for 2010our Chairman. 2016 and the findings of the pop programme with the respective Action Plan. Throughout the year, we maintained active internal communication with disclosure of information about the Group through the publication of a weekly news bulletin called ren Notíci@s and the constant update of Intr@ren and ren tv. On 17 and 18 June, we gathered 100 managers of the Group in the ren 2010 Encounter – People in Network, under the motto “Teamwork/Network”. This Encounter was an opportunity for employees to get together, meet new co-workers and work as a team, in a cheerful mood. ren 2010 Encounter 30 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 It was with great pleasure that I closely followed every edition of ren Notíci@s, as a result I congratulate the team that was engaged every week in its production, now that we have reached the 100th Edition. ren Notíci@s has an extremely relevant role in the disclosure of relevant themes for ren and all that worked here, thereby fostering, at the same time, their interaction and integration, representing a medium where everyone can see themselves and to which everyone should contribute. Within a strong policy of internal communication, which we will always try to follow, it becomes possible to develop a vision where people participate together and get involved in changing processes, stimulating the sense of belonging and commitment in all employees. Rui Cartaxo This way, ren Notíci@s will be increasingly the evidence of the culture of a business community, which we intend to build and strengthen. edition and also because it represents the transfer This 100th Edition also represents the end of a of Internal Communication to the restructured cycle, which could not go unnoticed. First of all, Marketing and Corporate Communications Office. for acknowledging the excellent work that the Sustainability Department developed with great dedication and involvement, improving at every new To All, my sincere Congratulations! In 2010, we surveyed our employees on their opinion about the publication of ren Notíci@s. From gathered opinions, 99% considers its existence to be important. Concerning dialogue and internal communication, and answers to questions made. On the other hand, good relationships with the Workforce Committee regular meetings were held with unions, which account proceeded, which regularly convenes with the for close to 46% of employees, following initiatives of Executive Committee to expose and analyse concerns the company or requests from the unions. Labour principles 311 192 118 54 57 3 6 27 11 3 1 0 1 2 ren Redes ren Rede ren Trading ren ren ren ren Energéticas Eléctrica Gasodutos, Atlântico, Armazenagem, Serviços, Nacionais, Nacional s.a. s.a. s.a. s.a. sgps Number of employees under the Collective Work Agreement (act) Number of unionized employees 31 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Health and Safety We are committed to comply with the company’s safety policy, preventing, by all means at our reach, the occurrence of serious accidents, work related accidents and occupational diseases. Ensuring that incidents and accidents involving employees or constructors and service providers are effectively solved and that its causes are investigated to prevent them from happening again is essential for the fulfilment of our mission. Structure and responsibilities of REN’s Safety Management Functional set-up of the Integrated Organisational Set-up Committee of Safety and Health at Work System of Quality, Environment Sustainability Department and Safety Management and Management Systems Executive Committe and Board of Human Resources Department svrh Representatives of workers Directors Other departments of Group Representatives of the company Board of Corporate Responsibility companies eqs board Employees and their representatives Process Managers People in charge of Safety • Setting goals and overall targets for • Coordinating the implementation of • Drafting its operating system each Eompany and the Group the integrated system • Recommending necessary actions • Analysing the results from audits to • Ensuring relationships with official to develop employees’ sensitivity to sigqas and the performance of the entities safety and health at work management systems • Ensuring the draft and update of • Reviewing procedures to improve • Approving audit plans support documents on safety working conditions • Assessing the results of work accident • Identify the vulnerabilities of energy • Reviewing proposals for safety reports and cooperating in the transmission systems procedures analysis • Developing scenarios and • Proposing actions leading to good of accidents and in the investigation streamlining procedures for training of employees on safety and of causes emergency response and risk health at work • Ensuring compliance with the legal management • Reviewing statistics of work accidents requirements of safety • Conducting exercises and simulations • Making suggestions on equipment for • Promoting the identification and • Coordinating the analysis and individual and colective protection assessment of risks from activities investigation of work accidents • Requesting and reviewing suggestions • Ensuring the adequacy and update • Promoting medical exams of of employees on safety and health of Internal Emergency Plans Occupational Health and conducting at work awareness campaigns on risk • Analysing reports on work accidents prevention • Making technical visits to facilities and positions Existing committees account for 78% of our employees • Coordinating and drafting the annual training plan 32 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Health All employees are covered by a health insurance plan and we provide, besides what is set in legislation, a service of occupational health that allows medical exams and additional medical tests. In 2010, we opened two clinics, one in Sacavém and another one in Pombal, We joined the Code of Conduct Companies besides those already operating in the head office and hiv in 2008, committing to nonand in the facilities of Vermoim, Bucelas and Sines. discrimination of carriers of the human As in 2009, there were no occupational diseases in immunodeficiency virus (hiv), to provide 2010. information on hiv infection and to ease access to medical care and social protection in conditions of equality. Number of diagnostic tests (blood tests) 686 Number of medical exams 591 Number of nursing acts 2.046 Safety Activities related to the development and operation of energy transport network and the storage infrastructure Number of simulations and exercises Labour of natural gas, mainly the ones concerning the 1 4 Principles construction or maintenance or repairing interventions, 3 are exposed to several risks. 2 ren Rede Eléctrica Aware of this fact, we have promoted and implemented ren Gasodutos all measures at our reach to minimise risks and mitigate ren Armazenagem possible consequences of predictable incidents. ren Atlântico In addition to attention complying with legal and ren Serviços standard requirements, we seek to apply the best practices in the sector of energy transport, adopting the 37 following practices: • conduction of audits and verification inspections and monitoring of working conditions; • development of internal documentation of reference to guarantee compliance with safety requirements; With these initiatives, we aim at covering not only • organisation of on-the-job training sessions aimed at employees but also constructors and the external specific activities and additional training on activities, service providers of companies of the Group. During such as first aid – basic life support and fire fighting; 2010, 47 simulations and exercises were made. • availability of equipment of individual protection Acknowledging the importance of involvement and suited for each activity; training of external entities in the safety area, besides • assurance/supervision to ensure the good use of participation in simulations and exercises, we submitted equipment through supervision at construction sites 92 contractors to training and awareness sessions and coordination; concerning safety in 2010. • supervision and coordination of safety at construction sites; • conduction of simulations and exercises. 33 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 The Sines lng terminal is one of the infrastructures to operate. To control the risks and constraints in Portugal prepared for a Safe Shutdown related to public safety and Terminal safety, a Earthquake (sse) – an earthquake likely to System of Safety, Detection and Signalling was set happen every 10,000 years. In a situation of total up, to complement the one already operating. This destruction, the terminal has the capacity to system has active and passive safety measures empty the tanks in a safety shutdown. If there for the identification and control of abnormal is an Operating Bases Earthquake (obe), likely to situations, such as leaks of lng and gas, fires or happen every 500 years, the terminal will continue intrusion by non-authorised people. ren supported, in late 2009, the creation, in cooperation, ren’s representative and member of Lisbon, of a Centre for Public-Private Safety Policies ren’s Advisory Committee was invited to make a of the United Nations Interregional Crime and lecture on those policies at sicurezza 2010, which Justice Research Institute (unicri). Following this took place in Milan. Companies Number of accidents Average number Number of of employees hours worked Fatal Not fatal Days lost ren Eléctrica 349 593,921 0 5 10 ren Serviços 175 292,065 0 3 1 ren Gasodutos 123 217,612 0 0 0 ren Atlântico 43 83,250 0 0 0 ren Armazenagem 11 19,483 0 0 0 ren Trading 8 11,682 0 0 0 ren sgps 21 32,980 0 0 0 enondas 1 338 0 0 0 Service providers and contractors 1,884 4,296,144 1 46 1,214 Rate of incidence and severity of the REN Group Rate of incidence and severity of service providers 333 11.0 283 8.8 3.8 2009 2009 0.0 29 24 2010 2010 Rate Rate Rate Rate of incidence of severity of incidence of severity Close to 45% of contractors of ren Eléctrica have safety domain and the social responsibility of our partners. management systems certified in accordance with In recent years, the absenteeism rate of the Group ohsas 18001/np 4397 standards, which is an indicator decreased, reaching 2.2% in 2010. of the policy of increasing demand of ren in this 2008 2009 2010 Absenteeism rate 2.8% 2.3% 2.2% 34 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 2.7 Support to the community Question to Stakeholders: Do you believe ren’s activity has an overall positive contribution to society? Areas of Social Performance social Volunteering Sports culture education Environment Delivery of 89 kg of corks 60 kg of plastic bottle caps delivered to Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Amieira do Tejo 220 kg of bottle caps delivered to ceinop, sa Collection and delivery of 91.5 kg of battery cells Society and Philanthropy Education ren’s contribution to the community is considerable for For the third year running, ren financially supported the the direct benefit of our activities as well as for the good Portuguese Physics Society in the medea project, which corporate citizenship we show in several domains. In This encourages secondary school students to write 2010, we supported initiatives of several municipalities a paper on very low frequency electromagnetic fields and parish councils, as well as students’ associations and close to school, at home and in the neighbourhood of amateur sports clubs. The focus on young people led lines of electrical energy transmission, and to search for ren to sponsor several initiatives of child development scientifically reliable information about possible effects centres and youth centres located in several regions of of these fields on human health. Portugal. In 2010, the first place was awarded ex æquo to Escola Secundária José Estevão de Aveiro, to Os Radiantes from Agrupamento de Escolas José Sanches de Alcains 35 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 and to Os Hertzianos from Escola Secundária D. Manuel ren also contributed to initiatives of the Law Faculty and I de Beja. Os lsd and Os Voltpormetro from Escola the Economics Faculty of Universidade do Porto, of the Secundária de Lousada, and Onda Ocidental from Escola Faculty of Science and Technology of Universidade Nova 2,3/S Pe. Maurício de Freitas, ebs das Flores, Azores, de Lisboa, of Instituto Superior Técnico, of Universidade received honourable mentions. Overall, 110 students Técnica de Lisboa and of Universidade de Coimbra. from 20 Portuguese secondary schools participated. ren supports the Católica top+ programme since 2010 and The Lisbon mba programme since 2008. Culture We maintain a supporting policy of cultural initiatives. These initiatives include the Music Days in Belém, Overall, we support over 50 cultural entities, including Celebrações do Centenário da República, Fantasporto, several associations with educational, social and the election of the 7 Natural Wonders, and the yearrecreational purposes. end concert of Orquestra Sinfónica Juvenil from Círculo In recent years, we sponsored hundreds of cultural Musical Português. ren also has the status of founding initiatives, ranging from cinema to photography, member of the Serralves Foundation and is a patron of documentary to animation, and theatre to music. Centro Nacional de Cultura. Community We reaffirmed our support to various social institutions, such as the Centro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Infantil (cadin), an institution with an important role in the support of children and youth with special needs. Aware of the relevance of our cooperation, we extended our help to Banco Alimentar contra a Fome and Ajuda de Berço. We supported União Humanitária dos Doentes com Cancro and Abraço. In our help to Haiti, we contributed to the initiatives of ami, Cáritas Portuguesa, Médicos do Mundo and Centro Español Lisboa. “Bring a toy, a garment… something that helps to create smiles” was the motto for the Christmas campaign launched by ren’s employees jointly with entrajuda, which brought joy to associations of children solidarity, namely the Associação Criança e Vida, in Porto, and the Centro Social do Bairro 6 de Maio, in Amadora. Under a policy of closeness to Communities, we maintained an attitude of open doors, which is shown in the several visits to our premises not only of schools and universities but also of official entities, such as the Portuguese Environment Agency, which visited, in 2010, the construction works at the Batalha-Lavos line at 400 kv. 36 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 In the context of relationships with schools, we protocol, the parish council of Carriço benefited from promoted, jointly with Bio3 and the Liga para a ren’s support in the social projects of Carriço, such as Protecção da Natureza, two sessions aimed at middle funding the construction of a social kitchen operating in school students on the protection of birdlife under Parque Social do Carriço, located in Silveirinha Pequena. Greenfest. In addition to this Protocol, we continued to support Following this openness and the need to increasingly social and associative groups, such as the Associação foster knowledge of ren and the integration and Encontra Aventura that supports the Scouts Group engagement of employees, the first of many visits to 891 of Carriço, the Associação Cultural Recreativa the company’s facilities, namely to the substation of Desportiva da Freguesia do Carriço in the promotion Lagoaça, was organised. of the Christmas party for the children of the parish In 2010, we maintained the Cooperation Protocol council of Carriço and the Grupo Desportivo Recreativo between ren Armazenagem, the parish council of Vieirinhos in the organisation of the xxiv Contest of Sea Carriço and the municipality of Pombal. With this Sportfishing. Sports In line with the support policy to sport initiatives Under an internal social responsibility perspective with a social component, we supported, in 2010, the and to encourage our employees to practice sports, Paralympic athlete Diana Guimarães, world champion we continued to support the triathlete Carlos Gomes, in 50 metres breaststroke swimming. We sponsored the the Freeride athlete Fernando Torrão and other Open’10 Internacional de Natação Adaptada, organised initiatives, such as the mbt ride from Sines to Sagres. by Anddemot – Associação Nacional de Desporto para The employees also had the opportunity to participate Deficientes Motores, and the equestrian athlete Sara in the Bike Tour initiative in Lisbon and Porto and in the Duarte from the Academia Equestre João Cardiga. Sempre Mulher race, events sponsored by ren. Communication with society  Since 2008, we maintain the Webcegonhas project, programme of the Porto Canal broadcaster, where every http://static. in association with the Público newspaper, with the week representatives of ren approached several themes publico.clix.pt/ cegonhasnaweb/ Foundation for National Scientific Computing (fccn) and related to the company’s environmental concerns, default.aspx Bio3. This initiative has contributed to environmental with the purpose of raising the audience’s awareness awareness, while also disclosing the initiatives we to these issues and to clarify their doubts on energy develop for the preservation of the white stork. transmission. ren also participated in a television report This initiative led to another project, Condoninho da of the rtp1’s Linha da Frente programme, dedicated to Renata, a 3D animation series intended to raise the renewable energy. awareness among young for environmental issues, Transparent dialogue and communication with people energy management and understanding about who live near the infrastructure is also one of our ren’s activities, thereby attempting to contribute to main concerns, reflected in the contacts we maintain demystifying some of the prejudices surrounding high with municipalities, parliamentary groups, media and voltage lines. This series was jointly developed with neighbourhood associations. ren was ranked as the quercus and had the support of erse. ninth more transparent company in the Engagement Owners of crucial infrastructure for Portugal, ren always Rating 2010, a study that assesses the transparency of tries to be available to enlighten the community, which the 25 biggest Portuguese and Spanish companies when is why we participated again, in 2010, in the Porto Alive communicating their sustainability performance. 37 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Impact management Fulfilling our mission of public service, we assume a and the Electricity Transmission Grid Development diverse set of responsibilities not only concerning the and Investment Plan (pdirt in Portuguese) allowed guarantee and security of supply but also concerning the improvement of the audience’s perception of the preservation of the surrounding environment and the strategic importance of the projects included in the well-being of citizens, mostly those who are directly the grid development plan and disclosed the main affected by network infrastructure. environmental impacts of the electricity transmission infrastructure to a wider audience. In addition to being Under the assessment and management of a social obligation of companies, training and raising the environmental impacts in 2010, we highlight the audience’s awareness on the environmental impacts participation in the National Conference of Assessment of energy transmission grid contributed, at a medium of Impacts 2010 (cnai), of which we were one of the and short term to the existence of stakeholders more main sponsors. In addition to the presence of speakers informed and aware. of the company in several sessions, we organised a technical visit to the construction site of the ArmamarFor relationship with the community, ren participated Lagoaça line at 400 kv and to the Armamar substation. in the panel discussion named Social innovation. What Public participation in the processes of Environmental companies are doing to be relevant in their communities, Impact Assessment, Strategic Environmental Assessment which was organised in the Greenfest. REN Award  In 2010, we organised another edition of the ren Award www.ren.pt/ to promote cooperation between universities and the vPT/GrupoREN/ PremioREN Industry and to praise engineering projects related to our sector. The ren Award 2009 was awarded to the following master’s theses written by student finalists or recent graduates of courses in Electrical Engineering, Mechanics and Chemistry of Portuguese universities: 1st prize: Implementations according to Standard cei 61850 of Automation Functions Specified by petri Networks – Application to Substations of Energy Transmission – Ricardo Emanuel Caldeira Cartaxo – ist 2nd prize: Wind Power Forecasting Based on Prospection Models of Historical Similarity – Tiago Filipe Ferreira dos Santos – feup 3rd prize: Design, Control, Simulation and Energy Evaluation of a dc Offshore Wind Park – André Madeira Marques – ist In 2010, we launched a new challenge with the ren Award 2010, to be awarded in the first half of 2011. 38 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 3. Commitment to the future 3.1 Our challenges National Strategy for Energy 2020 Electricity In 2010, the Government defined the strategic guidelines for the energy sector by drafting the National Strategy for Energy (ene 2020), which was approved by cabinet Portugal has an ambitious programme under way to resolution rcm n.º 29/2010, of 15 April 2010. develop renewable energy sources in the subsector of The decisions of energy policy taken on in ene 2020 are a electricity, whose success will depend on the easiness growth factor of the economy, promotion of competition and flexibility of its integration in public grids for in the energy markets, value creation and qualified labour electricity transmission and distribution. in sectors with high technological incorporation. The The fulfilment of the national strategy for res, drafted purpose is to keep Portugal in the technological frontier of renewable energy, boosting the production and export in the pnaer, the national plan of action of renewable of solutions with high-added value, which decrease energy energies to 2020, is essential for the fulfilment of the dependence on other countries and reduce greenhouse goals set out in the 20-20-20 strategy of the European gas emissions. Union. ene 2020 is based on five main axes, translating into a Portugal has been able to implement several projects of vision, a focused set of priorities and measures to execute res, such as onshore wind energy and large hydro, which them. are only possible due to interaction between several Axis 1 – Agenda for competitiveness, growth and energy agents of the sector, where ren has a relevant role. We and financial independence have created conditions that allow the integration of Axis 2 – Focus on renewable energy sources this energy source, reinforcing the grid and adopting Axis 3 – Promotion of energy efficiency new methods of system management, incorporating and Axis 4 – Guarantee of security of supply compensating the self-intermittency and the technical Axis 5 – Economic and environmental sustainability demands that the res add to the system, with highlight to the wind energy. All this activity led to the acquisition and reinforcement of critical skills to strengthen our technical knowledge in innovation areas, which are essential for the execution of our business strategy. • integration, until 2020, of close to 6800 MW of wind production onshore, ensuring that Portugal is one of The expansion needs of our network are identified in the EU countries with largest installed wind power/ close cooperation with edp – Distribuição de Energia, peak load ratio (approximately 70%) in the entso-e; the concession holder of the high voltage transmission • accommodation of new amounts of hydro production grid, with our Spanish peer Red Eléctrica de España and (5000 MW until 2020, of which close to 4000 MW have with the promoters of producing centres. The final goal reversibility features); is streamlining the investments in order to maximise • integration until 2020 of 1500 MW of solar production; the benefits of the National Electricity System in the mediumand long-term. • construction of an electric platform at medium voltage to be connected to the substation of edp Distribuição, In recent years, we drafted several planning studies of Vieira de Leiria, in order to collect and use electricity that ensured the necessary technical conditions for generation from wave energy in the pilot zone, in the the progressive and successful integration of the high sea corridor of S. Pedro de Moel; amounts of renewable production in sen, particularly • r&d projects to identify technical solutions that adapt of wind energy. In 2010, new wind turbines were to the intermittent nature of renewable production, connected to the grid, accounting for close to 350 MW including wind energy, among which estimated of power. amounts of adequate operating reserve and the use, in case of reduced consumption, of the pumping To continue this trend, we are currently developing a set power of hydroelectric plants to accommodate surplus of initiatives, such as: production. 39 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 At ren, we try to follow the development trends of integration of res by reducing consumption of technology that uses res so, as early as possible, fossil fuel and, consequently, of CO2 emissions and we may assess alternatives and find the solutions by stimulating the free exchange of energy among that better serve the national goals of facilitating agents. We have a crucial role in the dynamics the connection of this type of production system, of the market and in the contribution (in the thereby ensuring the economic and environmental portion relating to grids) to make energy prices rationale of connections to new projects. We are economically sustainable and competitive in the certain we are giving our best contribution to the mediumand long-term. Natural gas One of our biggest challenges is the supply of new For 2012, we expect the completion of the new storage combined-cycle stations and the estimated increase of tank of Liquefied Natural Gas (lng) with the inclusion of natural gas consumption expected for the next years. the new low-pressure pumps and the improvement of Ensuring the existence of infrastructure capacity and the related systems, allowing an overall storage capacity of sustained and efficient development of the network, along 390,000 m3 of lng and a maximum emission capacity of with the insufficient capacity of the Sines Terminal for at least 1,350,000 m3(n)/h. forecast needs, were the main motivations for the execution of the Expansion Project of the Sines Terminal (pets). In 2008, the International Public Tender to choose a contractor for the implementation of the Expansion Project of the Sines Terminal (pets) was launched. The expansion of the terminal was not just the construction of a new tank. At the same time, construction works of a new sea water‐intake system, pumping and rejection of seawater, were held, with the construction of a new structure that abstracts, treats, filters and pumps the seawater that is taken by the pipes up to vaporizers – and from another structure to discharge seawater. The construction of a new substation to ensure feeding to the new low and high-pressure pumps and other equipment in the new tank was also part of this project. Construction of the third tank – Sines Terminal The project also includes the construction of the third bay of supply of tank trucks, which had been • Reception and unload of lng tankers with planned and prepared in the previous construction capacities between 40,000 and 215,000 m3, with project of the terminal. Currently, the system an unloading capacity of 10,000 m3/h; of automatic supply of tank trucks supplies, on average, 3 thousand trucks a year that carry • Storage with useful capacity of 240,000 m3; liquefied natural gas to the most remote areas of • Regasification of liquefied natural gas and issue Portugal, where the network of natural gas still does of natural gas (ng) to the Transmission Pipeline not reach. (maximal admissible operating pressure 84 Barg). Currently, the lng Terminal has three main Issue of base of 675,000 m3(n)/h and an emission functions: peak of 900,000 m3(n)/h. 40 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 3.2 Integration of markets Iberian Electricity Market (mibel) Outflowing renewable energy and reinforcing As the European Transmission System Operators, we interconnections between Portugal and Spain have been performing an important and coherent role are the main goals of the new Armamaraimed at the effective implementation of mibel and Lagoaça line at 400kV, under operation since 15 its subsequent integration in the European Electricity November 2010. With 87.2 km of length, this Market, the need to accommodate increasingly higher new line reinforced the transportation capacity amounts of renewable production with intermittent between the strongly producing zone of Douro characteristics and the obligation to promote the Internacional and the coast, thereby ensuring development of grids for the efficiency and streamlining transport of most of the energy produced in of resources. The maximum pillar is adequate reliability hydroelectric power plants, located in the basin and high standards of continuity and service quality. of river Douro, and the outflow of new wind We create conditions in the infrastructure for the production from the region of Trás-os-Montes. operation of mibel with the effective reinforcement of The new infrastructure significantly reinforced our interconnection capacity, thereby simultaneously the capacity of energy exchange between ensuring a minimum of operating restrictions. To this the Portuguese and Spanish networks in the end, our capital expenditure plan includes a set of existing interconnections in the zone of Douro projects aimed to reach 3000 MW of interconnection Internacional to ensure the necessary and adequate conditions to the good functioning of capacity in the medium term. mibel. The new Armamar-Lagoaça line at 400kV The implementation of mibel ensures: has a multi-goal nature in the reinforcement of • the existence of competition between the agents the transmission network. that operate in the electric energy markets, with positive impacts in society thanks to the consequent price reduction; Iberian Gas Market (mibgás) • the complementarity and mutual increment in security of supply of the Portuguese and Spanish The integration of the Portuguese and Spanish systems  electrical systems; of the natural gas sector benefits consumers from both www.erse.pt/pt/ gasnatural/mibgas countries and leads to the harmonisation of applicable • the streamlining of natural resources use and rules and the mutual recognition of agents. mibgás the promotion of energy efficiency in the Iberian aims at: Peninsula; • increasing security of supply through the integration • the alignment with the European strategy, whose of markets and the coordination of both systems ultimate goal is the creation of a single internal of the natural gas sector and reinforcement of electricity market. interconnections; Under the creation of conditions for the functioning of • fostering competition, due to the growth of the size mibel developed in recent years, the Lagoaça substation of the market and the increase in the number of (Douro Internacional) at 400 kV came into operation players; in 2010 and the new interconnection line at 400 kV, • simplifying and harmonising the regulatory Lagoaça Aldeadávila, was set up, which, along with the framework of both countries; refurbishment made in the 220 kV grid of the National Electricity Transmission Grid completed in the region in • encouraging the efficiency of regulated and 2009, allowed an increase in the exchange capacity with liberalised activities, as well as market transparency. Spain ranging from 200 to 400 MW. The construction The activities related to the creation of mibgás have programme of new facilities and interconnection proceeded in the definition of base principles of the lines proceeded, besides the internal reinforcements harmonisation of rules by regulators in Portugal (erse) developed in conjunction with our Spanish peer, to and in Spain (cne) and the technical cooperation achieve an interconnection capacity of approximately between Technical Managers of System of both 25% of the peak of annual consumption in the medium countries, ren and Enagás, respectively. In addition, term. Capacity must reach close to 3000 MW, in both Regulators have been developing the model of third the Portugal/Spain direction and the Spain/Portugal party access to infrastructure for natural gas as well direction. as the definition of the retribution methodology of 41 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 regulated activities and the calculation of access prices the future development of this interconnection, which to infrastructure, under the enlarged area of the future must be reflected on the final versions of planning in the mibgás. energy sector of both countries, currently in preparation In 2010, the preliminary study and analysis of feasibility and discussion, namely the Plan for the Development of a new interconnection between the gas systems of and Investment in the National Transmission Network, Portugal and Spain, between Mangualde and Zamora, Storage infrastructure and lng terminals (pdir) for the were performed, aiming to increase security of supply period between 2011 and 2014, in Portugal, which must and ease the access to the Iberian market through the be submitted to the energy department, the dgeg, until availability of capacity to transport and store natural gas. the end of March 2011, and Planificación del Sector The conclusions of this work resulted in a joint position Energético 2012-2020, in Spain, whose final approval of the two operators of the energy transport system for and publication are expected for July 2011. 3.3 Security, reliability, quality and guarantee of supply Question to Stakeholders: The injection of reactive power in the National Do you believe ren provides high-quality service, Electricity Transmission Grid (rnt) is directly ensuring security, reliability and guarantee of related to the enforced tariff regulation. It is supply? ren’s role to promote close cooperation with erse, the regulator of the sector, to streamline the electrical system and to guarantee a grid National Electricity Transmission Grid (rnt) structure with enough flexibility to compensate and manage the power factor, while Under our mission, we continued to develop expansion maintaining reliability levels and high service and streamlining studies of RNT, which set out the most quality standards. favourable mediumand long-term strategy to ensure reliability and high standards of continuity and service quality. We highlight the study aimed at correcting and Of this work, we highlight our effort to integrate the stabilising the voltage levels provided by rnt, in some plant of Venda Nova III, located in the basin of Cávado, grid nodes, which is necessary to guarantee the which includes two reversible groups (2x365 MW of compensation of the potency factor given the use of the production capacity) with innovative technological grid by subsidised regime producers (pre in Portuguese). features (asynchronous machines with variable ren has developed studies on the expansion of the rnt speed), allowing the adjustment of pumping potency not only to successfully accommodate and integrate of groups between 70 and 100% of installed potency. the growing production of wind energy but also the Conventional plants only have capacity to pump the significant increase in hydroelectric production forecast maximum installed potency. Besides giving more under the National Plan for Dams and the potency flexibility to the rnt operation, this factor streamlines reinforcement of existing plants. Regarding the potency the accommodation of wind production in the void. reinforcement of existing plants, we highlight the high To integrate the power reinforcements of the hydro concentration of potency in the region of high and plants of Picote and Bemposta and the growth of the medium Tâmega, of close to 1500 MW, distributed by amounts of renewable production, mainly wind energy, the plants of Daivões, Alto Tâmega and Gouvães, and we continued, in 2010, the reshuffle of the rnt in the the reinforcement of the plants of the Cávado basin, area of Armamar (new substation) and Lagoaça, which totalling approximately 1300 MW. included the set-up of a number of new circuits at 400 42 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010  kV in the region and the execution of some interventions phase, the line between Valpaços and Vila Pouca de www.ren.pt at 220 kV. Aguiar will be built to close the ring. To establish a ring at 220 kV complementary to the The construction of a set of new substations to reinforce Douro route between Pocinho and Valdigem, which electrical supply to several regions of the country, reinforces the integration capacity of renewable energy like the substations of Valpaços, Feira and Fafe, will sources and the interconnection capacity with Spain, also be started. The substation of Fafe will allow the the construction of a new line between Macedo de Cavaleiros and Valpaços will be started, where a new shutdown of the current temporary premises 150/60 substation 220/60 kV will be built. This substation kV of Guimarães, which is surrounded by the natural will provide the area of Chaves and neighbouring and gradual expansion of the city of Guimarães, thereby municipalities with better quality of supply. In a second inducing significant environmental benefits. Service Quality Global rate of availability of line circuits (%) 97.49 Global rate of availability of transformers and self98.66 transformers (%) Combined rate of availability (%) 97.78 Equivalent interruption time (eit) (min) 1.15 Energy not supplied (ens) (MWh) 114.9 More information on our performance in service quality may be read in the annual reports published in our website. In 2010, there was a significant enlargement • Interruptible clients, under service contracting of of ren’s customer relationship and contract active management of consumption, following obligations, under the electrical sector, as a result the publication of ministerial regulation Portaria of the publication of new legislation and regulation. n.º 592/2010, of 29 July, completed by ministerial Therefore, this relationship was extended for the regulations Portaria n.º 1308/2010 and Portaria first time to agents of the electrical sector that n.º 1309/2010, both from 23 December. were out of our commercial sphere, namely the following: At the same time, we proceeded the continuous improvement effort of the service provided • Cogenerators, under the creation by ren of the to the agents of mibel, throughout 2010, and Entity for Origin Guarantees, an entity that issues origin guarantees, following the publication of strengthened the use of the system of Service Desk government decree Decreto-Lei n.º 23/2010, of market, leading to a more efficient and auditable of 25 March, changed by law Lei n.º 19/2010, management of sales relationship with market of 23 August, which set out the legal and agents and giving access to detailed information to remuneration regime applicable to electric and characterise our sales relationship. mechanical energy and useful heat produced in In 2010, new tools started being used, aiming at cogeneration; the improvement of both sales relationships and • Subsidised regime producers, under the responsiveness to agents. agreement of connection to rnt and the management of delivery and reception of Direct access by Web-services was provided, reactive energy to the National Electricity being increasingly used by market agents, thereby Transmission Grid, fulfilling the publication of contributing to increase transparency and ease the new Regulation of the Transmission Grid, clarifications. This tool proved important in the through ministerial regulation Portaria n.º context of the settlement of services of the market 596/2010, of 30 July; deviation system, made by ren. 43 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 National Natural Gas Transmission Network (rntgn) In 2010, we continued the implementation of the Plan for the Development and Investment in the National Transmission Network, Storage infrastructure and lng terminals (pdir), which corresponds to the three gas years comprised between 1 July 2008 and 30 June 2011. This plan includes a set of projects of development and expansion of the rntgn, investments of internal reinforcement and refurbishment and connection to clients. Under projects for connection to clients in 2010, the new branch came into operation, allowing the supply of the new combined-cycle gas turbine at Pego for Tejo Energia (5.27 km), in the Abrantes region. Supply to edp– December 2010. This project is part of the first phase Gás for Vila Nova de Cerveira was started, and the new of the future third connection to Spain, and was branch that supplies Galp-Petrogal, in the Porto Refinary approved by the European Commission (ec) for the eu in Leça da Palmeira (23.21 km), was completed. funding under the European Energy Programme for Under the Plan for Development and Investment in the Recovery (eepr). Network, we undertook the following projects: Reinforcement and refurbishment of the rntgn: Development of the rntgn: • we developed the refurbishment project of 14 • we completed the works of capacity expansion, stations of the rntgn with functionality from icjct to and improvement of functionalities of the Plants of jct, while the works in 11 stations have already been Valongo and Chaparral, and started the expansion of completed; the capacity of Plant of Pombal; • we completed the set-up of emitters and receptors of • we completed the projects of Basic Engineering mobile pig for the execution of penetrations (Cartaxo and Licencing (including the study of environmental and Chaparral); framework and risk analysis) for the set-up of the new Compression Station of Carregado; • we conducted the inspection programme of piping integrity in 334.5km of pipeline, using an intelligent • we completed the Base and Detail Project of the tool; Mangualde-Celorico-Guarda pipeline, having the Environmental Impact Assessment obtained a • we implemented and started using a new application favourable environmental impact statement, in of Management of Maintenance and Asset Control. In the next gas year, the atr computing platform acquired by ren Gasodutos, in the final stages of development, will support the relationship  Once again, we played the supply service with our clients (Retailers, Operators of the www.ren.pt of the transmission network of natural gas Transmission Network and High-Pressure without interruption in supply and incidents in Clients) and will have a module management transport infrastructure at high pressure. of Complaints/Enquiries that is traceable and auditable. Concerning the characteristics of natural gas, all parameters were found to be in 2010 In 2010, 17 complaints were received, six of which related to contractual issues and eleven within the limits laid down in the Regulation on technical issues. These complaints were of Quality of Service published by erse. answered within an average of 4.5 days, while the regulatory deadline for responding to complaints was 20 working days. 44 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Supply and demand for electricity and natural gas – long-term planning Electricity Supply According to the legislation, within its competencies as In April 2010, the “Security of Supply in Electricity the concession holder of the rnt and its responsibility Production | 2011-2020 Period” report was drafted for security of supply to the National Electricity System by ren and sent afterwards to dgeg, in which the (sen in Portuguese), we cooperated with the energy main guidelines of the national energy policy were the department (dgeg) in the monitoring of sen’s security guiding principles. In this report, the most important of supply. To this end, we should have benchmark prospective elements on the evolution of the power prospective data on the evolution of the power system system are presented, namely the security of supply in the mediumand long-term and supply the elements and the requirements necessary for its maintenance in dgeg deems necessary to prepare a proposal of adequate levels, for the safety of network operation and Report on the Supply Security Monitoring (rmsa-e), to intention of investment in interconnection capacity, for be submitted every two years to the approval of the the share of renewable sources in consumption supply, Ministry of Economy and Innovation. In interim years, a for the evolution of consumption of fuel in the electrical simplified monitoring report is drafted. sector (natural gas and coal), for environmental aspects and for the competitiveness of the national producing Demand system, under mibel. These prospective studies on the Within the monitoring activities of sen’s supply safety evolution of the power system are drafted according to and a more comprehensive work under the Iberian two different visions: Electricity Market, evolution studies of electricity • “Energy Policy” – The evolution of the national power demand in the long term for Portugal Continental are system is viewed against a backdrop of achieving drafted every year. These forecasts are made taking the goals and objectives of the energy policy set out into account, in every year of the forecast period, the by the Government, namely in the new National hypothesis of “average temperature”, combined with Strategy for Energy until 2020 – ene 2020 – approved several scenarios of economic growth translated into the in cabinet resolution rcm n.º 29/2010, of 15 April. evolution of variables such as gdp, national expenditure, gross disposable household income and gross value • “Security of Supply” – The development of the power added by sector. In addition, the expected impacts of system is viewed against a backdrop of both slower measures of energy efficiency and rational use of energy growth of supply capacity of the various components and the penetration of electrical vehicles in the long of production and further growth in demand to term on demand for electricity are included. identify a benchmark framework for its development, which ensures the existence of appropriate levels of In 2010, a report was jointly prepared by ren/ree on the security of supply. analysis of demand in mibel and forecast for the 20102020 period. These forecasts are the basis for studies on the coverage of Iberian demand. The monitoring bulletins of monthly demand in 2010 were published in the websites of ren and ree, which contain the analysis of demand broken down in its three basic components – economic activity, temperature and calendar effect – and of peak, for both mibel and for each market. In addition, monitoring bulletins include the forecast of demand and peaks for the following months. 45 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Natural Gas Supply According to the enforced legislation, ren as the In June 2010, the “Security of Supply of Natural concession holder of the rntgn cooperates with dgeg Gas|2011-2020 Period” report was drafted by ren and, in the process of monitoring the security of supply of subsequently, submitted to dgeg, translating the view the National Natural Gas System (sngn). To this end, of the System Operator on the evolution of sngn and, ren must possess prospective data of reference on the particularly, the outlook of the rntiat, the security of evolution of the rntiat in the mediumand long-term supply and the requirements for its maintenance in and supply the elements that dgeg deems necessary to adequate levels in the medium and long-term. The prepare a proposal of Monitoring Report of Security of main hypotheses and assumptions that supported the Supply of Natural Gas (rmsa-g), to be submitted until preparation of this report are in line with the main the end of the first half of each year to the approval of guidelines of energy policy. The prospective studies the Minister of Economy, Innovation and Development. of the future configuration of the rntiat are aimed at ensuring minimum levels of security of supply that are Demand translated into the sufficiency of infrastructure to meet Under the activities of monitoring of the security of consumption forecast in two perspectives: supply of the sngn, studies on the evolution of demand • Supply capacity for the coverage, in annual peak for natural gas in the long-term for mainland Portugal periods (January), of critical situations; are drafted every year. The development of these scenarios is based on forecasts broken down by markets: • Storage capacity to ensure the formation and Conventional Market (Industry and Cogeneration maintenance of the volumes of natural gas required sectors, Residential sector and Tertiary sector); and to face critical situations, throughout time, of gas Electricity Market (consumption of natural gas for entrances in Portugal. electricity generation through thermoelectric stations Under ren’s responsibilities in the process of monitoring under the standard regime (pro)). of the security of supply of both sen and sngn, reports Concerning the Conventional Market, the main difficulty on the provisional conditions of security of energy in demand forecasting arises from the few existing supply in the summer period of 2010 and in the winter observations, since natural gas is recent in Portugal. period of 2010-2011 were drafted. Both reports were Under these circumstances, the application of some submitted to dgeg. sophisticated econometric methods in the field of time series is impossible. With the maturing of the sector, the uncertainty related to forecasting may be reduced and the degree of sophistication of the methods applied may be higher. Regarding the expected evolution of natural gas consumption in the Electricity Market, the scenarios arise from prospective studies performed under the monitoring of the security of supply of the power system. In 2010, the “Evolution scenarios of demand for natural gas|Period 2011-2020” report, which was drafted in 2010, was the basis for analyses to the supply side in the medium and long-term. 46 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Capital expenditure for transmission networks and energy storage In spite of difficulties in the Portuguese economy, arising in interconnection capacity, and the purchase by ren of from the sovereign debt crisis, we were able to fulfil the the reserve capacity in the Portuguese pipelines that entire capital expenditure plan for 2010, as well as place belonged to enagás. infrastructure into operation. In 2010, we highlight two Overall, we invested close to 443 M€ in the expansion of projects completed by ren: the new interconnection the transport networks, in the following segments (main with Spain in Douro Internacional, allowing an increase projects): ren Rede Eléctrica 49.7 M€ in the development of route “Douro Internacional Armamar”, at 400 and 220 kV 43.3 M€ in the development of the “Portimão-Tavira” axis, at 400 kV, and its articulation with the grid at 150 kV between Tunes and Estói 23.1 M€ in the refurbishment of the Substation of Ermesinde and related lines (first phase at 60 kV) 19.3 M€ in the upgrade to 400 kV of route Armamar-Bodiosa-Paraímo 18.3 M€ in the extension of the grid at 400 kV until the Substation of Fernão Ferro ren Atlântico 71.7 M€ in the Expansion Project of the Sines terminal ren Armazenagem 2.3 M€ in cavity 06 ren Gasodutos 16.4 M€ in the Mangualde-Guarda gas pipeline 6.8 M€ in the change of 5 inserted derivation stations to junction stations 4.4 M€ in the Branch of Leça 1.5 M€ in the Branch of Pego 1.4 M€ in the Branch of Barreiro 47 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 3.4 Research and technological development and innovation Question to Stakeholders: Do you believe ren is an innovative company? In 2010, as in previous years, we submitted applications transmission networks, in the context of sustainable to the sifide funding programme, the tax incentives to development, with particular relevance for health and corporate r&d system, of 2009, under the r&d activities the environment. of ren – Rede Eléctrica Nacional, ren Serviços and ren The projects submitted to the programme are Gasodutos. distributed by the following scientific and technological In this context, 27 projects were identified, which areas: Computer Sciences, Health Sciences, Economics had the participation, in part-time, of close to 79 and Management, and Electrical, Electronic and it employees. Developed projects intended to improve Engineering, focused on diverse social and economic operational efficiency of both electricity and natural gas purposes such as Energy, the Environment and Health.2 Scientific and technological areas Social and economic goals 4% 11% 22% Computer Sciences Environment 4% Health Sciences Energy 7% Economics and Management Health 67% Electrical, Electronic and IT Engineering 85% In 2010, the overall amount spent in r&d activities A summary of some r&d projects in which ren developed in the company was close to 1.7 M€. The participates is presented bellow: amount of tax credit calculated on eligible expenses in r&d obtained with the applications to sifide was estimated at approximately 601 k€. project Funding Description programme anemos.plus fp6 anemos – “Development of A Next Generation Wind Resource Forecasting System for the Large-Scale Integration of Onshore and OffShore Wind Farms.” This is a project aimed at implementing probabilistic forecast models for wind generation and forecast models for wind power generation. pegase fp7 The purpose of the European project pegase – Pan European Grid Advanced Simulation and State Estimation is to develop a methodology to implement the State Estimator of the European network and dynamic models in real time. merge fp7 Led by inesc Porto, the project merge – Mobile Energy Resources for Grids of Electricity aims at preparing the European electricity system to the massive use of electric vehicles. reive fai (Support to reive – Redes Eléctricas Inteligente com Veículos Eléctricos (intelligent electric grids with Innovation Fund) electric vehicles), is a project aimed at studying, developing and testing solutions and preindustrial prototypes for the intelligent and active management of electricity grids with high penetration of micro-generation and electric vehicles. 2 According to the terminology used in the ipctn, the survey to the national scientific and technological potential, of the Portuguese department of science, technology and higher education 48 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Research and development partnerships idad – Institute of Environment and Development of Universidade de Coimbra The strategic importance we give to r&d is evident in the iep – Portuguese Electrotechnical Institute continuous share of knowledge and learning processes, through cooperation projects with domestic and foreign inesc Porto – Institute for Systems and Computer companies and academic and scientific partnerships, Engineering with the purpose of improving the management and operation of the national electricity grid and minimising ist – Instituto Superior Técnico the environmental impact related to the planning and labelec – Study, development and laboratory activities sa construction of the national transmission grid. uAlg – Universidade do Algarve In regular academic and scientific partnerships, the following stand out: Internationally, our r&d cooperation was focused on partnerships with peer companies, such as Red Eléctrica fct – Faculty of Science and Technology of Universidade de España (ree), under both mibel and the entso-e, Nova de Lisboa and on the participation in projects promoted by the feup – Faculty of Engineering of Universidade do Porto European Union. Participation in international bodies of the sector entso-e – European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity In 2010, we maintained contact with the latest developments of the energy sector, having participated entso-g – European Network of in several working groups of organisations and Transmission System Operators for Gas associations about pioneering topics for both the sectors of electricity and natural gas. We highlight the following participations: cigré – Conseil International des Grands Réseaux Électriques • Cooperation with the Conseil International des Grands Réseaux Électriques (cigré) – ren is represented in 11 of the existing 16 study gie – Gas Infrastructure Europe committees, in which current challenges for the sector are being discussed. In 2010, the sc c3 committee, Study Committee System Environmental egig – European Gas Pipeline Incident Data Performance, distinguished the work developed at Group the cigré; • The high level of representation at the ruling Marcogaz – Technical Association of the committee of the European Network of Transmission European Natural Gas Industry System Operators for Electricity (entso-e) and the participation as a member of the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas (entso-g), eurelectric – Union of Electricity Industry entities known as the most important debate forums on electricity and natural gas transmission in market environment. A number of ren employees participate wec – World Energy Council in study committees of entso. As a result of activities and projects developed, several scientific articles were published and lectures were made in 2010, and ren actively participated in international conferences and forums. 49 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 3.5 Energy of next generations Wave energy On 20 October 2010, ren signed the concession contract for the pilot zone through its enondas subsidiary. The pilot zone, created in January 2010, had long been awaiting its operation and was a great ambition for its promoters, which are companies developing machinery to use wave energy. Since Portugal has a medium-high energy resource (average annual flow of 30 MW per kilometre of wave front in water with a depth of 50 metres), it Wave energy – signing of the Concession Contract of the Pilot Zone has a potential of wave energy use from which an electricity generation of approximately 10 TWh/year for creating conditions for the technological (around 20% of our consumption) may be obtained. development of renewable energy generation from The Atlantic shore has some of the best conditions the sea, maintaining and equipping a space in the in Europe for the development and use of wave Atlantic dedicated to its early development, and to energy. It is an abundant resource without being its sustainable exploration in the future. destructive, which happens in higher-latitude enondas has a vital role in supporting the countries. We can say we have the entire Atlantic development of such technologies by creating Ocean to collect energy. and managing a maritime space equipped for its Nonetheless, the sea is an aggressive means establishment and progress. In the future, enondas because of its strength, in the destructive action is expected to support commercial exploration so of its waves, and also because of its chemical Portugal can assert itself in the sea by becoming (corrosion) and biological (sea life) phenomena that one of the leading players in the sustainable cause the abrasion of machinery and destruction of development of the sea. the systems. There is a path until the consequences This activity is expected to have a multiplier effect of all these phenomena are minimised and the on national development by revivifying professions first competitive commercial machinery appears. and industries related to the sea. It will stimulate That path includes leaving the laboratory or the complementary activities like the naval industry, the workshop and going meet and test the ocean. electric components industry, port activities and Investments and equipment and its operation the mastery and seamanship activities. In a country in the sea are expensive due to its nature, and where the merchant marine has nearly disappeared since many promoters struggle with financial and where fishing struggles with growing difficulties, difficulties it would make no sense to ask them, in we believe that the new opportunities that will arise an initial and research phase, to invest besides its with offshore energies will contribute to boost the machine in infrastructure, which, in the case its sector by creating new opportunities for a declining technology fails or is not competitive, is lost. It is activity. not economically profitable that each one has its At last, it will make Portugal save money in imports infrastructure/connection to the sea. In this phase, of fossil energy, thereby reducing its energy such investment would be a waste of resources and dependence, while contributing to decrease CO2 a sign of inefficiency. emissions. Along with this effort for national and international development, enondas has a crucial role Source: dgeg, the energy department 50 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Electric Vehicles In the current context of policies and trends of the electric networks with electric vehicles, currently energy sector, the possibility of using electric vehicles under way, whose purpose is studying, developing and is an important challenge for companies in the sector, testing solutions and pre-industrial prototypes for the whether it is from the point of view of consumption intelligent active management electricity grids with (growth in electricity demand) or from the point great penetration of micro-generation and electric of view of supply guarantee. Consequently, this is vehicles. The project is partly funded by fai, a fund that an area we have been studying in our research and supports innovation, and the consortium responsible development activities. In electric vehicles, we highlight for its development is composed of a set of companies our participation in the reive project – intelligent and entities related to the electricity sector. The electric systems face now the major challenge of and relative competitiveness of electric vehicles. preparing for the massive integration of plug-in electric Nevertheless, the massive use of electric vehicles may vehicles. The features of electric motors – performance occur in short time as that limitation is overcome. close to 100% and available maximum binary since Since we are responsible for the operation of the lower regimes – related to the possibility of promoting national electricity system and the development the integration of generation for renewable sources, of the infrastructure of the national transmission make the electric vehicles an essential factor to achieve network, we are particularly sensitive to the issue the ambitious goals of decreasing CO2 emissions and, of electric vehicles and the development in the area simultaneously, reducing dependence on imports of of Smart-Grids, which will ensure the operation of fossil fuels. a new interface paradigm between infrastructure The main barrier to overcome is energy storage in of the electricity system and all agents – smalls and vehicles, guaranteed by batteries that currently present big producers, consumers, consumer-producers, a low energy density, which compromises the autonomy marketers, concentrating agents. These resources may be consumers (electric vehicles in charging mode) or energy generators (if the batteries of electric vehicles reinsert energy in the grid). The development of a specific set of instruments From the ongoing initiatives on the integration of of computational assessment able to simulate real electric vehicles, we highlight our participation in electric systems (generation, transmission and the consortium that is developing the research distribution) will allow the assessment of the suitability and development project merge – Mobile Energy of the preliminary interfaces of intelligent control of Resources in Grids of Electricity, funded by the electric vehicles that are going to be developed in European Commission under the fp7 – Energy-2009-1. the project. On the other hand, through surveys on The merge project, led by inesc Porto, the Institute mobility patterns and availability of the drivers to for Systems and Computer Engineering, is one of adjust to electric mobility requirements, the impacts the largest research projects with funding from the on the profiles of the electricity consumptions are European Union, budgeted in 4.5 M€. This project being assessed and the evolution scenarios for the covers 16 institutions, among which is ren. penetration of electric vehicles in several countries The merge project aims to develop a strategy to (including Portugal) are being made. Based on these support the conversion to electric mobility and elements and using developed models, there will be to prepare a set of tools that model, analyse and an analysis of the impacts of the presence of electric streamline the planning and future management vehicles on the integration of intermittent renewable of systems that integrate electric vehicles in a great energy sources, on the stability of the system and scale, according to the concept of “mobility of energy on the adjustment of operational reserve, as well as resources relating to their connection to the network”. regulatory aspects and market mechanisms. 51 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 4. Commitment to the environment 4.1 Environmental impact Question to Stakeholders: Do you believe ren is an environmentally Principles of responsible company? environment protection Environmental protection, reduction of environmental impact, rational use of natural resources, prevention of pollution and support to the development of renewable energy sources are the main guidelines of the environmental policy, published over eight years ago. In 2010, costs and investments in environment protection summed up 10.7 million euros, which were distributed by the following categories: Environmental Costs and Investments (thousand euros) Landscape integration 25 31 r&d partnerships and projects 519 121 679 234 334 711 Compensatory measures 2 103 Waste management Florest cleaning 1,416 Birdlife protection Requalification of lines 181 Acoustic study Audit, consulting and environmental communications Diverse equipment for enviromental protection Monitoring Other costs 6,378 Management of water treatment plants and wastewater treatment plants 52 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Systems of Environmental Management Since management systems significantly contribute to responsibility, aligned with corporate goals, and standardise procedures and to set objectives and goals formulating the respective activity plans; that lead to environment protection and performance • commenting the results of audits to management improvement, ren has invested in this area by gradually systems conducted in the company and the followincreasing the scope of certified activities. up of corrective actions undertaken; To maintain the effort of developing management • issuing opinions on the documents of the systems of quality, environment and safety and certifying management systems that comprehend the entire all the companies of the Group, Councils of Quality, company and on periodic reports of the performance Environment and Safety, which meet at least once of the management systems and contributing to the a month, were created. It is an advisory body to the review report of the management systems. company’s Board of Directors on quality, environment, In February 2010, ren Armazenagem and ren telecom safety and social responsibility, with a view to: were granted certifications of quality, environment and • proposing objectives and goals of the company, in safety, an achievement that completed the certification terms of quality, environment, safety and social in the three areas for all ren’s activities. ren eléctrica ren serviços ren trading ren gasodutos ren atlântico ren armazenagem ren telecom ISO 9001 ISO 9001 2010 OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 2009 OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001(2) ISO 9001 (2) ISO 9001 (2) 2008 OHSAS 18001 (2) OHSAS 18001 (2) OHSAS 18001 (2) ISO 14001 (2) ISO 14001 (2) ISO 14001 (2) ISO 9001 (1) 2005 OHSAS 18001 (1) 2003 ISO 14001 (1) 2000 ISO 9001* * Certification granted to the activities of construction of lines and substations of the Division of equipment of Rede Eléctrica Nacional 1) Certification granted to the object of concession of the Rede Eléctrica Nacional 2) Transfer of certifications to ren sgps. Extension of certifications in the three areas to ren – Rede Eléctrica Nacional, ren Trading and ren Serviços 53 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 The environmental impacts of our activity impacts Measures of minimisation and monitoring Landscape Visual impact of lines and Projects of landscape integration of infrastructure substations Dismantling and shutdown of electrical lines at the end of useful life Principles of environment Noise Discomfort Encapsulation and replacement of power transformers in protection substations Implementation of noise monitoring plans Replacement of conventional insulators by composite insulators in lines and busbars of substations Replacement of marker spheres in electric lines to reduce noise Water resources Changes to habitats Monitoring of biological and ecological marine factors, in the rejection of seawater from the liquefied natural gas (lng) heating circuit Air quality Contribute to greenhouse Monitoring of gases from burning gas in boilers and in effect and air pollution cogeneration Control of natural gas purges Set-up of thermal solar panels at grms Training and certification of technicians that use SF6 Fauna, flora and use Collision of birdlife with Placement of nesting platforms and nests transfer of the land the electricity grid, Lines marking to reduce collision of birds changes to habitats and Monitoring of fauna in the brine discharging area and use of the land of the biological status of dune depressions due to the construction of natural gas storage cavities Promotion of a feeding area for endangered species Heightening of lines Restriction of the intervention area to the limits of the property corridor and cleaning of the corridors of energy transmission grids In 2010, there were four processes of environmental Environmental impact assessment impact assessment, which guaranteed that potential Depending on the lifecycle phase of operations environmental consequences and impacts of a project (planning, project, construction, operation, maintenance were analysed, assessed and approved. or shutdown), different tools of environmental The strategic environmental assessment (aae), set out by assessment are applied: government decree Decreto-lei n.º 232/2007, of 15 June, is the instrument focused on the planning phase. The main • Strategic Environmental Assessment (aae) purpose of this instrument is to integrate environmental • Environmental Impact Assessment (aia) values in the strategic decision-making process. • Study of environmental incidences/environmental As mentioned in the Sustainability Report 2009, framework the Electricity Transmission Grid Development and • Significance and environmental risks assessment Investment Plan 2009-2014 (2019) – pdirt, which 54 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 includes investments to be made in the electricity area Assessment Report, relative to 2009, following the to ensure the harmonised and integrated operation of legislation applicable to the assessment and control the National Electricity System (sen), was subject to an of effects on the environment arising from the environmental assessment (aa). implementation of pdirt and to the verification of the The environmental assessment culminated in the adoption of measures set out in the Environmental preparation, in 2009, of the Environmental Statement Statement. This report summarises the monitoring – Development and Investment Plan of rnt 2009of the execution of pdirt during 2009 and includes 2014 (2019), where the measures of assessment and the main changes in the technical terms of decisions environmental control related to plan execution are listed. concerning the evolution of the National Electricity In 2010, we submitted to the Portuguese Environmental Transmission Grid (rnt) and in the environmental front Agency (apa) the first Environmental Control and assumed in pdirt’s Environmental Assessment. Changes on projects The feeding solution at 220 kV to the Ermesinde substation was reformulated for the supply of to minimise the impact on territory planning. The new solution considers the consumption opening of a new 400/220 kV substation in the Alfena area and the construction of two connections, partly overhead and partly underground, between Alfena and Ermesinde, which allows the full decommissioning of the three 150 kV lines between the substations of Vermoim and Ermesinde. In Greater Lisbon, a new connection was established between the substations of Alto de Mira and Carriche, in an underground 220 kV line, providing a reinforcement of the 220 kV connection between these two points. Changes to the feed The timeline of projects related to the feeding of the high-speed Lisbon-Madrid of high-speed railways railway were adjusted due to the updated forecasts from the high-speed railway grid (rave). The joint work of project streamlining between ren and rave proceeded, namely on the contiguous location of the substations of each entity to feed the traction substations, thereby minimising cumulative impacts. measures for In the substation of Batalha, the disqualification of two former transformation environmental units of 220/60 kV with high noise level was decided in 2011, which were replaced promotion by two new 400/60 kV units with lower noise levels. With the same purpose, the replacement of an ancient transformation unit of 220/60 kV in the substation of Alto Mira in 2012 was decided. Change to the type The construction in armoured technology of six new substations and switching of technology in stations, provided for in pdirt to have conventional technology for air isolation, construction of which leads to lower visual and noise impact, was decided. In almost all cases, they substations/switching are facilities in urban areas or reasonably urbanised. Given space limitations, a stations similar decision was made concerning the reconstruction of Picote switching station. 55 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 The report presents the status on the implementation scheduled for the first half of 2011. The release of the of the Management and Planning Guidelines and the final version of pdirt is scheduled for July 2011. Monitoring Guidelines, which were set out in the Environmental Assessment (aa). From the broad range of consultations with city halls, coordination and regional development committees, the Portuguese Environmental Agency (apa), the institute for the preservation of nature and biodiversity (icnb) and This way, it is crucial to maintain a permanent non-governmental organisations (ngo), we improved dialogue and cooperation with the several the perception of these entities on the importance entities involved in both the preparation of of projects under pdirt, thereby disclosing to other PDIRT and its implementation, in order to stakeholders information on the main environmental ensure the existence of proper conditions for its impacts of rnt’s infrastructure and the new planning execution. decisions and changes undertaken. In 2010, ren started, under paragraph 11 of government decree Decreto-lei 232/2007, an execution process of the new Transmission Grid Development and Investment Plan, ranging the timeline target of 2022. This new investment plan will be subject to a In the context of the activities for expanding and similar process regarding the Strategic Environmental improving the energy network, other environmental Assessment and the public consultation, which is assessment procedures were implemented, as shown in the following table. processes 2008 2009 2010 Processes of Environmental Impact Assessment 15 12 4 Post-Assessment Processes of Environmental Impact 3 11 6 Principles of environment Environmental Impact Statement 7 11 7 protection Study of incidents/Environmental Framework (EIncA/eea) 7 8 9 Environmental Impact Studies (eia) 8 5 9 Environmental Compliance Report of the Execution Project (recape) 3 10 2 Concerning monitoring and supervision activities, monitoring actions were implemented in 2010 in several works in the following descriptors: In 2010, ren created the Methodological Guide for the Environmental Impact Assessment of the Infrastructure in the National Electricity Transmission Grid – Substations. This guide is descriptors Number of monitored works the result of the streamlining procedure of the 2009 2010 Environmental Impact Assessment applied to substations, following the protocol signed by Birdlife 11 10 ren and the Portuguese Environmental Agency Soundscape 10 15 (apa). The working version of this guide was Electromagnetic fields 1 1 disclosed in ren’s website and was available Water resources 1 1 for consultation from May 7th to June 8th Flora 1 2 of 2010. An email address for feedback and Iberian Wolf 1 1 improvement suggestions was created. A formal opinion was requested to 40 entities. Following the consultation period, a report with the analysis of the opinions received was published in September 2010. Afterwards, ren Furthermore, 25 works in lines/pipelines and six in analysed its applicability to the guide. substations were subject to environmental monitoring and supervision. 56 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Compensatory measures In 2010, we continued the measures for monitoring and compensating impacts on the following lines of the electricity grid: Alqueva-Brovales line, Implementation state: First phase of the project was completed. of 400 kV (Portuguese section of the AlquevaCompensatory measures for the crane and the little bustard Principles of Balboa line) Goals: environment protection • minimising the crossing of the Spanish Alqueva-Spanish border line, of 400 kV, by cranes and little bustards, reducing the chances of collision Accomplishments up to date: • in 2009, there were 159 deaths considered as the result of collision with the line • most collisions occur in the autumn. Some of the causes of these results are the rise in the number of birds of some species, migrating birds passing by and the gathering of some resident species in flocks • the fallows with height between 10 and 30 centimetres assume a crucial importance for the little bustards • cranes used regularly the compensatory piece of land. Its presence was recorded in the cereal fields as well as in the fallow Tunes-Estói line Implementation state: The second phase of the project is under way (2009-2014) Specific monitoring for the Bonelli eagle Goals: • monitoring reproductive parameters, mortality and adult renewal • monitoring interaction with the line • monitoring by satellite telemetry • studying the diet Accomplishments up to date: • in September and October no birds were seen. In November, at least one bird of the pair was seen • not enough material was gathered to allow the study of the diet Measures of promotion of the wild rabbit Goals: • management of the habitat • monitoring and advising on hunting activities • making exceptional restocking • monitoring and making sanitary control Accomplishments up to date: • final calculation of variety, quantity and density of seeds and fertilizers to be used in each piece of land • evidence of the presence of the wild rabbit in surrounded land • animals presented good physical conditions, since there were no deaths due to handling and/or transportation • sanitary reports of monitoring 57 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 sines-portimão line 3 Implementation state: The implementation of compensatory measures was completed and a new protocol, approved by the institute for the preservation of nature and biodiversity (icnb), was drafted. According to this protocol, the implementation of the second phase is expected to occur in 2011 Measures of promotion of the wild rabbit Goals: • amonitoring the set-up/renewal of cultures for the fauna • assessing the success of the initial germination of seeds • assessing the restart of reproduction and monitoring deaths within surrounded land and in the surrounding area, and the food available inside that area • assessing the state of preservation of selective exits of surrounded land • monitoring on a monthly basis the relative density of wild rabbit in surrounded land and monitoring on a quarterly basis the relative abundance of wild rabbit in the Intervention Area Accomplishments up to date: • good development of sowing in the three hunting areas • sowing in the surrounded area were almost all consumed • pastures in the outskirts of the surrounding land with abundant green food • indices of reproduction occurrences • selective exits in good conditions Branch between the Implementation state: We have sent the final report of the three years of implementation Mogadouro-Valeira of the compensatory measures to the apa and the icnb. In addition, we have also sent the line and the Macedo protocol of the second period (2011-2014) to the APA and the icnb, whose opinions are de Cavaleiros awaited substation Measures of protection of the Bonelli’s Eagle and Golden Eagle couples (3 RS2009 page 65) Goals: • increasing food available for prey species through the improvement of surviving conditions of their preys (wild rabbit and red-legged partridges) • establishing protocols with the managers of the hunting areas of Castro Vicente and Valpereiro, Lagoa and Azinhoso • recovering and restocking six traditional dovecots Accomplishments up to date: • successful reproduction of the Golden Eagle with the birth of three offsprings • the routes of Bonelli’s eagles were located nearby the restocked dovecots 58 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental Performance Promotion Plans (ppda) Principles of environment The environmental performance promotion plans the measures to be applied in the respective period. protection (ppda), voluntary regulation instruments promoted Execution reports of ppdas are periodically prepared, and coordinated by erse, aim at promoting the in which the main activities undertaken in the period environmental performance of regulated companies of reference for each measure are described. The in the sectors of electricity and natural gas. Currently, environmental merit of the activity, the presentation there are ppdas defined for ren – Rede Eléctrica of efficiency and fulfilment indicators and the results Nacional, ren Armazenagem, ren Gasodutos and of budget execution, with the explanation of possible ren Atlântico, each plan contains the definition of deviations, are also described. ppda 2009-2011 ppda 2008-2010 ren – rede eléCtrica nacional ren armazenagem (main measures) (main measures) Projecto life + Steppe birds Monitoring the status of biological Goal: Promoting the preservation of the conservation of dune depressions at bustard (endangered species), the little Osso da Baleia bustard (vulnerable species) and the Goal: Monitoring possible impacts of lesser kestrel (vulnerable species), in the the aquifer exploration activity, for the habitat of the cereal steppes of Baixo leaching station, in the development Alentejo of vegetal species from the surrouding (further information in page 70 of the SR) ecosystem and improving ren Armazenagem’s environmental performance to minimise any consequences of the exploration of this Preservation of protected species – cork resource and holm oaks (further information in page 65 of the SR) Goal: Minimising the impact of corridors of RNT’s lines on the cork forest and the holm oak forest by heightening lines Assessment of the effectiveness of anticollision devices with birds (partnership with Quercus) Goal: Assessing the effectiveness of anticollising devices with wild birds (further information in page 70 of the SR) Protection of birdlife – nests and perches Goal: Setting up nesting platforms, antiperching devices and transfer nests (further information in page 69 of the SR) \ ”A vida do condoninho” project Goal: Raising awareness through the “Renata” entertainment series 59 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 ppda 2008-2010 ppda 2008-2010 ren gasodutos ren atlântico (main measures) (main measures) Achievement and maintenance of the Maintenance of the environmental environmental front of the Integrated front of the sigqas Management System of Quality, Goal: Renewing the iso 14001:2006 Environment and Safety certificate Goal: Renewing the en iso 14001:2004 certificate Dedicated protection of the Natural Monitoring of marine ecological and Reserve of Lagoas de Santo André and biological factors Sancha (rnlsas) Goal: Assessing potential impacts Goal: Ensuring the improvement of related to the discharge of cold conditions for the permanence of (arising from the process of birdlife, minimising the impact on regasification of natural gas – lng) habitats with priority of the margins and and injecting sodium hypochlorite in making natural gas transport compatible marine environment with the preservation of the integrated habitats of rnlsas Innovation and development projects in alternative and renewable energy Goal: Setting up thermal solar panels in gas regulating and metering stations (further information in page 64) Our performance Consumption of Materials 1 2009 2010 Nitrogen (m )3 758 1,119 Lubricating oils (t) 0.93 8.87 Lubricating grease (t) 0 0.01 Oil (t) 11 8 pH reducing agent: H2SO4 at 38% 5,075 1,770 Caustic soda (t) 0.23 0.10 Sodium hypochlorite (t) 146 147 Gas odoriser (tht) (t) 48 55 Reused oil (t) 19 3 Ink cartridge and toner (no.) 1,639 1,282 Paper for administrative use (t)2 28 30 Recycled paper for internal use (t) 6 3 1 The consumption of materials is estimated based on the amounts purchased for restocking 2 The consumption of paper includes the consumption of virgin paper, recycled paper and stationary (envelopes, stationary paper, etc.) 60 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 The process of reusing recovered oils was significantly reduced due to the change in technology (replacement of circuit breakers with insulating cut technology – hydraulic, by breakers at SF6 with control spring). The decrease in these amounts is expected to continue in the coming years. Consumed and recovered oil (t) 18.89 11.41 7.84 2009 2.90 2010 Oil Recovered oil for transformers Energy Consumption 2009 2010 Electricity of infrastructure and buildings (gj) 241,040 255,465 Natural gas (cogeneration, boilers, pilots and controlled flare burning) (gj) 295,205 288,760 Diesel in other equipment (gj) 228 506 Propane gas (gj) n.A. 74 Natural gas (gj) 182 7,894 Fuel for the vehicle fleet (gj) 28,837 27,177 Losses from the electricity transmission grid (gj) 3 2,048,062 2,820,852 Losses from the gas transport network – purges (gj) 3,658 3,281 Energy generated/sold Primary energy generated (cogeneration) (gj) 10,290 5,975 Direct primary energy sold (cogeneration) (gj) 7,091 3,942 Greenhouse gas emissions Direct emissions (t CO2 eq) 20,843 20,772 Natural gas purges (CH4) 1,294 1,161 Flare burning 948 2,028 Self-consumption of boilers 14,352 13,467 Cogeneration 1,440 818 Sulphur hexafluoride (sf6) 683 839 Natural gas 10 443 Diesel in other equipment 17 37 Fuel for the vehicle fleet 2,099 1,979 Indirect emissions (t CO2 eq) 225,328 193,759 Electricity 23,730 16,092 Losses of electricity in the grid 201,598 177,667 3 In 2010, the emission factor used was 226.74 gCO2eq/kwh, bellow 2009 (354 gCO2eq/kwh), which is the figure provided by ren’s energy supplier, edp Serviço Universal. 61 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 In 2010, losses from the electricity transmission grid Consumption of electricity from infrastructure and increased substantially, which is a result of the climate premises (45%) and consumption of natural gas (50%), conditions in 2010 and the geographical location of the as a result of the operation of cogeneration, boilers, different typologies of generation plants. pilots and controlled flare burnings, account for almost the total amount of ren’s energy consumption. The year was very rainy (wet year) and windy, leading to a significant increase in energy generation from hydroelectric power stations and wind farms, which are associated with higher losses. Energy generation was followed by a significant decrease in the generation from Losses in the energy transmission network (GJ) large thermal plants. 3,000,000 2,820,852 300,000 268,415 There are high losses in transportation when the weight 2,500,000 250,000 of renewable energy is larger due to its location: they 2,055,942 2,048,062 CO2 emissions (t) 201,598 200,000 are located in the North and in inland areas of Portugal, 2,000,000 177,667 connected to the 150 kV and 220 kV grids, in locations 1,500,000 150,000 where the grids are less spotted and where distances to big consumption centres are higher. Large thermal plants 1,000,000 100,000 are mostly located by the shore, where there is higher 500,000 50,000 consumption, and are connected to the 400 kV grid, which has higher transmission capacity and lower losses. – – 2008 2009 2010 This way, the energy had to travel, in 2010, longer Losses in the energy transmission network (GJ) CO2 emissions (t) distances between generation and delivery, with many kilometres of 150 kV and 220 kV grids, leading to higher losses in transmission. However, in spite of the increase in losses from the electricity transmission grid, CO2 emissions fell significantly as a consequence of the expanding integration of renewable energy in the grid. Once more, ren’s role is crucial to guarantee the reception of renewable energy, thereby reducing greenhouse gases emissions from electricity generation. There was a global increase in electricity consumption in the infrastructure and premises of the ren Group. Electricity consumption in ren Gasodutos increased by close to 9% in 2010 as a result of the construction and start of operations of new gas regulating and metering stations and the conversion of the natural gas heating systems in several gas regulating and metering stations, thereby increasing installed electrical charges (burners of boilers and water circulation pumps). In ren Rede Eléctrica, the 27% increase was due to the On 2 May of 2010, the Capacitors Battery Panel rise in the number of facilities taken into account and 60 kV-1x30 Mvar, in the Trafaria substation at to the inclusion of a second counter in the premises of 150 kV/60 kV, came into operation. The set-up Ermesinde, which was not considered in previous years. of capacitors batteries in the electricity grid aims to compensate reactive power generated, In 2010, there was a 44% decrease in consumption which leads to the following benefits: of gas from ren Gasodutos, following a stop in the cogeneration set-up, with the consequent reduction • reduction of voltage drops; 0f primary energy generation and rise of natural gas • reduction of losses from conveyances consumption. heating; • improvement of capacity in the Transmission Lines. 62 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Water and Effluents Consumption of water from the public network (m3) 82,284 90,936 Water abstraction from underground sources (m ) 3 1,846,617 1,548,250 Use of seawater (m3) 4 72,835,000 73,115,000 Discharge of brine into the sea (m3) 1,764,157 1,167,472 Discharge of brine for treatment (m3) 5 611,604 266,399 Free chlorine – annual average (mg/l) 0.56 0.34 4 Abstraction and discharge of seawater used in the regasification process of Liquefied Natural Gas 5 Discharge of water resulting from the construction of salt cavities for storing natural gas The use of seawater for recirculation accounts for Waste 98% of the Group’s total water consumption. In 2010, 2009 2010 consumption of water from the public network went up Hazardous (t) 1,439 41 by 26% in ren Atlântico due to a leak in the water supply Non-hazardous (t) 49,578 195 line at the entrance of the Sines Terminal Atlântico. The substantial reduction of the amount of waste sent passed to contractors, as producers, since they hold the for appropriate disposal is due to the fact that, until majority of waste produced. the end of 2009, the waste produced by infrastructure In 2010, 56% of waste was sent to one of these three maintenance activities and construction works were fully disposal destinations – recycling, reusing and other managed by ren. From 2010 onward, the responsibility recovery. for sending waste to the disposal destination was 16% 14% Sent for treatment 6% Recycled Other (eliminated) 3% 24% Sent to landfill Reused Other (recovered) 37% 63 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 4.2 Climate change In the context of its activity as a commercial agent, ren plants, which comprises the purchase and sale of Trading is also an active company regarding climate licences and the swap of licences awarded in the context change. The management of the plants that have Power of cele by certificates of emission reduction created in Purchase Agreements (cae), Tejo Energia and Turbogás, projects of Clean Development Mechanism. is conditioned by the rules and limits set out in pnaleii 1 With ceiling limits for CO2 emissions, ren Trading’s and, accordingly, is framed in the European Union decisions on the placement of the production of these Emissions Trading Scheme (eu ets). plants in the market always take emissions into account To minimise the annual charge with the acquisition of and its cost in CO2 licences. This means the integration emission licences and the total charges of consumers of CO2 costs into overall production costs of the Pego with electricity acquisition, ren Trading operates in the coal plant may reverse its competitiveness in the market through its participation in the BlueNext, ice/ecx electricity market and lead to its replacement by a less (Intercontinental Exchange/European Climate Exchange) pollutant production. Through the mechanism created and NordPool exchanges. by the eu ets and the operation of the Iberian electricity ren Trading is in charge of managing the portfolio of market, there is a real influence on the combined CO2 emission licences and formulating a management emissions of plants and on Portugal’s operation strategy for these environmental obligations for both programme. National Strategy for Adaptation to Climate Change and other facilities located by the coast may be affected not only because of the risk of flooding On 1 April 2010, cabinet resolution Resolução do but also due to possible needs of refurbishment in Conselho de Ministros 24/2010 was published infrastructure connected to port facilities (e.g. the in the Diário da República, which approved the lng Sines Terminal). Regarding transmission and National Strategy for Adaptation to Climate distribution of electricity, there may be increases Change. This document is intended “to provide in losses in the grids. The rise of air temperature the country with a tool that promotes the leads to higher resistive losses in cables of identification of a set of guidelines and adaptation transmission and distribution of electricity. This measures to be applied, through sector impact is estimated in close to 1.5% of additional instruments, since the combat against climate losses. Moreover, the increase in extreme climate change is a comprehensive challenge, which phenomena may boost the risk for activities in the requires the involvement of a broad range of electricity sector, which might range from brief sectors and an integrated approach”. unavailability of service to the full destruction of assets (generation plants, lines, substations, Regarding companies, the strategy points to the etc.). This way, considering the potential effects integration of risks related to climate change in risk mentioned above, special importance must be analyses for businesses, as well as the execution given to the monitoring level of supply safety”. of measures that prevent, minimise or eliminate those risks, under strategies coordinated with the Invited by dgeg, ren participates since the end Portuguese state. For companies operating in the of 2010 in the working group that will implement energy sector, the Strategy refers to the following: a set of measures of the National Strategy for “Following a rise in sea level, generation plants Adaptation to Climate Change in the energy sector. 1 National plan for the award of CO2 emission licences 64 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 ppda ren Armazenagem “Monitoring of the biological preservation state of greatest (winter and pre-spring) and lowest of dune depressions at Osso de Baleia (Pombal)” (summer) water availability. project ren Armazenagem must maintain predetermined exploration conditions, record and assess any The Mediterranean is one of the areas where change in the performance and behaviour of the a significant reduction of water availability plant community, especially in the summer, the and, consequently, an increase in the risk of period of major environmental stress. desertification is expected, in the context of the This leads to the conclusion that, in general, the global climate change. Under these circumstances, level impact of phreatic exploration was very little coastal dunes are habitats with ecological interest and had no negative consequences for the studied and definite preservation interest, possessing a ecosystem. However, the strong seasonality of the specific and very rich flora, particularly sensitive region, in particular during the driest period (from to stress and disturbance. With this project, spring to the end of the summer), as well as space the purpose is to follow possible changes in the heterogeneity, makes us suggest the continuous composition, structure and behaviour of plant monitoring of the composition and behaviour of the communities of coastal dunes under the influence plant community. In addition to this environmental of the fall of the phreatic level arising from climate monitoring, the maximum water flow of extraction and the minimum predetermined water levels for change. each abstraction well must continue to be fulfilled. According to available data, studied species vary The implementation of a space/time model of the widely in the intake and use of water available in answer of crucial species to changes in phreatic the soil, with a clear difference between the periods levels is recommended. PPDA REN Acknowledging the importance of the use of renewable Gasodutos energy sources in the national energy policy, we completed the set-up of the systems of thermal solar panels in two selected gas stations (Seixal and Frielas), in December 2010. With this measure, included in the ppda of ren Gasodutos, we were able to reduce self-consumption of natural gas arising from burning in boilers and greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants, such as pollutant NOx that induces tropospheric ozone. In a scenario of greater relevance of environmental issues, it is important to measure the total amount of avoided emissions in both climate change, due to GHG emissions, and CO2 or equivalents arising from thermal solar set-up. GHG emissions avoided with the setSolar solution directed to south Solar solution directed to west with up of the solar solution in the gas with a 33 degree inclination no degree inclination regulating and metering station 1209 – Frielas Tonnes of CO2 69.9 75.8 Tonnes of equivalent CO2 72.2 78.4 We intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions arising employees. In 2010, 426 videoconferences were held, from transport, through the promotion and incentive up 104% against last year. The number of air travels to videoconferences as an alternative to travelling from between Lisbon and Porto decreased by 41%. 65 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 4.3 Biodiversity Question to Stakeholders: Do you believe ren is concerned with the preservation of biodiversity? We have continued the implementation of measures Occupation in Area/Length Percentage of intended to minimise effects in areas with high sensitive locations occupation on the total biodiversity value by setting up several partnerships with environmental non-governmental organisations Stations/Facilities 0.46 km2 5% in order to develop studies that allow the mitigation or Extension of pipelines/ 1,146.69 km 12% lines compensation of the impacts on biodiversity caused by our activities. ren’s guidelines in this domain are the following: Minimisation of Compensatory Voluntary impacts from aia measures measures • identifying the activity’s impact on biodiversity; • assessing risks and adopting measures to minimise negative impacts; • promoting initiatives with positive impacts; • integrating biodiversity in ren’s overall activity; • setting up partnerships with entities and organisations; • supporting initiatives of nature conservation; • engaging all employees, suppliers and service providers. Promotion of biodiversity by ren In the International Year of Biodiversity we supported the “Biodiversity Diaries” competition, aimed at stimulating young and children’s interest for Life Sciences and mostly at raising the awareness of new generations for the preservation of nature and biodiversity and also for the sustainable management of species and natural habitats of fauna and flora in our planet. 66 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Flora and soil use The main impacts of ren’s activity on these environmental descriptors are related to land occupation by our infrastructure. In 2010, we requested the permission of the Portuguese forest authority to fell 627 cork oaks, in the context of the construction of the Pego high-pressure pipeline branch and the Industrial Branch of Leça, of ren Gasodutos. To fulfil our legal obligations, we created a project for supporting the restocking of cork oaks in the national forest of Mestras and the management plan, Beneficiação de Povoamento de Sobreiros da Mata Nacional das Mestras e Plano de Gestão, and a project for supporting the restocking of cork oaks in the forest perimeter of Soajo-Peneda (plot 14) and the management plan, Beneficiação de Povoamento de certain areas. From the advantages of these initiatives, Sobreiros no Perímetro Florestal Soajo-Peneda (plot 14) which only in 2010, with the Batalha-Lavos line, e Plano de Gestão, which are specific compensatory integrated the tender books, we highlight the following: measures of the requested fell. • making vegetation and the presence of the The supported areas, in a total of 28.16 ha, are located line compatible, avoiding at the same time the in the south of the national forest of Mestras and in the proliferation of fast-growth species that affect the west side of a hill in Lugar da Cumeeira, by the Cousso operation of the infrastructure; village, and were subject to the following interventions: • appreciation of the landscape while promoting the • control of spontaneous vegetation by cleaning the variety of vegetable species and higher profitability of woods; land exploration by the owners, in compatibility with • densification of the restock by planting cork oaks the line; using certified plants. • reducing maintenance costs incurred annually by the There was a fire, an unpredictable and frequent company in the corridors of protection of lines; situation in that area, about 15 days before our visit, • decreasing fire risk, which is also part of the national which was successfully stopped in the delimited strategy of forest fire fighting and fulfils current firebreak perimeter. legislation that states the creation of corridors for The conversion initiatives of land use in protection fuel management in the corridors of the electricity corridors started in 2000 as a result of ren’s difficulty transmission lines, according to the municipal plans in executing maintenance actions every three years in for the protection of forest against fires. The corridor of protection to the line consists of Regarding integration of electrical lines into the the land corridor beneath the line with 45 metres forest landscape, government decree Decretoof maximum width, delimited by two parallel lines lei n.º 124/2006, of 26 June (republished by at 22.5 metres from the axis of the outline, where government decree Decreto-lei n.º 17/2009, of 14 trees needed to ensure the minimum length set January) sets out the obligation, by the entity in out in decree Decreto Regulamentar n.º 1/92, of 18 February, can be cut or trimmed. charge of the exploration, of managing fuel in a corridor corresponding to the vertical projection The conversion of the corridor of protection of the external conductive cables added with a to the line consists of pulling out the stumps corridor with no less than 10 metres of width of fallen trees in surpassed areas and in the consequent reforestation with vegetable species to each side throughout high voltage and very that allow the fulfilment of the minimum lengths high voltage lines of electricity transmission and of safety between drivers and vegetation. distribution (Article 15º). 67 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 In 2010, this conversion was conducted in 56 kilometres the species, as set out by the Code of Good Practices of lines, in 141 towers/support and in over 1500 owners, for Sustainable Forest Management, on fire risk, on the which are scheduled for completion in May 2011. intervention’s goals and on its compatibility with the line. While ren is responsible for suggesting the most In this particular work, of a total area of 183 ha where appropriate species for each location, the owners are grove was felled, 173 ha will be converted by planting in charge of choosing the species, being co-responsible 145 thousand trees, where stone pine (95%) will for the management of areas affected by the presence predominate, followed by cork oak (4.7%) and other of the line. This proactive behaviour of the company in species such as cork oak and olive (0.3%). the search for economically viable alternatives for the The selection of species used in reforestation depends exploration of these areas furthered negotiations with on edaphic and climate conditions, on the features of owners, who welcomed the conversion of their lands. Reforestation of the corridor of protection of the line Tubular supports Reduction of the level of land use: with this new group of tubular supports, a reduction of some 90% The implementation of this project arises from in the area of land used is achieved, in comparison the need to refurbish the 150 kV line in the area with traditional truss supports, since the tubular surrounding Greater Porto, namely the connections hoisting tower with an useful height of 36.6 m, between the substations of Vermoim and tds3, occupies an approximate area of 3.5 m2 while Ermesinde. This area is characterised by limitations the corresponding truss support, cws3, occupies in terms of land use and by the high relevance close to 35.2 m2. of landscaping issues. Although the project of line refurbishment has been abandoned, it was considered that line projects may be developed in neighbouring areas of urban roads with permanent highways. This type of support may be important for lines to use the space-channel of those highways. Implementation status of the project: The new family of tubular supports, td, is an improvement in dimension and weight regarding the tubular supports of 220 kV being used in the National Electricity Transmission Grid. Once the trial phase of prototype assembly of this new group of support is completed, the licencing phase by the energy government department is started, after which tds3 cws3 Area occupied = Area occupied = tubular supports may be used in lines of the 3.5 m2 35.2 m2 national electricity transmission grid. 68 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Birdlife PPDA Rede In 2010, we continued to implement control actions of Eléctrica the white stork nesting with the following initiatives: • assembly of 724 anti-perching devices; • assembly of 124 nesting platforms; • transfer of 66 white stork nests to platforms built in low risk locations; • set-up of 5,414 equipments to reduce bird collision. As a result of measures taken over the years, the rate of incidents involving the white stork has decreased. In 2010, there were 0.021 incidents per kilometre of line circuit, which corresponds to 37 incidents in 1,797 nests, 17% less than in the previous year. 2,000 0.030 0.027 0.025 1,797 1,600 1,431 1,610 0.021 0.020 Incident rate Number of nests 1,200 800 0.010 400 Number of nests 0 0.000 Incident rate 2008 2009 2010 The area occupied with the infrastructure of the national IUCN classification Number of threatened species electricity transmission grid includes areas whose 2009 2010 habitat is potentially occupied by 44 species classified according to the Red List of Threatened Species of the Critically endangered 2 2 International Union for Conservation of Nature (iucn) Endangered 2 2 in the following categories: Vulnerable 17 17 Near threatened 28 23 69 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 We are concerned with the coexistence of birds In addition, we tried Firefly Bird Flappers (fbf), new and overhead electric lines, given the possibility of devices to be implemented in the Ferreira do Alentejobirds colliding with the cables of very high voltage Évora and Palmela-Évora lines, both at 150 kV, where overhead lines. We use anti-collision signalling devices the signalling of 60 kilometres in each identified line beyond the control areas is expected, with 30 in the electricity transmission lines that pass through kilometres of signalling with bdf and 30 kilometres sensitive locations. with fbf signalling. These devices are bird-saving spirals or anti-collision In March 2008, we joined Business and Biodiversity spirals Bird Flight Diverters (bfd) and are set up in to promote the preservation of nature, namely in the guard cables with the purpose of making them more execution of actions to mitigate identified impacts on visible by birds. bird species. BFD FBF PPDA Rede LIFE Steppe birds project Eléctrica The life Steppe birds project – “Preservation of the bustard (Otis tarda), the little bustard (Tetrax tetrax) Signalling of a fence with devices and the lesser krestrel (Falco naumanni) in the cereal steppers of Baixo Alentejo” aims to actively contribute to the preservation of these three steppe defined environmental goals, since it is positively bird species. contributing to the preservation of the three According to the most recent progress report, targeted species by signalling electricity lines, drafted by the Portuguese league for the setting up and signalling fences, installing drinking protection of nature (lpn), the project is achieving fountains and providing environmental education. 70 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Appendices Energy glossary cae pdir Power Purchase Agreements National Transmission Network, Storage Infrastructure and ceer lng terminal Development and Investment Plan Council of European Energy Regulators cer pdirt Certified Emissions Reductions Electricity Transmission Grid Development and Investment cigré Plan Conseil International des Grands Réseaux Électriques eepr pnale European Energy Programme for Recovery Portuguese Plan for the Award of CO2 Emission Licences eit ppda Equivalent Interruption Time ene 2020 Environmental performance plan National Strategy for Energy 2020 pre entso-e Subsidised regime producers European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity pro entso-g Standard producers European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas recs ergeg Renewable Energy Certificate System European Regulators Group for Electricity and Gas ree erse Portuguese regulator of energy services Red Eléctrica de España eu ets res European Union Emission Trading Scheme Renewable energy sources gie Gas Infrastructure Europe rnt grms National Electricity Transmission Grid Gas Regulating and Metering Station rntgn hv High voltage National Natural Gas Transmission Network iep rntiat Internal Emergency Plans National Natural Gas Transmission Network, Storage lng infrastructure and lng terminals Liquefied natural gas mibel sen Iberian Electricity Market National Electricity System mibgás Iberian Natural Gas Market sep ng Public Electricity Supply System Natural gas sngn omel National Natural Gas System Operador del Mercado Ibérico de Energía – Polo Español, s.a. omi tso Operator of the Iberian Energy Market Transmission System Operators omip Operator of the Iberian Energy Market (Portuguese centre), vhv s.a. Very high voltage 71 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 GRI index iNDICATOR gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Chairman’s statement Page 4 1.2 Impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 5, 6, 19, 39, 40, 41 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Page 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Pages 9, 10 2.3 Operational structure Page 10 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Page 86 2.5 Countries in which the organisation operates Pages 14, 15 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 2 2.7 Markets served Pages 9, 10 2.8 Scale of reporting organisation Pages 7, 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Pages 4, 10, 47 2.10 Awards received Special mention for the work developed in CIGRÉ, the sc c3 committee (Study Committee System Environmental Performance) Page 4 eu1 Installed capacity (mw), broken down by energy source and ren’s businesses do not include energy production. by country or regulatory regime Not applicable. eu2 Net energy output broken down by energy source and by ren’s businesses do not include energy production. country or regulatory regime Not applicable. eu3 Number of residential, industrial and commercial clients ren’s businesses do not include energy production. Not applicable. eu4 Length of transmission and transportation lines Page 7 eu5 Allocation of CO2 emission licences by country and regime ren’s businesses do not include energy production and is not subject to the allocation of emission licences. Not applicable. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile 3.1 Reporting period Page 2 3.2 Date of the most recent report Page 2 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 2 3.4 Contact information Page 86 Scope and boundary of the report 3.5 Definition of report content Page 2 3.6 Boundary of the report Page 2 3.7 Specific limitations Page 2 3.8 Basis for reporting Page 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculation Pages 2, 80, 81 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports There were no changes when compared to previous reports. 3.11 Significant changes There were no changes when compared to previous reports. GRI content index 3.12 gri content index Current table Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Pages 2, 83, 84, 85 assurance for the report 72 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 GOVERNANCE Governance 4.1 Governance structure Page 16 4.2 Role of the Chairman Page 19 of the corporate governance report 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive directors Page 16 Page 18 of the corporate governance report 4.4 Communication mechanisms for shareholders and Pages 19, 20 employees 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organisation’s Page 30 performance Page 28 of the corporate governance report 4.6 Conflicts of interest Page 23 Page 11 of the corporate governance report 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of directors Pages 42, 43, 63-67 of the corporate governance report 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conducts and principles Pages 3, 12, 23 4.9 Supervision processes of the economic, environmental and Pages 21-23, 29, 33, 34 social performance Pages 42-45 of the corporate governance report 4.10 Processes to assess the performance of the board of Page 56 of the corporate governance report directors Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Approach to the principle of precaution 7 Pages 21-23, 34, 35, 54-58 4.12 Participation in initiatives that the organisation subscribes 7 Pages 4, 20 4.13 Participation in associations and national/international 7 Page 49 entities Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Page 19 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders Page 18 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Page 20 4.17 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders and answer Pages 19, 20 73 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance INDICATOR gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT Management approach Pages 5, 6, 11, 21, 22, 23, 53 Element: availability and reliability eu6 Sectorial Availability and reliability in energy supply Page 43 Element: management demand eu7 Sectorial Programmes of demand management, The nature of ren’s businesses does not allow including residential, commercial and industrial the development of demand management programme programmes. Element: research and development eu8 Sectorial Research and development approach Pages 48, 49 Element: shutdown of plants eu9 Sectorial Provisions for the shutdown of nuclear plants In Portugal, there are no nuclear plants. Element: economic performance ec1 Core Creation and distribution of value Page 7 Pages 11 and 53 of the annual report ec2 Core Financial implications, risk assessment and 7 We identify the risks and opportunities arising opportunities arising from climate change from climate change, though we have not yet assessed the financial implications. The development of a risk management system for the entire ren Group and the assessment of financial consequences are under way. Our expectations are to fully report the indicator in 2012. Pages 64, 65 Partial answer to the indicator ec3 Core Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit Page 28 plan obligations AR Pages 81 and 122, appended note 20, of the annual report ec4 Core Financial assistance to capital spending Page 48 Page 85 of the annual report Element: market presence ec5 Add Ratio of standard entry level and the national 6 The minimum wage at ren is 1.47 times the minimum wage national minimum wage in 2010 (475€). ec6 Core Spending on locally-based suppliers The process for contracting goods, services and works is based on the rules of public contracting, namely the Code for Public Contracts. This process entails restricted calls for tenders issued to companies on a list of qualified suppliers for different types of supply. In 2010, the average payment period was 50 to 80 days. ec7 Core Hiring of senior managers 6 ren has no policy limiting hiring of senior management from a particular region of Portugal, the only country in which it operates. Element: indirect economic impact ec8 Core Development and impact of commercial Pages 35-38 investments in the community, not charged or in kind ec9 Add Portrayal of the indirect economic impacts Pages 50, 51 significant to public benefit Partial indicator Element: availability and reliability ec10 Sectorial Long-term coverage of demand (including Pages 45, 46 reserve) Element: demand management ec11 Sectorial Average generation efficiency by energy source ren does not generate energy. Therefore, this and by country or regulatory system analysis is not made. 74 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Element: system efficiency ec12 Sectorial Efficiency in energy transportation and distribution Page 43 Environmental performance INDICATOR Gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT Management approach Pages 5, 6, 52-56 Element: materials en1 Core Materials used 8 Page 60 en2 Core Percentage of recycled materials used 8,9 Page 60 Element: energy en3 Core Direct consumption of energy Page 61 en4 Core Indirect consumption of energy Page 61 Our electricity supplier is edp Universal and information on primary energy related to electricity production may be read at: http://www.edpsu.pt/pt/origemdaenergia/ Pages/OrigensdaEnergia.aspx en5 Add Energy conservation and efficiency improvements 8,9 Page 65 en6 Add Initiatives to provide products and services based 8,9 Page 65 on energy efficiency or on renewable energy sources and decrease in consumption achieved en7 Add Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 8,9 Page 65 and reductions achieved Element: water en8 Core Total water consumption 8 Page 63 en9 Add Affected water resources 8 Page 63 en10 Add Recycled and reused water 8,9 Page 63 Element: biodiversity en11 Core Land in protected areas or in areas of high 8 Pages 66-70 biodiversity value outside protected areas eu13 Sectorial Comparison of the biodiversity of recovered ren implements monitoring plans at the sites of habitats to the biodiversity of original habitats work on lines and substations for high-impact environmental aspects. ren does not have information on the original state of the habitats where old facilities are located. Pages 54-60 en12 Core Significant impacts on protected areas or areas of Pages 59, 60, 67 high biodiversity value outside protected areas en13 Add Protected or restored habitats 8 Pages 56-60, 67 en14 Add Management of impacts on biodiversity 8 Pages 52, 53, 54-60, 67-70 en15 Add Number of species referred in the Red List of the 8 Page 69 iucn and in the list of national conservation of species with habitats in areas affected by REN Element: emissions, effluents and waste en16 Core Direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases Pages 61, 62 75 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 en17 Core Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 8 ren does not yet have internal mechanisms for quantifying greenhouse gas emissions from travel suppliers. However, in the next Sustainability Report, ren will report greenhouse gas emissions related to plane journeys made by employees of the Company under their professional activity. Partial indicator en18 Essencial to Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 8,9 Page 65 ren’s sector en19 Core Emission of substances that deplete the ozone 8 We do not make products or have services that layer use substances that deplete the ozone layer. We have been replacing the ventilation equipments containing harmful gases for the ozone layer according to our equipment replacement plan. en20 Core NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric 8 As a result of our activities, we do not have emissions significant emissions of NOx and SOx. In addition, this indicator was not considered relevant by our stakeholders. en21 Core Rejection of waste water 8 Page 63 en22 Core Production of waste by type and final destiny 8 Page 63 en23 Core Occurrence of spills during activities 8 In 2010, 13 spills of hazardous substances, two of which were classified as significant, took place. Of significant spills recorded, we can only measure one, whose spill was up 600 litres of oil in the soil and whose impact was considered little serious. In 2011, our goal, under continuous improvement, is to raise the awareness of ren’s employees and environmental monitoring teams to always record the spilled amounts of hazardous substances. en24 Add Production of waste according to the Basel 8 This indicator is not applicable, since waste Convention produced by ren is sent to Portuguese waste management operators. en25 Add Water resources and habitats affected by 8 Page 63 discharges of waste water Element: products and services en26 Core Initiatives to assess and mitigate environmental 8,9 Pages 52-60 impacts en27 Core Recovered percentage of sold products and 8,9 This indicator is not applicable to ren’s respective packaging businesses, since the Company does not sell packaged products. Element: compliance en28 Core Sanctions and fines for non-compliance with 8 In 2010, 16 environmental administrative legislation on environmental matters offences were charged against ren, which are still under way. Eleven environmental administrative offences were closed, in which ren was deemed not guilty (no fine). Overall, 36 environmental administrative offences from previous years were not solved in 2010. Element: transport en29 Add Environmental impacts arising from transport 8 Page 61 Element: general en30 Add Costs and investments on environmental 8,9 Page 52 protection 76 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance – labour practices INDICATOR Gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT Management approach Pages 5, 6, 25, 28-32, 53 Element: employment eu14 Sectorial Retention and renewal of skilled workforce Pages 26-28, 31 la1 Core Workforce by type of employment There are no part-time employees. Page 25 la2 Core Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender Pages 25,26 and region The turnover rate by region does not apply to ren as it only operates in Portugal. Partial indicator eu15 Sectorial Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the Page 25 next 5 to 10 years eu16 Sectorial Policies and requirements related to health Pages 32-34 and safety of employees, contractors and subcontractors eu17 Sectorial Average of outsourced employees Page 34 eu18 Sectorial Training of outsourced employees Page 33 la3 Add Benefits for full-time employees 6 Page 28 Element: relationships between employees and management la4 Core Employees covered by collective bargaining 3 Page 31 agreements la5 Core Minimum notice periods regarding operational 3 The notice periods defined are those arising changes from the General Law of Labour. Element: health and safety at work la6 Add Employees represented in safety and occupational Page 32 health committees la7 Core Rate of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Page 34 absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities la8 Core Programmes related to serious diseases Page 33 la9 Add Health and safety topics covered in formal The topics covered are described in Title xv agreements with trade unions and appendix iv of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Element: training la10 Core Annual training per employee Page 27 la11 Add Programmes of skill management Pages 26-28 la12 Add Employees receiving performance and careerPage 28 development assessment Element: diversity and equal opportunities la13 Core Employees by diversity indicators 1,6 Pages 25, 26 At ren, there are 3 employees with disabilities. la14 Core Ratio of basic salary of men and women by 1,6 Our Code of Conduct comprises equality of employee category opportunities for all employees. Salaries at ren depend on occupational category and on skills demonstrated rather than on gender. The salary ratio is 1 for all functional categories. 77 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance – human rights INDICATOR Gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT Management approach Pages 3, 5, 6, 23, 53 Element: investment and procurement practices hr1 Core Investment agreements with human rights clauses 1,2, According to ren Gasodutos’s tender books and 4,5, the construction site’s general regulation, the 6 contractor must present an authentic statement which states not to hire at any time, directly or through subcontractors, illegal or child labour. In the contracts of construction and maintenance of the electrical grid, documents related to the General Contract Conditions and Technical Specifications contain demands that guarantee the non-existence of illegal workforce. In ren Armazenagem and Atlântico alike, technical staff from service providers is previously identified and subject to work permit. Both companies are certified according to the Seveso Directive and are subject to the annual assurance audit. However, in Portugal these aspects are included in the Constitution and in the General Law on Labour. Therefore, the remaining tender books used by ren do not have explicit requirements on human rights. hr2 Core Suppliers assessed on human rights 1,2, Compliance with legislation is checked during 4,5, supervision subcontracting and during audits. 6 ren abides by Portuguese legislation and follows human rights, which are reflected in our Code of Conduct (see answer hr1). hr3 Add Training of employees regarding human rights 1,4, Our Code of Conduct includes respect for Human 5 Rights (see answer hr2). Element: no-discrimination hr4 Core Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1,6 ren obeys Portuguese laws on human rights and is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact Principles. No incidents of discrimination were identified in 2010. Element: freedom of association and collective bargaining hr5 Core Right to freedom of association and collective 1,3 Pages 23, 31 bargaining We ensure the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining in accordance with the ethical principles and standards of conduct established in the Code of Conduct. In 2010, situations where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining was at risk were not identified. Element: child labour hr6 Core Risk of child labour 1,5 ren abides by Portuguese law, which forbids child labour. ren also subscribes to the United Nations Global Compact Principles. Compliance with legislation is validated during supervision and audits. Element: forced and compulsory labour hr7 Core Risk of forced and compulsory labour 1,4 ren abides by Portuguese law, which forbids forced labour. ren also subscribes to the United Nations Global Compact Principles. Compliance with legislation is validated during supervision and audits. Element: security practices hr8 Add Security personnel trained in human rights 1,2 ren abides by Portuguese law on human rights and subscribes the Union Nations Global Compact Principles. Element: indigenous rights hr9 Add Cases of violation of indigenous peoples’ rights 1 ren operates in Portugal, so this indicator is not applicable. 78 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance – society INDICATOR gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT Management approach Pages 5, 6, 35-38, 53 Element: community eu19 Sectorial Decision making processes participated by Pages 54, 55 communities eu20 Sectorial Management of impacts arising from involuntary The notice periods defined are those arising changes/displacements from the General Law of Labour. The measures defined in Chapters II, section I of ren’s Collective Bargaining Agreement are fulfilled. eu21 Sectorial Planning and response to disaster/emergency Pages 21-23, 33, 34 situations so1 Core Management of impact on communities Pages 24, 38 eu22 Sectorial Displacement of people as a result of the The construction of ren’s infrastructure in Portugal expansion or construction of production centres has a strong component supported by outsourcing. and transport lines, in an economic and physics Most outsourcing is made locally. point of view Element: corruption so2 Core Assessment of corruption risks 10 The Group’s accounts are subject to external audit and legal certification, under applicable standards. Therefore, the company does not analyse the risk of corruption in its business units or activities. At present, there are no corruption charges in the inquiry phase against any of the Group companies. ren subscribed the anti-corruption letter (September 2009). so3 Core Training of employees in anti-corruption practices 10 Although the company did not organise any specific training session on anti-corruption policies and procedures, the Whistleblowing Policy sets out that “employees must report to any member of the management and supervisory bodies, especially to the audit committee, any irrgular practices coming to their knowledge or that they reason to suspect in order to prevent irregularities that may cause financial losses or damage ren’s image”. In addition, ren signed the United Nations Global Compact Principles. so4 Core Actions taken in response to incidents of 10 Page 23 corruption Element: public policy so5 Core Stance on public policy and the practice of 10 ren helps in government studies and forums for lobbying the sector. In addition, ren participates in several projects and working groups of international organisations in the electricity sector, namely eurelectric, cigré and etso, which actively influence the formulation of European policies and foster good practices in the sector. so6 Add Financial contributions to political parties ren does not fund political parties. It is forbidden by law for companies in Portugal. Element: anti-competitive behaviour so7 Add Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiren is the only concession holder for energy trust and monopoly practices transmission im Portugal and its activity is regulated. Therefore, ren plays no part in pricing. Elements: compliance so8 Core Monetary amount of significant fines and total In 2010, there were no fines or sanctions. number of non-monetary fines due to the nonfulfilment of laws and regulations 79 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance – product iNDICATOR gc NUMBER OF PAGE – ASSESSMENT Management approach Pages 5, 6, 23, 53 Element: acessibility eu23 Sectorial Programmes, some of which in partnership with See the answer to indicator so5. the Government, to improve and maintain access to electrical services Element: availability of information eu24 Practices to address language, cultural, ren does not distribute energy for retail or educational and physical barriers to access and use to end consumers. Nonetheless, whenever electrical services in safe conditions necessary, ren publishes information for the public at large on relevant issues related to the impact of energy transportation. Element: customer health and safety pr1 Core Health and safety related to products and services Pages 23, 42, 43 pr2 Add Incidents of non-compliance with regulations ren did not record any incidents of nonrelated to the impact of products and services on compliance related to the health and safety of health and safety clients. eu25 Sectorial Number of injured people and deaths, including There were no occurrences in 2010. diseases, inflicted by ren’s infrastructure to people external to the Company Element: product and service labelling pr3 Core Information on products and services required by 8 Pages 42, 43 regulations pr4 Add Cases of non-compliance with regulations 8 There were no cases of non-conformity concerning products and services and labelling regarding information provided by ren in 2010. pr5 Add Customer satisfaction Pages 43, 44 Element: marketing communications pr6 Core Programmes for adherence to voluntary codes The principles to which ren abides in terms related to marketing communications, including of communication are included in the Code of advertising, promotion and sponsorship Conduct (article 14º). pr7 Add Number of incidents of non-compliance with In 2010, there were no incidents of nonregulations related to marketing communications, compliance related to communication, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship marketing, advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Element: customer privacy pr8 Add Complaints regarding breach of customer privacy ren complies with the Portuguese legislation regarding confidentiality of information. This principle is included in ren’s Code of Conduct. There were no complaints of breach of customer privacy. Element: compliance pr9 Core Fines for non-compliance concerning the provision ren was not fined due to the illegal unfulfilment and use of products and services of the provision and use of products and services, in 2010. Element: accessibility eu26 Sectorial Percentage of population not supplied in licenced ren’s activities do not include distribution and distribution areas by rural and urban areas so this indicator is not applicable. eu27 Sectorial Number of residential disconnections for nonren’s activities do not include distribution and payment by duration of disconnection so this indicator is not applicable. eu28 Sectorial Interruption of supply Page 43 eu29 Sectorial Average power outage duration Page 43 eu30 Sectorial Average plant availability factor by energy source, ren’s activities do not include distribution and country and regulatory regime so this indicator is not applicable. gGC – United Nations Global Compact AR – Annual Report 2010 CGR – Corporate Governance Report 80 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Calculation criteria INDICATOR DEFINITION en16 Direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gas Total amount of greenhouse gas emissions, which are emitted emissions both directly (SF6 used as dielectric isolator, CH4 of pipeline purges and CO2 of boiler burning) and indirectly through electricity consumption and grid losses. In 2010, the emission factor used was of 226.74gCO2/kwh, the equivalent of the amount supplied by edp Serviço Universal, ren’s energy supplier (source: http://www.edpsu.pt/pt/origemdaenergia). en21 Wastewater discharge Wastewater discharge due to the regasification of lng and leaching of natural gas storage caverns for underground storage. la7 Absenteeism rate Quotient between the sum of paid absences (due to disease, accident, maternity or other reasons) and unpaid absences, and the total number of theoretical working hours. eu28 Average power interruption frequency (saifi) Quotient of total interruptions at delivery points during a certain period by total number of delivery points in the same period. Electricity: The average power interruption frequency is the average number of accidental interruptions lasting over three minutes at delivery points in a certain period of time. Natural gas: The average power interruption frequency is the number of accidental interruptions at delivery points in a certain period of time (generally one year). eu29 Average power interruption duration (saidi) Quotient of total interruptions at delivery points during a certain period by total number of delivery points in the same period. Electricity: The average power interruption duration for a certain time period (generally one year) is the average time of accidental interruptions lasting over three minutes at delivery points. Natural gas: The average power interruption duration (generally one year) is the average time of accidental interruptions at delivery points. 81 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 GRI A+ statement 82 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Assurance report 83 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 84 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 85 |Our Commitment – Sustainability Report 2010 Contact information For any information or suggestion about this report, please contact: Address: ren – Redes Energéticas Nacionais, sgps, s.a., Avenida dos Estados Unidos da América, 55 1749-061 lisboa – Portugal Email: sustentabilidade@ren.pt Telephone: + 351 210 013 500 Fax: + 351 210 013 310 Website: www.ren.pt 86
