Gentle care for life CSR Report C o nt ents 3 Medium-Term Business Plan of the Unicharm Group 4 Message from the President 6 CSR of the Unicharm Group 8 50 Years of Development at Unicharm Creating gentle care and the History of Gentle Care 26 Initiatives for realizing CSR at Unicharm 10 Development of the Health Care Business 27 Together with our customers (consumer issues) 13 Development of the Clean & Fresh Business 31 Together with the environment (the environment) 14 Development of the Pet Care Business Supporting gentle care 16 Development of the Baby Care Business 34 Together with our employees (human rights) 18 Development of the Feminine Care Business 35 Together with our employees (labor practices) 20 Responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster 37 Together with society (participation in the community 22 Global Expansion of Unicharm CSR and development of the community) 38 Corporate Governance (governing the organization) 24 Dialogue with Stakeholders 39 Compliance and Risk Management (fair business practices) 40 Together with our business partners, Together with shareholders and investors 41 Third Party Auditor’s Report 42 Overview of the Unicharm Group Unicharm has been reviewing its CSR activities in light of ISO26000, the international standard giving guidance on social responsibility. As part of this process, in CSR Report 2011 we linked our CSR activities to date with the seven core subjects stated in ISO26000 and organized them according to the structure and titles of the guidelines. Contents Editorial Policy Areas Covered Business operations, CSR vision, activity goals, Preparation of the “CSR Report 2011” organizational structure, business performance, accounting This report has been prepared as both the Unicharm company prospectus and data, etc. This report presents details of results for FY2010 as Unicharm’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) report for fiscal 2011. As a well as the latest information for the early part of FY2011. combined report, it explains the Unicharm ideals, details of the Company’s business Organizations Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated activities, and information about our products and services. Continuing on from basis. Details of companies mentioned in the environmental the last fiscal year, we look at corporate activities in light of our corporate slogan activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. “Creating gentle care. Supporting gentle care.” This year, for the first time, we Readers All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, employees, also follow the guidelines recommended by ISO26000 in presenting the details of business partners, shareholders and society in general this CSR report. In our features, we also present the development of Unicharm’s Period April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 (including some activities contributions to society through the business activities of the Unicharm Group prior to and after the above period and future targets) as we approach our 50th anniversary. As a member of the United Nations Global Reference ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 Compact, we also actively engage in initiatives that comply with the Global Compact guidelines ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines, 2007 of the Ministry 10 Principles. To increase the transparency and reliability of our numerical data and of the Environment business processes, Unicharm also undergoes auditing by an independent party, Date of issue June 24, 2011 and we have included the results of this third party audit in this report. In the future Next date of issue June 2012 we will continue to provide accurate, beneficial information to as wide an audience Available at ● CSR & Environmental Information at the Unicharm website as possible. We welcome your frank opinions and comments. (All items reported) ● Booklet (Digest Report） ● For more information about our CSR activities, ● For general corporate information, please contact: please contact: Public Relations Group Planning Department TEL: +81-3-6722-1019 Corporate Social Responsibility Department ・ For IR information, please visit: http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ir/index.html TEL: +81-3-6722-1041 (Direct Line) FAX: +81-3-6722-1018 ・ Unicharm Corporation’s Annual Report 2011 will be released at the end of September 2011. 2 unicharm CSR report 2011 Medium-Term Business Plan of the Unicharm Group Eighth Medium-Term Business Plan of the Unicharm Group (2011-2013) Vision We constantly provide the world’s No.1 and unprecedented products and service to everybody around the globe, and deliver comfort, impression and satisfaction. We are committed to Management with Resonance, where each one of us think, help, and achieve the goal together. To realize our vision, we formulated our Medium-Term Plan for the three-year period until March 2013. As a company in the position of a world challenger, we aim to increase our presence in the world by acquiring an overwhelming share of the market in Asia where growth is occurring at a remarkable pace. We are currently expanding our business areas and strengthening our supply framework. Under the new Medium-Term Plan, we are pursuing growth strategies in the Asian market where demand is set to expand significantly, in our home market in Japan, and in the pet care business, where we have recently strengthened our position through a merger. Our aim is to solidify our position in international markets by securing the No.1 share of sales in our respective business sectors. Net Sales Operating income and profit ratio (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 6,000 5,669 1,250 20 1,000 15.0 16 4,000 3,769 12.4 750 850 12 500 465 8 2,000 250 4 0 0 0 2010 2013 2010 2013 Results Projection Results Projection unicharm CSR report 2011 3 Message from the President We will fulfill our global CSR by creating the finest products and services Changes in consumer awareness following the earthquake q disaster On behalf of all our staff at Unicharm, I wish to express my heartfelt sympathy to all of the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster and I offer my sincere prayers for the safety and early restoration of their communities. We at Unicharm will continue to give as much support as we can to the people in the communities affected by the disaster. Although our Fukushima plant sustained damage during the earthquake disaster, we have been able to maintain the stable supply of products through our other factories. Shortly after the disaster struck, we received many requests for products from people in the disaster areas as well as those assisting at evacuation centers. The urgency of meeting people’s basic needs once more reminded us how essential our products are in the everyday lives of people. I also believe that the recent earthquake disaster is making us strongly aware of the problem of excess use of resources. For Unicharm, as a company that deals with daily consumables like diapers and sanitary napkins, the earthquake and its aftermath have served as an important opportunity for us to reflect on the excessive use of resources. In Japan, in particular, we are determined to concentrate our energy on creating products that incorporate the three essential elements of comfort, hygiene and resources saving. We will also expand the number of products that bear our Eco Charming mark, which identifies our environmentally friendly products that comply with very strict environmental standards. To achieve these ends, we will redouble our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our products and improve their product value. CSR that fulfils the Unicharm Ideals At Unicharm, we view fulfilling our corporate social responsibility as realizing the Unicharm Ideals and the Five Great Pillars. For the sake of society and the sustainable development of our Group companies, we also require all of our staff to strive for the aspirations expressed in our corporate philosophy of NOLA&DOLA*1: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities. From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams. Based on these ideals, we at Unicharm endlessly pursue new value for our customers through our proprietary research and development and the Takahisa Takahara development of new technologies. President and CEO At Unicharm we encourage all employees to “think and act as individuals” Unicharm Corporation and at the same time we encourage our management team to apply the wisdom of the workplace in their own corporate management in what we refer to as “resonating management.” We first put these principles into practice in our SAPS*2 management meeting in October 2003. The greatest strength of our company as an organization, I believe, is the harmonization of values of all our employees. Every week we have all staff announce their weekly strategies, activities, and review of past results and mutually share constructive advice. SAPS management is essentially a mechanism for standardizing and spreading Unicharm’s DNA to every corner of the Company. At the time of an unparalleled crisis like the one we experienced in March this year, the capability required of an organization and individuals is “flexible autonomic nerves.” Even at the time of the recent earthquake disaster, 4 unicharm CSR report 2011 I believe that our staff were able to respond to the situation rapidly and of innovation, I believe that we will be able to take the ideas and ideals of adeptly because their Unicharm DNA, cultivated over months and years, went Unicharm to every corner of the globe. into action when it was needed. I believe that this is the kind of capability As we expand our business throughout the world, bearing in mind the required as we move toward the creation of a new Unicharm Group and the aims of the UN Global Compact, I would like Unicharm to contribute to capability required if we are to create a new Japan. society on a global scale through the concerted efforts of the entire Group by addressing the diverse and complex issues that society faces including Future gglobal development p ageing societies with declining birth rates, the environment, public health, resources, labor, education and poverty. In developing our global business, we will promote our Global 20*3 Plan by In 2011 Unicharm celebrates its 50th anniversary. I would like to think carefully focusing on the principle of the three actuals, that is, by observing of this year as the third founding*4 of Unicharm, following on from the first hand the “actual site, the actual thing and the actual time” before first founding with the establishment of Unicharm in 1961 and the second deciding on our strategies in our overseas markets. At the moment it is founding when I became the second-generation president of Unicharm. This difficult to predict major trends 10 years from now, particularly in view of 50th anniversary is merely a signpost in Unicharm’s future development of the recent earthquake disaster and its aftermath. Nevertheless, Unicharm’s the next 100 years or 200 years. At this signpost, however, it is vital that fundamental commitment to transforming people’s discomfort to comfort we refresh in our minds the importance of safeguarding and continuing the remains the same. What has changed, however, is people’s expectations of founding spirit and corporate culture Unicharm has established over the comfort, sanitation and economy. People’s expectations for an improved years while responding flexibly to the changing environment. Both tradition lifestyle continue to grow. In addition, we must also take another close look at and innovation are essential elements for the sustainable development women’s participation in society and the lives of the very elderly in our of a company. I want to carry on the spirit of the Unicharm tradition and so-called hyper-aged society and further demonstrate the value of Unicharm innovation into the third founding and to advance the Unicharm Ideals while from their perspectives. Both in countries where the markets are set to grow responding promptly and flexibly to the changes of time and society. as well as countries whose markets are maturing, we intend to respond to the We will continue to provide to all people in the world the finest products respective characteristics of different geographical regions and the stage of and services that are sure to bring comfort, excitement and joy. Through their market development by launching appropriate products in a timely way. our efforts in our mainstay businesses, I want Unicharm to continue to be a Furthermore, in the future we will require global staff who will be able company that is valued by our customers. to make value judgments based on established principles and who have expertise that is applicable across national and cultural borders. We will expect such staff to train capable local personnel. If our staff are capable of passing on the “traditions” of Unicharm and communicating the DNA Unicharm Ideals 1. We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by offering only the finest products and services to the market and customers, both at home and abroad. 1. We strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulfillment of our social responsibilities. 1. We bring forth the fruits of cooperation based on integrity and harmony, by respecting the independence of the individual and striving to promote the Five Great Pillars. *1. NOLA&DOLA: Abbreviation for “Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities” *2. SAPS: Schedule (Think and plan action) → Action（Execute the action）→ Performance (Measure the effectiveness and identify future issues) → Schedule (Review issues and reflect them in the next week’s plan) *3. Global 20: describes the state of development Unicharm should achieve by the year 2020 if it is to become a company that thrives for a century or more. *4. The third founding: Following on from the first founding in 1961 when Unicharm was established in Kawanoe, Ehime Prefecture as a manufacturer of building materials in 1961 and the second founding when Takahisa Takahara’s succeeded to the position of President and Representative Director in 2001 from the founder Keiichiro Takahara. unicharm CSR report 2011 5 CSR of the Unicharm Group In our Unicharm Ideals we make a promise to all our stakeholders that we will provide the finest products and services to people all over the world and that every employee will practice proper corporate management. ◆ Framework of Unicharm’s CSR Philosophy Unicharm Group’s CSR = Fulfillment of the Unicharm Ideals Unicharm Ideals 1. We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by offering only the finest products and services to the market and customers, both at home and abroad. 1. We strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulfillment of our social responsibilities. 1. We bring forth the fruits of cooperation based on integrity and harmony, by respecting the independence of the individual and striving to promote the Five Great Pillars. Unicharm Group CSR Vision We constantly provide the world’s No. 1 and unprecedented products and services to everybody around the globe, and deliver comfort, impression and satisfaction. ◆ Unicharm Group’s Corporate Philosophy Framework Business Employees Partners Unicharm U ni Ideals alls Mutually sound growth Helping employees achieve “Beliefs and Pledges” a good balance between andd Corporate Corp Corpor Principles Princ es of A Action Acti work and private life “Five Great reat Pillars” and Associate Principles an Princ of Actionon Among the industry’s highest Contributing to the economic returns to shareholders Action Guidelines and general well-being of people Shareholderss delInternal Rules and Regulations Society Customers Excellent products, creation of new value “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action “Five Great Pillars” and Associate Principles of Action Pledge to our customers We pledge to earn the full support of customers by always doing Creativity & We will respect the creation of new society values and maintain a spirit that everything we can. Innovation always seeks out innovation. Pledge to our shareholders We pledge to distribute industry-leading returns to shareholders. Ownership We will follow in the footsteps of our founder, striving to uncover issues from a Pledge to business partners We pledge to achieve mutual growth by maintaining a fair and company-wide perspective and solve them to achieve our management targets. equitable relationship. Spirit of challenge We will continue to transform our abilities without fear of failure and maintain a Pledge to associates We pledge to achieve the happiness of associates and their family positive attitude, based on our belief in the capacity of challenge to tap into members by filling each of them with confidence and pride. unlimited potential. Pledge to society We pledge to contribute to the economic and emotional fulfillment of Leadership We will become leaders who are able to motivate others with our own the entire population through our corporate activities. determination by clearly showing the way for the organization to follow. Fair play We will carry out fair corporate activities that combine the spirit of respecting human life and dignity with high ethical standards. 6 unicharm CSR report 2011 ◆ Direction of Unicharm’s CSR Creating gentle care. Supporting gentle care At the foundation of Unicharm’s CSR is each and every employee contemplating what social responsibility should be and taking steps to achieve it. Developments Expectations Unicharm Ideals World Trends Regional Trends in the Industry of Stakeholders and Company Policies At Unicharm, alleviating people’s burdens in managing their everyday lives and pursuing gentle care are principles underpinning our corporate philosophy. We create gentle care to support each and every person promoting the sound growth of babies, the radiance of women, and the dignity of the aged. We believe that these efforts in themselves lead to gentle care in our immediate society and gentle care for the environment. We want to fulfil our duties as corporate citizens by realizing one step at a time initiatives for increasing the environmental value of products through means such as our company-initiated Eco Charming mark for recognizing environmentally friendly products and carbon offset initiatives. CSR Areas of the Unicharm Group Deployment of Global CSR Initiatives of the Unicharm Group Phase 3 2011Proactive CSR CSR Global Management New Value ● Integrated CSR Management × Communication × Creation Environmental Management Corporate governance, Phase 2 2006 2010 Protective CSR compliance, product quality and safety, Global Deployment environmental management, ● 2006 Participated in the UN Global Compact social activities, customer ● 2006 Established CSR office at Shanghai Unicharm satisfaction, CSR procurement, ● 2008 Established ISO/CSR Department at Uni-charm Thailand industrial safety, etc. ● 2009 Commenced CSR procurement overseas Phase 1 2003 2005 Organizational Resonating management Establishment of a CSR Promotional Framework ● 2003 Established the CSR Department (commenced initiatives centered on quality, climate and a culture of pride the environment and ethics) ● 2005 Established a CSR committee (expanded items for CSR promotion) Moving forward with CSR activities as a company that cares for the environment and society Our Unicharm CSR began in Japan with a view to realizing our Unicharm Ideals through our main business activities. It has now spread globally and encompasses society in countries around the world where we operate. Our initiatives in CSR procurement undertaken in cooperation with suppliers started in China in fiscal 2009 and from there have expanded and developed in other areas in fiscal 2010 in Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan and Korea. As a measure to promote a deeper understanding of CSR among our staff, we held small group CSR reading meetings in fiscal 2010. In all, there were 306 small groups including all divisions in Japan as well as our offices in China and Masakatsu Takai Thailand. Examining the meaning of CSR in terms of the activities of their respective departments, Unicharm staff gained Director & Senior Executive Officer a broad picture of how their business activities contribute to society as a whole, and this engendered in them a sense of General Manager of Global Human pride in their work and a feeling that their work was worthwhile. Resources and General Affairs The recent earthquake disaster also made us again realize the social importance of our Unicharm products in the Department, General Manager of CSR Department, everyday lives of people. We at Unicharm want our company to always exist as a company known for its “gentle care” for Officer in Charge, both the environment and society and as a company that is loved and trusted by society. To achieve that, we will continue Customer Consultation Center to value our communication with all our stakeholders as we pursue our CSR initiatives. Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2011 7 50 Years of Development at Unicharm and the History of Gentle Care From Japan, to Asia, to the world As we approach our 50th anniversary, we aim to become a leader in the life support Our living environment is changing day by day and our customers’ needs are becoming more diverse and sophisticated. At Unicharm, one of our strengths over the years has been our quick response to our customers’ evolving needs. Since the founding of our company, we have taken the lead in the market in developing new products that make use of our proprietary processing and forming technologies in nonwoven cloth and absorbent materials that we have progressively improved over the years. Our perseverance in these areas has resulted in an ability to provide to our customers products with new value that never existed before. At Unicharm we take pride in contributing to changing people’s lifestyles for the better. In the future too, we will continue to uphold the traditions that we have built on since our founding and to promote innovation in a framework of “resonating management” based on consultation with all staff. Through top-class services and products we will continue to provide comfort, excitement and joy to people of all ages all over the world. 1960s – 1970s 1980s In 1961, Unicharm’s predecessor Taisei Kako Co., Ltd. As the number of working women increased in Japan, Unicharm commenced operation in Kawanoe in Ehime Prefecture as began to enter new business areas such as childrearing and a construction material manufacturer. Two years later in 1963, nursing care support in response to women’s needs. In 1981 we it began to manufacture and distribute sanitary napkins. announced our NOLA&DOLA philosophy as our corporate As a feminine care product created to make women always feel commitment to alleviating burdens in women’s daily lives and and look their best, the first product was released under the name helping them realize their dreams. In 1984 Unicharm set up “Charm.” After a long process of trial and error to produce an operations in Taiwan, establishing its position as one of the improved, high-quality sanitary napkin, “Sawayaka” was released leaders in the industry in globalization. At that time Unicharm in 1968. Gaining in popularity largely through word of mouth, was also busy releasing several newly developed products this product was recognized among women as a superior product including the round-tipped Charm Soft Tampon (1980) and Sofy that “feels soft and does not leak.” In 1974 the name of our (1982), the world’s first contoured sanitary napkin. In the baby company changed and officially became Unicharm, Co., Ltd. Two diaper business, Unicharm was actively developing disposable years later in 1976, it was listed in the Second Section of the diapers for babies and in 1981 released Moony followed by Ultra Tokyo Stock Exchange. In the same year, we released Charm Nap Moony in 1987. In that same year Unicharm also entered into the Mini, a thin sanitary napkin, which, like its predecessors, won disposable diaper market for adults. In 1989 Unicharm released wide acclaim, this time as a convenient product that women Lifree Nyotori Pads for mild incontinence. could carry with them for use when away from home. Charm Nap Mini was also recognized as a product that provided support to the increasing number of women joining the workforce. Sofy Charm Nap Mini Lifree Nyotori Pad Moony TV commercial at the time TV commercial at the time 8 unicharm CSR report 2011 industry that provides comfort, excitement and joy to people the world over Sofy Hadaomoi Lifree Zubon wo nugazuni koukan Rehabili-Pants Lifree Rehabili-Pants Wave Handy Wiper Moony Man Ase Sukkiri Moony Man TV commercial at the time Chorittai Mask Aiken Genki Best Balance Silcot Wet Charm Nap Sawayaka Liners 2000s In 2001 we announced our “NOLA&DOLA” for a new century by declaring as our business philosophy a commitment to 1990s “make dreams come true by providing products and services that will support the physical and mental well-being of all people Unicharm continued to develop disposable diaper products to with gentle care.” Since then we have responded to people’s make life easier for mothers of babies and young children. These diverse needs as their needs evolved in various ways over time. products included Torepan Man, a training pants product (1990), For example, we entered into new markets with the release of Oyasumi Man, a pants-type diaper for night-time wear (1991), products such as cleaning product Wave Handy Wiper (2001) and Moony Man (1992). All of these are pants-style diapers that and the Chorittai Mask (2003). In the baby care business we also can be changed while babies are standing up. This technology released products such Moony Man Ase Sukkiri (2006). In the also led to innovation in the world of nursing care and in the feminine care business we released Sofy Hada-omoi, a sanitary release of Lifree Rehabili-Pants for adults in 1995. As a product napkin that incorporates a third napkin surface layer that prevents that enables the aged to put on and remove the pants-type diaper itching and chafing (2007). In the health care business we on their own, it was hailed for preserving the dignity of the aged released Lifree Zubon wo nugazuni koukan Rehabili-Pants and at the same time it was welcomed as an innovation that (2008). In the pet care business we released disposable diapers alleviated the burden of carers. In addition to these, Unicharm for pets (2001) and Aiken Genki Best Balance (2008), a food that released various other products during this decade including provides a balanced diet for dogs. During this period the Charm Nap Sawayaka Liner, a urine-absorbing liner for women globalization of Unicharm continued, and today our products with mild incontinence concerns (1997), and Silcot Wet Tissues, are sold in over 80 countries and regions. At Unicharm we will an all-purpose wet tissue (1998). continue to provide new value to our customers all over the world through our proprietary R & D and the development of new technologies. Ⓒ Disney Based on the Winnie the Pooh works by A.A. Milne and E.H. Shepard. unicharm CSR report 2011 9 Development of the Health Care Business Japan has already become a hyper-aged society and the provision of adequate nursing care is becoming a serious national issue. In our health care business, we engage in regular business activities to find ways to support both givers and receivers of nursing care by transforming the discomfort all people encounter in their lives into comfort. History of Health Care Products The Lifree vision: Assisting people to live Established in1987 life to the fullest every day In the health care business, we declared “pursuing the joy of living” as our business philosophy, and through our Lifree brand we provide the best products as well as the best care systems and services to enhance the quality of life of all people engaged in nursing care. In efforts to realize our ideal of “assisting people to live life to the fullest every day,” we have consistently played a key role in toilet care since the launch of this sector of our business. We began making inroads to achieving this vision in 1989 with the release of Lifree Nyotori Pads, a world-first in an absorbent pad for localized use. It was a time when cloth diapers were still widely used and even though consumers were aware of the comfort and hygienic advantages of disposable diapers, the economic cost of their use was still out of reach for many. On the other hand, a Lifree Nyotori Pad could be used as an inner liner in Unicharm entered into the health care business in 1987 with the launch a diaper and removed after urination without the need to change the diaper. of Lifree toilet care products for adults. In 1989 we released Lifree Nyotori This innovation eased the burden of carers while maintaining the hygiene and Pads. Proposing the world’s first toilet care model combining an outer diaper comfort of the receivers of care. The benefits of this system were the reduced and inner changeable pad, Unicharm played a leading role in promoting the economic burden in comparison with costly disposable diapers, greater ease widespread use of diapers for adults in Japan. In 1995 when we released in changing, and less waste than disposable diapers. This proposal rapidly Lifree Rehabili-Pants, we announced that our goal was to “reduce the caught the attention of Japan’s consumers and the combined diaper/pad number of bedridden adults to zero.” At that time we were also intent on system contributed to raising the standard of Japan’s toilet care model. communicating to society at large that people’s well-meaning intentions to In 1995 we released Lifree Rehabili-Pants and sent out the message that make the lives of the elderly more comfortable could also have the opposite our goal was to “reduce the number of bedridden adults to zero.” Toilet care effect of allowing them to remain bedridden and neglect their activities of is an important area of care relating to the dignity of people. We at Unicharm daily living (ADL). We emphasized that supporting the rehabilitation of the felt that we could make a significant social contribution if we were able to elderly in independent toilet care was important in helping them to maintain reduce the number of bedridden people through the use of our absorbent and restore functions of normal everyday life. technology. Our intention was not simply to apply technology developed At an early stage we also became aware of the problem of mild incontinence for babies’ pants-type diapers for products for adults. Our goal was more that is a concern of many women who have experienced childbirth and women far-reaching. It was a concept starting with the use of disposable diapers in middle age, yet who remain hesitant to talk about this condition. In 1994 as a substitute for use of the toilet by preventing the leaking of bodily waste, we entered into the market for mild incontinence care and in 1997 released and then progressing to “toilet rehabilitation” to support care providing for Charm Nap Sawayaka Liners, our first incontinence care liner. the dignity of people and their desire to use the toilet on their own. In the mask & medical business, we released the Unicharm Chorittai Mask This concept was a major milestone in enhancing the value of receivers of in 2003 in response to people’s need for protection against pollen, which is care by preventing them from becoming bedridden and enabling them to said to be a nationwide affliction in Japan, and thus created an opportunity to maintain and improve their activities of daily life and at the same time in widely promote the use of nonwoven sanitary masks. At present we are also enhancing the value of carers by reducing their burden. contributing to the revitalization of the mask market in Japan by releasing After the release of Lifree Rehabili-Pants, we began to receive many mask products for people’s needs when they suffer from colds, influenza or encouraging messages such as the following one from carer: coughing to help prevent the spread of infection and as a polite gesture out “Since introducing Rehabili-Pants that the elderly can put on and take of consideration for others. off by themselves like ordinary underwear, some of our elderly have begun to make renewed efforts to use the toilet. Some of these were people who had been kept in bed like babies, despite their ability to stand on their own, 10 unicharm CSR report 2011 50 Years of Development at Unicharm and the History of Gentle Care because they were incontinent and had to have their diapers changed. They had basically lost their will to live. Their recent efforts are not only Growth of the mild incontinence, preventing a decline in their physical strength but are also resulting in a new desire to live.” mask and health care businesses In an era that viewed taking care of the elderly in a bedridden state as a matter of course, messages like this renewed our strong commitment In the same way as people’s hair turns gray or their eyesight begins to fail to “aim for zero bedridden patients.” We also wanted to communicate that as they age, we at Unicharm see the development of mild incontinence as Lifree Rehabili-Pants, as an essential product for supporting toilet care for part of the natural ageing process. And in the same way that people color nursing at home, could contribute significantly to preventing receivers their hair to cover the gray or wear corrective eyeglasses to address their of care from becoming completely bedridden. At present sales of pant-type farsightedness, we want people to turn to our products without hesitation to diapers have grown to more than half of the adult diaper market. address their mild incontinence. To prevent symptoms from worsening, we This trend has continued with the release also believe that it is important for people to be able to engage in appropriate in 2008 of a new type of Lifree Zubon wo exercise and take regular walks outdoors without feeling self conscious. nugazuni koukan Rehabili-Pants and Unicharm provides appropriate products that people can use with confidence with the “Rehabilitation through living” as they participate in everyday activities. campaign series which enlisted the support of celebrity jazz singer Chie Ayado, who herself has experience of caring for her own From the manager of the mother at home. “Unicharm Iki-Iki Dial” consultation service It is important to train staff to Lifree Zubon wo nugazuni koukan be sympathetic listeners so Rehabili-Pants that they can truly “hear” what the customer is saying. Future expansion of Lifree products Hideyo Sakamoto Consumer Life Advisor About eight million so-called baby boomers born shortly after the war will Unicharm Corporation Customer Support Center turn begin to celebrate their 65th birthdays from 2012 onwards. As a country, Japan is already experiencing a severe shortage of nursing care capacity and At the center we receive not only inquiries about products but also having difficulty coping with the serious burden of nursing care insurance. inquiries from customers seeking various types of advice on nursing When these baby boomers begin to require nursing care, Japanese society care. Therefore, we make efforts to ensure that our staff have adequate will find itself in very grave circumstances. Therefore, prolonging the health practical knowledge in nursing care by requiring all of our telephone expectancy of the baby boomers into their twilight years is vital for the health consultants to have at least a Level 2 Home Helper qualification and of Japanese society as a whole. In this environment, the social value of our to undergo practical training at a nursing care facility. Lifree rehabilitation concept will only continue to grow in importance. Because there are many elderly among our customers and some Japan, however, is not the only country faced with an ageing society. who find it difficult to speak methodically or whose speech is unclear, In many countries around the world including Asia, the rapid ageing of it is important not only to train our staff in hearing skills but also society is set to continue. There are even countries in the world where it is to listen with a sympathetic ear, bearing in mind that satisfying our predicted the ageing of society will occur at a more rapid pace than in Japan, customers is the No. 1 priority of our service. Due to the nature of our where society has aged more rapidly than in any other country of the world. work, all of our staff are highly motivated and mutually develop Lifree products and the Japanese aged care model that have developed in a culture of assisting each other. The feedback we receive from tandem with nursing care in Japan, home to the world’s first hyper-aged customers on the whole is also very positive, with encouraging society, will deliver the benefits of Japan’s toilet care model to the aged comments such as “I am so grateful for your advice,” and “We are now and their carers around the world. able to sleep the whole night through, after taking your advice. Gone are the nights of waking up to change soiled clothing and bedding.” Hearing these words is truly rewarding for our staff. The feeling that they have truly helped others is in itself a motivating force and also a source of job satisfaction. Satoru Kiuchi Health Care SBU General Manager Global Marketing Division Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2011 11 50 Years of Development at Unicharm and the History of Gentle Care Mild incontinence is not a condition that is limited to the aged. It is not unusual for this condition to present after childbirth or as people age. Initiatives in FY2010 To dispel feelings of embarrassment over symptoms of mild incontinence Lifree Cho-usugata Shitagi kankaku Pants and encourage people to accept this condition as a natural progression in life, Unicharm has been promoting awareness of mild incontinence through the In recent years an increasing dissemination of information about this condition, which is experienced by number of older people want to one in three women in their forties. We began addressing this condition continue to live a very active life in 1997 with the release of our Charm Nap series of panty liners for the care that includes going out shopping of mild incontinence. In 1999 we released Lifree Sawayaka Pads with a view and traveling. The reality is, to making a product that was easy for women 50 and over to purchase. however, that many of these In 2007 we released Lifree Slim Wear. In the future we will continue to people are hesitant to do so provide excellent products that will enable people to fully participate in life’s due to their aversion to wearing activities as active adults. At the same time we will continue to promote disposable diaper pants. Among their comments are, “I don’t want awareness of mild incontinence in efforts to dispel the taboo surrounding anybody to notice that I am wearing disposable diaper pants,” and this common condition. diaper pants feel “rough and uncomfortable.” In the mask & medical area of our business, we released the Unicharm Taking comments like these very seriously, Unicharm developed Chorittai Mask in 2003 and have been encouraging people to adopt the habit super-thin disposable pants that feel just like ordinary underwear of wearing masks outdoors during periods of heavy pollen and as a practice when worn and released them in September 2010 under the name of good etiquette when people have or suspect they have infectious diseases Lifree Cho-usugata Shitagi kankaku Pants. These pants feature a like the common cold or the flu. In comparison with conventional gauze or super-thin absorbent material that is even thinner than that used pleated masks, the Chorittai in Unicharm’s Usugata Keikai Pants. The close-fitting pants reveal Mask has fewer gaps and acts no telltale signs, so they can be worn outdoors with confidence. to block pollen and airborne The gathered elastic in the leg tops also fits snugly around the legs, viruses. Unicharm’s important making the pants feel more like underwear than a disposable pantsareas of health care that deliver type diaper. Even the packaging reflects Unicharm’s sensitivity towards peace of mind and good health the customer. Reduced to half the surface area of the packaging to people are growing. of Usugata Keikai Pants, the compact packaging also reduces the burden of the customer’s shopping. Since their release, Lifree Lifree Slim Wear Usugata Keikai Pants have won the support of many customers. From the Sales Manager of “Light Counseling” At Unicharm we have been conducting what we call “light counseling” study Providing accurate product meetings to assist retail staff of stores to accurately determine the condition of knowledge and nursing care receivers of health care and to learn first hand the differences in sensory aspects of information through light Unicharm products so that they can give appropriate advice to customers. counseling at retail stores I believe that we can demonstrate maximum results by coordinating customer counseling by retail staff who are highly skilled in customer service with the distribution of promotional fliers. In this way the retail industry and Unicharm Osamu Honda in cooperation can establish a venue for analyzing data obtained by numerically Sapporo Sales Office, North Japan Branch, Sales Headquarters quantifying and confirming results of what is happening at sales counters. Such an Unicharm Corporation approach will also promote the development of a sense of mutual trust that will grow on a daily basis. To alleviate the burden of both carers and receivers of care and help them live We intend to widely promote our concept of light counselling and hope to create more comfortable and fulfilling lives as the hyper-ageing of our society continues, sales counters where customers will find it easy to buy the products most appropriate communicating accurate product knowledge and nursing care information directly for their needs. to customers through retail staff in stores is vital. 12 unicharm CSR report 2011 Development of the Clean & Fresh Business The Clean & Fresh business utilizes Unicharm’s proprietary nonwoven fabric technology and absorbent material techniques to provide a variety of products such as wet tissues, cosmetic puffs and cleaning products to make everyday living more comfortable. The key words in the clean & fresh business are “cleanliness, safety and comfort.” Unicharm aims to maintain and uphold the cleanliness, safety and comfort that our customers seek. “cleanliness, safety and comfort” as our key words. The driving force History of Clean & Fresh business that creates new products is the discovery of the needs of our customers through dialogue with them. From this source, new concepts are born. Established in 1974 We then ask ourselves how we can realize the cleanliness and comfort that our customers seek. Next, we come up with ideas that no one has thought of before by asking questions such as, “What if there were a nonwoven cloth that could absorb abundant moisture like a sponge but could also release that moisture without retaining any,” or “What if there were a nonwoven cloth that could trap and lock in mites or pollen.” After this process, we think up ways of realizing these ideas. We recognize that such ideas and the know-how to realize them lead to successful brands like Silcot and Wave that are widely acclaimed by consumers. In Japan today people tend to take “cleanliness, safety and comfort” for granted. When we are faced with a crisis like the recent Great East Japan Earthquake disaster, however, we come to realize how blessed and fortunate we are to have those very things we take for granted. Maintaining and supporting through products and services the cleanliness, safety and comfort we take for granted – this is the realization of CSR through our products. From the latter half of the 1970s, Unicharm began to focus attention on Initiatives in FY2010 the development of products that utilized its strengths in nonwoven fabrics and absorbent materials. Silcot puff, released in 1978, is a cosmetic puff Release of Silcot Uru Uru Sponge-Jitate that prevents fibers from remaining on the skin by sandwiching the cotton Released in September 2010, Silcot pad between nonwoven fabric. It is a long-running product that has proven Uru Uru Sponge-Jitate is a unique new to be popular among customers for over 30 years. This year for the 14th concept in cosmetic pads. Utilizing consecutive year it maintained its position as the No.1 product in the market. an innovative nonwoven material, the In 1998 we released Silcot Wet Tissues. Since then we have expanded our pad releases on to the skin every bit of product line to cater to the various needs of consumers to include wet towels toning lotion that it has absorbed, so with alcohol disinfectant, non-alcohol disinfectant and pure water. Unicharm users generally need to apply only half also holds the top position in the wet tissue market in Japan. In 2001 we the normal amount of toning lotion they released Wave Handy Wiper that has unique pile fibers that are capable normally apply. Already this product is being well received among of effectively absorbing dust and dirt in uneven surfaces and crevices. women and was judged on one cosmetic-related website as the No. 1 Handy and easy to use, Wave cleaning sheets have won wide acclaim from cosmetic product, with one user praising it for its economical value, customers as an efficient cleaning product. since no cosmetic liquid is wasted. A fresh approach to “cleanliness, safety and comfort” Utilizing our know-how in nonwoven fabrics and absorbent materials, we Michiaki Hashimoto have presented consumers with new approaches to making everyday life more C&F SBU General Manager Global Marketing Division comfortable. In all our business initiatives in this area we concentrate on Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2011 13 Development of the Pet Care Business As Japan’s birth rate declines and the population ages, the status of pets as valued companions and family members is becoming more prominent. In the pet care business, we provide a wide range of products that include both pet food and pet toilet items. History of Pet Care Making people’s life with their pets more comfortable Established in 1986 Contributing through pet care products In promoting the pet care business, Unicharm has two main aims: to enable pets to live a long, healthy life in a clean environment and, by achieving this, to make their owners happy. In the pet food business we aim to create products that are “healthy and tasty,” and we have developed various brands that include Aiken Genki, Neko Genki, Gaines, Gin no Spoon, and Gin no Sara. To enable customers to choose products that best suit their pets, we have categorized our pet food products according to the age and physiology of pets. While Unicharm recognizes that providing dogs with balanced nutrition is of utmost importance, at the same time we strive to create foods with superior flavor that pets will truly enjoy eating. Today we see a trend in ageing pets and a high degree of involvement of owners in the lives of their pets. At the same time, we see an increase in the number of cases of obesity and cats suffering from lower urinary tract In 1986 Unicharm launched its pet care business. Initially a pet food business infections due to lack of exercise and stress. In view of these problems, we offering products such as Freshy Aiken Genki, a dry-type food brand for have further focused our attention on the state of pet health in recent years dogs, and Freshy Neko Genki, a dry-type food for cats, in 2000, Unicharm and we are providing high value-added products in response to the diverse began to diversify its products to cater to pet food needs in line with trends needs of animals, including premium pet food that combines a balance of at that time. Products for dogs centered on four orientations: aged dogs, high-quality nutrition and flavor. overweight dogs, miniature dogs, and indoor dogs. In 2004 we released the Gin no Spoon, a gourmet brand for cats and in 2008 we released the Best Balance brand for dogs, focusing on dog health and targeting miniature dogs. In March 2011 we released Best Life, a new brand dedicated to supporting immunity maintenance. In the animal toiletry business, we started our product line with the release of deodorant pet sheets in 1987. At present we provide various toilet care products such as Neko Genki Deo-Sand cat litter and DeoToilet, an antibacterial cat toilet system that eliminates odors and bacteria for up to one week. In the future we plan to continue to contribute to the comfort of pets and their owners in everyday life through pet care products. Aiken Genki Best Balance Aiken Genki Best Life Hiroe Inaba Food Business General Manager Unicharm PetCare Corporation Unicharm Corporation 14 unicharm CSR report 2011 50 Years of Development at Unicharm and the History of Gentle Care Utilizing our nonwoven technology and absorbent Initiatives in FY2010 materials for the “comfort” of pets too From Aiken Genki, Neko Genki and Gin no Spoon to the provision of products to respond to advanced health needs The increase in the number of pets living indoors in recent times has created a need for various products for toilet care, care for incontinence and care In hopes that pet owners can enjoy for physical hygiene, just the same as for human beings. Using Unicharm life with their pets as long as nonwoven cloth and absorbent material technologies, we have developed possible, in the pet food business various pet products such as pet toilet care sheets, pet paper diapers and wet we have been devoting efforts to tissue for pets to meet the needs of pets and their owners. development pet food products that Pet sheets in particular were developed as a product for pet toilet care. are both healthy and delicious for Japan has the highest number of pets living indoors. Reflecting this state of dogs and cats. affairs, Japan also boasts the most advanced products for pet toilet care in the In March 2011 we released world. A requirement for all of these products is the elimination of odors. Aiken Genki Best Life dog food As a result, we devote ongoing efforts to improving deodorizing technology. for maintaining and supporting At Unicharm when we are developing products, we carefully consider immunity in dogs which declines the best way to promote pet health and cleanliness. To do this, we gather with age. For cats we released the information and opinions from various sources as a reference including product “As Age 15 approaches” in our Neko Genki, Gin no Spoon, consumer surveys based on home visits, questionnaire surveys on product and Gin no Spoon Premium Three Star Gourmet brand. In particular, purchases, and opinions of veterinarians, dieticians and other experts. these products are aimed at maintaining the health of kidneys of There are many people who consider their pets as important members ageing cats. of their families. For the sake of pet owners and for the comfort of pets themselves, we at Unicharm want to be of assistance in helping people’s pets live long, healthy lives. Release of Deo-Sheets for small dogs for greater peace of mind and cleaner living It is said that more than 70 percent of pet dogs in Japan are miniature breeds. Bearing this in mind, we released smallsize Deo-Sheets for dogs in March 2011. In designing this product, we took into consideration the physique of miniature dogs and accelerated the Deo-Toilet system sheet’s absorbency. In this way, we resolved the problem of small dogs’ legs becoming wet with urine as it spread during urination. Masanori Murakami Toiletry Business General Manager Unicharm PetCare Corporation Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2011 15 Development of the Baby Care Business In the baby care business, our aim is not only to guarantee the health and safety of babies but also to contribute in some small way to their sound growth and development. From this aspiration, we have been striving to develop products that follow the development of babies based on our business ideal to improve baby care. In overseas markets, we also provide products for babies in countries around the world to meet the respective needs in those countries. History of Baby Care Products Supporting the sound growth of children as a Established in 1981 “company enhancing the baby care” At Unicharm we openly declare our commitment to improving the experience of childrearing in our business ideals. In addition to promoting our dedication to toilet care for babies and young children and our guarantee of health and safety, we are committed to contributing in some small way to the sound growth of babies. Communicating to a small baby the feeling of being cradled in his mother’s arms, and to a mother the healthy laughter of her baby – it can be said that these are the kinds of messages we communicate in a concrete way through all of our baby care products and services. Take for example our pants-type Moony Man diapers, which were a world first. These innovative diapers can be rapidly put on a toddler that does not stand still for a moment, thus providing for the comfort and freedom of the child and reducing the stress of the mother at the same time. In the brief period from birth until the time they no longer need diapers, our Unicharm mission is to follow babies closely through this period of remarkable growth and assist in whatever way we can to increase the happy moments they and their parents can share together as much as possible. Both Moony, which provides highly efficient functions to meet the needs of children at various stages in their growth, and Mamy Poko, with delightful designs that feature popular Disney characters and make the diapers a fashion In 1981, 20 years after the founding of Unicharm, we entered the baby item, are brands that are highly regarded by customers in Japan. care business with the release of Moony high-quality disposable diapers We are currently going global with our corporate ideal of “improving for babies. With superior absorbency, the diapers were quickly recognized the experience of childrearing.” To do this, we have been developing for their efficiency in preventing leakage and won the strong approval of products that are sensitive to the needs of customers in each country. consumers. In 1984 we released Mamy Poko disposable diapers with high To promote sales, we have been making efforts to reduce the costs of our functionality at a reasonable price. We then proceeded to develop two products as much as possible to suit local pricing conditions while retaining further brands, high-quality Moony brand with varied functions to suit high quality in our products. Through these efforts, we have been able to the growth and development of children, and Mamy Poko, featuring colorful designs to delight children and stimulate conversation between mother and child and provided at a reasonable price. In 1992 we released Moony Man, the world’s first pants-type diapers. With the arrival of this product in the market, disposable diapers became more like “underwear” for babies. We then released in rapid succession new diaper products that catered to the particular needs of infants and babies at various stages of their growth and development. Among these were Moony Man Ase Sukkiri (2006), which incorporated the world’s first perspiration-absorbing antibacterial sheet, and Moony Umaretate-Jitate (2009), a diaper for infants with an innovative top sheet to protect the delicate skin of newborn babies. During this time Unicharm was also developing Mamy Poko as a global brand and provided it widely overseas in countries of East Asia, Southeast Asia, as far as the Middle East. Interior of a store in Indonesia Ⓒ Disney Ⓒ Disney Based on the Winnie the Pooh works by A.A. Milne and E.H. Shepard. Ⓒ Disney/Pixar 16 unicharm CSR report 2011 50 Years of Development at Unicharm and the History of Gentle Care capture the top share of the disposable diaper market in many countries including Thailand and Indonesia. From the Developers In India where consumers are not used to diapers with tapes, pants-type diapers that are generally used for babies after they begin to crawl or stand Pursuing extreme comfort for are growing in popularity in the market. Delivering our baby care products to babies themselves all people who have a desire to provide their children with “nice things” in life will, I believe, lead to improving hygiene in areas where running water and other basic infrastructure are not available. Toshimitsu Baba Chief Technologist Product Development Division Global Development Headquarters Unicharm Corporation Previous pants-style diapers utilized elastic at the waist area to fit snugly to the body and prevent leaking. While we were satisfied that the diaper did not leak, we had reservations as to whether the baby was actually comfortable with this design. Our persistent efforts at pursuing the comfort of babies resulted in the development of Moony Pants Shitagi-Jitate. We started by reviewing the material of the diaper itself and from there began to develop a material in cooperation with our material suppliers. The result was the development of Softletch®, Interior of a store in China a material that offers high retractility in a small area, so while the diaper fits snugly on the baby’s body it can be easily put on and taken off. Softletch® is a nonwoven fabric that stretches and contracts on its own. The surface fits to the body, so there is no need to have elastic at the waist. Initiatives in FY2010 No elastic is used around the top of the legs either, so this Release of Moony Pants Shitagi-Jitate innovation provides significantly improved comfort. Developing In the summer of 2010 we released a product that simultaneously achieved basic efficiency in making Moony Pants Shitagi-Jitate, an the baby comfortable and preventing leakage was a very long, drawn innovative pants-type diaper with out process which took us 12 years to develop. It was only with the “Softletch®,” a new material that dedicated cooperation of our suppliers that we were able to succeed is soft like cloth and expands and in the development. contracts flexibly, bringing to Our customers’ reactions to the product have been positive. pants-type diapers the new added One customer commented, “I have been waiting for a product like this.” value of feeling soft like underwear. Magazines dedicated to child rearing also highly rated our product. No elastic material is used around We are determined to continue our efforts at product development so the stomach area to fasten the we can continue to hear our customers say “thank you” to us. diaper. Instead, the diaper softly hugs the baby’s body like baby’s first training pants. Many customers have expressed their admiration and pleasant surprise at the transformation. Among the comments made were, “They have an entirely different feel,” and “Because they are thin, they do not sag even when they are wet. Babies seem to have greater freedom of movement.” Tadashi Nakai Baby Care SBU General Manager Global Marketing Division Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2011 17 Development of the Feminine Care Business In the feminine care business we have promoted the brands Sofy and Charm. To these we added Hadaomoi, an innovative product based on a new material, and we are making possible the provision of products to suit the diverse lifestyles of women. We make a science of women’s comfort so that we may create freedom for women. This is our business philosophy which underpins the feminine care business. History of the Feminine Care Business Bringing comfort and peace of mind as people who Established in 1963 understand feminine concerns better than anyone else Making a science of women’s comfort to create freedom for women. This is the ideal we profess in our feminine care business. Since the inception of our business activities, we have consistently made it a point to protect women from the prevailing negative image associated with menstruation. While the most basic value in feminine care products is the assurance of “no leakage” during menstruation, the continual innovations in technology have for the most part allayed women’s anxiety concerning the risk of such leaking. At the same time the diversity of lifestyles of women today call for diverse values and functions in feminine care products. Women require reassurance that they can live everyday with a positive outlook free of the feeling that “that time of the month” is an inconvenience. For a company like Unicharm to achieve this, ongoing dialogue with our customers is essential. For Unicharm, the feminine care business in the area of personal care is the Expressing dissatisfaction about feminine care products is not a topic founding business of our company. From the release of our first sanitary that women are apt to openly discuss. Therefore, to find out their latent napkins in 1963, we have transformed sanitary products for women from needs, they must allow us to observe their daily lives and we must be being products kept behind closed doors to products with a presence out sufficiently perceptive to be able to “hear” the words that are not spoken. in the open. This has come about through our constant efforts to support In the feminine care business in addition to the developers and persons in women in their everyday life. To this day we remain committed to developing charge of marketing feminine care products, our male staff must also strive to and improving products that promote that extra “comfort” that our female create products from a women’s perspective. This can only come from a deep customers seek. understanding of women’s lives. Unless we uphold this ideal, we will not be In our products aimed at improving the comfort of women, we released able to keep the promise our Sofy brand makes: to bring peace of mind and our first contoured sanitary napkin under our Sofy brand in 1982 and later comfort to women. offered a napkin with gathering on the sides to prevent leaking. In 2007 we Our “ready-made” proposals consisting of a wide selection of products released Hadaomoi with an innovative FCL sheet that protects delicate skin that allow women to choose shape, thickness and functions to suit their by keeping most of the menstrual blood away from contact with the skin. individual lifestyles and physique is a single response that realizes solutions Through ongoing proposals of innovative functions such as the above, for the comfort and freedom that all customers seek from their perspectives as we have continued our efforts to maximize our customers’ satisfaction. We individuals. Our new innovative Hadaomoi is the culmination of our ongoing also developed a unique Unicharm approach to assist our customers in the selection of our products. With an abundant line up of products that cater to our customers’ various needs, including their physique and the situations where they use our products, we present ready-made proposals that enable them to make the best choices for personal their needs. Through both our products and systems, we have transformed the discomfort of women to comfort. In addition to sanitary napkins, Unicharm has provided feminine care products such as tampons, liners, synchro fit shorts for use during menstruation. As Japan’s only manufacturer of a full line up of feminine care products, Unicharm has provided comprehensive support to women. At present, Unicharm is promoting greater communication concerning Charm Soft Tampon to familiarize women with the comfort of tampons, which in Japan are used by a relatively small proportion of women even at present. Store featuring the extensive product line up 18 unicharm CSR report 2011 50 Years of Development at Unicharm and the History of Gentle Care dialogue with customers and our tireless pursuit of technology. In countries in Asia today women are joining the workforce at a rapid Initiatives in FY2010 pace. When it comes to customer needs, national boundaries are basically Release of Hadaomoi Gokuusu Slim irrelevant. Applying the technologies we have developed in Japan in markets overseas, we are continuing to propose superior products that carefully take In 2007 we released into consideration the economic conditions, penetration, and the preferences Hadaomoi as an innovative unique to each country. sanitary napkin that incorporated an FCL sheet, a new material with unprecedented absorption From one of the developers used to rapidly draw in menstrual blood to prevent Providing comfort by it from coming into contact combining gentleness on the with the skin. As a new added value, this product offered “gentle on skin and greater thinness the skin,” and since its release this value has steadily penetrated the market. Following on from the success of Hadaomoi, we released Hadaomoi Gokuusu Slim in March 2011. While it is very thin, it retains the characteristic absorbency and gentleness to sensitive Hideyuki Kinoshita Product Development Division, Unit Leader skin of the Hadaomoi brand. This is a product where our aim was Global Development Division to bring absorbency and softness to women and to simultaneously Unicharm Corporation eliminate discomfort and anxiety. As a product that consumes less resources, it is also contributing to the environment. Since we proposed Hadaomoi as an option in sanitary napkins, many customers have expressed their approval of this product including many customers who had previously experienced skin problems during menstruation. At the same time, however, Release of “Cho-jyukusui Guard” Slim Type in China we continued to receive further requests from women who looked to us to meet their very sophisticated needs. For example, some In China’s market, there are many customers who prefer thin-type customers told us that they wanted to enjoy wearing fashionable sanitary napkins to meet their needs for greater comfort in their everyday clothing during menstruation. Some customers claimed that the lives during menstruation and this type of product is steadily penetrating ordinary slim-type products were uncomfortable on their skin. the market. To cater to customers in that market, we released ChoAnd some customers told us they wanted a product that was both jyukusui Guard, a product that had already gained in popularity as a gentle on the skin and slimmer. sanitary napkin for night use due to its guarantee of “peace of mind Therefore, with a strong desire to provide a sanitary napkin that against leaking.” We have received positive feedback from customers would allow customers to live their daily lives during menstruation including remarks such as “This is the type of product I really wanted.” in comfort by minimizing the burden on sensitive skin and at the same time give reassurance that the napkin would have no impact externally, we set about the development of a new product. The result was Hadaomoi Goku Usu Slim. After absorbing menstrual blood, the surface of this napkin remains dry and comfortable, free of any feeling of stuffiness. With the creation of Hadaomoi Gokuusu Slim, I believe that we were able to achieve a truly comfortably fitting product for our customers. We hope that this product will help our customers maintain an active, satisfying life during their menstrual period. Daisuke Iguchi Feminine Care SBU General Manager Global Marketing Division Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2011 19 Responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster We wish to express our deep sympathy to all those people who have been affected by the devastation of the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011. A report on Unicharm’s initiatives after the earthquake disaster and its aftermath follows. Assistance to Affected Areas All of our employees responded promptly to the emergency situation and have been ● Provision of relief supplies to disaster-stricken areas While staying in contact with local disaster countermeasure offices in the doing everything in their power to assist disaster-affected areas, the Crisis Management Office ascertained local in the restoration process. conditions and assisted in providing necessary supplies. Taking into Shinya Takahashi consideration the roads that had been restored and other conditions, Senior Executive Officer, General Manager staff members dispatched relief supplies using Unicharm’s delivery systems Planning Department Unicharm Corporation as much as possible. Members of the team dispatched not only disposable diapers but also masks at the request of disaster countermeasure offices As a manufacturer whose mission is to provide life’s necessities such as that believed they would be effective in dust prevention during rescue disposable diapers, feminine care products and pet care products, we at Unicharm and restoration activities. believe that it is our social responsibility to deliver products to our customers and ensure their stable supply. As we made efforts to restore our Fukushima Itemization of Relief Supplies (as of May 31) Factory that sustained damage in the recent earthquake disaster, we stepped up production at the Shizuoka and Shikoku factories by changing over to a nonstop Disposable diapers for babies 220,000 24-hour a day production system. As government and businesses joined forces, Disposable diapers for adults 120,000 we made a decision to give priority to shipments to the affected areas and focused Sanitary napkins, etc. 740,000 our efforts on delivering products to those areas as soon as we could. Pet food 8 tons (80,000 individual serves) Immediately after the earthquake disaster we received an exceptionally Wet tissue, toilet wipes 1.8 million large number of telephone calls and emails from evacuation centers and Masks 880,000 facilities in affected areas and from various government and municipal disaster countermeasure offices seeking assistance. There were numerous desperate pleas for various supplies. One party reported that there were no disposable diapers at their facility and no means of transport to go out and purchase some. A similar request came from another facility that had no diapers for toddlers and no sanitary napkins. There were also other reports that evacuees had no access to water, that people at the facility had begun to come down with colds and there was a need for masks. At this time we keenly felt that our business activities and our social contribution activities coincided. To help speed up the recovery even by a day, we at Unicharm are determined to cooperate in whatever way we can. Vehicles that transported relief supplies Message of support pasted on the relief supplies Response p Immediatelyy after the Earthquake q Disaster ● Establishment of a matching fund ● Establishment of the Crisis Management Team To assist those people whose lives have been seriously affected by the Two hours after the recent earthquake disaster hit, we established a Crisis earthquake disaster to return to ordinary everyday life as soon as possible Management Office with Senior Executive Officer Shinya Takahashi at the and to assist in the restoration of the disaster-affected areas, Unicharm head in accordance with our Crisis Communications Manual. To ensure set up a matching fund whereby Unicharm will match donations made by the safety of staff who had to walk home on the day of the earthquake, staff and directors of the 24 group companies in Japan and overseas with we distributed emergency kits to them before sending them on their way. a contribution of the same amount. The goal of the fund is to have every On the following day, March 12, we checked conditions at each of our plants employee and officer donate an amount equivalent to one day’s work. Almost and after putting in place a disaster response framework we rapidly set about all employees of the 24 group companies have participated. responding to calls for assistance from government, businesses and local government organizations. ● Tie-up with a Korean Partner LG Household & Health Care Co., Ltd. (Head office: Seoul, Korea; President: Damages g and Arrangements g at the Fukushima Plant Mr. Suk Cha), a partner company of our overseas subsidiary LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) and leading manufacturer of toiletry products such The Fukushima Factory, where approximately 300 employees including as toothpaste, shampoo, soap and detergent, offered to provide relief employees of cooperating companies work, sustained significant damage supplies to the earthquake-affected areas. The supplies were subsequently as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster. Thanks to regular delivered by Unicharm. emergency drills held at the plant, however, emergency evacuation instructions were issued one minute after the earthquake hit and the safety Itemization of Relief Supplies from Unicharm’s Korean Partner Company of all employees was confirmed approximately 15 minutes after the Disinfectant and liquid soap for hands 8,500 bottles earthquake. With the assistance of Unicharm affiliates, we undertook Soap 5,000 bars restoration work with all staff to resume operations at the plant. On March 26 Shampoo 4,000 bottles we were able to recommence production in parts of the plant and by May 9 Toothpaste and toothbrushes 6,000 sets we were able to fully resume all operations. 20 unicharm CSR report 2011 ● Aid from Osotspa Football Club, a Soccer Team from Thailand The Osotspa Football Club of Thailand’s Premier League and owned by From the Site of the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster Osotspa Co., Ltd., the general agent of Unicharm Thailand Co., Ltd., donated to people in the earthquake disaster areas through Unicharm a total of about Haruo Hidaka 440,000 baht (about 1.2 million yen). The money was raised from revenue Fukushima Plant Manager from matches and sales of autographed shirts. Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. The Great East Japan Earthquake caused damage ● Managing Logistics to our Unicharm Products Fukushima Factory Tying up with our cooperation partner Nakanihon Distribution Center, we and we had no choice but to suspend operations. quickly secured vehicles and fuel for delivering relief supplies. Five trucks At the time of the earthquake, there were about 300 of us altogether at carrying the first delivery left the night after the disaster. The next morning the plant including our employees and other personnel from cooperating the trucks, laden with relief supplies, arrived in the Tohoku area and we were companies. Fortunately, however, we were able to evacuate without even able to deliver the first relief supplies to affected areas. one injury. I firmly believe that this good fortune was a result of the After the earthquake disaster we covered production normally done at appropriate instructions given by leaders and the plant culture established the Fukushima Factory through other plants, and we gave top priority by our predecessors since the commencement of operations in 1993. By this I mean appropriate discipline – which is one of the commendable to delivering the relief supplies to affected areas and providing stable traits of the people of Tohoku – and the strong patience of the staff. supplies to people in other areas. Following the disaster we received one request after another for goods. We even had many customers come directly to the factory, including people from nursing facilities that had received victims of the disaster. Managing Logistics At that time we realized how essential our products were to so many people. Once we get beyond the aftermath of this disaster, I hope to Takashi Ishikawa devote even more energy to creating products for all our customers who Manager depend on Unicharm Products. Planning G, Logistics Division Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Tatsuyoshi Yaguchi The shipment capacity of the North Japan Distribution Center stood at zero Fukushima Plant Safety Manager Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. one week after the earthquake disaster. To make matters worse, there was an increase in orders. Thanks to the cooperation of our logistics partners, Suddenly my mobile telephone began to ring we were able to cope with the situation and resume operations. Our North and just at the moment that I realized it was an Japan Distribution Center partners assisted us with both warehouse emergency earthquake warning, we were overcome operations and information processing work. I sincerely believe that we by powerful tremors. Getting up from my seat and holding on to things were able to overcome the difficulties we faced because of the way we to support myself, I waited for the tremors to subside but they gradually usually go about our business with the common goal of ensuring we can grew even stronger. As a person who had never before experienced deliver our products to our customers no matter what. Our thoughts are an earthquake of this magnitude, I instinctively felt that this time there with the people in the disaster areas. We hope their communities can be would be significant damage, so I immediately gave instructions in an restored as soon as possible. emergency evacuation broadcast for all staff to evacuate. Thanks to the appropriate and rapid guidance of the leaders at every worksite, we were able to confirm that all employees had evacuated safely to the appointed Modification of Product Specifi p cations evacuation areas. Upon confirming damages at the production site as the aftershocks continued, we found that the disposable diaper factory had A number of the companies that we do business with including material sustained significant damage and a section of the ceiling had fallen down. manufacturers also sustained damages in the recent earthquake disaster, We again felt the terror of the extent of this earthquake. On the other hand, the fact that all staff were able to safely evacuate without even one injury and we experienced problems procuring certain raw materials immediately in these conditions attests to the sound judgment of the work site leaders after the disaster. As a manufacturer whose mission is to supply necessities and the effectiveness of the evacuation drills we conduct twice a year. for daily life, we at Unicharm believe delivering our products to wherever our I am very grateful for the appropriate responses at the work sites. customers are located is of primary importance. To ensure the steady supply of our products we decided to proceed with production using substitute materials for the raw materials we were having difficulty procuring. Tadashi Imai For a period we had to produce Mamy Poko Pants without the tape for sealing North Japan Branch Manager, Sales Division Unicharm Corporation the diaper after use. This tape has no impact on the fundamental function of the product. We announced our decision and the surrounding circumstances Although our office sustained significant on television and in newspapers. damage during the recent disaster, the efforts and experience of restoring the office to its former state served to further deepen our relations with one another at the Company. We in sales reconfirmed our awareness and joy at being a company that produces and distributes necessities of everyday life. We felt a strong sense of pride to be able to make good on our word to provide a stable supply of products to our customers even under such challenging circumstances. We are determined to continue our concerted efforts within the Company and the community to promote recovery efforts Ordinary product Product with modified and we will move forward together without becoming discouraged. with tape for sealing before disposal specification no tape for disposal after use Ⓒ Disney unicharm CSR report 2011 21 Global Expansion of Unicharm CSR The Unicharm Group actively engages in CSR activities all over the world through our overseas offices. As we share the spirit of our Unicharm Ideals with people in various countries, we implement CSR activities that are both appropriate and beneficial for each region where we operate. No. 1 support for MamyPoko Pants Standar in Indonesia In Indonesia in December 2007 we released MamyPoko Pants Standar, a new product in pants-type disposable diapers. Through this product we succeeded in providing to customers at an affordable price pants-type disposable diapers that had previously been out of their reach economically. Below our Unicharm managers relate the behind-the-scenes story of the marketing and development concept that ultimately led to the release and success of a new product created with Indonesian consumers in mind. The desire for parents to provide “nice things” for Through cooperation in the supply chain, disposable their children is the same the world over diapers that can contribute to the world Daigo Fujiwara Hiroyuki Tanji Brand Manager Representative Senior Manager Baby Care SBU Blue Sky Project Global Marketing Division Global Development Division Unicharm Corporation Unicharm Corporation Mamy Poko is a high-quality brand that has already penetrated the In 2005 we began to develop a very affordable disposable diaper markets of Asia and other countries. For many consumers, however, that consumers who could not afford most of the available brands in it is quite expensive and the pants-type diaper of this brand that we Indonesia could buy without difficulty. Starting from zero, we launched wanted to promote was a product that many could not have bought a project to develop a new product with the idea of keeping the cost even if they wanted to. To address this issue, we decided to launch down while retaining all basic product functions. Incorporating only a project in 2005 to review both the cost and value of the Mamy Poko the minimum essential elements, we finally came up with what we brand with a view to providing disposable pants-type diapers to as thought was a viable product. many people as possible. However, no matter how much we tried to cut down on the cost Based on our research of the competitive environment and needs of materials, there was a limit to what we could do. Realizing this, of various countries, we decided to promote the brand in Indonesia we decided to explain what we were trying to do to all of our Unicharm where the brand penetration was high and demand from high-income managers at every stage in the supply chain from raw materials earners downwards was growing. We interviewed over 200 average to transport. After sharing our goal with them, they gave their full households through door-to-door surveys. While consumers were cooperation in keeping costs down at every stage. consistent in their requirement for a diaper that did not leak, in areas Ultimately, however, even a superior product will not sell unless it where they did not feel there was particular value, they were not reaches the consumers for whom it is created. Appropriate retail sales insistent on a particular standard. In stores where the average price channels are essential to promote and sell a new product successfully. per diaper was 30 yen, we decided to keep our price to around To address this gap in the supply chain, the sales managers began to 20 yen and to sell our product as individual items. In this way we develop small retail stores to ensure the product was delivered to the succeeded in launching MamyPoko Pants Standar at an affordable end user. It was only through the collective efforts of all divisions of price to local consumers. Unicharm that we were able to achieve our goal, which was the creation In 2010, we released S size for infants from two to four months of the product that became MamyPoko Pants Standar. old, the age at which infants start moving their hands and feet Our perseverance in development centered not only on keeping the vigorously. This completed all sizes in the product line up. At present product simple but also on keeping the manufacturing process simple. there are indications that sales will exceed our forecasts and we are Our idea was to create a product that did not involve the Japanese side receiving positive very positive feedback from local consumers. in the manufacturing process by establishing a production line that In addition, in 2010 MamyPoko Pants Standar received the Nikkei could be entirely operated and managed by local personnel. This Superior Products and Services Award. approach would also result in local job creation and could even help In Asia there are still many countries where disposable paper raise the income of the local people. We also felt that this approach diapers are not widely used. In the future we hope to make a social could act as a catalyst in raising the quality of life of the local people. contribution to local markets by providing products that take into MamyPoko Pants Standar is a product that embodies the essential consideration local conditions in emerging countries including spirit of Unicharm CSR. After the release, when I heard about the India and Vietnam. positive feedback from a customer who exclaimed that this was a product the Indonesian people had longed for, I had the firm conviction that our development of this product had been a worthwhile initiative. 22 unicharm CSR report 2011 China Thailand B Booth th att th the Sh Shanghai h i World W ld Expo E A percentage t off sales l ffor social i l contribution t ib ti activities ti iti Through its products and services, Unicharm aspires to build bridges between This year marked the 20th time Uni-Charm Thailand and The Mall department countries, not only between Japan and China but also between Japan and the store of Thailand made a commitment to donate a percentage of their sales as a rest of Asia and the world. To promote our efforts in this area, we participated social contribution. Both businesses will donate a ratio of their sales for a threein the Shanghai World Expo and set up a booth at the Japan Industry Pavilion. month period during the year and funds raised during that time will be spent Foremost on our minds was the lives of more than 400 million women who on carrying out repairs and adding toilets to a school in Kohlahpuri in Nakhon use sanitary napkins, 160 million babies, 160 million aged, and 40 million Ratchasima Province located in northeast Thailand. Through Thailand’s Food pets in China and we made proposals for improving their lives. We also and Drug Administration of the Ministry of Public Health and TV Channel 3, reconfirmed that the realization of the Unicharm Ideals is essentially the reason Uni-Charm Thailand also for Unicharm’s existence. During Corporate Week at the Expo in May 2010, we donated sanitary napkins featured Mamy Poko and Sofy product displays and held various activities and and disposable baby events. Among these were a diaper changing contest and a gathering for taking diapers for people living photos with Poko-chan, one of our product mascot characters. During the Expo in areas affected by the we had the opportunity to interact with over 1,000 visitors who dropped by our country’s severe recordbooth. One business partner who visited our booth commented, “The Unicharm breaking floods. booth is filled with a very gentle atmosphere that made me automatically think of the fine quality of your products. I could really sense your motto ‘Creating Donation ceremony at a school in Thailand gentle care. Supported by gentle care.’ Unicharm is an irreplaceable partner in the retail industry.” It was very pleasing to receive such a comment. All of Indonesia China’s Unicharm staff, more than 1,000 altogether, also participated in the Expo, and I could sense Reducing waste by simplifying individual packaging both their pride and joy as We previously reduced consumption of resources in the production of staff working for Unicharm. BF-Extra Maxi Non Wing 1P. To further reduce the environmental impact of this product, we turned our attention to simplifying the wrapping of the individual pads inside the package with a view to reducing the amount of waste and releasing the product with the new simplified wrapping in October Unicharm (China) staff pay a visit 2010. To reinforce our environmental activities, we also obtained ISO14001 to the Japan Industry Pavilion at the in April 2011 and became the fourth overseas Unicharm office to receive this Shanghai World Expo international standard. Taiwan Global CSR Conference P Proactive ti fundraising f d i i activities ti iti In December 2010 local CSR managers from China, Thailand, United Charm Co., Ltd., Unicharm’s first overseas office, donates products Indonesia, Taiwan and Korea came together for a global CSR to various charity organizations. In fiscal 2010 we donated disposable conference. Following on from a global meeting with representatives diapers for adults, disposable diapers for babies and sanitary napkins to from two countries in fiscal 2009, the meeting grew in scale to organizations such as United Way of Taiwan, the New Life Society of Taiwan a conference with representatives from five countries who came and Eden Social Welfare Foundation. together to discuss the promotion of CSR and CSR procurement and safety as the conference themes. In CSR promotion, participants Korea shared information on ISO26000 and CSR activities of their P Products d t bearing b i the th EEco Package P k markk respective local offices. On the topic of CSR procurement, the managers from China and Thailand, where CSR procurement To reduce the environmental impact of its products, LG Unicharm has been procedures are already in place, presented case studies and gave reducing the amount of plastic used in the inner wrapping of individual advice to local managers of other countries who will be promoting items of its products. This year PIBUSAENGGAK and Hada-omoi were CSR procurement in their regions in the future. In the course of released with the new reduced-impact wrapping. These products also now the conference the representatives were able to establish personal display the “Eco Package” mark to let consumers know the packaging is as well as business relations between local offices. In discussions environmentally friendly. To further advance the company’s environmental on safety initiatives, representatives from each of the countries activities, LG Unicharm also commenced Environmental Management System presented case studies, shared issues, discussed solutions, and (EMS) activities in preparation for acquiring shared their future vision for safety. ISO14001 in July 2011. In the future we look forward to developing healthy competition between offices and promoting CSR activities globally. Eco Package with simplified wrapping Global CSR conference unicharm CSR report 2011 23 Dialogue with Stakeholders What is expected of Unicharm’s CSR? In March 2011, Unicharm hosted a Stakeholders’ Dialogue at Head Office in Tokyo. Participants included representatives from NPOs, leaders in the business community and experts in their fields. The theme of the event was “Expectations for Unicharm’s CSR Activities in a Global Society.” This year we celebrate the 50th anniversary since Unicharm’s founding and we used this important occasion as an opportunity to explore from an objective viewpoint what social responsibility should be for a company like Unicharm. In the course of the dialogue, we received various constructive suggestions from participants. Participating in CSR activities in both the global Murata: I also think that it’s important to establish sales approaches that and local through our core businesses match local needs as well as the values and brands unique to Unicharm. Oikawa: We can describe Unicharm’s products as being necessities required Ogawa: I would like to proceed with today’s discussions by first dividing for humans who give birth to humans, for children who are born, and for today’s theme into three main areas. To start, I would like to ask your opinions humans after they grew old. In this context, transforming discomfort into on areas in CSR activities Unicharm has undertaken to date that you can comfort can be considered a contribution to the welfare of human beings. evaluate positively as well as areas you see as possibly having issues that should be addressed. Ono: Unicharm is a unique company whose business and products The participation and empathy of our stakeholders themselves embody CSR. In countries with different political systems from are vital in getting across our CSR message ours, however, CSR activities may be perceived differently. In such cases, how Unicharm deals with these differences in the global development of its Ogawa: Next, I would like to ask your views on how we should get our CSR CSR activities is an issue the company will need to consider. message across both inside and outside the company. Tajiri: In the Unicharm Ideals established in 1974, the company was already Tajiri: What I believe is very important at the moment is “getting the using phrases such as “social responsibility” and “cooperation of all message across.” There is a problem in this regard, because while the employees.” I would like to highly commend Unicharm as a company that had correct procedures in Japan are widespread, inaccurate information overseas already adopted self-analysis of areas stated in ISO26000. On the other hand, is quite widespread. when it comes to community participation, I would like Unicharm to place Oikawa: The challenge as I see it is how we can incorporate Unicharm’s importance on local activities in Japan in the same way it does globally. philosophy into information about appropriate childrearing and nursing care. Murata: Unicharm’s ECO Charming mark won the Eco-Efficiency Award of the It is important to take Unicharm’s views in these areas into consideration when Director-General, Industrial Science and Technology Policy and Environment communicating the company’s message. Bureau of METI* last year. I think it is wonderful that Unicharm has taken the Murata: The concept of “carbon footprint” is also one method of decisive step to implement LCAs of its products. communication that should be considered. * METI: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Ono: Unicharm must convey to society, using every means available, Oikawa: One question is how Unicharm will establish its position in information regarding its social contributions and the fact that the company is globalization. Making contributions to local communities in various countries constantly making efforts to produce better products. would also seem to be an important aspect of your role as a company that Oikawa: Unicharm must consider the methods for getting across its CSR sells daily necessities such as sanitary products and disposable diapers. message outside the company, taking into consideration initiatives to deal with customer problems from the perspective of the customer. This essentially means “empathy” on the part of Unicharm. “Transforming discomfort to comfort” as CSR befitting Tajiri: The main focus of ISO26000 – community participation and a company aiming for 100 years of corporate activity development – refers to the participation of all employees. I believe the future challenge for Unicharm is to take this involvement one step further Ogawa: As the next point in our discussion, I would like to ask how you see to encompass the participation of customers, shareholders and leaders Unicharm’s orientation regarding CSR, that is, engaging in CSR through its including the president. regular business activities. Yamamuro: The key issues for advanced companies in the world are Ono: I think that the development of technology is extremely important, as “transparency” and “cooperation in the supply chain.” Another issue is what to well as how a company as a whole accumulates knowledge and experience. do with supply chain management in global development, including emerging Tajiri: As BOP business – that is, base of the pyramid business that targets countries. I believe these issues are the same for Unicharm. the lowest income segment – develops around the world, having technologies capable of reducing the cost of products will become a critical point. I believe that incorporating the ideals of health, safety, and culture into a single product can be a good start for making a worthwhile contribution in a particular area. 24 unicharm CSR report 2011 Full details are available at our website. Please go to: Overview of the Event Venue: Unicharm Corporation, Tokyo Head Office Date: March 3 (Thursday), 2011 ■ Facilitator Mr. Mitsuo Ogawa, CEO Craig Consulting Co., Ltd. ■ Participating Stakeholders Mr. Ken Oikawa, Mr. Yu Murata, Director Director Environmental Industries Office, E-Square Inc. Environmental Policy Division, Industrial and Technology Policy and Environment Bureau, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Message from Unicharm Mr. Yoshitaka Yamamuro, Mr. Shinya Ono, Assistant Manager Senior Managing Director Environmental Industries Office, Toppan Editorial At this 50-year milestone in the history of Unicharm, Environmental Policy Division, Communications we will use the valuable views and opinions of our Industrial and Technology Policy and Environment Bureau, Ministry stakeholders to renew our commitment to CSR activities. of Economy, Trade and Industry Mr. Yoshifumi Tajiri As we aim for 100 years as a corporation, we intend to take full Executive Director, advantage of the views and opinions our stakeholders shared with us Secretary General Japan NPO Center as we embark on new directions in our CSR. This dialogue brought home the realization that we live in an age where companies can choose countries and markets where they wish to do business, and we are also already moving into an era where society and the market ■ Participants from Unicharm can choose the companies they want to do business with. Masakatsu Takai Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Global Personnel and General Affairs Essentially, we can say that we have made the transition from global Department, General Manager, CSR, In charge of Customer Center management to sustainable management and survivability. All of the Takamitsu Igaue Senior Executive Officer, Assistant General Manager, Global Development Department views and opinions participants shared at the Stakeholders’ Dialogue Shinya Takahashi Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Planning Department have become valuable assets to us at Unicharm. Bearing in mind Atsushi Iwata Executive Officer, General Manager, Intellectual Property and Legal Department these views and opinions, we will promote the visibility of our CSR Kenji Takau Executive Officer General Manager, Global Marketing Department Yasushi Akita Executive Officer General Manager, Accounts and Finance Department activities (disclosure of the mediumto long-term goals and specific Yoshiaki Mimuro General Manager, Quality Management Department, Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. processes in terms of figures of our CSR activities), reinforce our Takashi Masuda Vice Manager, CSR Department supply chain management including CSR procurement, send out Nayoshi Kurita Director, Quality Assurance Office, CSR Department messages of resonance and empathy, and steadily execute our CSR *Titles of the stakeholders were current at the time of the event. activities with the participation of our employees. CSR Materiality of the Extremely high Unicharm Group Establishing the “Stakeholders’ Response to Environmental Corporate governance/CSR management/stakeholder biodiversity management engagement/respect for human rights and prohibition of Expectations of the Unicharm Group” discrimination/contribution to health and sanitation/ and “Importance for Unicharm” as the two promotion of CSR procurement/product quality improvement and safety assurance/improvement in customer satisfaction/ coordinate axes, we selected elements that initiatives for reducing environmental impact/activities to Stakeholders’ Expectations comprise the materiality of the Unicharm develop environmentally friendly products Group. For the “elements” we referred to ISO26000 and views expressed by Fair competition Protection and management of information/industrial health and trade/ provision and safety/personnel utilization and training/work-life participants at the Stakeholders’ Dialogue. of necessary services balance/protection of intellectual assets/proactive disclosure In the future we will focus our CSR of information activities on this materiality. Dialogue between labor and management High Importance for Unicharm Extremely high unicharm CSR report 2011 25 Creating gentle care Without the love of people and acceptance by society a corporate entity cannot achieve sustainable growth. The dedication of each and every Unicharm employee to creating the finest products and services generates a feeling of gentle care that makes Unicharm a brand preferred by people the world over. Initiatives for realizing CSR at Unicharm Following our corporate slogan “Creating gentle care. Realization of CSR Supporting gentle care,” we have divided our CSR initiatives in this report according to those two themes. In “Creating Creating gentle care gentle care,” we present CSR through products that cater Customers Environment to the needs of our customers and at the same time are environmentally friendly. In “Supporting gentle care,” we report on our CSR initiatives for our employees, customers, Supporting gentle care shareholders and society as well as the various systems that Employees Shareholders Society support the creation of our products and services. Governance & Compliance/CSR Promotional Structure Global development with Striving to deliver products to the local community in mind the customers who need them Eiji Ishikawa General Manager of Global Development Shinobu Seki Headquarters Unicharm Corporation Director & Senior Executive Officer Representative Director, President, and Shikoku Plant Manager Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. In the Development Department we aim to realize the Unicharm Ideals through our In the Production Department, the Shikoku, Shizuoka and Fukushima daily efforts at creating and producing excellent products. To continue to realize plants cooperate in the manufacture of our products. After the Great East products that are truly needed by our customers, we always start by considering Japan Earthquake, the Shikoku and Shizuoka plants joined forces to make matters from the perspective of our customers. up for lost capacity when production at the Fukushima plant was temporarily The Development Department works closely with the Marketing Department suspended. During that time, staff at our plants worked around the clock and the Purchasing Department from the conceptual stage of a product at on a 24-hour schedule. Unicharm. Working within a framework where they start with product creating Although the products we handle in each department vary, the dedication by first getting a firm grasp of the customer’s needs, these departments then of our staff and the efforts they put into their day to day work are consistent cooperate with suppliers in the procurement of materials, sometimes even getting throughout Unicharm. At any plant it goes without saying that consistent involved in the development of the materials that go into the product. quality cannot be achieved unless staff follow procedures and rules, but at In fiscal 2010 Unicharm reinforced its development framework overseas. Unicharm we believe that following rules meticulously as we go about our Until then Unicharm had conducted exhaustive research on the customs and daily work is more important than anything else in the execution of our work. lifestyle in each of its overseas markets and developed products to suit those To keep improving quality in production, we must also train employees markets. To get closer to our markets and customers overseas, last year we put capable of becoming effective leaders. Sharing a commitment to training in place a framework for promoting grass-roots research and the development others in the course of our daily work is also the most challenging task we of technology in local markets. As the location for our first foray, we chose China, face in the Production Department as we move ahead with global expansion. a steadily growing market, and posted experienced staff of our Development I look forward to maintaining a Production Department that can continue Department there to spearhead this initiative. to respond flexibly to conditions so that we can steadily deliver products A major challenge in developing any product is reconciling quality and cost, to the customers that need them and create products that customers truly two generally conflicting elements. We intend to meet this challenge and continue feel fulfill their needs. our efforts to create products that customers truly need so that we can further increase the comfort of our customers. 26 unicharm CSR report 2011 お客様とともに Creating gentle care Together with our customers Cooperative research between academia and industry – consumer issues – Low-stress disposable diapers for babies In joint research with Professor Masaki Yamaguchi (Graduate School of Engineering Research, Iwate University) conducted at the Unicharm Life Research and Development Science Institute, scientists evaluated the stress of babies wearing disposable diapers by studying amylase levels in their saliva and found that babies could feel the difference in softness of disposable diapers. The results of this Our View of Marketing and Research & Development research were reported at the 10th Annual Meeting of the Japanese Society of Customer-centeredness is the most important principle in all Unicharm’s Baby Science in June 2010. activities. Our aim is not just to be a producer of good products. We want to In this research, scientists announced that they had confirmed a simple be a brand that customers continue to choose because they are satisfied with assessment method capable of measuring the stress levels of babies based the products we create for them. This is the driving force behind our tireless on psychophysiological responses. This method determined the babies’ efforts. This is also essential for our existence as a company. stress levels by measuring the amylase activity in their saliva. The findings When we develop new products, we try to get an accurate understanding of the research indicated that the use of a softer material for the outer diaper of the problems our customers encounter in their everyday lives ahead of any could alleviate the baby’s stress during diaper changes. other manufacturer. To do this, we listen carefully and closely to what our customers have to say on a regular basis and we observe them first hand in Reducing risk of femoral neck fractures their environment where they use and purchase products. In the course of our The risk of falls that can go from a broken bone to making a person bedridden interaction with customers and our first hand observations, we sometimes is a major cause of fear in the elderly. Muscle weakness that results from even discover latent needs that our customers themselves were not aware of refraining from going outdoors due to fear of falling is also a problem for the and these needs become our inspiration for future products. elderly. To help address this problem, Unicharm in cooperation with Yonex One example of how our customer-centeredness resulting in a new Co., Ltd. released a special girdle that offers protection to the base of the product is the development of the MamyPoko Pants Standar product for our femur by reducing the impact of falls to one-third. Since the release of this Indonesian customers. We found that the average consumer in Indonesia product we have received positive feedback from many users and institutions. who may want to buy products of the same quality that we offer in Japan are In May 2010 Dr. Tatsuya Koike, associate professor at Osaka City unable to afford them. People the world over, irrespective of their economic University Medical School, who had participated in the above research as status, share the same love for their children and are eager to provide “nice a development supervisor, spoke about the Korobanu Saki no Anshin things” for them. Understanding the sentiment of Indonesian parents, protective girdle in a lecture entitled “The Latest Information on Falls and we introduced MamyPoko Pants Standar as a product that average consumers Broken Bones Sustained by the Elderly” at the 83rd Annual Meeting of the could purchase without straining their budgets. Japanese Orthopaedic Association. We have learned that when we make products that please our customers, we can receive their firm support. This makes us try even harder to create new R&D in cooperation with other companies products that will bring even greater customer satisfaction. By perpetuating this positive cycle we are able to meet the expectations of our customers At Unicharm our aim is to reduce the psychological, physical and economic and at the same time promote the sustainable development of Unicharm burden of toilet care through our various products. In 2001 we commenced as a company. joint research with Hitachi, Ltd. to develop an automatic urine collection system. In May 2009 we established Unicharm Humancare Corporation, Cooperation between R & D & E a new joint venture company with Hitachi, and commenced sales of “Humany,” In an organizational structure consisting of research, development and a urine-aspirating robot. Customers have shown strong approval of this engineering (R&D&E), Unicharm promotes research and development in an product. One user commented, “No urine is left on the pad, so it increases interdepartmental approach that encompasses five departments. With the aim comfort,” and another stated, “I can sleep through the night free of worry.” of turning people’s “discomfort” into “comfort,” these departments engage in various types of basic research on an ongoing basis. The new technologies and materials they develop continuously provide improvements in existing products and create wholly new products. Urine-aspirating robot “Humany” Research and development in progress unicharm CSR report 2011 27 ● Information from the Customer Consultation Center Communication with customers President Report to corporate officers Executive officers Report once a week on weekly topics Initiatives of the Customer Consultation Center Publish reports and conduct training At the Customer Consultation Center we strive to improve customer SMILE System Customer reports Publishes weekly and monthly satisfaction by responding to the valuable feedback and opinions we receive Entry of customer Marketing, reports over the internal intranet information into the Development and from our customers in a prompt, fair and sincere manner. We receive Customer Consultation Production altogether Customer Consultation Center correspondence from our customers concerning a wide range of subjects Center system. training Customer feedback can Conducts staff training for specific and issues including inquiries about products, details of package labeling, be simultaneously shared departments and purposes such as among relevant Development and Manufacturing product efficiency, questions about use of products, suggestions for products departments. Departments to increase focus on customer and quality. Also conducts and consultation regarding nursing care. At the center we provide information training for company employees Customer Consultation Center who wish to take part. Held training that customers are looking for, such as what products to buy, how to use SMILE for 102 employees in FY2010. Marketing products, and answers to their particular needs. In answering customers’ Speedy S Holding Report Meetings questions, we make every effort to assist them so that they can use our correspondence and Participating in Conferences Speedy response products with confidence and peace of mind. to customers Communication Guarantee Meetings In July 2006 we made a voluntary declaration of conformity in our Make products by Checks new product labeling from M customer’s voice various perspectives in Global complaint response management system in line with ISO10002 and we Development Marketing Headquarters, Intellectual Make products based Property and Legal Affairs are currently engaging in companywide activities to promote appropriate on customer feedback Headquarters, Global Quality Assurance Department, Customer customer handling. Company manuals and other literature on procedures for Interaction with Consultation Center I customers handling complaints set out our policy for handling complaints and our vow Interact with customers Customer Consultation Center Meetings to respond to customers with sincerity and promptness at all times. Through Each business sector presents a Production Lead customers report once a month companywide training and orientation we also ensure that staff are not only Le to satisfaction familiar with this policy but also know how to follow procedures for handling Lead customers to satisfaction Complaint Response Meeting Held once a week for speedy quality complaints. We also conduct customer surveys twice a year by interviewing correction and improvement customers when they make inquiries at the Customer Consultation Center. We ask about their level of satisfaction and views regarding our customer service. The feedback we receive from them helps use improve our customer service. In our customer consultation centers overseas in countries such as China, Case 1 Inclusion of a product comparison chart Thailand, Taiwan and Indonesia, we have been promoting the horizontal deployment of a complaint response management system that complies with One customer wrote to us saying, “The length of the liners isn’t shown on the ISO10002. This is one of our initiatives for improving customer satisfaction package. I find that quite inconvenient. Could you please include this information across the entire Group. on the package?” In response to this request, we now include the length of the In fiscal 2005 Unicharm received the Minister’s Award from the Ministry liners and a liner napkin chart on the package of Fuwagokochi Kaiteki Long. of the Economy, Trade and Industry for being an outstanding consumercentered company. We intend to continue our efforts to promote management that listens carefully to what customers have to say and quickly reflects their views in our products. Product comparison chart added to package Reflecting customers’ views in our products Since 2010 we have received approximately 54,000 customer opinions, views and suggestions. We regularly share this information internally through Case 2 Illustrations easy to understand weekly and monthly reports and meetings and we also share it with top A customer commented, “On the package of Lifree Zubon wo nugazuni koukan management. In this way we ensure that customers’ ideas and expectations Rehabili-Pants the illustrations indicating the temporary tape to be removed are are communicated in a timely way to the managers of the Production hard to see.” In October 2010 we replaced these with illustrations that show the Department and other relevant departments. This valuable information from temporary tape more clearly. customers is used for improving products and developing new products as we continually strive to provide products our customers can use with peace of mind. In January 2008 we introduced our SMILE system to enable the integrated management of customer feedback and sharing customer feedback with relevant departments. This system makes it possible to search directly for case studies using key words and to view, process and analyze information. At Unicharm developers and marketing managers use this information on before after a regular basis. Communication Guarantee Meeting 28 unicharm CSR report 2011 お客様とともに Creating gentle care Support for expectant mothers Customer Consultation Center training for staff “Baby Town” and “Pre-Mama Town” are websites for supporting parents and to enhance customer-centeredness babies by providing information on each stage of the baby’s development To “increase customer-centeredness” and “enhance quality,” the Customer and the mother’s pregnancy. These websites are sponsored by Unicharm and Consultation Center conducts regular Customer Consultation Center Training Unicharm affiliates engaged in the baby and child care business. Parents for Unicharm staff. In fiscal 2010, 102 staff participated in the training. who access the websites can search for information on pregnancy, birth and The center holds general training sessions for staff who wish to participate raising children as well as concerns they might have regarding these. These as well as targeted sessions for managers responsible for manufacturing, websites also offer advice and serve as venues for exchanging information. In development and marketing and varies its curriculum accordingly. the past year we reorganized the entire layout of the sites. We also increased During their training, staff have the opportunity to listen first hand to the size of the screen view of the Pre-Mama Town site. These improvements customers and to deepen their understanding of customer communication. make it easier for women to search for information they require during Staff also make actual home visits to customers who have made inquiries each stage of pregnancy as or complaints to Unicharm so that they can listen to customers in the they experience physical and environment where they are using Unicharm products and gather information psychological changes. relevant to their work at Unicharm. We also gave the site a new The customer home visit component of the training was added at the design before unveiling it on request of product developers and marketing managers who expressed April 1, 2010. a keen desire for an opportunity to speak with customers first hand. This component has also become a very popular part of the training. After the training one participant commented, “I want to create products with excellent basic functions that will benefit customers even more.” Another participant commented, “I want to devote my sincere efforts to developing products that Premama Town http://www.premama.jp will bring the words “thank you” to the lips of the customer.” The personnel training conducted by the center increases opportunities for staff to interact with customers and helps deepen their understanding of the customers’ Baby Town feelings and true needs. In this way, the training promotes “the pursuit of http://www.babytown.jp customer satisfaction” by individual staff members at Unicharm. Reinforcing information provided to overseas customers As expectations of Unicharm’s overseas stakeholders grow, we decided to revamp our existing website and to create new international websites in fiscal 2010. In our ongoing efforts to improve our services to our customers around the world, we will continue to provide as much corporate and product information as possible to our customers in various countries via our international websites. Customer Consultation Center International Sites Internet communication supporting customers in their everyday lives Education in first menstruation To help young girls approach their first menstruation with a positive outlook, Unicharm provides information about menstruation for both children and parents as well as advice on sanitary care products on its dedicated website, First Body Navi. In an imaginative approach to the subject, children attend the site’s “First Menstruation School” where they learn about changes taking place in their bodies as they grow. During their “classes,” children China receive factual explanations accompanied by age-appropriate illustrations. Thailand As children “study” the subject of menstruation, the program aims to dispel children’s anxiety by providing them with explanations and helpful information about physical and psychological changes they are undergoing. First Body Navi http://www.unicharm.co.jp/girls Indonesia Malaysia unicharm CSR report 2011 29 Creating gentle care お客様とともに and plant-wide initiatives are launched. Although the topics generally relate Quality Management to improvement in some aspect of productivity, areas such as “management visibility” and “standardization” are also targeted in these activities where the aim is to enhance the “reproducibility” of products through operations Unicharm’s view of quality assurance and framework that can be performed by anyone with certainty. To promote quality management at Unicharm, we align our quality policy Activities undertaken at this time include, for example, making labels on with our Medium-Term Business Plan and undertake internal and external products consistent, color coding labels to prevent errors, revising operation audits to confirm the appropriateness and effectiveness of our systems. manuals and reviewing performance standards so that anyone at any time We continually strive to improve these by putting in place corrective can perform the same operation. These activities are not limited to operations and preventive measures. in Japan but are deployed in overseas factories throughout the Company. In our business offices both in Japan and overseas we have acquired Successful business examples in Japan are also deployed to overseas offices. ISO9001 and based on this standard we have applied a quality management At Unicharm we will continue on an ongoing basis to engage in activities system (QMS) throughout our supply chain from marketing to delivery and we to improve productivity and quality through practical initiatives including have established a companywide quality assurance system. It is our intention UTMSS improvement activities so that we can always provide products of to keep pushing ahead with initiatives for uniform quality improvement in the a high standard and uniform quality to customers. management of our business and operations globally. * UTMSS: Unicharm Total Management Strategic System Ensuring product safety To provide safe products that our customers can use with peace of mind, a framework that thoroughly checks safety in the manufacturing processes is vital. To prevent the commingling of chemical substances toxic to humans and the environment at the material procurement stage, we have established our standards in Guidelines for Material Components and Guidelines for UTMSS initiatives in Taiwan UTMSS initiatives in Korea Toxic Chemical Substances. Our respective specialist departments undertake prior confirmation of materials. At the product development stage we also hold Safety Global safety activities Assessment Committee meetings on a monthly basis as a “gate check” function and we conduct risk assessments that take into consideration Unicharm’s policy on safety is to comply with laws and industry standards misuse of new materials and new structures. in the countries where we operate and to additionally apply our own company standards on top of these. ● Safety Assessment Framework In China, where appropriate laws and regulations are already in place, we focus on complying with existing legislation. In Thailand and Indonesia, Product Transport we provide for material and product safety through existing laws and Material Manufacturing Safety Safe to Design & Storage Safety Safety Safety Safety during Use Dispose of regulations in those countries in addition to Unicharm’s corporate standards. Since April 2007 we have had a safety framework in operation and our local offices in China, Thailand and Indonesia take charge of managing safety Guidelines on material components activities for the most part. Guidelines on toxic chemical substances In Korea and Taiwan we have made progress in the establishment of safety confirmation frameworks based on laws in those countries and Unicharm’s Safety Assessment Committees 1 and 2 corporate standards. In February 2011 we also held a briefing session for suppliers in Korea. In the future we will continue to strengthen mutual communication with safety officers in all countries where we operate and continue efforts to promote safety in cooperation with those countries. Initiatives in Unicharm Product As initiatives in quality assurance at Unicharm Product, we undertake improvement measures based on information concerning faulty products that we receive from customers and from routine checks as well as inspections of products at the production site. Our basic approach to improvement is to investigate both hard and soft areas in efforts to prevent recurrence of faults as well as the release of faulty products. Supplier briefing session in Korea Suppliers gathered for the supplier In addition to these ongoing practices, as part of our system of briefing session improvement at Unicharm Product, we sometimes target specific quality improvement areas as UTMSS* activity topics. UTMSS is a system whereby each department and individual employee proactively undertake improvement measures at every stage of a product from production to delivery through to recovery after use of the product in efforts to increase efficiency and produce better products. When a UTMSS topic is decided on, target values are set 30 unicharm CSR report 2011 お客様とともに Creating gentle care Together with the environment – the environment – Environmental impact and environmental goals Environmental impact during the entire life cycle As a manufacturer of consumables, Unicharm uses resources in various areas of its business activities, which have an impact on the environment. As a responsible manufacturer that utilizes resources in the course of business activities, we engage in efforts to improve the environment at every stage of the supply chain through all of our business activities from the procurement of materials to the manufacture, transport, and disposal of materials after use. Environmental impact from a life cycle perspective Production Input Environmental impact of pulp Pulp is harvested from softwood trees Electricity 213,995,000 kWh that are systematically cultivated and Raw Materials Raw Materials Heavy oil 6,631 kl harvested, and therefore does not lead & Auxiliary & Auxiliary Resources Water 3,801,383 ton Resources Materials Materials to the destruction of forests. Utility gas 989,000 m3 352,840 ton LPG 988 ton Unicharm Production Products Products Materials 330,414 ton manufacturer Transport Transport Input Effluent 27,417 ton Diesel Thermal Resources Incinerated Waste 2,541 ton 13,979 kl Recycle Effluent Outside the Complex 24,876 ton 23,885 ton 991 ton Recycle Outsourced Disposal Wholesale & NOx Discharge Water & Steam Consumption Retail Outlets Transport 32,420 ton 3,801,383 ton SOx 38,972 ton Waste 911,000 ton Containers CO2 36,961 ton CO2 and packaging 10,700 ton NOx 256 ton 113,269 ton Fluvial Discharge & Atmospheric Release Waste & Incineration Atmospheric Release Third party guarantee (P41): A check mark is shown where applicable environmental information conforming to relevant environmental laws and regulations Aggregation Period: April 1, 2010-March 31, 2011 Notes: Aggregation: Unicharm Group companies in Japan as stated below: 1. Discharge includes industrial waste, general waste from offices, and recyclables. Unicharm Corporation (Head Office, Global Development Headquarters, Mie Factory, Itami 2. Figures estimated from production results are used in part for discharge volume. Factory, Sales Headquarters (Electricity and CO2 only), Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. 3. Figures estimated from incinerator operations at the Fukushima factory are used (Fukushima factory, Shizuoka factory, Shikoku factory), Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. for the volume of incinerated waste materials. (Plant No. 1, Plant No. 2, Plant No. 3, Kokko Plant), Uni Care, Mieux Products Co., Ltd., * The Great East Japan Earthquake had no significant impact on figures on the Cosmotec Corporation subject areas during the term. Policies and standards: Aggregation based on company rules concerning the management of unicharm CSR report 2011 31 Basic Environmental Policy and Environmental Action Guidelines Unicharm established its environmental policy in 2000 and its environmental action guidelines in 2001. In April 2009 Unicharm updated both the policy and the guidelines to reflect recent changes in the environment and at the same time to simplify the wording to make Unicharm’s initiatives easier for staff to understand so that as individuals they would recognize the relevance of environmental activities in their own lives and incorporate them in their daily work and conduct. Unicharm ensures that all employees within the Company are thoroughly familiar with the Basic Environmental Policy and the Environmental Action Guidelines and will continue to promote new and ongoing environmental activities. Basic Environmental Policy Environmental Action Guidelines As a company that engages in the manufacture and sale of Let’s obey laws and regulations! disposable products, we recognize the extent of our responsibility Let’s make good choices for the environment! to the environment. Through our corporate activities we strive Let’s eradicate waste! to create environmentally friendly products so that we may in the future Let’s learn more about environmental issues! pass on a beautiful earth to the next generation. We are committed Let’s increase productivity! to providing goods and services that bring comfort, excitement and joy Let’s spread our efforts to improve the environment! to people throughout the world and we are determined to realize Let’s reduce our use of valuable resources! the sustainable development of a society that achieves a balance between conservation of earth’s environment and economic growth. Environmental Goals and Action Plan FY2010 results and FY2011 goals In fiscal 2010 we were able to reach all of our initial goals. In CO2 reduction, where we focused on energy conservation activities in particular, we were able to achieve our goals through large-scale capital investment to replace an air conditioning system and to reduce heat treatment processes at our production facilities. In fiscal 2011 we are planning on a significant increase in production to support an anticipated increase in demand following the recent earthquake disaster. Increased production will result in a slight increase in CO2 emissions and waste generation. However, we intend to make every effort to reduce these as much as possible through UTMSS improvement activities at production sites. Our view on medium-term goals At Unicharm we employ SAPS management, a management tool that we developed at Unicharm, to respond to changes in the management environment and to set annual goals and medium-term goals that we achieve over a three year-period. This year we set new medium-term goals to be achieved in 2013. Activity Theme Indicator Target Year FY2010 Goal FY2010 Result Assessment FY2011 Goal FY2013 Goal Reducing CO2 emissions Total CO2 Emissions 2000 -20% -23% ○ -21% -22% Reducing waste Total emissions at the 3 main plants 2000 -8% -12% ○ -12% -13% Recycling resources Recycling ratio at 3 main plants − 99% or over 99% or over ○ 99% or over 99% or over Development/launch of environmentally friendly products Ratio of environmentally friendly products − 55% or over 55.40% ○ 55% or over 55% or over Assessment ○: Achieved target △: Rate of achievement: 70% – under 100% ×: Rate of achievement: Less than 70% Installation of solar power facilities at the Technical Center and Unicharm Kyoshinkan In December 2010 we installed a solar power generation system at the Technical Center in Kagawa Prefecture. Preliminary estimates indicate that the system is capable of generating 56,000KWh annually and reducing CO2 by 22 tons. We have also installed solar power generation facilities at the new Unicharm Kyoshinkan, our building commemorating Unicharm’s 50th anniversary. The majority of the electricity for lighting and electricity accessed through power points is generated by solar energy. Electricity-generating solar panels at the Technical Center 32 unicharm CSR report 2011 お客様とともに Creating gentle care Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Ayano Imafuku Unicharm Pet Care Company Unicharm Corporation Reducing CO2 Deo Toilet for Dogs is a newly developed toilet Acquisition of energy conservation activity emission system for dogs. Consisting of a deodorizing filter credits at the Onohara factory and a deodorizing/absorbent sheet that absorbs From 2009 to 2010 Unicharm Product introduced an energy-saving air urine and eliminate odors for an entire week, there is no need to change the conditioning system at its Onohara plant. This resulted in cutting the plant’s sheets for an entire week. This system not only simplifies toilet care for pet annual CO2 emissions by 10% or by 400 tons. At the same time, we earned dogs but also cuts down on the volume of waste. At Unicharm we intend to carbon credits through Japan’s emission credit system. continue to provide products that not only make life easier for pet owners but at the same time are environmentally friendly. Tsuyoshi Kawakami Onohara Plant, Shikoku Factory Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Environmental Efficiency Award 2010 By choosing an environmentally friendly recognizes Unicharm’s environmental efforts system that both conserves energy and cuts Tsuyoshi Kawakami (left) In 2010 Unicharm was presented with the Award of the DirectorAtsushi Matsumoto, down on CO2 emissions to replace our former Onohara Plant Manager (right) air conditioning system, we succeeded in General, Industrial Science and Technology Policy and Environment reducing the entire plant’s CO2 emissions by Bureau of the Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry at 10%. The carbon credit auditing process required retrieving old documents the Eco-Efficiency Awards 2010. Sponsored by the Japan Ecofrom our archives and our former managers cooperated in facilitating this Efficiency Forum, the Eco-Efficiency Award honors companies process. Although it was a laborious task, we are pleased that our activities that have been recognized for their efforts in improving to conserve energy and improve the environment have been recognized environmental efficiency, particularly those companies that have outside the Company. made outstanding achievements. On this occasion Unicharm was recognized for enlisting the cooperation of material suppliers in assessing the environmental Initiatives for the Environment through Products impact of its products throughout the product life cycle and for voluntarily establishing strict Promoting the Eco Charming mark internal standards based on environmental efficiency through the Unicharm created the Eco Charming mark as its own environmental label development and application of the Enviromental Efficiency Award 2010 to raise consumer awareness of the environment. At Unicharm we aim to Eco Charming mark. make product choices easier for our customers as we endeavor to reduce our impact on the environment. Only products that satisfy strict standards for both “reduced environmental impact” and “product value improvement” are allowed to display the Eco Charming mark. Decisions on applying the Eco Charming mark to a product Initiatives with Our Partners are based on the Unicharm factor,* an environmental standard we have established in our Eco Label Guidelines Promoting environmental initiatives with Aeon Co. Ltd. Currently 11 of our Unicharm products bear the Eco Charming mark. The cooperation of distribution companies is essential in providing In fiscal 2010 we added two further products: Lifree Cho-usugata Shitagi environmentally friendly products to our customers. Unicharm joined forces kankaku Pants (Lifree Slimline Disposable with the Aeon Group, a company reputed for its proactive promotion of Briefs) and Deo-Toilet system for dogs. environmentally friendly activities, to promote carbon-offset activities and CO2 reduction. We plan to continue these joint activities in the future as well. Ippei Watanabe Metropolitan Branch, Sales Headquarters Unicharm Corporation Deo-Toilet system for dogs As a company that plays a leading role in promoting These two-ply pet toilet sheets initiatives for the environment, Aeon engages in received the Eco Charming mark a wide variety of environmental activities. We at Unicharm are very proud for cutting waste by about 75% to have been able to assist in Aeon’s campaigns through our products. compared with the previous Eco Charming mark single-ply pet sheets. As a partner that delivers new value to our customers through contributions to the environment and society, we will continue to build new partnerships * Factor: An environmental indicator whereby new and former products are compared by with like-minded companies to cooperate in promoting CSR initiatives. quantifying the environmental impact and the value (function, etc.) of the respective products. unicharm CSR report 2011 33 Supporting gentle care At Unicharm we see our business itself and the products we deliver to customers as CSR. Each and every one of our employees, our business partners and our shareholders support us in our efforts. Together with our employees Human resource philosophy – human rights – At Unicharm we value the autonomy of each and every individual based on Unicharm’s “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action. We endeavor to provide fair opportunities for our employees to find View concerning human resources fulfillment in their work and create a corporate culture that fosters the and respect for human rights development of confidence and pride. View concerning human resources Respect for human rights At Unicharm we recognize that a company’s growth and development The purpose of SAPS management, a system that has been in operation depend on the growth and development of the individuals who make up the at Unicharm since we developed it in 2004, is to realize management organization. Therefore, we clearly state in our human resource philosophy centered on respect for human beings and a sense of fulfillment. Under this that the training and development of our human resources are among the system, all staff cooperate in enhancing the strength of the organization most important tasks of management. We plan and put into practice a range through time-based management (time-based competition strategy), of programs for training personnel where we focus time and curriculum on knowledge management (sharing of wisdom and know-how), curiosity, high-priority, high value-added activities. At Unicharm we also carefully an entrepreneurial spirit and a spirit of innovation. At the same time, review employees’ use of time as their most important resource and consider the Company as an organization respects the autonomy of the individual how we can help each individual to live a more fulfilling and happier life. employees who possess diverse values and who encourage the development of each other’s skills and aim to share the joy of the growth of the organization as a whole. At Unicharm, we hope to achieve the three riches of employees: will, economy, and heart and body through SAPS management. Philosophy of human resources Establishment of the new President Prize ● Growth and creation In 2010 Unicharm established the New President’s Award by combining At Unicharm we recognize diverse values and we recognize that change the SAPS Benchmark Conference, which recognized employees who creates value. With this understanding, we endeavor to further enhance demonstrated improvement in the Company based on the SAPS management the value of each and every individual. To nurture our aspirations, model and the President’s Award, which recognized employees who we will provide opportunities for mutual growth and create demonstrated outstanding performance. The standard for selection is “any opportunities to demonstrate that growth. individual or group that has achieved outstanding results using the SAPS management model” and is based solely on the application of SAPS ● Organization and the individual management and the achievement of excellent results. All employees Harmonizing our vision enables us to mobilize our collective strength. are eligible. By making President’s Award an award that is achievable Together we will create a vision of the future and together we will share to all employees, Unicharm hopes to strengthen the bond between the joy of our growth as a whole. With market principles as one of employees and Company. our fundamental principles, we will pursue a new coexistence of the organization and the individual as we pursue further development. ● Human perspective We recognize that we as human beings are autonomous individuals and we respect individual initiative based on freedom and individual responsibility. We recognize that we are all independent, active beings who think and act on our own. Recipient of the New President Prize 34 unicharm CSR report 2011 社員とともに Supporting gentle care Together with our employees place where our employees work by listening to explanations, visiting the factory floor and taking part in experiments. – labor practices – Introduction of a summer time schedule ning humaAchieving a work-life balance In response to the anticipated electric power supply shortage due to the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster in March 2011, we adopted a “summer time” schedule in May 2011 at our Mita head office and Shinagawa Support systems office as an energy-saving measure. To conserve energy used for lighting and Unicharm has introduced a number of support systems so that our employees air conditioning, staff begin and end their work one hour early every day to take may lead fulfilling lives by achieving a satisfactory balance between their work advantage of the longer daylight hours of summer. The offices expect to continue and family life. Following on from 2007, the Unicharm Corporation in 2009 again this schedule until the end of September, the period when temperatures are at received a commendation from the Tokyo Department of Labor, and in 2010 their highest. Both offices aim to cut their energy consumption by 30% compared our subsidiary Unicharm Product received a commendation from the Kagawa to the peak period of electric power consumption in fiscal 2010. Department of Labor as “a company supporting child-rearing.” As a result, both companies were awarded the Kurumin mark as “family friendly” companies. Promoting employee health To create a healthy balance between work and family life, Unicharm recognizes the importance of not only ensuring that working hours are appropriate but also Under the slogan, “Employees with healthy and wholesome minds and bodies creating an environment and culture where it is easy for employees to access support sound management,” we have been promoting various initiatives to available systems. To keep staff informed of services and programs promoting maintain and improve the health of our employees. Unicharm and the Company work-life balance and to encourage them to utilize them, we disseminate relevant union assume the expenses for regular breast cancer screening and pap smears information through a special column of the company newsletter established for female employees as active measures to encourage regular health check ups for this purpose. In addition, during the school summer holidays each year, and health measures that lead to early detection. To raise awareness among Unicharm Product holds a family visiting day at its plant to welcome the families employees that “It’s up to you to look after your health,” we also urge employees of employees for a tour of the plant and various special activities. The promotion to undergo follow-up examinations after their regular check ups when required. In of family-friendly activities of this nature by Unicharm Product has led to an the area of mental health, we held the Mental Health Workshop in 2010 to train annual increase in the number of employees applying for parental leave and newly appointed managers of Sales Headquarters to be able to detect at an early taking advantage of shorter working hours to spend more time with their young stage and respond appropriately to potential psychological disorders of employees children. Unicharm is committed to assisting parents raise their children and to working under them. We also established guidelines for employees returning to work creating a strong corporate culture where there is mutual respect for the home and after illness and began providing support through counseling to those employees. where the employer and employees can support each other. Introduction of a suggestion system Family visits to the factory In June we introduced a suggestion system to promote the practice of resonating To promote work-life balance and to give families of our employees a chance management by utilizing the wisdom, information and ideas of the work site. to become more familiar with Unicharm’s activities, we host family visits to our So far 1,510 employees have contributed 3,086 suggestions. After departmental plants every summer. In 2010, our fifth year for holding this event, we held family reviews of suggestions, 570 of these were adopted. Of these, two received the tours at three of our plants during the months of July and August. In addition to Silver Suggestion Award, eight the Bronze Suggestion Award, and 10 special the families of plant employees, families commendations. In November we launched “Charming Voice” as a portal site for of Development Department employees managers to access and make use of the opinions and views of employees and to also participated in the tours. Altogether share with staff the progress of the implementation of suggestions that have been 124 visitors from 34 families took part adopted. In January 2011, Charming Voice initiated a special campaign to in the tours in 2010. Over the past five encourage staff to “take inventory” of their work duties with a view to streamlining years Unicharm has welcomed a total their work by eradicating meaningless procedures. After completing reviews of of 474 family members on these tours. their work, each staff member contributed one suggestion. In the future we intend During the tours family members are to use this website as a place where staff can make suggestions year round and able to get a better understanding of the Family Factory Tour can apply the “wisdom of the work site” throughout the Company. Takeshi Oda (right) Kenichi Tatsumi (right) Senior Manager, Technology Development Kyushu Branch, Section 3 Sales Headquarters Department Unicharm Corporation Global Development Headquarters Unicharm Corporation In the course of my sales activities, I have come to strongly believe that creating sales areas with Both my wife and daughter participated impact and the effective use of POP are essential elements in increasing brand in this year’s family factory visit. It was a good opportunity for them to see value. I felt that if all sales managers could compete with each other in creating how the products dad is involved in are made. My daughter afterwards more impressive sales areas, these efforts would result in improving our skills decided to report on the sodium osmotic pressure experiment with polymers and lead to effective product differentiation. Based on this idea, I suggested as her independent study assignment for school, so what she learned during that we have a POP Award for sales managers and received the Silver the tour was also quite helpful in her schoolwork. Suggestion Award for my idea. I like to consider myself first and foremost as a “doer” and I want to direct my efforts to our everyday sales activities. unicharm CSR report 2011 35 Supporting gentle care lectures and presentations on SAPS management. Participating in the SAPS Respect for diversity and human resource training Trainers’ Camp 2010 were 20 staff from eight overseas offices. After returning to their respective home countries, as “new converts,” they began their mission to spread SAPS management practices in their offices. Expansion of education and training programs Unicharm has developed a number of special programs for extending the Various backup systems for diversity skills of employees to enable them to demonstrate their talents and abilities so that they may experience a feeling of satisfaction through their work Unicharm strives to provide to its employees a workplace environment where and lead a fulfilling life. they can work with enthusiasm and a sense of fulfillment. Under the system for In addition to induction, professional development, training programs aimed providing time off for a citizen judge and an adjudicator for Committee for the at different ability levels and areas, and training for newly appointed managers Inquest of Prosecution Unicharm provides paid leave to employees selected and officers, Unicharm also provides leadership training programs for managers for service so that they may participate in civic duties without worry. Unicharm through the Unicharm Business College, which has a strong management also introduced a system for providing paid leave to bone marrow donors to focus, and a program for accompanying the President on overseas business encourage employees to participate in vital services that contribute to society. trips. Unicharm also assists staff to further their own learning and skills through Under this system, special paid leave of up to seven days is provided to all self-enrichment programs. In cooperation with a number of other companies it employees during the period they donate bone marrow. Unicharm also introduced organizes a curriculum centered on workplace exchanges where staff a birth support program to provide women undergoing fertility treatment flexibility have the opportunity to experience first hand work activities at companies in their working hours to enable them to receive treatment while continuing to of other industrial sectors. work. Unicharm will continue to play an active role in introducing programs that create a workplace where employees can work with peace of mind. Unicharm Spirits Masters 2010 In fiscal 2010 Unicharm introduced the Unicharm Spirits Masters, a program Career cover system where veteran employees share their experiences, achievements and ideas as In 1990 we introduced a career cover system whereby employees who retire from long-term employees of Unicharm as a legacy that can benefit others in the employment may be re-employed within a five-year period if they meet certain Company. In a special workshop for staff in there fifties, staff gathered to reflect requirements. The aim of this program is to ensure that skills staff have acquired on the knowledge and ideas they gained over the years working at Unicharm. in the course of their employment are not lost. This is one way in which we are They then set specific goals for passing on their knowledge and ideas to young creating an environment for the re-employment of staff who due to personal employees and formulated a life plan for their future. In January 2011 the circumstances have to leave the workplace temporarily for various reasons workshop took place over two days and one night with 36 staff participating. including pregnancy, child-rearing, caring for family members or accompanying The workshops and group work provided staff with a good opportunity to reflect spouses on business transfers. on the past. Senior expert system In 2002 with the introduction of the Senior Expert Employee system for rehiring staff after they reach mandatory retirement age, Unicharm established an environment where staff can work with peace of mind after retirement. Of the 26 employees who reached retirement age during fiscal 2010, 19 (70 percent) took advantage of this system. Bringing their extensive experience and skills to the workplace, these employees work energetically alongside younger staff, serving as models for younger staff. Unicharm Spirits Masters Establishment of the Unicharm Kyoshinkan 10-year career vision and career plan Unicharm implements a program entitled “My Career Vision, My Career Plan” On February 25, 2011 at the site where the Unicharm Product Kinsei plant once for staff to plan their future career paths as individuals by reflecting on their past stood, the original site of Unicharm, the new Unicharm Kyoshinkan opened. and determining their career aspirations for the future. In 2011 we completely Dedicated to the employees of Unicharm in commemoration of the Company’s reorganized this program. We added a 10-year time frame as a new dimension 50th anniversary, the building houses various meeting rooms and displays for staff to consider where they want to be in 10 years’ time in both their private including an exhibit presenting the dynamic history of the Unicharm Group and professional life and what they must do to get there. This is a useful tool for and “hands on” corner featuring Unicharm’s unique absorbent materials. Since guiding staff to consider and plan their individual career goals. the building opened, Unicharm has been using the new venue as a center for resonating management and passing on the Unicharm DNA to its employees to SAPS Trainers’ Camp 2010 strengthen the bond between staff and the Unicharm Group. As part of our efforts to promote resonating management throughout the Unicharm Group, we brought together staff from our local offices around the world to take part in our SAPS Trainers’ Camp in 2010. During the training, managers and officers from the Global Human Resource & General Affairs Headquarters and the Resonating Unicharm Kyoshinkan Management Promotion Office gave Participants in the SAPS Trainers’ Camp 36 unicharm CSR report 2011 社員とともに Supporting gentle care Shizuoka factory festival Together with society In October 2010 labor and management at the Shizuoka factory again jointly – Participation in the community and development of the community – planned and held the 2nd Shizuoka Factory Festival, which proved to be an enormous success last year. The families of many employees enthusiastically took part in the day’s festivities that included various forms of entertainment, Initiatives in social contribution dance events and a fresh vegetable market. Organizers also used the festival as on opportunity for conducting their annual Pink Ribbon Fundraising campaign. View on social contribution Environmental beautification activities At Unicharm we believe the very business we engage in is an important On March 3, 2011 staff of the Unicharm Product Shizuoka Factory under contribution to society. We are both proud and happy to have been given the leadership of the Kakegawa Branch, Kakegawa Houjinkai participated in this important opportunity to provide comfort, excitement and joy to people in environmental beautification activities. Staff cleared the area along the Tomei Japan and the rest of the world. Unicharm aspires at all times to be a company Kakegawa Interchange of litter, picking up and discarding empty cans and pet that is loved and welcomed by people. In our endeavors to achieve this aspiration, bottles. On a regular basis too, staff at the Unicharm Product Shikoku Factory we will make every effort to engage in various social contribution activities energetically volunteer their services for local beautification activities. The factory particularly in areas related to our core business in those countries schedules one day a month for staff to join in the beautification of the surrounding and regions where we operate. areas as part of the Eco Adopt-a-Road initiative. Participation in pink ribbon activities High school students’ company visit As a company that manufactures and sells products to support women in their Unicharm welcomes visits from high school students as an opportunity to everyday life, Unicharm has been holding Pink Ribbon Campaign activities to familiarize young people with our corporate operations. In May 2010 we promote breast cancer awareness and the importance of its early detection and welcomed six students from Odate City Minami Junior High School, Akita treatment since 2008. In fiscal 2010, in addition to the sale of limited edition Prefecture and in October 2010 we welcomed six students from Obihiro Ryokuyo Pink Ribbon products, the Company in cooperation with the Company’s labor High School in Hokkaido to our headquarters in Mita. During their visit, the CSR union again subsidized the cost of physical examinations for employees and their Department and the Customer Consultation Center introduced them to Unicharm’s families and continued “Pink Ribbon Study Meetings.” CSR and the customer services the center provides. The orientation provided We also continued our employee fundraising activities internally and through by Unicharm staff also gave students an insight into the Company’s ideals and events such as the Shikoku Athletic Day. The number of participants and the philosophy. Unicharm received positive comments and feedback from students amount of money raised in the athletic day festivities this year exceeded last who variously described their visit as a valuable experience and as providing food year’s. Unicharm also donated a percentage of sales of its limited Pink Ribbon for thought that inspires them to study even harder. products to the “Smile to Eliminate Breast Cancer Fund.” Donation of adult diaper products As part of our activities to support improvement in the health and nursing care environment, Unicharm donated a range of nursing care products to special nursing homes for the aged in Musashino City through People’s Hope Japan, a government-recognized NPO, in February 2011. Altogether 217 boxes of nursing care supplies including disposable diapers for adults were provided, totaling 108 products in all. Six special nursing homes for the aged were Pink Ribbon Limited Design Products Participating in the Pink Ribbon the recipients of the supplies including Yutori-e, Kichijoji Nursing Home, Smile Walk Musashinokan, Oyano Ie, Care Court Musashino and Sakura-en. Toshiya Abe, General Director of the social welfare organization Yutori-e, who helped distribute Active participation in local communities the Unicharm products, expressed his gratitude for the donated supplies saying, “These are products that we trust and use on a regular basis and we are very Raising Children Festival in Shikokuchuo grateful to secure this reserve of supplies for use in the case of a disaster. The Shikokuchuo City Child-raising Festival 2010 was held at Iyo Mishima If running water and sewage utilities are damaged in a disaster, taking care Athletic Park in Ehime in October 2010. The purpose of the festival is to promote of people’s toilet needs becomes our biggest problem. Having a reserve supply the development of an environment where single parents need not worry about of disposable diapers available at that time is absolutely essential.” raising children alone but can enjoy the support of the entire community including families, the local area, government and business through the establishment of a community child-rearing circle and volunteer groups where everyone can share the enjoyment of child-rearing activities. As a local business supporting the festival, Unicharm set up a mini steam locomotive “hand on” corner where parents and children alike had an enjoyable time. Presentation ceremony of disposable diaper products for adults to Yutori-e social welfare organization unicharm CSR report 2011 37 Corporate Governance – Governing the Organization – Corporate governance framework Unicharm strives to pursue correct corporate management through the Unicharm Ideals. We recognize the importance of achieving a balance between increasing corporate value and fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities through business activities undertaken by the executive divisions. Based on this principle we are reinforcing our corporate governance system as we further strengthen our executive officer structure through our corporate auditor system. Establishment of an Internal Control System business offices and process operations earmarked for assessment will take In fiscal 2006 the Unicharm Group established the Internal Control Upgrading the lead in establishing highly effective internal control systems. Project and formulated the Basic Policy for Establishing an Internal Control As the importance of responding to rapid developments in the System based on the Companies Act. Since then we have taken active steps globalization of our business increases, we launched the Project for the to establish an internal control system for trustworthy management. In fiscal Preparation of IFRS Application in fiscal 2010 and have started making 2009 the Internal Control Committee, established to take responsibility for preparations for the application of international standards to our financial the project, began assessing the improvements and operation of internal reporting. Making use of results of our internal control assessments relating control in financial reporting and putting in place measures to address to financial reporting, we are determined to establish efficiency in our any areas deemed to be inadequate. In the future our staff in charge of our operations and information system across the entire Group. General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Auditors Board of Directors Monitor Two Full-time Corporate Auditors Audit Director Founder Two External Auditors President and CEO, 6 Directors Accounting Auditor Attend Report Direct Business Plan CSR Committee Report Advisory Meetings Corporate Ethics Committee Audit Report President and CEO Attend Direct/ Business Supervise Report Execution Board Report Attend Executive Officers, Management Deputy Executive Officers Report ・Business Divisions・Operating Divisions Auditing Department Audit CSR Department ・Development Divisions Audit Subsidiaries, Audit Affiliated Companies Corporate Auditors Report Strengthen Legal Compliance and Ethics Action Guidelines (“Five Great Pillars” and Associate Principles of Action, “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action) CSR Promotional Structure Establishment of an interdepartmental ● Cross-organizational promotional framework supporting Unicharm CSR CSR structure Unicharm has established a structure to facilitate CSR Committee CSR Chair: President the smooth implementation of CSR activities and to Secretariat: CSR Department ensure we meet our stakeholders’ expectations. Our CSR Committee, a cross-organizational committee chaired by the President, meets four times a year to Quality Assurance Task Force Environmental Task Force CSR Promotion Task Force facilitate the progress of CSR activities for the entire •Maintains quality assurance structure •Maintains environmental management systems •Promotes ethics and compliance awareness Unicharm Group. •Promotes safety assurance measures •Promotes energy conservation •Ensures risk control and information security •Improves quality control •Promotes waste recycling •Improves the workplace environment •Ensures appropriate content labeling •Promotes development of environmentally •Corporate governance structure •Responds to customer complaints friendly products •Maintains communication with stakeholders •Gathers and disseminates regulatory •Handles environmental risk issues •Engages in social contribution activities information •Gathers and disseminates regulatory information CSR Department / Corporate Planning Department / Global Marketing Division / Global Development Headquarters / Global Human Resources and General Affairs Department / Legal & Intellectual Property Division / Accounting and Finance Division / Global Quality Assurance Division / Customer Consultation Center / Management Auditing Department / Business Reform Division / Unicharm Product Co., Ltd./ Unicharm PetCare Corporation, Operations Department 38 unicharm CSR report 2011 社員とともに Supporting gentle care Compliance & Risk Management – Fair Business Practices – Compliance Risk management View of Compliance Thorough information security Compliance in the broadest sense means conforming to laws and ordinances To ensure thoroughness in information security, Unicharm has established its but compliance in the Unicharm Group means more than that. In addition to information security principles and procedures in various documents such conforming to established legislation, we see compliance as the promotion as the Information Security Policy, the Information Management Security of honest corporate management practices based on sound corporate ethics Rules, and the Personal Information Protection Rules, which are based on and corporate philosophy. In 2005 we established the Unicharm Group Action the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry’s guidelines for safeguarding the Guidelines which express this conviction. In 2009, to realize the “Beliefs and personal information customers entrust to Unicharm. Unicharm strictly controls Pledges” we make to our stakeholders, we revised these guidelines to include information access and use and takes every precaution to prevent its leaking. specific action statements. As integral elements of the Unicharm Way, To ensure that rules are strictly observed, Unicharm has established an we ensure that all staff throughout the Group are thoroughly familiar with these Information Security Committee that is responsible for the Group’s planning action guidelines as well as the Information Security Policy and the Crisis of information management security measures, employee education and the Communication Manual. We will continue to promote a universal prevention of information leaks through ongoing monitoring. understanding of compliance throughout the Unicharm Group through various initiatives and ongoing activities. For a rapid crisis management response Unicharm has established the Crisis Communication Manual to provide details of procedures staff should take and the main departments to contact when a crisis occurs. The manual prescribes procedures according to various crisis levels. At Unicharm all employees carry a pocket version of this manual to enable them to make appropriate decisions to contain the spread of potential damage in the event of a crisis that could have an impact inside and outside the Company and to make appropriate contact with stakeholders in a timely manner. Manuals on compliance To protect intellectual assets Initiatives for increasing compliance awareness The intellectual property of the Unicharm Group is centrally managed by the Unicharm conducts staff training and e-learning to raise staff awareness Legal & Intellectual Property Division which formulates and executes intellectual of compliance. On an ongoing basis, Unicharm also provides staff property strategies linked to business and development strategies at Unicharm. with knowledge-based education required for their respective positions and As its patent application strategy, it promotes the protection and utilization of work duties such as knowledge of laws and business contracts. intellectual property as intellectual assets of business and development results. To increase staff’s knowledge of legal matters, we provide information With an awareness of Unicharm’s global business development, the division also on legislation and self-check quizzes for staff to test their knowledge reinforces intellectual property rights through international patent applications. through the Company intranet. In providing this information to staff, Unicharm As a result, Unicharm holds about 80% of all global patent applications and endeavors to do so in a format that is easy for all staff to understand. At our ranks 99th in the world in the number of patent applications (30th among overseas subsidiaries, we also provide the same legal affairs education as Japanese companies)*. Unicharm has also applied for and uses the trademark at our headquarters in efforts to increase compliance awareness uniformly that protects the Group brands in more than 110 countries throughout the world throughout the Group. and also actively protects its rights to proprietary packaging. The business and development departments cooperate closely with local offices in Japan and overseas concerning the control of counterfeit products and take a firm stand Employee Consultation and Counseling in protecting the Company’s products and rights. Unicharm is committed to Ring-ring Employee Hotline cultivating a corporate culture that promotes respect and protection of intellectual Unicharm set up the Ring-ring Employee Hotline in fiscal 2004 to provide property rights of Unicharm and other companies as articulated in the Unicharm employees with guidance and advice on compliance-related issues. Action Guidelines by conducting staff training through a combination of The Company makes employees aware of this service at employee on the job training, off the job training and e-learning to ensure that staff training sessions and by distributing cards carrying the hotline number. are fully versant in the handling of intellectual property rights at Unicharm. The hotline provides advice to employees who become aware of actual *Investigation of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) or potential legal or ethical violations in the workplace and protects the identity of all callers according to the hotline’s operating guidelines regarding confidentiality. The hotline also offers counseling on problems such as sexual harassment and bullying in the workplace. In fiscal 2010, the hotline responded to 34 calls. unicharm CSR report 2011 39 Supporting gentle care 社員とともに Together with our business partners In addition to upholding existing supplier assessment criteria used in Japan, the guidelines incorporate provisions relating to applicable legislation, human rights, industrial relations, the environment and product safety including the prohibition of child labor, the prohibition of any form of discrimination, and the promotion of measures to global warming countermeasures. Using these View on material procurement guidelines, we held briefing sessions on CSR procurement for suppliers in China At Unicharm we share our philosophy of safety and the environment through in 2009 and in Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, and Korea in 2010. At that time we close cooperation with our suppliers. shared with suppliers our concept of purchasing standards according to our CSR In our overseas bases where we are expanding our operations, we strive to procurement guidelines. We also analyzed self-check sheets that we had suppliers establish business relations with partners that meet our standards in product prepare beforehand and on the basis of these sheets we later visited the plants quality, functions, safety, the environment, and services in product lines of varying of various suppliers and investigated conditions there first hand. It is our prices in growth markets. In promoting these efforts, we make use of our approaches intention to continue our CSR activities with suppliers and to promote CSR to successful supplier relationships that we established in Japan. In addition to throughout the entire supply chain. sharing our principles regarding safety and the environment since our 7th Quality Policy Briefing Session with suppliers, we have been sharing information with our partners and requesting their cooperation in regard to carbon footprint and CSR considerations. We have also been sharing information with our partners regarding the progress of our initiatives for complying with legislation and social imperatives and for giving due consideration to human rights in labor. There is an increasing need for us to promote procurement activities with a particular emphasis on crisis management and to establish a sound Briefing session for Thai suppliers understanding of Unicharm’s stance and view on procurement when we commence trading with new overseas partners. We will continue our efforts to New product presentation meeting establish global procurement guidelines, source local suppliers, review our approaches, and seek the cooperation of existing partners in environmental and To promote the total assets of our industry as a whole through cooperation with ethical areas. our business partners, Unicharm holds new product presentations semiannually. In 2010 we held presentations in 12 venues. During that time, in the area Briefing session on quality policy of health care we provided suggestions for the organization of product sales In July 2010 we held our 9th Quality Policy Briefing Session with 161 suppliers areas in stores for activities of daily life (ADL) featuring, among others, from 65 companies in attendance. During the session we shared results of efforts disposable diaper products for adults. Likewise, we presented proposals to improve quality over the past year and presented awards to those suppliers who for absorbent underwear sales had achieved outstanding results. We closed the session by asking our suppliers areas. In feminine care, we proposed to continue their efforts on our behalf. sophisticated sales corners featuring various value-added products to attract customers. Promoting CSR procurement in cooperation with suppliers With the cooperation of the CSR Department and the Purchasing Department, Unicharm established its CSR procurement guidelines and implemented them in 2009. New product presentation meeting Together with shareholders and investors basis to shareholders. We also intend to firmly uphold our policy of steady, continuous increases in dividends. In allocating free cash flow, we give priority to the expansion of operations in Japan and overseas, research and development, and business investment in areas such as the development of information systems with a view to increasing corporate value for the future. Industry’s top level in return on investment For the year ended March 2011, Unicharm paid a full-year dividend of 56 yen Unicharm places a high priority on returning profits to shareholders. At the same (effective October 1, 2010 Unicharm undertook a stock split, issuing three shares time, we recognize the importance of maintaining stable dividend payments while for every existing share). improving profitability and reinforcing financial robustness. To enhance corporate value, we endeavor to disclose information in a prompt and accurate manner and Information disclosure for our investors to promote broad disclosure that enhances the transparency of our operations. Every year Unicharm publishes half-yearly reports for its shareholders twice a year and an annual report once a year. Our website also carries current investor Our basic policy for returning profits to our shareholders information, and we endeavor to keep our shareholders informed at all times Unicharm considers dividend payments as one of its most important management about IR activities by providing up-to-the-minute detailed information. We also issues and endeavors to enhance corporate value by ensuring positive cash pay attention to providing information to our shareholders and investors in flows. Our policy is to provide stable shareholder returns equivalent to 50% of a format and style that is easy to understand. net income (including dividends and acquisition of treasury stock) on an ongoing 40 unicharm CSR report 2011 Third Party Auditor’s Report ! Information about the Internet Version of the CSR Report 2011 http://www.unicharm.co.jp/index.html At our website you can find more details about our CSR activities. ● To provide completeness in the information we disclose to our stakeholders, we include a broad range of topics in our report based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Features of the Internet Version ●W  e have prepared this version to facilitate searches for specific content and easy access to of the CSR Report 2011 information in general. ●W  e are constantly uploading the latest CSR information to disclose information in a timely manner. unicharm CSR report 2011 41 Overview of the Unicharm Group ● Production and Sales Offices Holland Korea Russia China Japan United States India Thailand Taiwan Egypt Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Production & Sales Indonesia Australia Sales ● Company Profile ● Main Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Paid-in Capital 15,992 million yen (as of March 31, 2011) Cosmotec Corporation Number of Shares Issued 206,944,773 (as of March 31, 2011) Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. Head Office Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Registered Company Office 182 Shimobun, Kansei-cho, Shikokuchuo City, Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Ehime Prefecture Uni-Charm（Thailand）Co., Ltd. (Thailand) No. of Employees 7,317 (on a consolidated basis as of March 31, 2011) Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) Business Details Sales of: Baby and child care products Uni.Charm Mölnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Feminine care products UniCharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Health care products Uni-Charm Corporation Sdn.Bhd (Malaysia) Cosmetic products UniCharm India Private Ltd. (India) Household products Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Pet care products Other 14 companies (as of March 31, 2011) Food-packaging materials, etc. URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ ● Main Business Indicators ■ Net Sales ■ Net Income ■ No. of Group Employees (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: No. of people) 4,000 3,769 400 8,000 7,317 3,568 6,904 7,108 3.500 3,368 3,478 394 Other 350 335 7,000 6,265 6,461 3,018 454 401 1,277 1,410 Other 3,000 469 300 6,000 1,013 1,092 1,225 383 960 1,184 Asia 245 2,500 724 799 250 5,000 566 2,650 2,778 2,887 Asia 2,349 2,000 200 167 171 4,000 2,251 151 1,500 2,069 2,175 2,225 2,207 2,191 Japan 150 3,000 1,000 100 2,000 3,001 3,020 3,029 3,053 3,020 Japan 500 50 1,000 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 42 unicharm CSR report 2011
