TeleConsult Group October 26, 2011 Subject: Communication on Progress (COP) for United Nations Global Compact initiative. To Our Respected Stakeholders, As per its pledge made upon joining the United Nations Global Compact in 2009, the TeleConsult Group (TCG) hereby reaffirms its support for this commendable initiative. The TeleConsult Group will continue to embody the Compact’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption issues. As always, these principles remain TCG’s guiding values underlying all its goals, activities, and its day-to-day corporate culture. In addition to upholding and advancing general standards with regard to its human rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption practices, TCG has been involved over the past two years in a number of initiatives conceived for the benefit of the community. These include public and social services such as the Blood-link initiative (www.bloodlinkbd.com), Garments Worker’s Helpline, ICT training and employment opportunities for women and abuse victims, and much more. I am pleased to declare the TeleConsult Group’s continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. This Communication on Progress (COP) describes TCG’s efforts to implement the UN Global Compact’s principles in various areas, and is being shared with all our stakeholders. TCG looks forward to continue moving ahead while promoting the Compact’s mandate. ______________________ Ms. Naila Chowdhury Chairman & CEO TeleConsult Group Period covered by this Communication on Progress (COP): 2009 to 2011 House # 1, Road # 15 (New), 28 (Old), Dhanmondi, Dhaka, Bangladesh Phone: 880 2 8151726 Email: info@teleconsultgroup.com, Web: www.teleconsultgroup.com TeleConsult Group Human Rights: Assessment, policy and goals: With its many social welfare related activities and mandates, the upholding of human rights is fundamental concern for the TeleConsult Group. TCG adheres strictly to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all relevant human rights legislation in Bangladesh. Not only is TCG a non-discriminatory employer, but the company actively strives to include marginalized sections of society through various initiatives. In addition, any potential partner or supplier is screened for human rights abuse records before TCG enters into business with them. Implementation: TCG encourages diversity in the workplace, being an equal opportunity employer. TCG employees include men and women of various racial and religious backgrounds. Beyond just upholding human rights internally, TCG over the past two years has been involved in a number of projects intended to set an example within the community and advance the human cause beyond itself. Such initiatives include the “Empowering Women Through ICT Skill Development” program that was aimed at increasing opportunities for victims of gender discrimination, at little to no cost. In addition, TCG has particular provisions to hire special needs and underprivileged individuals. Another notable TCG initiative from the past year is its provision of professional training to acid violence survivors. This project was intended to empower victims, and provide them with dignity, confidence, self-esteem and enhance professional skills. TCG has been involved in several other projects with the aim of improving the community’s human rights condition. These include initiatives such the Garments Workers’ Helpline project that was aimed at preventing human rights abuse through the provision of information to vulnerable and underserved groups of society. Measurement of outcomes:  No human rights related charges or issues have been raised against TCG.  No TCG client, supplier or partner has faced any human rights related charges.  TCG maintains diversity in its workforce.  Most training participants of TCG’s special social welfare initiatives have attained employment, and have been able to overcome the cycle of continued human rights abuses. House # 1, Road # 15 (New), 28 (Old), Dhanmondi, Dhaka, Bangladesh Phone: 880 2 8151726 Email: info@teleconsultgroup.com, Web: www.teleconsultgroup.com TeleConsult Group Labour: Assessment, policy and goals: TeleConsult Group recognizes its employees as its most valuable assets, and seeks to provide a workplace that is tolerant, dignified, and brings out the best in everyone. All relevant standards laid out by the International Labour Organization are honoured. TCG is taking additional measures to further improve the welfare of its employees, through the extension of its existing human resource policies. Implementation:  All TCG staff members are employed under a consistent and clear contract structure that upholds international labour standards and ensures equal and fair treatment for all.  All TCG employees receive fair remuneration, including overtime as applicable.  Regular staff meetings are held, and arrangements made for the placement of confidential complaints, in order to address any employee grievances.  TCG management given special mandate to ensure satisfactory work environment.  Special initiatives undertaken to improve conditions and benefits for employees beyond basic levels. These include free provision of medical consultation for employees on a quarterly basis. Measurement of outcomes:  No labour practices related charges or issues have been raised against TCG.  Regular staff meetings have been held and feedback addressed.  Employees benefited from free medical services. House # 1, Road # 15 (New), 28 (Old), Dhanmondi, Dhaka, Bangladesh Phone: 880 2 8151726 Email: info@teleconsultgroup.com, Web: www.teleconsultgroup.com TeleConsult Group Environment: Assessment, policy and goals: As a company eager to go green, TeleConsult Group strives to adopt sustainable practices and lessen its environmental footprint. Even with few obvious options, TCG strives to continually improve its performance in this area, reducing on whatever ecological impact its activities currently have. The company has been enthusiastically pursuing initiatives to reduce the amount of waste it produces (particularly paper waste), promote recycling, increase its energy efficiency, and otherwise advance its environment related concerns. In the coming months TCG will formalize an environmental policy that will consolidate and continue promoting these efforts. In addition TCG plans to procure and install solar panels to ensure that at least a portion of its power comes from renewable resources. Implementation:  Installation of software intended to replace printing and hard-copy record keeping in order to minimize paper usage and move TCG towards becoming a paperless office.  Distribution of recycling bins and direction to employees to promote their usage (especially considering the lack of recycling presently in the community).  Installation of energy saving bulbs throughout all workspaces. Mandate to procure only energy efficient appliances.  Office vehicles have been converted to run on cleaner natural gas (instead of petrol). In addition, promotion and arrangement of carpooling to reduce employees’ carbon footprint. Measurement of outcomes:  No environmental issues or complaints over last two years  Reduction of paper usage by more than 50%  Significant reductions in fuel usage for comparable company transportation requirements House # 1, Road # 15 (New), 28 (Old), Dhanmondi, Dhaka, Bangladesh Phone: 880 2 8151726 Email: info@teleconsultgroup.com, Web: www.teleconsultgroup.com TeleConsult Group Anti-Corruption: Assessment, policy and goals: TeleConsult Group not only has zero tolerance for corrupt or fraudulent practices internally, but is also extremely vigilant against involvement with parties that may be involved with such activities. TCG support the UN Convention Against Corruption. In addition, TCG as always remains supportive of and follows the activities of the AntiCorruption Commission of Bangladesh. Implementation:  TCG has been (and will continually) undertake regular audits to ensure that all the company’s financial dealings are ethically sound.  All employees are carefully screened to identify any cause for suspicion.  No business client, supplier or partner is accepted until after they have undergone and passed thorough scrutiny intended to identify parties with any history of corruption. Potential clients, suppliers or partners that have any political links or preferences are also generally avoided. Measurement of outcomes:  No unethical practices related charges or issues have been raised against TCG.  No TCG client, supplier of partner has faced any charges or issues related to unethical or corrupt practices.  TCG has submitted financial audit reports to the to the concerned government bodies every year. House # 1, Road # 15 (New), 28 (Old), Dhanmondi, Dhaka, Bangladesh Phone: 880 2 8151726 Email: info@teleconsultgroup.com, Web: www.teleconsultgroup.com
