English version CSR of the DIC Group WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/ The DIC Group positions as the basis of CSR, The DIC Group has officially taken CSR into its we can fulfill our social responsibility through management since FY2007. We make efforts our business activities and contribute to the to ensure an accurate grasp of changing social development of the society. imperatives, including the issue of global warming and increasingly serious issue of resources, and respond with solutions that deliver the value The DIC WAY Our Way of Business that our many stakeholders expect. Through the Color & Comfort by Chemistry continuous implementation of these initiatives, Vision of Proposing solutions for color & Management comfort through chemistry we aim to earn the trust of society and evolving. The DIC Group formulates CSR policy each year The DIC SPIRIT Make a total commitment to continuous starting from FY 2008 as guidelines, to promote Attitude to innovation to create new value that will enterprise, Integrity, Management contribute to the betterment of customers, CSR at the ground level, and encourage awareness sedulity society, and the global environment. at both an organizational and an individual level. ・We shall hone our sensitivity to changes in society and be conscious To foster concrete measures, we have set 11 CSR Business of our mission to always be ahead of the times. Principle ・Conduct business aimed at the sustainability of society and the global themes from “Compliance” to “Communication environment ・Continue refining the DIC Spirit (founding spirit) with Stakeholders” and have been carrying out ・Every employee is self-reliant them with deepening those major themes. CSR Promotion System The DIC Group has a system in which each administrative department is responsible as Department responsible for implementation to carry out CSR themes under the CSR Committee, to promote specific approaches to CSR. The Sun Chemical Group, however, promotes CSR under its own system. ◎ Advisory Organ of CSR management As of April 2011 ◎ Establishment of targets and policy for activities Board of Directors ◎ Evaluation of CSR activities CSR Committee President Printing Inks & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts Synthetic Resins Chemical Solutions Materials Business Operation Business Operation Business Operation Business Operation Department responsible Corporate Business Operation Presidents Division Presidents, for implementation Communications Dept. Sales Branch/Factory General Managers, Subsidiary Presidents ◎ Coordination of promotion of CSR ◎ Comprehension of progress Compliance ◎ Edification and Support of CSR Information Security Reliability of Financial Reporting BCM (Business Continuity Management) CSR Theme Supply Chain Management Business Model Focused on Customer Satisfaction New Technology Development and Value Creation Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Human Resources Management Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society Communication with Stakeholders ◎ [Supplementary Note 1] Color segment: indicating efforts mainly based on [ ■ Economic perspective], [ ■ Environmental perspective], and [ ■ Social perspective]. ◎ The details of each theme will be shown in the “Report on Our CSR Themes.”Please refer to Outline of the Report This report has been edited so that readers can CONTENTS easily understand the CSR of the DIC Group. The DIC Group conducted an ‘evaluation of materiality’ based on the following reference guidelines for society, economy and environment, from the perspective of importance for both CSR of the DIC Group stakeholders and DIC Group. In consideration of DIC Group, Globally Active and Expanding 2 coverage and materiality, the items which should be reported have been determined and the DIC Top Interview 4 relevant activities of the DIC Group are presented. Linkage with Website Special Topics The WEB mark WEB is indicated in the portions where the detailed data or related information 1 Use the power of chemistry for a sustainable can be seen, as a guide to the related pages on society full of comfort and color 6 our website. 2 Achieve a low carbon society and reduce DIC website WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/ global CO2 emissions 11 Scope of the Report Companies included in the consolidated financial statement. Report on Our CSR Themes Please refer to P27 , however, for the companies covered by the report on the “Environment, Safety, Health and Quality” Compliance 18 Reporting Period Information Security 19 Target Domestic Companies April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 (FY 2010) Target Overseas Companies Reliability of Financial Reporting 20 January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 (FY 2010) (Some FY 2011 topics are covered here) Business Continuity Management (BCM) 21 Issued Supply Chain Management 22 September, 2011 (the next report will be released September, 2012) Business Models to Improve Customer Satisfaction 23 Reference Guidelines GRI “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3rd Edition,” New Technology Development and Value Creation 24 ISO26000 (CD) Issued December, 2008 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality 26 About the cover design Human Resources Management 38 Making everyday life comfortable and Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society 41 full of color Through a variety of efforts, DIC seeks to give abundant color to everyday life and Communication with Stakeholders 44 achieve a sustainable society through science. We have made symbols from the “C”s that begin the words “Color & Comfort by Chemistry”, our management vision, and in a vivid design incorporated into the background the idea of our speedy DIC CSR Report 2011 Third Party Opinion 46 handling of the desires and expectations of society and stakeholders. It expresses our commitment to persistently contribute to Data Compilation 47 the development of a sustainable society as a unified DIC Group. *This report utilizes a color scheme informed by universal design, a focus of DIC Group efforts, to give it an easy-to-read design 1 The DIC Group has 190 affiliates and is active in a variety of business operations, including printing inks and synthetic resins, in 64 DIC Group, Globally countries and regions in the world. *Main countries: Active and Expanding American countries the United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, etc. European countries Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, etc. Asian and Oceanian countries China, Thailand, Malaysia, India, Australia, etc. The sum of the operating incomes by region on page 3 below does not correspond to that of the operating incomes of all the companies, as the former includes the canceled amount (¥4 billion) Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2011) Registered name: DIC Corporation Paid-in capital: 91.2 billion yen Number of employees 3,412 (non-consolidated), 21,572 (consolidated) Corporate headquarters: DIC Building, 7-20, Nihonbashi 3-Chome, Chuo-ku, Domestic operations: 190 [domestic: 40, overseas: 150, including 82 Tokyo 103-8233, Japan companies in the Sun Chemical Group] Date of foundation: February 15, 1908 Date of incorporation: March 15, 1937 Business Performance Highlights Net Sales (Billions of yen) Total Assets (Billions of yen) Net Income (Billions of yen) Operating Income (Billions of yen) 500 300 10,000 10,000 250 8,000 400 8,000 200 6,000 300 6,000 10,157 10,779 310 514 9,918 9,783 150 9,323 484 7,578 7,790 7,385 7,499 7,038 4,000 200 372 225 4,000 100 254 278 158 2,000 100 50 26 25 2,000 0 0 0 0 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Fiscal year) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Fiscal year) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Fiscal year) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Fiscal year) These graphs have been prepared from the accounts maintained in accordance with the provisions set forth in Japan’ s Companies Act and Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. In FY 2010, DIC had 160 consolidated subsidiaries and 30 affiliates. The DIC Group is a global market leader with printing inks, organic pigments and synthetic resins as Operations its core businesses. The Group currently classifies its businesses into four operations: Synthetic Resins Business Operation Printing Inks & Supplies Business Operation Synthetic resins for inks and painting, molding, adhesive and fiber processing, Printing inks, printing supplies, additives and chemicals Neo Graphic Arts Materials Business Operation Chemical Solution Materials Business Operation Organic pigments, Imaging and reprographic products, Special compounds and colorants, building materials, packing-related materials, pressure sensitive liquid crystal (LC) materials (TFT, STN) adhesive materials, plastic molded products, engineering plastics, membrane and related products Breakdown of Sales by Segment Breakdown of Sales by Region Percentages of the Number of Employees by Region Chemical Solution Others Asia/Oceania Materials 1% 14% 18% Total: Total: Asia/Oceania Total: Japan 27% 29% 779.0 America Japan Synthetic Resins 779.0 16% 47% 21,572 19% billion yen billion yen Employees Printing ink & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts 49% Europe America Europe Materials 23% 21% 23% 13% 2 Asia Japan Asian and Oceanian countries Japan DIC China, DIC Asia Pacific and 61 other companies DIC, DIC Graphics and 38 other companies Number of employees 5,728 Number of employees 6,335 Net sales 1,080 billion yen Net sales 3,647 billion yen Operating income 95 billion yen Operating income 227 billion yen Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts Materials Neo Graphic Arts Materials Synthetic Resins Oceania Synthetic Resins Chemical Solution Materials Europe America European countries American countries Sun Chemical Group and 3 other companies Sun Chemical Group and 2 other companies South Number of employees 4,880 Number of employees 4,629 America Net sales 1,809 billion yen Net sales 1,254 billion yen Operating income 54 billion yen Operating income 36 billion yen Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts Materials Neo Graphic Arts Materials 3 Interview with the President Towards raising each employee's awareness and building a CSR program well-suited to global chemical manufacturers − How is DIC dealing with the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake and what impact did it have on business? I would first like to express my heartfelt sympathies to people affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. I am praying for a quick recovery. While nobody in my family or the DIC group lost their lives to the quake, damage was done to our Kashima plant (Ibaraki Pref.), where we produce organic pigments, base ink, and engineering plastics. As our primary concern is providing supply as a materials manufacturer, we immediately sent our managing directors to the area and committed everything to getting a handle on inventory at DIC and in our supply chain. We made resuming the production of pigments for LCD color filters—irreplaceable by other companies’ products—our highest priority. Fortunately, production could resumed in April, with everything back to normal in May. During this time, I kept our customers continuously informed of our restoration work and endeavored to avoid supply concerns. In response to the power shortages feared for FY 2011, our employees are working hard to save power at our plants and their own homes, and we are working to ensure that we achieve a 15% drop in power usage compared to FY 2010. −The earthquake as a spark for business continuit y management (BCM) re evaluation The DIC Group sees BCM as one priority task for CSR, but most critical is putting DIC Corporation practical measures into place that seek to Representative Director, President and CEO avoid both natural disaster and business risks. Kazuo Sugie We are strengthening our BCM initiatives by, Joined Dainippon Ink and for example, working with other companies in Chemicals, Incorporated in 1970; the industry to construct a system of mutual Served as General Manager, Petrochemical Planning and aid for natural disasters, Development Department, and General Manager, Corporate Strategic Planning Department, before being appointed President in April 2009. − Tell us about the first-year progress with roll out business that will see growth in the U.S. are also placing an emphasis on developing the “ ” medium-term plan. and Europe. local managers at plants in East Asia and will “ ” seeks to achieve our “Color continue to build a framework so that their & Comfort by Chemistry” corporate vision and − Please share with us your thoughts on organizations can be self-reliant. Fifth is the restore DIC to a financial position that inspires CSR program advancement BCM. confidence. I believe that CSR is critical not only DIC enjoys a large number of core for a company but also for individuals. In − Talk about the announcement of your technologies cultivated across a wide range of relationships between an individual and par ticipation in the United Nations businesses. By bringing all of these together, their family or neighbors or schools, there Global Compact.(UNGC) our business will definitely expands. As a are things people should and shouldn't do. For the DIC Group to continue to grow means to promote this, we have integrated People learn to manage both, producing as a global chemicals manufacturer, we will our technical departments to reorganize the “win-win relationships”. When looking at a need to advance our CSR program through organization for facilitating interaction between company as a person's life, I now see what organizational operations in line with global engineers. We also have made progress on a should and should not be done, something I standards. Our participation in the UNGC framework for going beyond business sectors learned through my own humble participation will be a big help in learning how to do this. to allow any kind of equipment to be used in UNICEF and local volunteer activities. Through these activities, we hope the GC will whenever needed, as all our products are T he DIC G roup’s busine s s cle a r l y be a source of new perspectives and hints for assets of the entire company. demonstrates our commitment to fulfilling how companies can fulfill their responsibility to In some business operations, we have CSR, and our raison d’être as members society. made it so that alignment is not along product of society lies in achieving our corporate lines but along market lines, in areas such as vision through our work. At the same Lastly, please talk about DIC’s challenges automobiles, housing, information devices, time, we believe it is important to maintain and plans for the next fiscal year. and packaging materials. With packaging stakeholders' trust in our financial position in Our CSR Committee added new members materials, for example, where separate order to generate modest profits and grow in the form of representatives from the Asia/ businesses used to handle individual products while continuing to provide them with new Oceania and China regions. Our aim is the such as ink, film, or adhesives, now we receive value. timely sharing of Group policies and projects more and more requests from customers and further spread of the CSR program to for new composite materials made with a − What challenges are receiving particular the Asia region. We will also be focusing on combination of DIC products. attention? developing self-reliance in each employee. The first point to mention would be our The most important goal for the CSR program −Tell us about future product strategies “Responsible Care (environment, safety, is to develop a culture where employees for the global market health, quality)” program. Second are our independently recognize and act on issues, While the DIC Group is one of the world's “new technology enhancement” initiatives, As president, I will be visiting our plants, to join leading ink manufacturers, the digital age has where we benefit the customer and society by town meetings, and I believe that developing caused focus to shift away from ink and its developing brand-new and environmentallyemployees who take an active approach to role in “providing information and color” to conscious products. Third are our ongoing issue resolution is essential to the continued products like LCDs, pigments, and imaging endeavors aimed at “customer satisfaction.” growth of a company. & reprographic materials. Our strategy Four th are our initiatives aimed at for corporate growth for the time being is “enhancing human resources management”. integrating these elements into the business We are focusing on creating a corporate field of Neo Graphic Arts. environment where our female employees Since the facilities of the LCD TVs, cell can fully exercise their abilities. This includes phones, printers and other products utilizing continuing our 2.5-year maximum maternity our products are concentrated in East Asia, leave program in addition to building a day our plan is to step up sales in this region and care facility in the DIC headquarters area. We 5 Use the power of chemistry Special Topic 1 for a sustainable society full of comfort and color Through its “Color & Comfort by Chemistry” concept, the DIC Group contributes to a comfortable lifestyle and a variety of industries while creating a sustainable society that is full of color and founded on safety and peace of mind. DIC’s chemical expertise, a pillar for LCD evolution Liquid Crystals Color filter Glass substrate From improving manufacturing process Polarizer (kaizen) to reducing power usage LCDs produce a color image from the three primary colors color to mobile phone screens—we are currently enhancing red (R), green (G), and blue (B), accomplished by passing an LED business focused on TFT (thin-film transistor) technology for use or other light from the back of the screen onto multiple layers in LCD TVs. Fast-response liquid crystals for 3D TVs (for improved which include a polarizer, glass substrate, electrode, alignment comfort) and other materials related to LCDs are also targets of layer, color filter, and liquid crystals. DIC developed a highDIC development. In the medium term as well, we will continue to performance, long-life liquid crystal material in 1973, later using contribute to society by focusing on the development of products it in the world's first calculator to feature a liquid crystal display. for new markets including e-paper and providing “color and We have since developed high-performance materials critical to comfort”. display manufacturing and continue to provide a wide range of products to the world's leading consumer electronics and liquid crystal display manufacturers. Particularly in recent years, DIC has answered demands for high screen luminance, wide viewing Accelerate our business through our angles, and 3D imagery. Safety is key, but power and resource Voice marketing power saving is another priority we address by developing technologies DIC has many core technologies. to save more power when using devices. We are also streamlining Combining these across sectors display manufacturing stages. One example of this is the attention w i l l a l l o w u s to e x p a n d i n to we are focusing on anti-scatting adhesives films and watercompletely new areas. By applying resistant adhesive films using adhesive and coating techniques t h i s to o u r r e l a t i o n s h i p w i t h (improving safety) as well as retardation control agents hard customers, I am confident that we coating agents, and leveling agents*1”, and our brightening of color can accomplish something beyond filters to reduce backlighting amounts (Energy Conservation). imagination. Corporate Marketing Dept. Throughout these efforts, we have been persistent in improving Section Manager liquid crystal compounds. In addition to business involving STN Toshihiro Ebine (super-twisted nematic)*2 LCD technology—widely used to provide *1 Leveling agent: a material that enhances smoothness. *2 STN (Super-Twisted Nematic): One type of liquid cr ystal display. By greatly increasing liquid cr ystal molecules’ degree of twist, light permeability and contrast at wider viewing angles are improved. 6 Organic pigments for color filters DIC develops new “green pigment” in 2010, achieving (RGB 3-primary color system) outstanding picture brightness and contrast Particularly worthy of a mention among the marks DIC has left in the liquid crystal field is the development in 2010 of a green pigment Next: a new blue pigment, and a new featuring a new molecular structure and used in color filters. The business domain technology allows for subdued backlight coupled with high light transmission and outstanding brightness and contrast. It makes a In developing a new blue pigment, we used the same method revolutionary contribution to making screens thinner and cutting as for the green pigment and selected candidate substances. down on power drawn by the light source, which accounts for most But despite repeated evaluation and revision, we were unable of the power consumed by an LCD TV. to achieve our target brightness. Our engineers then departed For the origin of this technological development, we must go from conventional thinking and, in addition to selecting candidate Special Topic 1 back to when most backlighting was performed by florescent tubes. substances, made improvements using new methods to satisfy “In the near future, LCD displays will get larger and thinner, while color filter characteristics and put together a goal for a new blue demand for better picture quality and energy saving will increase. We pigment that will provide 20% more brightness than conventional had to redesign chemical structure, and develop a pigment that will products. Our engineers are currently looking to market it by FY demonstrate overwhelmingly high-performance”. This was a project 2012. that would entail creating new chemicals, and one that would truly The development of a new red pigment is also on the test our value as a pigment manufacturer. horizon as a new goal at DIC. Yet liquid crystal technology is Our development staff first targeted green pigments in recognizing not the only domain we are pursuing. On the table at DIC are an their being well-suited to materials made from phthalocyanine, a endless number of projects to develop materials, processes, and strong point for us among RGB colors. They then coordinated functions that will allow us to utilize our expertise in chemicals with the Basic Research Dept. and selected dozens of candidate and always continue to develop products. In the fast evolving substances from a countless number of chemicals. To find the optimal field of electronic devices and organic materials alone, we are molecular structure, engineers designed prototypes for various developing items like highly conductive ink usable with electrode molecular structures, synthesized substances, and continuously wiring, high-response organic EL displays, e-paper, and e-books. revised. They then discovered that they could dramatically increase brightness by using zinc instead of copper for the structure's central The development of new pigments is a Voice product of DIC's total power metal. Contrast was also greatly improved by making the pigment particles smaller. Recently, the number of development staff on the Developing pigments is like developing project has ballooned to accelerate development. From staff who pharmaceuticals. Findings made through design and manufacture production lines where the crystallizing of persistent basic research, chemical structure design technologies, nano-level production particles is controlled by nanometers*1 to staff who make evaluations technologies, inspections and recording of and record data to ensure substances are in line with international data to prove a product's safety internationally, standards for chemical substances to staff who file for patents, all protection of intellectual rights. There can be related departments have come together to create products. no product without all of these elements. This The resulting announcement in July 2010 of the “FASTOGEN is why the creation of new green and blue Color Materials R&D Group Manager Fine Synthesis Technical Department Green A310” as a pigment that makes the most of particularly LED pigments is truly an achievement enabled by the concerted efforts of all of DIC. Katsunori Shimada backlight characteristics created big waves in the industry. Not long after producing the product, DIC had 50% of the global market. Comment Using our supply chain for a better corporate constitution Liquid crystal is the most important material for DIC’s LCD business. When purchasing these, we demonstrate DIC’s three competitive advantages. The first of these is superior quality. LCD panels, by their nature, require top-notch precision. Through its Cross Checking Process, DIC liquid crystal products have never had a quality issue. This is why I feel DIC makes reliable, high-quality products. The second is DIC’s ability to respond quickly. Starting in October, 2010, when demand for new models spiked, DIC's excellent responsiveness allowed it to increase its production capacity threefold in three months after the start of sales.. A third advantage is cost competitiveness. Due to the nature of consumer electronics, cost competitiveness is becoming ever more important. SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS Co.,Ltd. At Samsung, we plan to focus on enhancing our supply chain management for LCDs. We hope to work with DIC and Procurement Team, buyers of DIC's materials in order to build a coordinated supply chain encompassing everything from the development to LCD Business Manager shipment of finished goods, and strive to make ours one of the leading groups in the industry. PARK JONG-WON *1 nanometer: 1 billionth of a meter. 7 A High-performance, Colorful Package Supported by a Solid Safety Foundation Pursuing product quality and better and elsewhere, including the U.S.'s Food and Drug Administration added value (FDA), considered the strictest organization of its kind. DIC is also in pursuit of sustainable, colorful packing materials In the packing materials domain, DIC follows its “Color & based on consideration for the environment throughout a product's Comfort” concept in developing high-performance materials entire lifecycle. such as eco-friendly printing inks, pigments, aluminum can paint, barrier coat agents, labels and adhesives. Likewise, we are also The ability to develop all major base investing our products with ever more added value as we develop Voice materials in-house is a DIC strength technologies aimed at providing visually-appealing and tactile color. In food packaging, we are working to preserve quality to prevent Through DIC's triumvirate of the R&D Steering any loss of safety or taste in our products, decreasing CO2 Committee, Technical Administrative Division, and emissions during delivery by making materials thinner and lighter, Manufacturing Department, we can develop and manufacture raw materials (pigments and synthetic controlling the amount of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) resins) and make products by freely combining produced in manufacturing processes, and other efforts as we work the necessary base materials. This allows us to to keep up with greater demand every year for more improvement develop products such as UV-resistant ink, barrier and variety in these areas. One major pillar supporting our coat agents, and high performance adhesives products is reliable safety in food sanitation. Even from the product that are first-class in performance, appearance, Coating & Applied Materials Technical Dept.Styrenic Resin Technical Group environmental friendliness, and cost. This is DIC's development stage, DIC is focused on the strict management of Group Manager greatest strength and why our packing material Tsuyoshi Fukukita food safety based on conformity with industry-wide, regional, and customers see value in us. national safety standards and with the food sanitation law in Japan The DIC Group’s Packaging Resources and Solutions C hemistr y The DIC Group's Packaging Resources and Solutions Synthetic Packaging Adhesive Printing Inks Resins / Design Materials Organic Colorants DIC Color Packing Synthetic Pigments Guide Materials Resins Color Comfor table Fu n c t i o n Sustainable Enrichment With a two-pronged approach emphasizing “worry-free, comfortable functions” and a “colorful life”, the DIC Group is committed to a sustainable and rich future. 8 Add color to even the top lids of cans the organic solvents used in the laminating process contributed and open up an attractive new field to the production of VOCs, which are thought to cause air pollution. By changing resin molecule size and viscosity through “Color End Hana”, an aluminum can paint adding heat, and by adding stiffening agents, DIC has succeeded DIC sees the can top, which is always gold color to give it a in creating an adhesive with no compromise in adhesive high-class look, as an attractive, untapped product market, and performance, without using a single organic solvent. has made many attempts to give color to can tops. But since can This “solvent-less laminating adhesive” has completely tops come in direct contact with the mouth and the content of the eliminated VOC production from the laminating stage, improving can, we knew we could not offer such products to our customers the work environment. Special Topic 1 without a high level of safety. This led our development team to find a material that could be Reducing CO2 emissions with the used as an inner coating film and that would satisfy FDA sanitation world's first super-thin film standards and both DIC and the FDA’s coating film performance Hyperbranched polystyrene requirements. By then using technologies to distribute the pigments, we developed materialthat could be used to color When decorating food trays, colors and designs can be printed on a film and can tops. We have since turned this into our “Color End Hana” attached to the trays. Making the films lighter makes the trays lighter and helps product, which beverage manufacturers throughout Japan now reduce CO2 emissions during transport, conserving resources. While everyone use to give a unique presence to their products. currently believes that the strength and tolerance of current films have hit a wall, DIC’s R&D Steering Committee and Technical Administrative Division have collaborated and broken through this wall by introducing a hyperbranched structure Blocks 99% of UV rays, while being different from conventional polystyrene. In addition to succeeding in the practical highly transparent application of the absolute thinnest film in existence, DIC has also reduced energy UV–cut ink consumed in the manufacturing stage and improved production stability when When exposed to UV rays, products suffer ill effects such as recycling. We have acquired an international patent for “Hybranch”, the world’s first decreased quality and faded colors. But consumers are not at ease hyperbranched polystyrene, and expect to see it succeed in a wide variety of fields. until they can see what is inside something. To address this issue, DIC has used its dispersion technique—one of its key technologies— Develop products that will allow to develop a technology for evenly applying a UV-absorbent resin to Voice continuous growth through better costs the surface of the base material (pigment). With “UV-cut ink”, we have succeeded in developing a technology that will absorb 99% of UV rays Important in the packing materials business is cost while remaining so transparent that you can see what is underneath. competitiveness, not to mention the core components of a product’s performance, namely safety, convenience, By using this ink as a packing material, we minimize photodegradation beauty, and eco-friendliness. Water-based inks, for in products, extend freshness dates, and better preserve quality with example, allow fewer solvents to be used, but they cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and other products. take time to dry. This makes limiting their energy cost a Cut 100% of VOC occurrences challenge. This is why DIC is focused on the development from the laminating stage of a product that will improve costs to ensure continued Liquid Ink & Coatings Div.Tokyo Solvent-less laminating adhesive profitability through systems that turn high solid gravure Liquid Ink Sales Dept. inks lacking in solvents but able to be printed with, Manager Our resin film packages allow a variety of foods, Tomonari Inoue along with solvents evaporated in a hermetically sealed pharmaceuticals, and other products to be laminated and sealed environment to be returned to liquids and reused. to the strength and tolerance required. However, it used to be that Comment Anticipating new business proposals to meet social needs through the total power of DIC As a company people refer to as a leading entity in the field of food containers, the FP Corporation is an active maker of products that place special emphasis on safety, peace of mind, and the environment. In working with DIC, we not only enjoy a stable supply, we improve our bottom line thanks to the outstanding quality of the increasingly thin, lightweight nature of DIC’s hyperbranched polystyrene-containing products. We expect DIC FP Corporation will continue to develop ever higher quality polystyrene products, using the full extent of their capabilities in Executive Director creating new business solutions like improving service for film printing and other print-related products. General Manager Purchasing Div. Yoshitaka Ezaki 9 1 “Contributing to a colorful society” through business Topics DIC Color Design, Inc. Supporting the “Chojuku” bread Comment brand’s entry into China Packaging design is key for China's DIC Color Design (DCD) performs creative consulting in many fields increasing focus on safety including food, consumer electronics, housing, and stationery with “color We first began working with the design”. DCD when they gave us ideas for taking business to China, a market When asked by the Shikishima Baking Company for help in expanding we had never considered. Their the “Chojuku” brand—enjoying the top position in Japan’s bread market— being with us when exchanging into China in 2010, we conducted local market research and analysis, opinions with Chinese staf f created a brand launch strategy, and offered packaging designs. DCD allowed us to convey our thoughts attended presentations given to local partner companies conducted to them. While we did not see eye Shikishima Baking Co.,LTD. to eye with the Chinese staff about Director and Officer in Sha ngha i, leve rag e d both China and the Color(Blue) R&D Division Keywords the value of the packaging's color th e c o n s i d e r a b l e c o n s u l ti n g Nobleness, affluence, Chikara Nemoto or design, DCD’s negotiations experience we have in Chinese decorative, glamorous based on predictions for the Chinese market and future market entry and the full extent consumption trends eventually won them over. As China comes “Traditional”, deep blue of our knowledge of Chinese to see more value in food safety, there will be many more preferences, and acted as a bridge opportunities for products from Japanese companies. Thus, “Modern”, lighter blue in connecting the Shikishima Keywords designs that prioritize safety and peace of mind will be critical in Refreshing, modern, increasing business. We hope DCD continues to provide design Baking Company's hopes for their sophisticated, high-quality solutions that will give consumers a sense of security. “Chojuku” brand with local partner companies' strategies. 2 Biodiversity preservation Topics The Central Research Laboratories and A Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art for nature walks, the area has also seen some 200,000 Protecting nature in Satoyama(border zone yearly visitors since the opening of the museum in 1990. between mountain foothills and arable flat land) The preservation of biodiversity is a critical issue for Passing to posterity a space where the the DIC Group and is the subject of various initiatives. Voice beauty of art and nature is in harmony 85 top managers from DIC headquarters, DIC plants and group companies attended a lecture given by experts in The DIC Group views parks January, 2011. and forests that preserve rich ecologies to be precious assets While the Central Research Laboratories are currently fo r l o c a l c o m m u n i ti e s a n d using ground water, DIC is now working to install a closed society. Continuing to share system for circulating and reusing water and is working with many people the joy of with a waste processing f irm to ensure wastewater experiencing that beauty and does not leave the area. The mountainous area is home richness requires meticulous Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art to 200 species of tree, 500 species of flower, and an management. We feel passing General Affairs Group these joys on to future Group Leader abundance of other wildlife including birds and insects. Masaaki Iwaki generations are our mission. An area where is loved by local communities and society 10 Achieve a low carbon society Special Topic 2 and reduce global CO2 emissions Special Topic 2 While Energy Conservation with its products, the DIC Group also works to cut CO2 emissions from manufacturing processes and from all elements of the life cycle at its plants around the world. From total plant management to understanding EneSCOPE and VETA for better power individual energy sources per product saving The same amounts of CO2 emissions are produced by In 2009, the DIC Hokuriku Plant implemented centralized domestic and overseas operations in the DIC Group. In monitoring to understand in real time (in graphs) how much of Japan, we are working to save energy by converting to LNG from heavy oils, adopting Biomass cogeneration system, and since FY 2009 have been power generation using wind Reducing CO2 emissions is a power. We have reduced overall energy usage outside Voice social imperative for global firms Japan, too, with biomass boilers and other solutions in tune with regional characteristics. The strengthening of international CO 2 In 2010 we star ted “Energy Conser vation through emissions regulations, rising prices of energy product-specific process improvement” action based on resources, and calls for energy conservation in Japan due to the suspension of multiple moving to the next stage from energy-saving improvements nuclear plants are all contributing to a harsher at shared facilities at the DIC Hokuriku Plant (Ishikawa energy environment. To address this, we are Pref.). This was to address the fact that the majority of placing hope on our ongoing “product-specific manufacturing processes were “non-continuous processes”, process improvement”, which will be the first Production Control Department where many different products are made on the same line, step in CO 2 emissions control via the LCA Senior Manager as opposed to continuous processes where a few products method and a means to reduce emissions by Susumu Haibara such as refined oil are mass-produced. To speed up individual energy source and overall. We also energy-saving initiatives, then, we needed to identify energy see an obligation to society in sharing these challenges for a variety of products and improve processes efforts with DIC plans and Group companies. in addition to having shared facilities for supplying energy. Manufacturing stage improvement processes to conserve energy EneSCOPE VETA Visualize energy investments Visualize energy consumption Measures & Impact at production sites at each stage Raw material fusion Lights, elevators and other An overall 14% reduction when broken down by energy source Production equipment fundamental Preparation ●Raw material fusion stage power saving ●Cleaning stage minimization site to production A Reaction Production Transfer Raw material fusion stage site Raw material fusing equipment Water supply B equipment Adjustment 70.6ℓ/t 28 %↓ Raw material fusion stage 50.5ℓ/t Agitator Production Cooling site Heating & Cleaning stage27.6ℓ/t 8 %↓ Cleaning stage25.3ℓ/t C cooling Filling Measuring instruments Production Reaction stage / Other Reaction stage / Other Steam The raw material fusion stage site 54.1ℓ/t 54.6ℓ/t Electricity Removing and Filling Equipment Raw material tank accounts for almost 50% of D power consumption! Production site A 4 th quarter, 2009 4 th quarter, 2010 DIC Hokuriku Plant Manufacturing Stages 11 the electricity, steam, nitrogen, and other energy generated in the into continuous reactions to minimize cleaning stage power Power Dept. was being used on production floors. The facility usage. Consequently, we determined we would be able to also established “EneSCOPE” to verify loss and waste, for large realize a 10% reduction of CO2 emissions produced during total contribution to energy-saving. Our next effort was developing urethane resin synthesis. The Engineering Division (Polymer and setting up “VETA*1” to visualize energy consumption by EG) is now working to ensure that VETA is used to achieve manufacturing stage. Employing traditional logic to the problem of similar results with other products and at other plants. power conservation, we predicted through theoretical heat budget calculations the amount of energy we could save by upgrading equipment, shortening operating times, and establishing optimal One more way to “visualize”: operating conditions. But because in creating products changes CFD(Computational Fluid Dynamics) must be made to various operating conditions at many stages, and because we are sharing equipment across multiple reaction A nothe r e le m e nt prov iding bac kgrou nd suppor t for series, it was difficult to correctly ascertain the stages for each visualization on production sites is CFD, a CAE*2 tool being used product where the most power was being consumed. at DIC's Central Research Laboratories. With CFD, computer simulations produce images or numbers from distributions of or *1 VETA: A DIC original system meaning Visualization of Energy based on Theory and Actual usage. changes in temperatures, speeds, or pressure. It then creates an image of the current and future state of manufacturing equipment that anyone can understand and share. Taking the first step to achieve With heater boxes, for example (also a target for VETA “visualization” mentioned above), a fan is run to evenly distribute heat from a heater. Depending on the force and direction of the wind It was then that the Engineering Division (Polymer EG) hitting the drum, however, different amounts of heat reach developed a system for “visualizing” energy usage per each one. While it would be difficult to know this using only product and manufacturing stage based on a urethane measuring instruments, CFD makes it easy to detect problem acrylic polymer line at a new resins plant that had many areas through imaging measuring instruments. They enabled the collection and and allows for finding the monitoring of measurement data on computers used in optimal fan position, wind control. The effects of “visualization” were seen immediately. direction, and wind power. The results overturned common knowledge dictating that the In one example, raw matemost energy is consumed at the reaction stage and showed rial fusion time was shortthat the raw material fusion stage used the most energy, ened by 66% and energy accounting for almost 50% of total consumption. consumption dramatically Knowing this, we were able to cut 30% of energy decreased by only changusage at the raw material fusion stage by strictly managing ing the current fan position temperature, time, and fans in the thermal container where inside the heater boxes raw materials are fused. A VETA analysis also showed us and adjusting wind directhat almost 20% of power was being used at the equipment tion and power. CFD analysis for a heater cleaning stage when switching products. This prompted us box( Velocity distribution of drum surface) to optimize production schedules and put the same products *2 CAE: Computer Aided Engineering What issues can be identified Existing equipment is a gold Voice from the data is key Voice mine for ways to save energy Because our manufacturing stages are complex Even production sites confident they things where one piece of equipment is shared are saving as much energy as possible among multiple boilers, discovering areas will find new areas for improvement where energy can be saved from measured through CFD. We have worked on 50 data and theoretical estimations is no easy projects a year where CFD were used. task. Going forward, I believe there need to be With such a variety of equipment and improvements to VETA so many more people manufacturing processes, it is critical can use it as a tool for improvement, even if for those who know the production site DIC Hokuriku Plant Central Research Laboratories they lack specialized knowledge. However, I Engineering Division well to first get the idea of analyzing Platform Process Engineering Polymer Engineering Group Group Senior Manager believe the expertise gained from using VETA a certain stage and then finding the Dai Yamamoto Masayuki Nakamura will be a major strength for the DIC Group. opportunity to do it. 12 Sun Chemical Group Initiatives One factor behind this was success in reducing the amount of electricity we purchase by 33%, giving us 278,836 tons in CO2 emissions for the entire Sun Chemical SunCare Ⓡ Group in FY 2010. We also began a project to reduce electricity usage by 2% and natural gas usage by 11% at The Sun Chemical Group considers fulfilling its corporate our main 16 plants for the two years from 2010 to 2011. social responsibility a core of its business and works to secure the safety and health of the environment and its employees as it promotes its own “Suncare ® ” management system Change in energy usage throughout the entire group to meet the demands of society. (1,000 MWh) -13.1% Special Topic 2 2,000 on 2005 Since reducing CO2 emissions—which helps prevent global warming—is linked to reducing energy usage, we are focused 1,000 983 854 442 297 on improving employee awareness of energy conservation, 557 541 0 upgrading and improving equipment and machinery, and 2005 2010 (Year) Left bar: purchased electricity Right bar: heat energy*1 reviewing processes. We measured a 13.1% decrease in *1 : Mainly natural gas used as fuel for creating steam inside plants power used in FY 2010 compared to FY 2005. Carbon Footprint Project Energy Reduction Project Voice Muskegon Plant (Michigan State, U.S.A.) Aiming to understand greenhouse gas emission levels, Sun Chemical calculated CO 2 emissions for its major At our U.S. plant in Muskegon, where much of our organic pigments are products at the production, shipping, and sales stages. In produced, methane gas collected the “2010 Carbon Footprint Report” issued in November, from municipal landfills has offset CO2 2010, we reported on the following points. emissions from natural gas used for primary boilers and now provides 41% (1) Quantification of greenhouse gas emissions at the of the plant’s fuel needs. manufacturing and shipping stages of a product's life cycle. I m p rove m e n ts to e q u i p m e n t fo r “Energy Team” members (2) Carbon footprint quantification for major products. preventing air pollution have eliminated the need for circulating pumps to expel exhaust, and streamlined (3) Identified areas where greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced based on information gained. energy use has cut power usage by about 225 MWh a year. 3 Participation in the UNGC Topics Taking another step forward as a global chemical manufacturer observe internationally accepted norms for human rights, labor, and the Contributing to sustainable social and global development environment in the course of conducting business. In order to better fulfill its social responsibilities in the international community, the DIC Group pledged its support and was registered as a Achieving the “DIC WAY” in accordance with the 10 Principles participating company in December 2010 for the 10 Principles and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) being advanced by the United Nations. With the DIC Group's “The DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct” The UNGC is a voluntary action plan proposed by former UN Secretary ( P18 ) in conformance with the 10 Principles of the UNGC, we General Kofi Annan in 1999, and is run by its member companies. More than will use our participation in this initiative to advance business operations 8,000 companies and organizations have pledged their support based on the even more attentive to the global environment and human rights as we idea that worldwide sustainable development can be achieved if corporations strive to achieve sustainable development around the world. 13 The DIC Group's CSR Activities *The “Evaluation” column below indicates CSR-committee-verified self-evaluations of current CSR Theme / Evaluation Reference Objective / Task FY 2010 Goals FY 2010 Results FY 2011 Goals Objective * page Prepared English and Create and distribute a Continue and expand digest of the DIC WAY to Raise awareness Chinese e-learning of compliance compliance training materials from the partially P18 be used as an (prepare Q&As, conduct easy-to-understand tool revised Japanese version e-learning) Compliance / Fair and transparent corporate activities -Completed Q&A list (30 in all) concerning the Antitrust -Properly address Antitrust Act based on questions Prepare e-learning course Act regulations Conduct business received hitherto for the Subcontract Act and fairly P18 promote Subcontract Act -Create framework for -Completed a framework to observance actions to address address antisocial forces at “antisocial forces” plants -Establish a guideline for -Began review of a guideline -Create confidential information confidential information necessitated by regulations revisions, management guidelines and Information security Establish a global management and share but did not complete in FY 2010 establish an internal management / Make information information regulations information framework secure through internal training -Conducted a current situation survey P19 security framework concerning information security at -Draft rules and a framework for -Bolster the Group's overseas group companies; creating an information security internal IT governance confirmed tasks and problem areas framework for group companies -Consolidated plant and branch -Prepare for integration of core corporate systems accounting figures and made it -Promote standardization so that figures were collected -Create a global accounting policy in and streamlining of based on function throughout anticipation of measures for IFRS and Establish a global operations standardization the company P20 incorporation into next term’s core corporate system -Promote documenting of -Promoted work standardization the guideline and reorganized regulations, -Plan and promote implementation of Reliability of guidelines, and manuals country-level shared services financial reporting / Remain a trustworthy corporation -Standardize and -Conducted experimental theme -Expand scope of theme Institute streamline internal audits (transfer pricing audits) audits (compliance) qualitative change auditing methods to comprehensive -Conducted governance audits for P20 -Actions to improve risk management -Use J-SOX initiatives to regional administrative companies quality of internal audits systems extend the range of (regional audit team peer monitoring functions for -Revised internal audit manuals reviews*1, auditor training) all risk management Achieved initial goals. -Plan BCM and supply Requested business chain coordination Create business continuity plans (BCPs) for all operations use PDCA P21 -Formulate frameworks for business operations each kind of disaster -Roll out BCM at affiliates An outline is coming Continue to identify and Business Continuity together; work continues improve problem areas Management (BCM) Ensure DIC Group Establish and continuously on and review through through review meeting after / Limit disaster risk P21 business continuity review a BCM outline training and BCP the Great East Japan committees at business Earthquake and future operations training -Manager training through crisis management seminars at the DIC Management School Conduct media-based training Create a crisis management framework in preparation of measures for -Conducted division training in P21 handling crises, and continue for disaster situations headquarters emergency measures to the training prepare planning for disasters; have identified and begun immediately addressing problem areas *1 Peer review: Mutual quality audits performed between teams 14 CSR Theme / Reference Objective Objective / Task FY 2010 Goals FY 2010 Results Evaluation page FY 2011 Goals Use DIC Group Provided a purchasing Use DIC Group purchasing purchasing management management regulation draft management regulations Create base for regulations as a model to domestic DIC group as a model to follow up on to follow up on the companies and followed up P22 the creation of purchasing fair purchasing practices creation of purchasing on the creation of purchasing management regulations Supply chain management regulations management regulations for overseas affiliates management / for domestic affiliates through briefings, etc. CSR procurement to be expanded Promote distribution to, Gave evaluation results to the globally and collection from, 170 companies that completed Distribute the DIC Group domestic partners of the questionnaires. Created English Supply-chain CSR Promote CSR DIC Group Supply-chain Promotion Guidebook to and Chinese versions of the P22 procurement CSR Deployment 200 domestic and overseas guidebook for overseas business Guidebook; begin partners and distributed them to business partners; collect actions aimed at or collected them from some of questionnaires overseas partners those partners. Set up meetings to clarify Investigate and the domains and products reconsider whether DIC technological Plan and establish as performance and value development would target, P23 specific business models of DIC products meet and selected themes for selected solutions for Business model customer expectations specific solutions business themes focused on Promote solutions businesses. customer businesses satisfaction adapted to -Created and distributed product / Establishing changes in social Take a comprehensive and guidebooks for each multifaceted approach to “solutions imperatives Improve communication high-demand industry. businesses” with customers through promoting DIC's core core technologies and technologies and representative -Held technology exchanges for P23 products to important customers the introduction of major electronics manufacturers products for high in major high-demand industries; and actively promoted DIC's research customers’ needs and demand industries core technologies and strengthen relationships representative products Enhance ability Reorganized the Technology to develop new Division based on core products and Reform the organization technologies; built a Devise a framework for technologies to to consolidate technology information P24 consolidating DIC Group help achieve a technological resources sharing system on the technological resources New technology sustainable companywide Internet; ramped up development and society information sharing and value creation / human resources exchange. Proposing solutions that leverage core technologies -Promote research themes Promote Improve communication development of with customers through Business volume of related to the environment environmentallycore technologies and environmentally-consciou P25 conscious the introduction of s products as a percent of -Early launch of new products and products for high all our products: 50% environmentally-consciou services demand industries s products into markets (1) Created HR systems for two companies in Indonesia and two companies in Taiwan (1) Help ensure that the Indonesian Train and appoint Identify highly-capable (2) Established policy for identifying and HR system takes hold national staff to human resources and creating a database of highly-capable (2) Conduct analyses of accounting P38 and finance operation staff roles advance global appoint staff, regardless staff in accounting and finance operations management of nationality in the Asia area as well as performance reviews (3) Decided to implement HR system at Siam (3) Integrate HR systems at our Chemical in Thailand three companies in Thailand Support staff Human resources diversity and Advance initiatives Held get-togethers for management / diversity in female sales staff; Continue actions aimed at aimed at expanding P38 Striving to improve working styles continued assigning new expanding roles for roles for women in the job satisfaction through working female graduates (2 people) women in the workplace workplace women promotion to manufacturing sites activities Support staff Maintain and improve diversity and Achieved a 2.0% Promote hiring aimed at yearly employment rates diversity in working employment rate, achieving employment P39 for handicapped persons styles by promoting exceeding the 1.8% quota quota for handicapped and continue building employment of (end of FY 2010) persons of 1.8% comfortable work handicapped environments persons [“Evaluation” Standards] ◎…Extensive progress made (100% achieved) ○…Considerable progress made (60% or more achieved) △…Some progress, but insufficient (30-60% achieved) ×…No progress made (less than 30% achieved) 15 RC Targets and Achievements of Major RC Activities Items Viewpoints and tasks of the approaches Page to refer to Targets for FY 2010 Prevention of global warming and Reduce energy use per energy source to 94% P31 promotion of energy saving (116.2 l/t) of 1990 levels. (-2% on last year) Reduction of industrial waste (zero emissions) Reduce volume of industrial waste sent to landfills Reduction of volume of industrial waste DIC: 69 tons (-25% on last year) DIC Group (domestic): 209t (-10% on last year) P30 disposed of as landfill Volume of waste produced by production plants Environmental Reduction of industrial waste discharged from production plants DIC: 17,345 tons DIC Group (domestic): 65,267 tons conservation Reduction of Promote recycling at DIC group companies Promotion of recycling P30 (domestic) and improve resource recycling environmental impact caused by Emission control of chemical substances business activities PRTR 1st-designated chemicals (462) DIC: 268 tons (-24% on last year) P28 DIC Group (domestic): 623 tons (-6% on last year) + Substances targeted for study by JCIA*1. (105) +1 substance group Reduction of VOC released into the DIC: 255 tons (-25% on last year) P29 DIC Group (domestic): 610 tons (-6% on last year) air Provide guidance on risk assessments connected Process Safety and Risk assessment P35 with equipment investment. Be timely in providing information. fire prevention/ Occupational safety Promotion of sharing of information Conduct accident analyses and be timely in providing on environment and safety between information. and health P35 Hold seminars to discuss safety measures for DIC and Group companies; both domestic and overseas preventing accident reoccurrence. To promote energy saving measures related to Reduction of GHG emissions freight transportation to ensure an annual reduction caused by transportation P31 of 1% in terms of the energy consumption per unit transportation Logistics/ Safety Prepare yellow cards and have general freight Management of transportation vehicles including container trucks, lorries, and P35 safety of chemicals vehicles carrying mixed freight carry them. Have incoming raw material information collected Promotion of green procurement P36 and managed by CIRIUS in accordance with the DIC Group's Green Procurement Guidelines. Measures to cope with GHS Chemicals/ (measures for the requirement to To prepare MSDS for all of our chemical products, P36 and distribute them through our website. disclose information on chemicals Product safety contained in products) Assure 2010 registration concerning REACH regulations. Measures to cope with overseas Support filing CLP*2 registrations with the EU. Create the regulations (e.g., the REACH P36 necessary environment in Taiwan for ensuring the registration regulation in the EU) of existing chemicals and for continuing business. To make public the information on our RC activities Communications Report on RC activities and site through our CSR report and DIC’s website. In addition, to reports of each plant P44 with society promote risk communications between DIC’s production sites and local communities through site reports. To improve customer satisfaction by using ISO9001 P37 and other QMS tools to ensure product quality Quality management Securing of quality (customer satisfaction) Confirm and organize QMS tasks at business operations and offices, support improvement P37 activities, and improve quality management activities. Promotion of the environmental Support environmental safety activities at overseas and safety activities at affiliated affiliates (Train staff and create an environment and Support for companies in the Asian and P35 safety information network) environmental safety Oceanian regions management activities Draft a medium-term plan for reducing the DIC for overseas affiliates Environmental/safety data P27 Group’s (overseas affiliates) environmental burden (waste and GHG) *1 Japan Chemical Industry Association: JCIA joins ICCA as one of the major industry organization and seeks to the healthy development of the chemical industry with the other organizations in the world. *2 CLP (Classification , Labeling and Packaging) is a rule regarding classification, labeling and packaging of chemical substances called CLP-Regulation and mixtures 16 Achievements in FY 2010 Evaluation Targets for FY 2011 DIC (non-consolidated) energy usage by energy source was Reduce power usage by individual energy source by ★ 102.1% that in 1990 (129.0 l/t), +8.5% on last year. 1% on last year Reduction in volume of industrial waste sent to landfills Due to zero emissions activities, DIC: 90 tons (+1% on last year) DIC Group (domestic): 207 tons (-11% on last year) = target achieved Industrial waste sent to landfills was reduced by: ★★ DIC: 85 tons (-5% on last year) DIC Group (domestic): 151 tons (-27% on last year) Volume of waste produced by production plants Waste produced by production plants was reduced by: DIC: 16,609 tons DIC Group (domestic): 64,705 tons = target achieved DIC: 16,219 tons (-2% on last year) DIC Group (domestic): 62,591 tons (-3% on last year) Resource recycling rate Continue domestic DIC Group’s recycling efforts and DIC: 78.0% (+1.5% on last year) ★★★ improve rate of resource reuse. DIC Group (domestic): 89.3% (+1.3% on last year) DIC: 320 tons (+1% on last year) DIC: 292 tons (-9% on last year) DIC Group (domestic): 989 tons (+50% on last year) ★ DIC Group (domestic): 799 tons (-19% on last year) DIC: 309 tons (+1% on last year) DIC: 282 tons (-9% on last year) DIC Group (domestic): 977 tons (+51% on last year) ★ DIC Group (domestic): 789 tons (-19% on last year) Conducted risk assessments for DIC offices and affiliates. Provide guidance on risk assessments in connection Visited plants where accidents occurred, devised measures, and ★★★ with equipment investment. Conduct accident analyses and provide information in confirmed how they were being carried out. a timely manner. Continue working groups for the nurturing of a safe Conducted disaster case study workshops and working groups corporate culture and organize this fiscal year's for the nurturing of a safe corporate culture. ★★★ proposals. Hold disaster case study workgroups and share information. Exceeded our goal of a 1% yearly reduction since the base Promote modal shift and reduce energy consumed year of 2006 (4% reduction in 4 years) with a 14% reduction. ★★★ during transport by individual energy source by 1%. Yellow cards are now carried in general freight vehicles including container trucks, lorries, and vehicles with mixed ★★★ To further promote the same measures freight. Continue to promote centralized management of Examined and entered into CIRIUS information on new incoming raw material information in CIRIUS in ★★★ materials. accordance with the DIC Group Green Procurement Guidelines. MSDSs were created for all chemical products and made To continue preparing MSDS for all the chemical available on the web. ★★★ products and delivering them through the website Completed 2010 registrations for REACH regulations. Conduct registrations based on China's amended Provided comprehensive support for CLP filing for affiliates in Measures on Environmental Administration of New the EU. ★★★ Chemical Substances. Conduct registrations in accordance Completed registration of existing chemicals in Taiwan on schedule. with Taiwan's revised Labor Safety and Health Act. Publicized RC activities in the CSR report and on DIC's website, created site reports at each manufacturing site, and ★★★ To further promote the same measures provided this information to plant visitors. Established “quality” as referring to “product Confirmation that each factory and business operation has quality” as well as “work quality”, and use QMS ★★ surely implemented a QMS activity is done and Production, such as ISO9001 as tools to improve customer Sales, Technical and Quality Assurance departments have satisfaction. collaborated each other. PC Operation have check that the Identif y and organize QMS issues at business improvement of customer satisfaction and implemented the operations and plants, suppor t improvement support for effectiveness. ★★ activities, and enhance quality management activities. Hold safety personnel meetings in the Asia/Oceania Held meetings with safety personnel in the Chugoku region in ★★★ region, Conduct training in basic safety procedures, February, 2011. Conducted training sessions and company and support resolution of problem areas at case study presentations to promote safe life activities. companies. Added inspections, including intake and waste water inspections. Confirm state of management at multiple Requested reports on FY 2011 targets and predicted values, and companies in the DIC Group (overseas affiliates). heightened awareness of the importance of managing ★★ Clarify management targets. Confirm and support environmental burden and conducting regular waste reduction. resolution of problem areas. *Evaluation symbols: ★★★…Excellent ★★…Good ★…Improvement needed 17 Compliance Towards Fair and Transparent Corporate Activities Through persistent adherence to The “DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct”, the unified set of guidelines to be followed by the DIC Group and its employees and the cornerstones of compliance policy, we strive to achieve continuous growth of fair and transparent business. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/management/compliance.html Promoting Compliance*1 Creating E-Learning Courses for Overseas Companies In addition to establishing the DIC WAY (fundamental business principles) on the In addition to holding seminars for DIC Group companies around occasion of DIC’s 100th anniversary, the the world to explain and provide a chance to better understand the DIC Group also established the DIC WAY DIC WAY and Code of Business Conduct in Japan, we are working to Code of Business Conduct as a guide for deepen understanding through e-learning courses We have created Group employees to fulfilling their social English and Chinese versions of the e-learning course with necessary responsibilities as corporate citizens. DIC WAY and Code of localization changes. We will deploy them shortly to provide These guidelines ask employees to Business Conduct additional tools for the DIC Group companies and the employees to observe national laws and international better understand the DIC Way Code of Business Conduct. rules while following social norms in order to provide the value that our stakeholders*2—including customers, communities, Basic Corporate Governance and society—require and expect, and achieve sustainable business growth for the DIC Group. Philosophy Together with a core group comprised of Sun Chemical The DIC Group makes efforts for the improvement of corporate Corporation (Europe and U.S.A.), DIC (China) Co., Ltd. (China), governance to promote a sounder and more efficient management for and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. (Asia/Oceania), DIC Corporation the achievement of sustainable corporate growth and development. (Japan) is put ting together a framework to promote In addition to appointing two outside attorneys as DIC’s outside compliance at DIC Group companies around the world. corporate auditors, DIC also appoints two outside directors to further We are also working to ensure fair trade practices through strengthen corporate governance. efforts including conformance with compliance related laws. Voice The DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct Self Checks and Results Promote CSR management through self All companies worldwide in the DIC Group conduct checks self checks concerning the DIC WAY Code of Business As a member of the DIC Group, DIC Graphics Chia Lung Corp. places a focus on sustainable development of business that is fair Conduct observance to confirm that the DIC WAY is and transparent. We take an active approach to self checks to being instilled in the DIC Group. ensure the DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct are being instilled Through these ef for ts, high self check scores and put into practice. confirm that business conducted at these companies is After accurately assessing Company’s current situation and being steadily carried out with a respect for compliance. establishing a road map for priority initiatives, we will use the PDCA management cycle to plan, do, and check (evaluate) business Corporate Governance Structure Annual Meeting of Stockholders conduct, act to make improvements based on evaluation results, and work together to establish and promote CSR management. Nomination Committee Board of Directors Audit Board of Auditors Remuneration Committee DIC Graphics Chia Lung Corp.. Independent President Audit General Manager Independent Auditors CSR Committee Executive Committee Hsing-Chung Lue Internal Control Dept. Business Operations, Administrative Department, Sales Branches, factories Group Companies Internal Audit *1 Compliance: Going beyond simple “law observance” to address and conform with social norms requirements and expectation. *2 Stakeholders: Customers/markets, business partners, communities and society, shareholders/investors, and any other individuals or groups connected with our corporate activities. 18 Information Security Making information Secure In response to the increasing trend of digitization and networking of information, we established the Basic Policy on Information Security in 2006 mandating the observance of related laws and internal regulations and are working to make information secure through appropriate information management. Information Management Guideline the group companies. FY 2011 will see us providing Compliance guidance and advice to companies lacking information Propagation and Development securit y frameworks in place to enhance those Information Security businesses while building rules and frameworks for the We had planned to draft a specific information entire Group. management guideline during FY 2010 based on DIC's DIC also has plans to develop security measures at Confidential Information Management Regulations, the global level in parallel with the implementation of a established in FY 2009. We instead conducted a review new enterprise system, planned after 2012. of these regulations in order to account for various business challenges discovered during the guideline drafting process. DIC will thus prepare an information management guideline in FY 2011 based on the revised Initiatives Aimed at Enhancing regulations and share them with all employees by Information Security distributing Q&As and through internal briefings. To enhance security enhancement, we have had guidelines for the management and usage of devices Our Global Initiatives such as computers and ser vers, required strict observance of internal rules that include prohibiting FY 2010 saw us take the first step in establishing the handling of work-related information on home an information security framework for the entire DIC computers, and conducted employee training in Group by conducting a study of current IT governance information security at new employee training and and information security frameworks at overseas group manager promotion training. To further improve security, companies. The study allowed us to gather information we are also building a company-wide integrated ID about current problems on information securit y authentication system*1, to be completed in FY 2011. framework at, and requests for headquarters from, DIC Group Information Security Board of Directors Management System Chart 取締役会 President Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Internal Audit Team Chief Information Management Officer (Information Security Sub-Committee Chairman) Information Systems Dept., Intellectual Property Dept., Legal Dept., General Affairs Audit and HR Dept., Technical Planning Dept., Information Security Sub-Committee Production Management Dept. Division Division Division Division Administrative Dept. Dept.Responsible for Management Chief Information Manager (Business Operation President, Officer in charge in the Administrative Dept.) Advice and instructions on Designation management methods, etc. Information Manager (Division Presidents, Technical Dept. General Manager, etc.) *1 Integrated ID authentication system: A system that manages log-in IDs for various internal servers in a integrated fashion by matching these IDs with a personnel database 19 Reliability of Financial Reporting Striving to Be a Trustworthy and Dependable Organization DIC has built and currently manages internal control systems to ensure reliability in financial reporting at all domestic and overseas group locations. We will continue to improve these systems in an effort to remain a trustworthy and dependable organization. Past Initiatives and Future Enhancing Internal Audits Direction After J-SOX was implemented, internal audits funcWhile working on the improvement of internal regulations tioned as an independent monitoring tool for verifying interand documentation of operating procedures, the DIC Group nal controls to ensure reliability of financial reporting. Now, has also monitored the design and operational status of interaudits are done to maintain and improve internal controls in nal controls from a standpoint independent of the business a broad sense, and we are expanding the scope of audits activities, and by constantly designing, assessing, and improvto facilitate effective and efficient achievement of corporate ing its efforts, has devised internal control systems. targets. At the same time, we are taking a risk-based apWe are also promoting the consolidation and standardizaproach, standardizing audit procedures, and expanding the tion of our business operation through a shared service center use of self-assessment to streamline audits. in order to balance the maintenance and securing of a reasonable level of internal controls and the operational efficiency. Voice The establishment of systematic internal controls in the DIC Group was prompted by Companies Act that became effective Efforts to establish reliability of financial in 2006 and by the implementation of J-SOX*1 in 2008. While reporting in the Asia/Oceania region we at first made effort on establishing the controls to meet the requirement of the Act, adequate level of internal controls are Since 2005, the entities in the Asia Pacific Region now in place, allowing us to further improve internal controls have evolved continuously with the Regional Headquarters working with DIC Headquarters evaluatby promoting unification and standardization of business oping business risks while ensuring reliable financial eration, better IT control, and other continuous improvement reporting. The journey started with the introduction efforts. of the standardized accounting policies, the document flow charts and rules of authorization all of these forming the basic internal control structure Promoting Global Activities that we all come to be familiar. I have seen over the year a greater awareness being demonstrated by everyone on the need for good and strong internal In the course of expanding its business globally, it is control procedures. The last 5 years saw the Group essential for the DIC Group to design and verify internal introducing J-SOX controls and going forward it controls both at domestic and overseas locations. We would be IFRS. Even Internal Audit team will see changes in our methodology of internal audit movhave therefore pushed to set up internal controls in ing towards a more IT based approach. Overall, I the Japan, U.S., Europe, China, and Southeast Asia/ am glad to see the improvements made in the conOceania regions while sharing information and ideas trol environment, and high degree of financial reporting standard practiced over the Region. This is among them. For the next stage, we will be integrating a success story and could only be achieved when ERP systems as we plan how to build globallyeveryone works together as a team and sharing a based internal controls. Making IFRS (international common vision. financial repor ting standards)* 2 – expected to be DIC Asia Pacific Region implemented soon—the driving force behind global Bhaskar Kumar Basu work standardization and streamlining, we will create Advisor, Regional Internal Audit （former Regional Internal Audit Director） our global accounting policy during FY 2011 and aim to make this a template into which we will integrate IFRS. *1 J-SOX: A term used to refer to certain provisions of the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Law that were adopted to prevent accounting fraud and are modeled after the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act. *2 IFRS (International Financial Repor ting Standards): Refers to the accounting standards set by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 20 Business Continuity Management (BCM) Seeking to Reduce Disaster Risk The year 2011 saw a continuation of DIC's efforts to practice BCM to prepare for various risks due to largescale natural disasters, plant accidents, pandemics and other events capable of disrupting business. We also practiced crisis management alongside efforts to improve our corporate reputation. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/management/bcm.html Handling the Great East Japan is attended by top executives in the DIC Group. Topics discussed were basic themes such as “what Earthquake a model company is in the eyes of the mass media” When the earthquake occurred, we made immediate and “how corporations are viewed by the mass media efforts to verify the safety of all domestic DIC Group when scandals occur.” These lectures also looked at the importance of improving corporate reputation by Reliability of Financial Reporting company employees and their families, and set up an on-site task force to address the damage to DIC’s consistently (not just when crises occur) disclosing Kashima Plant. Although some equipment, including information to the mass media and stakeholders as a Business Continuity Management (BCM) that used in production, was damaged by earthquakeform of crisis management. As DIC works to address induced liquefaction at the Kashima plant, restoration these issues, we will also be targeting top managers work, coordination with other plants, and various and plant managers for more future training. materials procurement allowed us to minimize the impact on business operations and completely restore Stepping Up Group Initiatives operations by May. DIC held a BCP briefing this year for major domestic affiliates as a specific measure towards the BCM that BCM at the Division Level DIC has declared it will conduct as the DIC Group. Having had BCM in place, one job of DIC’s divisions While many domestic affiliates have already made such will now be to re-evaluate if BCM functioned properly briefings part of BCM for business operations, DIC during the Great East Japan Earthquake, and then is providing support to affiliates who have branched identify and resolve problem areas. Damage caused off and now run their own businesses. We will also by the earthquake at raw material manufacturers made be providing the same support to overseas affiliates. materials procurement difficult, and made very clear the importance of linking BCM to the supply chain. To Voice address this, our business operations and Purchasing and Logistics Div. will be discussing how to make BCM Re-recognizing the Importance of Reviewing Crisis more functional through efforts that include searching Management Strategies and Conducting Disaster Training for additional major raw materials suppliers. In order to The Great East Japan Earthquake in March, 2011 made prepare for a variety of potential disasters (large-scale clear the difficulty of making levelheaded decisions natural disasters, plant accidents, pandemics*1, etc.), during disasters and illuminated BCM challenges. With DIC will also be performing regular coordinated training the shaking threatening to bring the HQ building down and all the subsequent aftershocks, the need for safety between our main Organizations of Crisis Management confirmation system revision was brought into bold relief. Headquar ters for each kind of disaster. By also We began getting information as soon as the shaking practicing the PDCA, we will clarify areas requiring stopped, but we had no way of ascertaining the damage review and improvement as we work to create a solid done. Later witnessing the extent of the damage, I realized the importance of reviewing our traditional philosophy BCM framework. towards how we would manage if a large earthquake were to occur in the city General Affairs and Human Resources Dept. Crisis Management Initiatives Takayuki Hariu Visiting lecturers spoke this year about crisis management at our DIC Management School, which *1 Pandemic: geographically widespread, sometimes on a global scale (infectious diseases, etc.). May also refer to such infectious diseases. 21 Supply Chain Management Globally Expanding CSR Procurement With the DIC Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook at the core, DIC is deploying CSR procurement throughout the entire supply chain worldwide, including DIC Group affiliates. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/partner.html ● CSR Deployment throughout the Entire Guidelines. We have also been using the Guidebook Supply Chain to conduct CSR procurement briefings as we prepare CSR procurement tailored to each company's circumTo promote understanding and sharing of CSR stances while sharing and utilizing CSR information management strategies throughout the entire globally between companies. FY 2010 saw DIC conduct followexpanding supply chain, the DIC Group has prepared ups on CSR procurement preparation for 17 domestic Japanese, English, and Chinese versions of our DIC DIC Group companies and 24 overseas (Chinese) Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook (referred to as the “Guidebook” below) and distributed companies. For F Y it to suppliers around the world. Suppliers answer 38 2011, we will be holdquestions on the “Self-Check Sheet” (questionnaire) ing CSR procurement in the Guidebook to identify their own progress with briefings at DIC Group CSR initiatives and then receive feedback from DIC via companies in East the “Answer Sheet and Report Form” which provides Asian regions. evaluations and requests and identifies problem areas Eastern China CSR Procurement Briefing based on the answers given. A total of 170 suppliers completed the questionnaires and received feedback Voice in FY 2010. DIC visited and exchanged thoughts with some of these suppliers using the Answer Sheet Starting Immediately on CSR Procurement and Report Forms. DIC will continue promoting CSR and Achieving a Sustainable Society through these activities as it works to further deepen While it is often said that China still lacks awareness mutual understanding and strengthen relationships with of CSR procurement, I believe the fact that our suppliers. company is supplying raw materials to large overseas business partners, which include the ● Communication with Overseas Suppliers DIC Group, means we have been quick in setting up CSR initiatives. For example, we are actively DIC conducted a DIC Group CSR procurement engaged in setting yearly reduction targets for briefing in Shanghai in January, 2011 for 10 suppliers in energy usage, implementing safety standardization China. At the review, we used the Guidebook to provide syste ms pro pose d by th e g ove r n m e nt, a nd information on DIC Group CSR procurement, heard preparing working environments as well as our status updates on CSR initiatives at each company, and REACH regulation response. Going forward, we will make use of DIC Group CSR briefings, selfexchanged opinions to deepen mutual understanding. check list answers, and feedback on evaluation We also visited some of our suppliers, affording us results to identify where we stand and contribute to the worthwhile opportunity to provide feedback on the development of regional societies through our Guidebook questionnaire results and further strengthen own sustainable growth. relations. Suzhou Lintong Chemical Science Corporation General Manager Shoumei Karasawa ● CSR Procurement Foundation Building at Group Subsidiaries The DIC Group is putting together a deployment framework for CSR procurement at DIC Group companies worldwide based on the DIC Group CSR Procurement Guidelines and DIC Group Green Procurement 22 Business Model Focused on Customer Satisfaction Establishing a Solutions Business What solutions can we provide to address the individual concerns of our customers? At DIC, we believe making customers aware of the solutions available is the best policy in establishing business models aimed at high customer satisfaction. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/customer/satisfaction.html ● Striving to Ascertain Social Needs Quickly fields and 29 categories of elemental technologies and take a DIC has long had an organizational structure with comprehensive look at DIC's representative products. By probusiness operations split along product lines, and has viding a matrix of these elemental technologies and products, worked to address individual market needs by developing our customers better understand what their options are. The new markets and high-demand industries. But how second is the “Comprehensive Technology Exchanges ” (Private traditional business methods make one prone to seeing the Shows) we hold for large electronics manufacturers. Displaying needs of customers and society in a narrow, 2-dimensional our core technoloway, and how solutions inevitably become single products g i e s a n d re p re or technologies is something we have come to see as an sentative products issue requiring resolution. This is why we are advancing directly has let Supply Chain Management initiatives with an emphasis on continuous improvement us anticipate of customer satisfaction in order to avoid falling behind in changes in needs Business Model Focused on Customer Satisfaction both recognizing broad-based changes throughout highand improve cusdemand industries and formulating our response as a tomer satisfaction. Private Show with Major Clients company. The first of these initiatives began in April 2011 with a dramatic organizational change as we adapted our former product-specific divisional system to one Voice aligned along high-demand industry lines in the Chemical Solutions Materials Business Operation, which enjoys To Build Trusting Relationships with Customers, many connections with downstream industries. This and to Understand the Consumer's Standpoint allows us to see customer needs more 3-dimensionally while quickly and with a broader perspective responding T he DIC Group is one of the rare few chemical to needs as they change. DIC will also assign different manufacturers to offer such a wide range of goods and roles to the technology and Marketing departments, clarify services, which include everything from inks (pigments and resins), adhesives, films, and other intermediate Group strengths by identifying changing social needs and materials to material property assessments and analyses, evaluating elemental technologies, and will choose specific color and design solutions, marketing, and consulting. themes for solutions businesses as we continue to decide In exercising DIC's full potential, it is essential to build on the direction we want to take for these businesses. strong trusting relationships with customers, work In recognizing the large distance between DIC and the together, and resolve issues. Materials manufacturers are consumer in DIC's traditional existence as a B-to-B prone to adopt business-to-business (B2B) approaches, Company, the Chemical Solutions Materials Business but by also emphasizing a broad-reaching business-toOperation is leading the charge in meeting with customers consumer (B2B and B2C) approach, DIC will be able to in order to more fully understand the consumer market. provide goods and services valuable to the customer. Food Packaging Division Senior Manager, Food Package Marketing Department ● Striving to Strengthen Appeal with HighYuji Morinaga Demand Industries and Customers The Corporate Marketing Department has been at the head of two initiatives aimed at providing solutions businesses with high-demand industries and customers. The first is creating product guidebooks for each high-demand industry. These guidebooks classify DIC's characteristic technologies into 7 23 New Technology Development and Value Creation Providing Solutions Utilizing Core Technologies By leveraging and combining its core materials—namely synthetic resins and organic pigments—and various core technologies, DIC is working to achieve “Color & Comfort through Chemistry” FY 2010 Achievements In the Technology Division, we have devised a framework integrating all technological resources throughout DIC By reorganizing the old technical departments—formerly attached to specific products—into the Technical Administrative Division and by realigning these technical departments based on core technologies, we are sharing more relevant technical information and promoting overall optimization. ● Contributing to a Wide Range of Industries ● Giving More Functionality to Printing Inks and Adhesives with Outstanding Resin Design Capabilities -Printing Ink Business Operation -Synthetic Resins Business Operation In addition to R&D for The Synthetic Resins Business various printing inks, DIC is Operation has been focused on the focused on the development development of various environmentallyof adhe sive s*1 for food conscious products, such as UVpackaging for which solventcurable or water-based products. less warm working can be They have developed a variety of new performed, as well as back amine hardeners in a prompt response sheets of solar batteries, and is working to bring all of these to market. to revisions to legislation concerning chemical safety, emulsion adhesives*3, and so on. and We have also digitized our color guide—formerly distributed on chemical safety. In the area of solubility to solvent polyimide resins*4, which possess unique paper—and developed it for use with mobile phones from companies properties, our business operation has developed new products that feature low expansion such as Apple. Sun Chemical, a U.S. subsidiary, has brought a number coefficients. They are also working to open up new product areas including coating agents and of products to market including an exciting new concept in sheetfed ink adhesives for a variety of electronic materials. In the area of polymer additives, they have also which provides rapid set times for increased press room productivity, developed surface modifiers to improve the quality of color filters by augmenting color resists of and the oxygen barrier coatings*2 for dry food packages. LCD panels with these additives. In addition, they have also acquired government certification for 6% and 3% alcohol-resistant fire-extinguishing foam and begun the full-scale sale of this product. ● New Value Creation in the Digital Industry -New Graphic Arts Business Operation ● Offering Composite Products That Provide Safety, Comfort, and Peace of Mind -Chemical Solutions Materials Business Operation In the pigments segment, DIC has further improved the In the field of industrial-use brightness and contrast of adhesive tape, we have developed a our highly market-acclaimed solvent-less double-sided adhesive green pigments for color tape that is very environmentally filters for LCD displays. In friendly. Replacing traditional solventthe field of TFT LCs for LCD based products, its applications TVs, our new products demonstrate excellent response time and longinclude consumer electronics and term reliability and are being used by large LCD TV manufacturers. automobile interior parts. In films for wrapping, we have developed a film with a unique Much effort has gone into managing the technical side of increasing texture like the skin of a pear, and are using it for applications beyond food packaging the production and maintaining the quality of these products. For because of its new tactile quality. Our high-performance PPS compounds are also doing solar battery-related products, we have collaborated with our U.S. well as materials for parts for hybrid and electric automobiles. In the area of interior subsidiary Sun Chemical to develop silver and aluminum pastes housing products, we have expanded the color gamut by adding high-saturation colors as used as electrode materials, and have put lead and cadmium-free, well as black to color-painted non-flammable decorative boards, and have given a more environmentally-conscious products on the market. genuine natural wood appearance to natural-grain non-flammable decorative panels. *1 Adhesives for solar battery back sheets: Adhesives for laminating various films composed of back sheets (compound film that protects the rear side of solar battery panels). *2 Oxygen barrier coating: A paint that is applied to films and other products to restrict oxygen permeation. This product fulfills a need in the food packaging field for products able to restrict oxygen, carbon dioxide and other gas permeation to prevent deterioration of the content. *3 Emulsion adhesives: Emulsions are mixtures, like milk, and are created by dispersing water-insoluble resins in water. The film that results after evaporating the water can be used as an adhesive. 24 *4 Solubility to solvent polyimide resin: Polyimide resins are engineering plastics with excellent heat resistance and electrical characteristics. While most polyimide resins have poor solubility, DIC-developed polyimide resins are dissolved in a variety of solvents, giving them superior coatability and workability New Technology Development and Value Creation FY 2011 Research and Objectives power-saving manufacturing processes that are safe and produce little waste, all while continuing To promote the Technology Division's activities environmental assessments. We will also place a fur ther , we are enhancing coordination among¬ greater emphasis on sustainability as we put energy technical departments, the R&D Steering Committee, into new initiatives including investigating the feasibility and group companies around the world. By maximizing of implementing LCA (life cycle assessments) and the strength of the entire group, cultivating elemental technological responses to risks inherent in the raw technologies, and combining techniques, we will materials supply chain. DIC also plans to look at trends continue to develop new products and technologies in legislation and environmental measures in various that contribute to a sustainable society. Through countries and continue to design products compatible collaboration with industry, government, and academia, with each country's chemical substances laws. In we are also focused on investigative and basic research becoming even more environmentally conscious in into new technologies. Another priority is reducing FY 2011, DIC will continue to work to further energize the usage of toxic substances and reducing toxicity the development of new products and technologies in products and developing recyclable products and to b e n e f i t s o c i e t y a n d i n c re a s e i ts n u m b e r of New Technology Development and Value Creation environmentally-conscious products. The New Technology Division Fine Synthesis Technical Department Technology Administrative Division Polymer Technical Department 1 Polymer Technical Department 2 Dispersion Technical Department 1 Dispersion Technical Department 2 Voice Polymer Processing Technical Department Coating & Applied Materials Technical Department Developing Eco-Friendly DoubleTechnology Collaboration Project Sided Adhesive Tape Technology Planning Department DIC Intellectual Property Department Double-sided adhesive tape is used for everything from electrical appliances and electronics to interior Color Science Laboratory parts for automobiles. Our group has developed an Corporate R&D Department Materials Research Laboratory emulsion-based adhesive with high adhesivity in Process Engineering Laboratory collaboration with the Polymer Technical Department Priority Development Project #2 and other DIC groups and turned our solventAnalysis Center less double-sided adhesive tape into a product. We Materials Research Group will continue to develop eco-friendly products as we R&D Advancement Corporate R&D Department leverage the power of the entire DIC Group Coating & Applied Materials Technical Department Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Materials Technical Group Domestic Group Companies DIC Graphics, etc. Naoki Kato Overseas Sun Chemical (U.S.) Qingdao DIC Finechemicals Co., Ltd. (China) 25 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Towards Achieving a Sustainable Society Chemical companies see environmental preservation and assuring the safety and health of society as the core of business. Through its activities aimed at the environment, safety, health and consistent quality, DIC is focused on becoming a company that answers the needs of society. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment/ Our new “Environment, Safety and Quality Policy In 1992, to preserve the environment and secure the safety Principle for the Environment, Environment, Safety and Safety and Health and health of people, DIC established the “Principle and Quality Policies for 2011 As a responsible corporate citizen, DIC Corporation recognizes that care for the ■ Promote Responsible Care activities Policy for the Environment, Safety and Health.” In 1995, DIC environment, safety and health (ESH) is across the global network of DIC Corfundamental to the management of the poration pledged to implement the precepts of “Responsible Care” in Company. DIC is committed to the concept of sustainable development, and ■ Establish a safety culture oriented tocontributes to society through our conwards “zero accidents.” our everyday operations. tinuous business harmonized with global ■ Set targets to reduce environmental environment, including biodiversity, and In Januar y 2006, as a member of global chemical provide environmentally sound products and technology. impact through business activities and openly report performance and corporations, DIC signed a declaration to support the achievements ■ Manage chemical substance informaResponsible Care Global Charter, promising to further strive to Quality Policy tion in an appropriate manner and inform customers of their safe use enhance the environment, safety, and health of people. Also, Contribute to the prosperity of ■ Reexamine and support the transformacustomers and society by consistion of the business from spots to areas in order to implement this policy, we prepare an annual “Policy tently providing reliable products from the Responsible Care viewpoint for the Environment, Safety and Quality,” and translate it into April 1, 2011 Kazuo Sugie,President English and Chinese in order to disseminate the policy across FY 2011 Environment, Safety and Quality Policy Poster the entire DIC Group and to promote relevant activities. DIC’s Responsible Care (RC) Promotion Structure and Our Efforts Under our CSR committee, we work with the Responsible Care implementation organization and the Responsible Care audit and support organization as a pair of wheels to promote our Responsible Care activities. DIC's Responsible Care (RC) Board of Directors President Promotion Structure Chart Corporate Social Responsibility Committee DIC's Responsible Care (RC) Business operation presidents Promotion Structure Chart Division presidents Responsible Care Dept Implementation/Support Subsidiaries Sales offices Production/R&D (Plants, R&D centers) Top management audits Division audits (Divisions, branches) Environment/Safety /Quality Group Plants, environment, safety Internal branch and Persons in charge of Internal branch and and quality audits sales office audits responsible care sales office audits Plants, R&D centers, environment and safety committees Implementation organization Implementation organization Responsible Care, Audit and Support Structure (Branches, departments, sections) (Departments, sections) DIC checks the implementation of DIC Group’s activities relating to the environment, safety, health and chemical controls, based on the following “Responsible Care Codes.” Responsible Care Code 1. Management System (all codes are applied commonly) 2. Environmental Protection (continuous reduction of 3. Process Safety and Disaster Prevention (prevention of emissions and generation of chemical wastes) fire, explosion, outflow of chemicals) 4. Occupational Safety and Health (protecting the safety and 5. Chemical and Product Safety (risk management of health of workers) chemical products) 6. Distribution Safety (risk reduction in chemical distribution) 7. Dialogue with Society (communication with local communities relating to the environment, safety and health) 26 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Environmental Impact generated by Our Business Activities Illustrated here is a comprehensive image of the environmental impact generated by the domestic DIC Group’s business activities in FY 2010. As input, 2 items are indicated: energy consumption and total water consumption. As output, 6 items are indicated: emissions of 567(+1 substance group) chemicals released into the environment, including PRTR*1 chemicals, CO2 emissions, NOx emissions, SOx emissions, COD emissions through waste water, and industrial waste disposed of as landfill. About DIC Group (overseas), the data for 2010 (including energy consumption as input and CO2 emissions and industrial waste disposed of as landfill as output), is shown. DIC Group (Domestic) INPUT Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) For details, see P31 Total Water Consumption Production volume 131,901 ㎘ 15,198,000 m *3 3 Year-on-year 0.4% Year-on-year 3.9% *3 Renewable energy is not included in the above figures Emissions into the air Emissions into water Emissions into soil Environment, Safety, Health and Quality CO2 Emissions NOx Emissions Total emissions 11,749,000 m Amount of industrial waste disposed 1,049 OUTPUT For details, see P31 For details, see P29 Year-on-year of as landfill For details, see P30 3 2.6% ,000t 262,000 t 203 t 207 t Year-on-year Year-on-year Year-on-year 2.8% 10.6% COD emissions into waste water For details, see P29 11.1% Amount of atmospheric emissions of the 567 substances (and 1 substance group) targeted substance SOx Emissions 394 t Year-on-year 3.0% Amount of emissions into soil of the 567 substances (and 1 For details, see P28-29 For details, see P29 Amount of atmospheric emissions of For details, see P28 substance group) 12 t the 567 substances targeted substance For details, see 977 t 63 t Year-on-year Year-on-year 0t Year-on-year (and 1 substance group) P28 51.1% 7.0% targeted substance 19.3% DIC Group (Overseas) INPUT Production Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) 194,521 ㎘ volume 1,358 OUTPUT Emissions into the air Emissions into soil ,000t CO2 Emissions Amount of industrial waste disposed of as landfill 427,000 t 37,327 t *Overseas data includes that from January 2010 to December 2010 ● Scope of Report DIC plants and research laboratories, domestic subsidiaries of DIC, and domestic affiliates and plants of affiliates that operate on the same premises of DIC plants and jointly manage environmental safety (This report includes part of the report on the Corporate Headquarters, Osaka Branch Office, and Nagoya Branch Office.) <Plants and Research Laboratories> Suita Plant, Chiba Plant, Hokuriku Plant, Sakai Plant, Kashima Plant, Yokkaichi Plant, Shiga Plant, Komaki Plant, Saitama Plant, Tatebayashi Plant, Central Research Laboratories, <Domestic Subsidiaries> DIC Graphics Corporation, DIC Kitanihon Polymer Co., Ltd., DIC Kyushu Polymer Co., Ltd., DIC Kako, Inc., DIC EP Corp., DIC Interior Co., Ltd., DIC Color Coating, Inc., DIC Colorants, Inc., DIC Filtec, Inc., Ltd., DIC Plastics, Inc., DIC Molding, Inc., Topic Co., Ltd.,DIC Decor, Inc., Nihon Packaging Material Co., Ltd., Nippon Plastic Pallet Co., Fuji Label Co., Ltd., Seiko PMC Corp. <Domestic Affiliates, Plants of Affiliates> SUNDIC Inc., Shiga Plant, DIC Bayer Polymer Ltd., Japan Formalin Company, Inc., DH Material Inc., Sakai Plant, Hitachi Finenext Transport System Co., Ltd <Overseas Subsidiaries> Overseas subsidiaries of the DIC Group *Please see WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/worldwide/ for a list of overseas DIC Group companies. *1 567 substances (and 1 substance group): Targeted for check by the DIC Group are 462 PRTR class 1 designated chemical substances + 105 substances targeted for study by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (excluding class 1 designated chemical substances) and 1 substance group (chain hydrocarbons with 4 to 8 carbons) *2 The PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) is a scheme for assessing, aggregating and disseminating data on the sources of hazardous chemicals, amounts released into the environment and amounts transferred off-site from industrial establishments via waste products 27 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality ■ Reducing Emissions of Chemicals into the Environment Chemicals DIC Aims to Reduce include ensuring the proper operation of other required equipment. Chemical corporations are expected to pay due considerations to prevent emissions of chemicals into the environment in their business operations, since Note on FY 2011 targets: Due to VOC combustion device malfunctions that were not fixed for 2 months at the beginning of the year, we plan to exceed the FY 2009 they deal with various chemicals in large quantities when results. compared with those in other industries. Changes in environmental emissions of substances checked Beginning in FYs 2000 and 2005 for DIC and domestic (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and 1 substance group) affiliates, respectively, the DIC Group has been working to reduce emissions into the air, water, and soil of substances （t） designated by the PRTR Law*1 and substances designated 2,000 1,822 1,647 for voluntar y study by the Japan Chemical Industr y 1,499 Target 1,500 for 2011 Association (JCIA). Substances targeted for study in FY 2010 according to PRTR Law revisions are 462 PRTR class 989 1,000 895 696 749 799 1 designated chemical substances + 105 substances 856 652 660 601 670 660 573 targeted for study by the Japan Chemical Industr y 500 Association (excluding class 1 designated chemical 537 517 430 312 317 320 292 substances) and 1 substance group (chain hydrocarbons 0 '98 '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 (Fiscal Year) with 4 to 8 carbons). The number of substances that DIC: Based on previous JCIA standards (non-consolidated) (284 chemicals) DIC: Based on PRTR Law and current JCIA standards (non-consolidated) (480 chemicals) DIC and domestic DIC Group companies either used DIC and domestic DIC Group companies: Based on PRTR Law and current JCIA standards (480 chemicals) or produced more than one ton of in FY 2010 were 120 DIC: Substances checked (567 substances and 1 substance group) DIC and domestic DIC Group companies: Substances checked (567 substances and 1 substance group) and 134, respectively. Due to combustion device failures at some subsidiaries, domestic DIC Group company targets for environmental emissions were unfortunately Substances Checked (567 substances and 1 substance group) not met in FY 2010. We will be continuing to reduce Chemicals with Emissions Exceeding 10 Tons (Tons) chemical substance emissions in FY 2011 by repairing DIC DIC Group (domestic) VOC combustion devices as we take other measures that Chemical name Volume Volume Volume Volume manufactured manufactured emitted emitted / used / used Ethyl acetate 8,724 100 13,648 357 Environmental Emissions of Substances Checked (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and 1 substance group) Methyl ethyl ketone 7,299 44 11,225 256 DIC An increase of Toluene 11,881 68 17,565 213 Total emissions into the air 1% Propyl alcohol 1,328 7 4,430 25 (3 tons) as : 309 tons 320tons compared with Styrene 153,119 11 159,741 18 Emissions into water: 11 tons the previous Emissions into soil: 0 tons year Xylene 3,017 14 3,494 17 A increase of Acetone 677 14 798 17 DIC Group companies (Domestic) Total emissions into the air 50% Normal hexane 260 12 268 12 989tons (329tons) as : 977 tons compared with Others 221,593 50 260,718 74 Emissions into water: 12 tons the previous Emissions into soil: 0 tons year Total 407,898 320 471,887 989 *1 PRTR Law: The PRTR Law is the popular name for the Law Concerning the Reporting, etc. of the Releases of Specific Chemical Substances to the Environment and Promoting Improvement in Their Management. The law, which went into effect in FY 1999, required companies meeting certain standards to assess the release and transfer of PRTR chemicals from FY 2001 and report results to the government from FY 2002. DIC has assessed the release of PRTR chemicals and aggregated and disseminated data in accordance with the law retroactive to 1999. 28 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality COD Emission Volume （t） 800 745 603 600 451 419 406 394 400 599 448 415 403 390 0 '90 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 (fiscal year) (reference year) ■ Reducing the Environmental DIC DIC and domestic DIC Group companies Impact on the Air, Water and Soil be harmful to human health as components of acid rain. High COD values indicate highly polluted water. DIC is currently engaged in reducing SOx and NOx by Addressing VOC Regulations reviewing fuel sources for boiler equipment using FY 1990 as the base year. We are also working to lower Beginning in FY 2007, DIC began a policy promoting COD values by properly processing waste. “reduction of atmospheric VOC emissions by 30% by 2010 using FY 2000 as the base year” as a voluntary SOx and NOx Emission Volume emissions reduction target to limit the emission of VOCs, （t） 254 thought to be a factor in producing photochemical 300 275 232 212 204 202 188 216 203 228 oxidants in the atmosphere. With this target reached, and 200 209 156 we will continue to set new targets for further reductions. 44 66 72 68 100 60 67 48 57 53 63 Changes in Atmospheric Emissions (VOCs) of Substances Checked 0 '90 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 (fiscal year) (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and 1 substance group) (reference year) SOx Emission Volume： DIC DIC and domestic DIC Group companies （t） NOx Emission Volume： DIC DIC and domestic DIC Group companies 2,000 1,552 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality 1,441 1,500 Target for 2011 Compliance with Regulations for 977 1,000 655 646 789 Dioxin Emissions 561 500 Domestic DIC Group companies are monitoring 421 373 298 304 309 dioxin emissions from waste combustion facilities, 282 0 '00 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 (fiscal year) which produce dioxins. At all of our 6 facilities, we have (reference year) DIC DIC and domestic DIC Group companies achieved results far below the standards specified in the Act on Special Measures against Dioxins. Soil and Groundwater Pollution Studies Halogenated Dioxins Emission Control Standards Applicable to Domestic DIC Group Incinerators Exhaust Gas Exhaust Water DIC is engaged in the testing of and creation of measures Plant Plant Name nameIncinerator Standard FY 2010 Standard FY 2010 against soil and groundwater pollution in accordance with the capacity (ng-TEQ/ measurements (pg-TEQ/ℓ) measurements Nm3) (ng-TEQ/Nm3) (pg-TEQ/ℓ) Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and similar legislation. DIC Approx. When acquiring plants overseas or making investments in (Chiba Plant) 3t/h 5 1.2 10 0.060 overseas businesses, we also refer to Japan's Soil Contamination DIC Approx. Countermeasures Act as well as that country's laws to evaluate 5 0.0000012 10 0.00041 (Hokuriku plant) 0.3t/h soil under strict standards and preliminarily evaluate risks to DIC Interior Co., Approx. 10 1.8 N/A ー safety and the environment for investing companies. Ltd. 0.1t/h DIC Kitanihon Approx. Reducing SOx, NOx and COD Polymer Co., Ltd (Hokkaido Plant). 0.2t/h 10 ＜ 0.04 N/A ー DIC Kitanihon Approx. Polymer Co., Ltd 10 0.0082 N/A ー When released into the atmosphere, it is feared 0.2t/h (Tohoku Plant) that substances such as SOx and NOx —contained Seiko PMC Approx. Corp. 10 ＜ 0.06 N/A ー 0.2t/h in exhaust gas from boiler equipment—are feared to (Harima Plant) 29 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality ■ Reduction of Industrial Waste Reduction in the volume of industrial waste further efforts will be focused on reducing Groupwide amounts of industrial waste sent to landfills and disposed of as landfill and the volume of industrial reducing industrial waste generated by our plants. waste discharged from production plants As part of its Zero-Emission Activities, DIC began in FY 2001 to reduce amounts of industrial waste sent Changes in amounts of industrial waste sent to landfills to off-site landfills. Since FY 2008, we have also been expanding the scope of our Zero-Emission Activities （t） throughout the DIC Group through the horizontal 9,000 7,981 7,552 sharing of these activities with domestic subsidiaries. DIC has succeeded in reducing emissions in FY 2010 6,000 5,581 by 99% compared to the base year (FY 1999). 4,190 4,326 We have also achieved an 11% reduction throughout 2,296 3,000 Target the DIC Group thanks in part to an 18% reduction 5371,288 for 2011 3,426 312 991 compared to FY 2009 at domestic subsidiaries. A 128 537 1,560 125 320 90 85 89 207 151 primary factor behind this was outsourced material 232 0 '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 (fiscal (reference year) year) recycling and waste sorting for sludge and waste DIC DIC and domestic DIC Group companies plastics generated at DIC EP’s Sodegaura plant and DIC Kitanihon Polymer’s Hokkaido plant. In FY 2011, 4 Striving to Reduce Industrial Waste Topics Recycling Initiatives at Plant Manager, Sodegaura Plant DIC EP Corp DIC EP Corp.’s Sodegaura Plant Hiroshi Tanaka At the Sodegaura plant we produce polyphenylene sulfide absorbed in a caustic soda solution). Full-scale efforts to reduce (PPS), an engineering plastic. PPSs are thermoplastic resins with industrial waste began in FY 2002, and since FY 2008 we have excellent heat and chemical resistance that have a wide range of been working to improve our recycling efforts. Consequently, uses in everything from electronic components and residential we were able to reduce energy usage, given the amount of hot water heater parts to parts for automobile interiors, where production in FY 2010, of low-molecular-weight materials and they are fortified with glass fiber or another material and used as waste alkali by 70% and 50%, respectively, compared to FY a compound. As an alternative to metal, their being lightweight 2002. This was accomplished by repeatedly outsourcing reand easy to produce in high volume makes them extremely usecycling operations to interim waste treatment companies and ful in reducing energy usage (by improving fuel efficiency). by processing more hard to treat industrial waste. Our efforts There are 2 main kinds of industrial waste produced at the in promoting recycling at organizations reusing these materials plant. The first is sludge, a low-molecular-weight material (poalso played a part in our efforts that paid off in FY 2010. Golymerization residue, reaction solvents, etc.) produced as a bying forward, we hope to continue promoting recycling as we product during polymerization reactions. The second is waste consider how waste alkali could be put to use as sodium hydroalkali (the product of allowing unreacted sodium sulfide to be sulfide. 30 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality CO 2 Emission Volume and Emission Index (Thousands of kiloliters) 100 104 (Energy consumption index) 96 93 94 97 400 100 300 75 200 50 251 239 211 234 191 190 100 331 315 283 25 270 262 0 0 '90 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 (fiscal year) (base year) CO2 emissions (DIC) (left axis) CO2 emissions (DIC and domestic DIC Group companies) (left axis) ■ Our Measures to Prevent Global Warming Energy consumption index (DIC) (right axis) Promoting Energy Conservation be working to meet its FY 2020 CO2 emissions reduction targets established in FY 2010 that use FY 2005 as the base year. As part of DIC's FY 2010 energy-saving activities, we improved awareness concerning energy conservation with mostly plant employees by upgrading utility equipment to make Cool Biz Promotion and Impact power saving and energy usage visible. We also set up a working group (WG) to address power saving and global warming and At DIC, we promote Cool Biz and Warm Biz campaigns conducted an organization-wide energy conservation program. in an effort to save energy. FY 2010 saw us register This working group was made up of the Management Standards, as a challenger in the “Challenge 25 Campaign”*1 and Power-saving Equipment and Database Information groups. draw even the Administration Department into further The Management Standards Group drafted the DIC Corporate power-saving efforts that included extending the Cool Standards and Management Standards and promoted their Biz period and turning off lights at lunchtime. implementation at each facility. We also undertook a number of efforts to build awareness. These included power-saving Environmental Preservation Initiatives in Logistics initiatives where we prepared a collection of case studies concerning energy conservation and reviewed the cost effect DIC is working to ship more using JR containers, Environment, Safety, Health and Quality of investments into power saving equipment, as well as an ITmarine transport trailers, and other means of mass related initiative that promoted the use of internal SNS . transport (modal shifting) to cut transport energy Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) and Energy Consumption Index use and CO 2 emissions. Shipping by mass transport (Thousands of kiloliters) 100 102 101 (Energy consumption index) through our FY 2010 modal shifting efforts accounted 92 93 93 95 200 100 for 9.4% of all transport. Compared to truck transport, 160 Target 75 for 2011 we re du c e d e n e rg y u s ag e by 50 5kℓ (c r u d e o il 120 50 157 158 equivalent) and CO 2 emissions by 1326 tons. DIC will 138 138 132 80 114 116 117 102 25 99 93 continue to cut transport energy use through further 0 0 '90 (base year) '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 (fiscal year) modal shifting and eco-driving programs, and by Energy consumption (DIC) (left axis) working with more companies that use clean-energy Energy consumption (DIC and domestic DIC Group companies) (left axis) Energy consumption index (DIC) (right axis) Target energy consumption index per unit production (right axis) vehicles. We are also providing training to the transport companies we use concerning environmental issues such as eco-driving. Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions Forty-eight percent of the transport companies we used in FY 2010 were Green Management certificate*2, In FY 2010, CO2 emissions saw a small decrease of 0.4% a 15-point increase compared to FY 2009. for DIC and 2.8% for domestic DIC Group companies. CO2 Emissions Generated by the Distribution Arm and History of Energy Consumption Index per Unit Production (1,000 tons of CO2) Despite malfunctions involving biomass energy (Thousands (Energy consumption of kiloliters)100 99 98 index) 97 96 95 that increased emissions by about 17,000 tons at the 40 100 100 93 Kashima plant—a big contributor to overall CO2 emissions 30 78 86 Target 75 74 reductions—the benefits of organizational restructuring 20 for 2011 50 26.2 24.2 begun in FY 2009 offset this increase. Also responsible 10 9.6 17.4 17.4 15.8 25 9.0 7.4 7.1 8.3 0 0 for the decreases were efforts to reduce emissions at '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 (fiscal year) individual domestic DIC Group companies, in addition to CO2 emissions (1,000 tons of CO2) (left axis) Energy consumption per unit production（kℓ/1,000 t) (left axis) the sale of affiliates. Going forward, the DIC Group will Energy consumption per unit production (kℓ/1,000 t) (right axis) Target energy consumption index per unit production (right axis) *1 Challenge 25 Campaign: A wide-scale public program in Japan that proposes specific actions for reducing CO 2 and encourages citizens to act. *2 Green management certificate: the Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation evaluates the green management levels of transport operators, including those for trucks, buses, and taxis, and provides certificates for their business operations with reduced environmental impact 31 Responsible Care Program in DIC Group The DIC Group is globally conducting Responsible Care programs. Various efforts such as ensuring production safety, energy conservation and CO2 reduction are promoted at each plant in DIC Group. Activities for Safety Risk Prediction Program to Prevent Accidents DIC Décor, Inc. (Japan) DIC Décor is engaged in accidents by utilizing “pointing and the de sign a nd ma nu facture of calling” method for workplaces and decorative sheets that satisf y operations, in order to reduce risks 3D decoration for materials with at design, technology and especially c o m p l e x s h a p e s , e.g., i n te r i o r production departments, at which building materials, housing various raw materials including equipment, interior automobile parts solvents are employed. More than 30 and computers. We have continued DIC employees have had leadership risk prediction training since October for risk prediction program, after 2010, at the same time declaration of attending risk prediction training held safety was issued. at Japan Industrial Society & Health Pointing and Calling in the Production Department We are conducting prediction of Association (JISHA). Safe Production Embodied by utilizing DCS DIC Synthetic Resins (Zhongshan) Co. Ltd. (China) DIC Synthetic Resins (ZhongIn February, 2011, we received shan) has ensured safe production high acclaim for our efforts from while maintaining high product qualthe Guangdong Province and ity with automated manufacturing Zhongshan Administration of Work processes by introducing distributed Safety and were chosen as a Model control system (DCS) since 2008. Company for Safe Production in FY Different from DCSs introduced 2010. We are also visited by many in many companies in China, our safety personnel in government DCS is built based on unique proand industry at the request of them, duction technology, including not and carry other non-DCS safety only software design and creation programs and local safe production but also equipment selection and programs. DCS Control Panel construction. Near-miss Reporting System and Potential Accident Identification DIC Australia (Australia) DIC New Zealand (New Zealand) While we work hard to identify them. In order for the system to many risks in our routine work succeed, it is important to keep through regular safety audits and report cards as simple as possible risk assessments, it is dif ficult and be suppor tive of the act to determine all the areas where of repor ting. Repor t cards are accidents could occur. But with available at all locations, including our near-miss reporting system, plants, warehouses, and offices, we can illuminate many potential and employees can fill them out at accidents and work to prevent any time. Near-Miss Report Card 32 Activities for Environmental Preservation Reducing Waste from Spirulina Algae Production Hainan DIC Microalgae Co., Ltd. (China) At the Hainan DIC Microalgae m e d i a i n c re a s e s th e a m o u nt of Co. Ltd. production plant, we wastewater reprocessing, the amount produce a nutritional supplement of culture media we inject must be known as “DIC Spirulina”. Spirulina kept as low as possible in the interests grows using sunlight and CO 2 from of environmental preservation. As nature-rich Hainan Island in China. efforts to reduce these culture media, To help its growth, we also produce from FY 2006 our plant has engaged raw materials called culture media proactively in concentration control that include nitrogen, phosphorus, and recycling, and we have reduced potassium and other elements wastewater through a 30% reduction also used to grow plants. However, in culture media injected compared to Spirulina Cultivation Facility because residue from injected culture FY 2006. New Cleaning Methods Reducing Environmental Impact Before Zhongshan DIC Colour Co., Ltd. (China) The system we used to use for to process these effluents after Environment, Safety, Health and Quality cleaning reactors at Zhongshan cleaning. By changing to a highDIC Colour Co. involved dissolving pressure water cleaning method residue remaining on reactor walls and forgoing the use of the new with heated caustic soda water. method beginning in June 2010, we But this method was inefficient as it reduced the cleaning time by 80% After took 36 hours for a single cleaning and enabled effluent processing to and resulted in energy leakage due be conducted in-house, allowing us to the need to heat up the caustic to greatly reduce energy usage and soda water in the reactors. Also, the industrial waste. caustic soda water contained in the effluents forced us to hire experts Reviewing Our Reactor Cleaning Method Efforts to Establish an Environmental Management System DIC Graphics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) DIC Graphics is now more focused than pollution, establishing regulations ever on reducing environmental impact. We concerning protective equipment, and have been striving to meet customer needs setting up wastewater channels, and have and follow governmental policies through learned systematic management methods. our supply chain, and have worked to On July 14, 2010, we acquired certification implement an environmental management for ISO 14001, an international standard system in order to systematically reduce for environmental management. Going environmental impact. By consolidating all forward, we hope to further environmental related projects in the company, we have conser vation programs under this ISO 14001 Certificate made progress in measuring and managing management system as we practice the the sorting of industrial waste, measuring PDCA cycle and work to take our activities and managing the amount of atmospheric to the next level. 33 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality ■ Actual Condition of Occupational Safety and Health Our Activities for Safety and Health in FY 2009 The Status of Occupational Injury In DIC, by providing Security and Disaster Prevention Codes The number of cases of occupational injury, which and Occupational Safety and Health Codes in the framework of resulted in employees’ absence from work, at DIC in our Responsible Care Activity Policy for each fiscal year, we post FY 2010 was three (three cases in FY 2009), and the specific goals of our efforts for this fiscal year and undertake the occupational accident frequency rate was 0.51 (0.45 task of securing and enhancing the occupational safety and health. in FY 2009), while the severity rate was 0.017 (0.029 in FY 2009). As for the entire domestic DIC Group, the Security and Disaster Prevention Codes and number of lost-work-time injuries in FY 2010 was 10 (13 Occupational Safety and Health Codes for FY 2010 in (Frequency FY 2009). Rate) 1. Identifying accident risk and training for securing safety and 2.00 transferring skills to ne next generation With the number of occupational accidents with lost 2. Reporting, without fail., on the occurrence of an accident/ work1.50 days similar to that in FY 2009, there has been injury and conducting lateral sharing of analysis methods and no substantial decrease in labor accidents. To address countermeasures 1.00 this, the DIC Group will be focusing more on safety 3. Promoting risk management management activities. 0.50 In order for the DIC group to further promote the In FY 2010, we implemented not only regular annual safety 0.00 activities, '00 '01 '02 continuously '03 '04 '05 since '06 FY '08 '07 2008, '09 we added '10 (fiscal year) audits on the environment and quality, but also support a DART (Days Away, DIC Restricted Chemical Industryor Transferred) Manufacturing Industry Rate* 1, activities such as safety training. We also played a the index commonly used in various countries. The supporting role in auditing environmental safety at four DART Rate of DIC in FY 2010 was 9.5, with 12.9 for plants at DIC Graphics — a new entrant to the DIC Group the domestic DIC group, 12.2 for the overseas and the — and then verified improvement through regular audits. overall DIC Group. Occupational Accident Frequency Rate Occupational Accident Severity Rate (Severity Rate) (Frequency Rate) 0.40 2.00 0.30 1.50 0.20 1.00 0.10 0.50 0.00 0.00 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 (fiscal year) '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 (fiscal year) DIC Chemical Industry Manufacturing Industry DIC Chemical Industry Manufacturing Industry *Occupational Accident Frequency Rate: The occupational accident frequency rate is the number *Occupational Accident Severity Rate of injuries and deaths due to occupational accidents per one million hours of labor. The occupational accident severity rate is the number of work days lost per 1,000 hours of labor. Number of injuries and deaths Number of days lost Calculation: = ×1,000,000 Calculation = ×1,000 Total work hours Total work hours An occupational accident frequency rate of 1.0, for example, corresponds An occupational accident severity rate of 0.1, for example, corresponds to one accident per year in a workplace with 500 employees. to 100work days lost per year in a workplace with 500 employees. (Severity Rate) Note:0.40 1. “Chemical Industry” and “Manufacturing Industry” include all companies in the chemicalindustry and the manufacturing industry, respectively, as defined by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for the purposes of its Occupational Safety and Health Statistics. 2. Figures for DIC are for the fiscal year (April 1–March 31). Figures for the chemical industry and the manufacturing industry are for the calendar year (January 1-December 31 0.30 *1 DART Rate: Includes cases involving days away from work, restricted work activity, and transfers to another job. It is calculated as (number of days unable to do normal work / total hours worked in one year) × 200,000 hours (200,000 hours: the number of hours worked full-time by 100 people = four weeks/month, 50 weeks/year) 0.20 34 0.10 0.00 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 (fiscal year) Environment, Safety, Health and Quality China region EHS meeting FY 2011 Initiatives and Objectives Improvement of Overseas Environment and Safety System In FY 2011, we will be getting back to the basics, further instilling the “pointing and calling” method while The second China Regional Safety Meeting for Chinese affiliates was fundamentally improving risk prediction. held at Qingdao DIC Fine chemicals Co., Ltd. for 2 days in February, We will also be utilizing experience-based training 2011. The participants, which included Chinese affiliate companies a nd v ide o mate r ials (K-SHOW, etc.) to prov ide working in production, DIC China, the RC Department (headquarters), effective education and training in pursuit of a safe and CSR personnel (a total of 32 people from 20 companies) took part work environment and technologies for the upkeep of in poster sessions for each company, presented on safety management equipment. Accident reports and information sharing case studies, and discussed issues in groups. The Group discussions are at the foundation of safety measures. In addition allowed for lively exchanges of ideas and provided an opportunity to ensuring that these are solid, we will also be seeing for each company to share their methods. Participants stated on the to the horizontal expansion of reported case study questionnaire that the ideas and information they shared would be of analyses in order to prevent accidents. In addition great value in making improvements at their own companies. to accident case study reviews, we have also found risk assessments (RA) to be effective in preventing Morale-Boosting “Safety Tree Rings” Environment, Safety, Health and Quality accidents. RA must be performed not only when installing new equipment, but also when changing Safety Tree Rings is DIC’s safety commendation system to processes. Depending on what is being assessed, we honor our plants, R&D facilities and part of our domestic Group will carry out RA pertaining to PSM (process safety companies accomplishing accident-free (no occupational accidents management)*1 and mechanical equipment or RA for with lost work day)s for a full year. Those achieving no occupational work actions as we continue conducting “preliminary accidents will be given an RA. annual growth ring to their Safety 20 silver rings for 20 Risk and Hazard Assessment and Education years without occupational accidents. When 20 silver Aiming to achieve safety and reliability, as a chemical rings are completed, from material manufacturer, DIC conducts environment the 21st year, a gold ring will assessments, while promoting the development of replace each silver ring for recyclable, safer, energy-saving products with less each additional year without hazardous substances and less waste. Seeking to any occupational accident build safe production facilities, we have established involving lost work days. Safety Tree Rings of the Hokuriku Plant the DIC Risk Assessment Guidelines for Mechanical Equipment. When formulating facility investment plans Our Measures in Distribution and renovating existing facilities, we use the PSM risk assessment method. We also provide educational To cope with emergencies while transporting chemicals, we provide programs regularly to our employees concerning the Yellow Card*2, not only to freight-exclusive vehicles such as containers and safety and handling of chemicals by utilizing safety tank trucks, but also to general freight vehicles which carry mixed loads. guidelines for technology and research departments, For the transportation of DIC products, we use special containers that MSDS, basic safety actions, and accident case studies. comply with transport-related regulations such as the Fire Defense Law and United Nations Standards. *1 Process safety management: Risk management to minimize accidents (and the impact thereof) caused by factors in a process (plant). *2 Yellow Card: Relative to a voluntary activity promoted by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA). This card indicates contact information and the appropriate actions to be taken at the time of an accident during the transportation of chemicals for carriers, firefighters and police officers. All carriers of chemicals are obliged to carry this card. 35 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality ■ Environmental Cost/Safety and Health Costs DIC has been publishing our environment and safety costs since FY 1998, obtained from our own calculation methods. From FY 2000, to calculate our environment costs (investments and expenses), we have been referencing the Preparation for the Establishment of an Environmental Accounting System (reported in 2000) by Japanese Ministry of Environment. For the investment amounts and expenses for safety, health, and disaster prevention, we will continue to use our own calculation methods and disclose these costs in our operations. ● Environment Costs in FY 2010 ● Safety and Health-Related Costs in FY 2010 Environment-related capital investment in F Y In FY 2010, capital investment related to safety and 2010 was 717 million yen, and 782 million yen for the health was 120 million yen and 174 million yen for the domestic DIC Group. Environment-related expenses for domestic DIC Group. Expenses related to safety and DIC came to 10.798 billion yen and 11.46 billion yen for health for DIC came to 852 million yen and 1.13 billion the domestic DIC Group. For details, P47 yen for the domestic DIC Group. ■ Management of Information on Chemicals Involved in Our Products Making Use of the Chemical Substance Information Strengthening Efforts Aimed at Overseas Regulations Comprehensive Management System (CIRIUS) As planned, DIC has completed registration for Built at DIC, the chemical substance information EU REACH* 3 . In addition to compiling information comprehensive management system—or CIRIUS—is used to concerning revisions to both China's New Chemical help us comprehensively manage information about chemical Substances Control Law and Taiwan's Occupational substances for our raw materials and products. This system Safety and Health Act, we have taken appropriate is also used for security trade control. We have also arranged measures to ensure seamless business continuation. it so that CIRIUS automatically files the numbers of chemical substances manufactured, imported, and shipped, as such filing is mandated by the revised Chemical Substances Advancing Employee Education Control Law (a law concerning regulations for the inspection, To better observe compliance, DIC is working to manufacture, etc. of chemical substances). educate its employees on laws both in Japan and overseas and is devising an internal licensing program for imports Providing Accurate Product Information and exports. Through this program, only employees with DIC licenses can engage in import and export work. At DIC we have a system—developed in-house—that 1 automatically generates MSDSs, and it automatically Japan's 日本の輸出規制と Export Regulations and 1 checks domestic regulations when generating and DIC's Export Management 当社の輸出管理 化学物質の輸入に関する法規制と Chemical Substance Import Regulations providing homogenous, highly-reliable MSDSs. A part 輸出規制品貨物取扱者ライセ 輸出規制品貨物取扱者ライセンス Licenses to Handle Export-Controlled Products A Training Ａ Session Class Ｃｌａｓｓ 講習会資料 Material and DIC's Management Framework 当社の管理体制 of CIRIUS, this system automatically checks even Responsible 2010 Care 10 Department 2010.10 レスポンシブル October レスポンシブル・ケア部 ケア部 Chemical Substance Import Work DIC License 2010 化学物質の輸入業務に関する Workgroup Study Materials trace ingredients in raw materials. Information about 社内ライセンス勉強会資料 trace elements is reflected not only in MSDS, but also Responsible Care ２０１１年４月 レスポンシブル・ケア部 レスポンシブル 2011 Department Aprilケア部 MSDSplus*1 and AIS*2 Textbooks for the importing/exporting licensing program *1 MSDSplus: A document format to supplement information on MSDS advocated by JAMP (Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium) to be uniformly used by the industry *2 AIS: Article Information Sheet Another document format advocated by JAMP. While MSDSplus is for chemical products, AIS is for articles. *3 REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals European chemicals regulations. Under REACH, businesses bear responsibility for evaluating the safety of chemicals with no distinction made between existing and new chemicals. REACH also prohibits the use of specified chemicals in principle. 36 Environment, Safety, Health and Quality ■ Quality Policy and Quality Activities DIC’s Customer-First Flowchart Requests from customers/market and society Part visible to Information from customers Contract/Delivery Specifications COA (Certificate of Analysis) DIC Website Requirements customers Output from DIC MSDS Labeling MSDS Customer consultation information Technical Package Catalog Technical service Products Quality validation documents Sample for evaluation test Product Contents/composition Customer satisfaction Sales strategies Container/mode of packing Consideration of environment Workability and convenience in handling Quality assurance Disposal after use Design review Product evaluation Request for improvement Production/ Planning and framing Validation Trial production quality confirmation→ Products Request for cost reduction realization system of DIC Hazard of raw materials Control of changes Mass trial production Dealing with customer information Design and development Conformity to laws and regulations Top management diagnosis/internal audit Productivity and capacity Market requirements Marketing Safety and stability of process Self-regulation of industry Production Cost/stable supply Business activities of DIC to deliver high quality products that are safe and reliable Strengthen the Product Provision Process FY 2010 Primary Quality Initiatives Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Planning and Framing 1. At our 10 dome stic plants, we are maintaining In product planning, related manufacturing, sales, technology and administration departments collaborate quality and environment management systems while and determine the basic performance of products based on requirements from the market and customers. continuously enhancing effectiveness. This policy is being shared with affiliates. Development and Design Review 2. At DIC Graphic Corporation, we have begun efforts In development and design review, quality targets are set in line with the basic performance of products based on market towards acquiring ISO 9001 certification, which we plan trends and requests from customers, and create values for the same, by reflecting DIC’s inherent technologies and to acquire within FY 2011. accumulated data. Concurrently, we confirm that raw materials and products have no problem from social perspectives. 3. We have passed Sony’s Green Partner renewal test and been recertified (10 domestic plants and 3 overseas Production and Quality Confirmation affiliates). To ensure product quality, we conduct thorough process and identification 4. At the DIC Hokuriku plant, we have begun implementing management. To maintain mutually beneficial relationships with customers, a management system that uses barcodes for the DIC focuses on resource-saving, energy-saving and cost reduction. management of raw materials and manufacturing processes. System implementation will be completed Sales and Technical Services within FY 2011. This management system will allow us We will strive to improve our product quality, by listening to the voices to further improve product quality. of our customers. To ensure our customers can use our products 5. DIC Interior Co., Ltd. is working to improve quality safely and reliably, We provide information, data and technical services through “‘Ask Why’ Analysis”*1 efforts. through our sales offices, to further enhance customer satisfaction. FY 2011 Initiatives We are furthering quality coordination between business operations in manufacturing, sales, technology, and quality assurance to ensure that the quality management system is being fully utilized at each manufacturing facility and business operation. We are also conducting quality audits that include checking customer satisfaction improvement. We are also conducting follow-up audits while continuously improving the preservation and effectiveness of the quality management system. *1 “Ask Why’ Analysis”: A method of repeatedly asking “why” to avoid jumping to conclusions about the factors of a problem and to ensure the logical and complete identification of factors in order to prevent problem recurrence. 37 Human Resources Management Pursuing Higher Job Satisfaction DIC takes an active approach towards ensuring that all our employees can exercise their full potential in jobs suited to their abilities as we strive to build a satisfying work environment where each employee's work-life balance is been considered. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/staff.html Respect for Human Rights ● Providing More Opportunities for Female Employees DIC is working hard to provide more opportunities ●Respect for Human Rights and Elimination of Discrimination for female employees in order to be a company where anyone with the desire to can fully exercise their Respect for human rights is a fundamental element of any abilities. Our efforts to expand roles for women in the sustainable society. Through the DIC WAY Code of Business workplace include appointing more female employees Conduct, the DIC Group states in no uncertain terms that it will to traditionally male-dominated positions such as eliminate all human rights violations in our corporate activities salesperson or production operator. FY 2008 saw us and encourage mutual respect through the following tenets: begin increasing the number of female production (1) Respect for human rights, (2) Prohibition of forced labor, (3) operators at plants on a 3-shift system*2, and we now Prohibition of child labor, (4) Prohibition of inhumane treatment, have 2 such plants and 4 such offices. As part of our (5) Prohibition of discriminatory treatment, (6) Payment of network-building activities for female salespersons, wages, (7) Management of hours worked, (8) Respect for the female sales staff are also holding regular discussion rights of employees representing labor unions. sessions. Going forward, we will be working to provide ever more opportunities for women in a variety of roles. ● Pursuing Deeper Trust between Labor and Management DIC is working to foster trusting relationships through information exchange via labor-management councils and safety and health committee meetings at each Voice plant. We also discuss management information and our Vision in labor-management councils, and have Thoughts on the 8th Female Salespersons candid exchanges of ideas between labor unions and Discussion Session * The 8th female salespersons discussion session was an management. opportunity for 17 DIC employees to passionately exchange ideas in a panel discussion format with 5 female managers Promoting Diversity*1 in sales and purchasing segments at other companies. Each panelists’ career histories, from starting out from a ● Global Human Resources Appointment and Training new employee to a manager were totally different. Meeting with those who have continued to work after getting In keeping with the global expansion of its business, married and having children, I realized that if we have DIC is working to create a framework to appoint human the will and the flexibility to get help from those around, resources based on job content rather than nationality. we can balance both work and child-rearing. I was also We have completed a number of efforts to acquire very motivated to see senior colleagues enthusiastically highly-capable human resources and further develop exchanging ideas with the panelists about work problems and career building. This was truly a good opportunity to their skills since FY 2009 at Group companies in the consider how to work and plan my life in the future. Southeast Asia region through initiatives that include HR Specialty Resins Division systems standardization, which we started in China, and Leather Materials Sales Department management training aimed at developing tomorrow's Naoko Tsurumi top management. In FY 2010, we standardizedHR systems at two companies in Indonesia. Going forward, we will be bringing this standardization to Group companies in Thailand as we work to create a personnel database of human resources in the Asia/Oceania area and create a systematic training program. *1 Diversity: Drawing on the capabilities of all human resources in the company, regardless of race, nationality, gender, age, etc. to enhance the company's competitiveness. *2 3-shift system: A work system wherein workers take turns working 3 shifts a day in times of high demand. 38 Human Resources Management Childcare Leave Program Participants (Number of Participants) 40 30 20 40 28 33 28 30 31 30 27 10 0 ʻ03 ʻ04 ʻ05 ʻ06 ʻ07 ʻ08 ʻ09 ʻ10 (Fiscal Year) Inside the Control Room in the Production Department ● Promotion of Employment of Persons with Handicapped Work and Childcare Balance Support Programs The employment rate of handicapped persons at DIC Rules concerning We have devised certain rules to follow when returning to one’s returning to one's original (or equivalent) was 2.0% in FY 2010, surpassing the legal minimum of 1.8%. previous position (or equivalent) position after leave. In order to continue to exceed the legal minimum, we will be making further efforts to prepare suitable work environments and expand our local job placement office network. Childcare While Work is shortened (by up to 3) hours or is in staggered shifts until the end of the child's Working Program 3rd year in elementary school. ●Promoting Re-Employment Opportunities for Retirees In 1991, DIC was one of the first companies to implement a Leave Program For the period between a child's birth and the for Child-Rearing following 8 weeks, a male employee can take re-employment system for retirees. Re-employment is currently childcare leave of up to 5 days. Partners available to those up to age 65, and we are maintaining proper conformance with the Law concerning Stabilization of Employment of Employees on childcare leave without pay Older Persons. This system provides an opportunity for individuals to Economic may borrow par t of their bonus, or may leverage their experience and demonstrate the advanced capabilities Support System obtain an in-company loan to pay for infertility treatment or childcare facility costs. and expertise they have developed throughout their career Information Re-employment at DIC Sharing to A detailed guide to these programs is posted Fiscal Year No. of Re-employment Rate (employed/ applicants) Promote Program on our intranet. Participation Human Resources Management 2006 41 87.2％ 2007 43 95.6％ 2008 94 92.2％ 2009 84 88.4％ Voice 2010 99 97.1％ Promoting Expanded Employment of Measures to Achieve Work-Life Persons with Handicapped Balance In fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities, we have devoted ourselves for many years to employing As part of our efforts to ensure that each employee persons with handicapped, who now enjoy positions maintains a healthy work-life balance, and to build in a wide range of jobs and workplaces such as those a work environment where our employees—the in administration, production, and technology. We will cornerstones of the workplace and the company—can continue to coordinate with local job placement offices (Hello Work) and training facilities to expand these demonstrate their capabilities, we have made DIC’s employment efforts and create workplace environments “Work and Childcare Balance Support Program” one where people can work with peace of mind for the long th at m o re th a n s ati s f i e s term. General Affairs and Human Resources Dept. l e g a l r e q u i r e m e n t s. D I C Manager was designated a “FY 2008 Yoko Baba certified employer” by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in recognition of DIC's proactive support for the development of the next Next-generation certification mark “Kurumin” generation. *1 FY 2008 certified employer: Companies are certified as childcare support companies by a Health, Labour and Welfare Minister when the actions they perform based on action plans created of their own accord satisfy certain conditions with regard to preparing employment environments intended to support a balance between employee work and childcare based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Certified companies may indicate their status with the Kurumin certification mark. DIC received certification in FY 2008. 39 Human Resources Management Employment Opportunities and those results. We also utilize evaluation results to further develop our human resources. Employee Development ● A Performance-Based Employee Qualification System Outline of Employee Training Curriculaum In pursuit of workplaces that enable all employees to realize I n p a r t i c u l a r, D I C 's G l o b a l M i n d e d P e r s o n n e l their full potential and ensure that the efforts of employees are Development Training Program and Self-Development fairly reflected in salaries, DIC has consolidated all of its employee Support Training have specific characteristics. Selfqualification systems. Promotions within DIC are determined once development support training is an optional program to help annually and are based on the results of an objective assessment interested participants autonomously develop their abilities. procedure that includes a written test, essay, interviews, and The program sees active involvement from many younger personnel evaluation. This ensures equal opportunities for par ticipants and is advancement for all employees exhibiting initiative and skill. ex tremely impor tant in not only providing employees necessary ● Fair and Impartial Compensation workplace skills Objectives-Based HR Evaluation System but also in allowing In DIC, we believe that an important part of improving job par ticipants to build satisfaction is rewarding those who work hard. This means net works with each During a Training Session properly evaluating ability and performance and ensuring other. those results are promptly reflected in compensation. To further heighten the transparency and legitimacy of our Voice HR evaluation system, we have adopted the management by objective (MBO) concept. Based on objectives set at Thoughts from a Marketing the beginning of each period, each employee is evaluated Course Seminar Participant semiannually. The evaluation results will be communicated and disclosed to the employee, along with the reasons for This was the first marketing seminar I had ever taken. Though it was intended for people new Employee Evaluation Process to marketing and covered only the basics, it introduced me to new concepts and methods. I thought the fundamental analysis methods and Semiannual Evaluation Annual Evaluation Feedback market research strategies such as SWOT and Supervisor Results Bonuses KFS would be particularly useful for me in setting Evaluation research and development targets. The seminar Individual Targets Execution of Duties was also very valuable as a trigger to make me Interview Division Salary Process consider more deeply consider how to satisfy the Targets Evaluation Promotion customer. Polymer Technical Department 2 Hiroki Tokoro Career Individual Appropriate Assignment Development Sheet Skill Development parts are implemented on the Intranet *2 Target setting, evaluation, feedback, filling in career development sheets are implemented on the Intranet *1 MBO: Management By Objectives and self-control *2 Career development sheet: includes information about an employee's skills and qualifications, training history, desire to be transferred, and process evaluation results. Evaluation results are used in individual development. *3 Self-development support training: includes correspondence courses, in-company seminars, and e-learning and video library courses. 40 Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society In Pursuit of a Colorful, Comfortable Life Based on the Guidelines for Social Contribution Activities established in FY 2009, the DIC Group is promoting harmony with local communities and society and advancing our activities to build a strong relationship with society. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/ Harmony with Society through Spirulina support-we have been working to improve nutrition by rationing Spirulina to educational facilities for 5to 6-year-olds since May 2011. We are also awaiting ● Spirulina Project Beginning in Earnest permission from the Zambian government to begin on a The DIC Group recently signed a support agreement project to measure the impact of the Spirulina supplies. with the Alliance Forum Foundation-an NGO active in Through these activities, we will also be contributing to supporting developing countries-to offer help in Africa the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that are part to eradicate hunger and improve nutrition through the of the UN Global Compact. Spirulina Project. Working with local NGO organizations* 1 in the ● Spirulina Dietary Education in Japan Republic of Zambia-the first nation to receive the DIC Lifetec Co., Ltd. has devised a dietary education program using Spirulina, which it is teaching to 5th and 6th graders at two elementary schools in Tokyo's Chuo ward. The program has been successful in raising the students awareness of Spirulina and the very concept of food through microscopic observation and extraction of Spirulina pigments (which are blue), the natural colorants in sweets. The experience heightened children's interest Human Resources Management in the topic and prompted Spirulina Porridge Breakfast many to announce ideas such Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society as I want to develop a new Comment sweet using Spirulina! . Spirulina Dietary Education Class Children in Zambia Are Eating Voice Spirulina I have been living in Zambia since the end of February, 2011, working on the Spirulina project. Finding a New Appreciation for Spirulina In a village neighboring Lusaka, our development By creating a story to use for a dietary education of a recipe using Spirulina has led to the creation class for elementary school students and then of a porridge with pumpkin leaves that is quite becoming the instructor, I found myself becoming popular. From there we began adding spirulina to interested in and developing a new appreciation the children's food at AIDS orphanages run by Kara for spirulina. Seeing for myself in class the wonder Counseling, an NGO. They now have no problem and surprise in those children's sparkling eyes as eating their porridge, so we nutritional balance to they thought about the future of spirulina made me improve. We plan to test the actual effect of this feel very keenly how important and rewarding this Spirulina diet in the future. project was. DIC Lifetec Co., Ltd. Alliance Forum Foundation Marketing Department Junichiro Matsugami Mihoko Miyasato *1 NGO organizations: The Programme Against Malnutrition (PAM), an NGO specializing in rural development, and Kara Counseling, an NGO providing suppor t for HIV countermeasures in developing nations. 41 Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society During the Lab Lesson Lab Lessons for the Next Generation Color Universal Design is Changing Teaching Materials at Elementary Schools DIC participated in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry's (METI) Teacher Education Support Project*1, where in In the DIC Group, we are working to develop colors and color January and February we conducted a lab lesson entitled Making combinations that can be recognized equally by more people. We recently Life Colorful through Science” for 5th and 6th graders at 4 public had a chance to teach the utilization of universal design*2 at elementary elementary schools in Chiba Prefecture, namely, Nishimisaki schools nationwide. Working with us on the project was Shingakusha Co., Elementary in Tateyama City, Oikawa Elementary in Otaki Ltd., an educational material publisher and a company with a long history Town, Matsugaoka Elementary in Matsudo City, and Makizono of developing a variety of mostly compulsory educational materials that Elementary School in Ichihara City. The goal of this course was seek to enhance academic performance and enthusiasm for learning. to allow its participants to experience the role and function of Using FY 2011 teaching materials, DIC Color Design, Inc. conducted color in daily life and the close connection between science a seminar that improved participants' understanding of how people see and our lives through a curriculum carefully devised by specially color differently depending on color vision characteristics. Throughout the selected staff that included experiments involving planography year, the company oversaw activities that included color format creation and simple pigment synthesis. The course won high acclaim from and color correction. The seminar was a result of sharing the same the schools and some of the education committees expressed mindset throughout the editing, design, sales and all other segments, the desire to have these courses continue in the next term. In and was a addition, students who participated in the course developed a realization of Area where the Japanese Shinpan 40 Mangoku or more greater interest in color, an interest they later told us they still had. government directly governed Shingakusha's Fudai Tozama 25 less than 40 Mangoku 10 less than 25 Mangoku Maeda (Kanazawa) While METI discontinued this program at the end of FY 2010, DIC passion for considers lab lessons such as these to be an important activity in contributing to Ii(Hikone) connection with Harmony with the Community and Contribution our children's Edo Tokugawa (Mito) to Society , one of our CSR themes. We will therefore exercise future. Tokugawa (Wakayama) Tokugawa (Nagoya) 0 200km our unique corporate characteristics to continue such activities Figure from social studies test of lementary school: Map of Daimyo placement independently. Comment Voice Consider Everyone's Perspective, and Enrich the Classroom Every Day: A Lab Teaching Lab Lessons Lesson Instructor's Message to Students Witnessing the children's enthusiastic reactions At Shingakusha, we focus first and foremost on creating throughout the lesson and experiments really materials easy for students to use. We try to realize made me feel how meaningful this special action materials that will help learning and improve academic program was. Creating a curriculum that utilized performance. Through these efforts in conjunction with our company's core technologies took time, but I DIC aimed at re-evaluating color in teaching materials, we hope more children became interested in science were able to get students to consistently and objectively because of these lessons. rethink the role of color in making learning interesting. DIC Graphics Co., Ltd. Shingakusha Co., Ltd. Ink Materials Division General Manager, Editing Department, Tomoyuki Watanabe Elementary Education Division Keiji Jindo *1 Teacher Education Support Project: A project aimed at fostering a deeper interest in science for children and developing future researchers and engineers, and providing support in conducting science lessons that connect real society with science learned in elementary school, ended at the end of FY 2010. *2 Universal design refers to design facilities, products, and information so that anyone, regardless of culture, language, nationality, age, gender, ability or disability, can use them. 42 Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art Regional and Overseas (Participating schools: Azumadaini Junior High School, Sumida Ward Bunka Junior High School, Sakuragaoka High School, Activities Higashimurayama 7th Junior High School, Oshiage Elementary School, AOTO Lower Secondary School, Kokugakuin Kugayama ● Changing Our Name and Promoting Local Initiatives Junior High School, and Fujimi Junior & Senior High School) -Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art On April 1, 2011, the name of our museum was changed to the Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art. Just as DIC is a company committed to providing color and comfort, as indicated in our Management Vision, our museum is committed to sharing with the public at large our cultural heritage rich in the color and art that has been passed on to us. This name change will be the first step of our mission to achieve our Management Vision and improve DIC brand awareness as we pursue our activities with renewed effort. A School Visit from President Sugie ● Contributing to a More Abundant Lifestyle The Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art houses ● Support for Dayan Elementary School in some 1,000 works of art in a wide range of genres Guangdong Province, China ranging from 17th-century works to 21st-century pieces Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society Dayan Elementary School, located in a mountain from living artists, and we frequently put our collections valley in Qingyuan City in northern Guangdong Province, of representative pieces on display. We also hold is a public elementary school with 328 students and several exhibitions a year. One of the three exhibitions 11 teachers, and was founded in 1958. Suffering from we held in FY 2010 was the Barnett Newman: Dialogue geographical disadvantages and limited government between Man and Work exhibition to celebrate our subsidies, classrooms and a basketball court are the 20th anniversary. In FY 2011, we will be hosting the school’s only facilities. Moholy-Nagy in Motion: A Visual Experiment Lab and At DIC Graphics (Guangzhou), employees built a library Abstract and Form (name pending) exhibitions. and filled it with books they donated or bought so that students could have more new knowledge to absorb. School ● Being Active with School Visits staff also sought to improve physical education by donatDIC is also participating in special action programs ing equipment held by the Japan Business Federation, Japan Committee for ball games. for Economic Development, and other economic groups. T h e sc ho o l's President Kazuo Sugie made visits in person to relate principal reporthis experiences to students at various elementary, junior ed that these high, and high schools as part of the Committee for the ef for ts greatly Promotion of Exchange among Schools and Corporate increased stuExecutives program run by the Japan Committee for dents' interest Economic Development, of which Mr. Sugie is President. and enthusiasm for sports. Students Studying at the Library *1 Committee for the Promotion of Exchange among Schools and Corporate Executives: one of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives. The committee seeks to promote the exchange among schools and corporate executives that the JACE is conducting as a specific-action company and have corporate executives advance the “development and education of people who will contribute to a vibrant Japanese society in the 21st century.” 43 Communication with Stakeholders*1 Promoting Communication and Information Disclosure DIC strives to disclose information through various media and improve communication among ever more stakeholders as it works to see everyone develop a better understanding of the DIC Group. *1 We changed our CSR theme name in FY 2011 from CSR Information Disclosure to Communication with Stakeholders. WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/ Communications with Customers reflected in our business management. DIC participated in IR conferences and small meetings organized by securities companies, as well as holding two operating results ● Strengthening Communication through Exhibitions briefings for institutional investors. We also organized Communication with customers is important, whether in plant tours and briefings to explain growth products such product development or sales. Through our exhibitions and other as TFT liquid crystals and pigments for color filters. In events, we are working to build more connections with potential addition, DIC further strengthened communication with customers to give them a deeper understanding of the DIC Group's overseas institutional investors through participation in products and lines of business. In FY 2010 we set up our largest IR conferences in Hong Kong, Singapore, New York, exhibition space ever at Tokyo Pack 2010 , the biggest packaging London, and Edinburg. We are also bolstering information show in Asia. There we adopted an Environment, Safety, and provision initiatives through our website, posting of articles Color Expression theme and presented DIC solutions to many to influential IR information magazines and participation in potential customers. We also held private shows for individual events for individual investors. customers in food packaging, canning and other segments, presenting DIC's elemental technologies and new products to people in a variety of industries. From February through March, 2011, we participated in the 4th International Photovoltaic Power Generation Expo and the 17th Architecture Building Exhibition 2011 where we offered DIC solutions to those in the photovoltaic power generation and architecture and housing industries. Operating Results Briefing Communication with Communities and Society The 4th International Photovoltaic Power Generation Expo ● Initiatives Aimed at Areas around Our Plants As part of its Responsible Care activities, the Japan Chemical Industry Association's RC Committee has organized town hall Communications with meetings across the country to strengthen communication with Shareholders and Investors people locally. In February 2011, The DIC Komaki plant organized the 5th ● More Event Participation and More Information Sharing Responsible Care Aichi Regional Town Hall Meeting at the Komaki We strive to make fair, appropriate and timely disclosure Kinro Center, where it presented its Responsible Care initiatives of information, closely communicate with shareholders to local citizens. Its presentations covered mainly safety (passing and investors, and have their remarks and requests on techniques through K-SHOW)*2 and eco-friendly products, *2 Passing on technique through K-SHOW: passing on techniques through training, using video to explain. 44 Communication with Stakeholders DIC Digital Color Guide also providing reports on matters such as energy conservation, industrial waste reduction, and local support activities (Oyamagawa cleanup). The DIC Komaki plant focused especially on discussion of its production and development of environmentally conscious products such as lightweight PPS for cars, low-VOC-emission printing ink, and decorative sheets for de-plating products*1. The plant also talked about the various problems it has related to the environment. After the meeting, the plant made time to answer questions from local citizens and strengthen mutual understanding. DIC's Newly Redesigned Global Website Communications with Employees ● Strengthening Communication through Global Systems 5th Responsible Care Meeting in Aichi Area DIC strives to stimulate communication with its Communication with Stakeholders employees through a variety of initiatives and systems. In FY 2010, DIC held its town hall meetings 33 times ● Contributing with Products That Satisfy the to provide an opportunity for the president to speak Needs of the Times directly with DIC employees. We also publish a quarterly DIC is taking new steps to help people learn more publication called the DIC Plaza to share a wide range about the DIC Group. The redesign of our websites, of DIC topics from which began in 2010, was completed in May 2011. various depar tments [ DIC Plaza ] 2011 Winter no. 63 English Version Second Issue Our global website provides content such as “A and plants. We have also 5-minute introduction to DIC” and “DIC: Here, there Special Feature been issuing English and CSR Management of the DIC Group 2011 Part.1 Interview with Mr. Nakanishi, Executive Officer and everywhere.” Also online are our regional sites for Part.2 Initiatives for key CSR themes Chinese versions since Part.3 Message from the President and CSR topics Japan, China, the U.S., Asia/Pacific, and Europe, which F Y 2 0 10 , p r o m o t i n g each provide detailed region-specific information about information sharing the DIC Group's products. In another development, the among our global staff. DIC Graphics Corporation began selling the DIC Digital SNS have also been Color Guide in December, 2010. Free from Apple's iOS adopted in the DIC App Store, this multifunctional color guide tool will allow G ro u p i n a n ef fo r t to DIC's Color Guide to be used by even more people. invigorate intra-company communication. The English Version of “DIC Plaza” *1 Decorative sheets: sheets onto which designs or patterns are printed or vapor-deposited before being further processed. Integrating these with thermoplastic resin achieves a color and feel not possible by painting molded parts. 45 2011 CSR Report Third-Party Opinion The Japan Research Institute, Ltd. Chief, Head of ESG Research Center Eiichiro Adachi Conducts industrial surveys and corporate evaluations in connection with corporate social responsibility focused on measures to address environmental problems. Provides financial institutions with corporate information to be used for socially responsible investment (SRI) and environment-focused financing. Involved in the publishing of The 15th Corporate White Paper-Market Evolution and CSR Management as a member of the Market Evolution and Corporations in the 21st Century working group organized for the KEIZAI DOYUKAI (Japan Association of Corporate Executives). Currently a member of the ISO 26000 JIS Promotion Committee under the Japanese Standards Association (was Japan expert for the ISO 26000 working group until May, 2009). Author of such books as An Introductory Guide to Environmental Management and Environmental Problems Illustrated for Businesses. In last year's “Third-Person Perspective,” I discussed topics it will report based on materiality evaluations it has the need to (1) not only set objectives and ensure that they conducted from the perspectives of what stakeholders and are achieved, but seek new challenges each year, (2) share DIC, respectively, consider important. If DIC can also provide more information about overseas initiatives, (3) focus on information on the processes it went through to determine what is important given individual business characteristics, what to report, reported information will likely carry more (4) maintain regard for biodiversity and increases in chemical weight with investors. substances released into the environment, (5) be thorough in It is regrettable that environmental emissions of chemical disclosing results of initiatives in the supply chain, and so on. substances in the domestic DIC Group in FY 2010 saw such It seems in reading this year's report that much progress a large increase. The reason given was VOC combustion has been made in disclosing overseas CSR initiatives. device malfunctions , but more details here would be Through the Voice pieces from DIC employees and welcome. There are still those who would like to see safety Comment pieces from those outside the company, it re-evaluations and risk evaluations for chemical products. At was very clear that DIC Group projects and CSR programs the very least, I hope DIC will enhance its measures aimed have achieved global scale. The fact that DIC became a at reducing emissions of chemical substances into the air, participant in the UN Global Compact in December, 2010 water, and soil. is a clear declaration of DIC's intent to make regard for Furthermore, the procurement of many raw materials in the global environment and human rights an even bigger the DIC Group is reliant on petroleum resources. Yet, despite part of its business management as a global chemicals the fact that the impact on business will be considerable manufacturer. should supply of these resources become a concern, there Improvement has also been seen from the perspective was no mention of how DIC would fulfill its responsibilities of Materiality . Special topics focusing on how DIC has in such an event. The DIC Group states that the basis of achieved revolutionary reduction in energy usage for LCDs its CSR is the the fulfillment of its social responsibility using pigments that allow for outstanding screen brightness to contribute to the development of society through its despite less-bright backlighting and decreased CO2 business activities . However, I believe it may not be clear for emissions during transport by making food tray decorations every reader of this report just what the DIC Group means as thin as possible to make them lighter paint a clear picture by the development of society . I will be looking forward to of how DIC's technologies are benefiting society. At the seeing the issues mentioned here addressed in next year's beginning of this report it states that DIC has decided on the report. I thank you for granting me the opportunity to provide a third-party perspective-and from my perspective as one who provides corporate information to financial institutions for the sake of socially responsible investment-on the social and environmental activities, and the ideal method of disclosing this information, of the DIC Group as understood through this report. Please note that comments expressed here are not intended to provide judgment concerning whether or not the data presented in this report has been measured and computed in accordance with criteria generally accepted as fair and appropriate for the preparation of environmental reports, or whether or not this report has, without omission, covered all important matters. 46 Data Compilation Table 1 Environmental Costs (Investments and Expenses) (Millions of yen) Category Scope Investments Expenses and Rate 1. Costs incurred through activities aimed at minimizing the environmental impact generated within the business area through Costs related to preserving air and water quality, or maintaining 257 3,583 production and sales activities (costs within the business area) or improving waste disposal and recycling activities Cost of pollution prevention and global environment conservation Cost of conservation of the environment, including the air and water quality 55 2,085 Operating/maintenance expenses related to activities aimed at curbing air pollution (421), global warming Main items (651), water pollution (880), soil pollution prevention expenses (62) and other expenses Investments in air pollution prevention activities (13); water pollution prevention activities (2); and other investments (2), other 31% Breakdown Costs related to energy conservation and internal and Resource recycling costs 202 1,498 external waste disposal Operating/maintenance expenses for activities aimed at reducing energy and resource consumption (292), water consumption Main items (20) and waste disposal (759); expenses related to the obligatory recycling of used merchandise (0.6), and other expenses Investments in activities aimed at reducing energy consumption (85), waste disposal activities(3) and other investments 2.Environmental costs related to management activities Costs related to environmental and safety promotion and education; environmental (management activity costs) (Note 1) management and auditing related to acquisition of ISO 14001 certification Note 1 469 4% Main items Environmental education expenses (2), personnel/administrative expenses (124), ISO maintenance expenses (20), environmental impact measurement and monitoring expenses (41) and other expenses 3.Environmental costs related to technological activities Expenses and investments related to the development of products (technological activity costs) (Note 2) that reduce environmental impact (including personnel expenses) 359 7,204 63% 4.Environmental costs related to social activities (social activity costs) Costs of plant and office greening programs and sponsorship money Internal maintenance expenses (11), fees to external organizations (103), Expenses related 142 140 Main items to environmental improvement, afforestation, and preserving nature (112), other 1% 5.Costs related to damage inflicted on the environment(environmental damage costs) Environmental clean-up and other expenses 0 10 Main items Levies on lake development (10) and other expenses Total DIC Group (domestic) 782 11,406 100% Notes: 1. The investment portion of management activity costs is included in costs within the business area. 2. Technological activity costs are those related to the development of products that reduce the environmental impact and include the R&D costs of new products as well as improving/ customizing existing products *Scope of the data gathered for Tables 1, 2 and 4 are those of the domestic DIC Group companies and for Table 3 DIC only. *The period covered is between April 1, 2009 and March 31, 2010. Table 2 Economic Effects of Environmental Conservation Measures (Millions of yen) Contents of the Effects Amount Income earned by waste recycling 212 Treatment cost reduction through waste recycling 169 Cost reduction through energy conservation 166 Third-party Perspective Total 547 Data Compilation Table 3 Impact of Measures to Protect the Environment Contents of the Effects Environmental Load Indices Base Indices CO2 emissions (calculated in tons of carbon) per unit of production 104 FY 1990 (Base year) = 100 SOx emissions per unit of production 37 FY 1990 (Base year) = 100 NOx emissions per unit of production FY 1990 (Base year) = 100 99 1. Impact of environmental protection COD emissions per unit of productionCOD emissions per unit of production FY 1990 (Base year) = 100 67 measures within the business area Energy used (calculated in volume of crude oil used) per unit of production FY 1990 (Base year) = 100 102 Emissions of solid wastes disposed of as landfill of the FY 1999 level 0.7% Target under DIC’s reduction plan of the FY 1999 level 1.2% Fees paid for waste disposed of as landfill (FY 2010 actual payment base) of the FY 2009 level 111 million yen reduction Emissions of PRTR chemicals (revised list) of the FY 1999 level 37% (Note 3) 2. Impact of upstream and downstream CO2 emissions realized as a result of modal shifts were 1,326 tons more than 1,326 t Reduction (Note 4) environmental protection measures would have been the case with truck transport. Notes: 3. Studies were conducted on 462 PRTR class 1 designated chemical substances and 105 substances targeted for study by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (excluding class 1 designated chemical substances) and 1 substance group according to revisions to the PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) Law in FY 2010. 4. Calculations are based on standards set forth by the Japan Federation of Freight Industries in its Report on Survey of Modal Shifts. A significantly greater reduction in CO2 emissions was realized through the use of large-scale transport modes in FY 2009 47 <Contact> Corporate Communications Dept. DIC Building, 7-20, Nihonbashi 3-Chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8233, Japan TEL: +81-3-5203-7782 FAX: +81-3-3273-7586 http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/ This booklet uses FSC certified paper and is printed by the waterless printing method which does not require dampening water including solvents. Consideration is given to universal color design so as to convey information precisely to as many people as possible.
