KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT K I R I N G R O U P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 About Kirin Group Sustainability Report 2011 The Kirin Group operates in the food and health industries. Whatever we do, we strive to ensure that the natural environment will continue to be the source of food; wherever we operate, we seek to help society achieve sustainable development. That is why we call this a sustainability report. In this report, we share with you and update you on our philosophy, policy, and initiatives to carry out our corporate social responsibility (CSR). Editorial Policy The Kirin Group is structured around Kirin Holdings Company, Limited, a holding company that manages operating companies in the Group. Kirin Holdings plays a central role in establishing broad CSR policy and guidelines for the entire Group, and each Group company implements CSR initiatives in a manner that meets its business needs and community requirements. This report is published by Kirin Holdings on behalf of the Kirin Group, and it discusses the Group's philosophy toward CSR, what its high-priority CSR initiatives strive to accomplish, and how Group companies implement these initiatives. The report includes many examples and cases that illustrate and reflect the Group's CSR policy. Please note that several Group companies publish their own CSR reports (see Page 65) that provide more detailed information about their activities. We referred to the guidelines listed at the bottom of this page when compiling this report. The Kirin Group will continue to review what to include in future sustainability reports. Reporting Kirin Group's CSR Activities Corporate Web Sit Providing updates on the Group's CSR initiatives and performance Environmental Performance Sustainability Report 2011 Data Book in PDF in PDF (available only in Japanese) Reporting what the Group accomplished in 2010 Kirin Group's web site on CSR http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csr/ Reference Guidelines ・G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2006 ・Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2007 Version), published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan *A list of indicators based on GRI G3 Guidelines is available on Kirin Holdings' web site. Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on the current beliefs, estimates, and expectations of management, and include risks and uncertainties associated with changes in domestic or overseas economic or market conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or policies in any of the countries in which the Kirin Group operates. 2 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Table of Contents Reporting Period January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. Please note that environmental performance data for the Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group cover the period April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010, with the exception of energy-use data that cover the period January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010. 2 About Kirin Group Sustainability Report 2011 Scope of Reporting and Data Compilation Scope of Reporting and Data Compilation 3 Company Profile Where applicable, this report covers activities and 4 Top Management Commitment accomplishments by Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. and its 259 6 About Kirin Group consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and abroad (as of December 2010), which collectively constitute the Kirin Group. On matters 10 Our Philosophy Toward CSR where group-wide information is unavailable, names of companies for which information is compiled are specified. 16 Food and Health Environmental performance data for the Group's operations in 20 Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle Japan are a compilation of data from: 22 Socially Responsible Approaches to the Alcohol Business Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd.; Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd.; Ei Sho Gen Co., Ltd.; Kirin City Co., Ltd.; Kirin Merchandising Co., Ltd.; Kirin 26 Food Safety & Communications Co., Ltd.; Kirin Logistics Co., Ltd.; Kirin Engineering Co., Ltd.; Kirin Techno-System Corp.; Mercian 30 Environmental Sustainability Corp.; Mercom Corp.; Nippon Liquor Ltd.; Musee d'art Mercian 32 Moving Toward a Low-Carbon Society Karuizawa; Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd.; Koiwai Dairy Products Co., Ltd.; Kirin Kyowa Foods Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.; Kyowa ・Reducing CO2 Emissions Throughout the Value Chain Medex Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Hakko Chemical Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Hakko ・Efforts to Achieve 35% Reduction in CO2 Emissions Bio Co., Ltd.; Daiichi Fine Chemical Co., Ltd.; Yokohama Arena Co., 36 Conserving Biodiversity Ltd.; Yokohama Akarenga Inc.; Kirin Echo Co., Ltd.; Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd.; Kirin Business Expert Co., Ltd.; Kirin Business System Co., 38 Promoting Sustainable Water Resources Management Ltd.; Kirin Real Estate Co., Ltd. 40 Saving Resources and Using them Wisely 41 Developing Eco-Friendly Products Environmental performance data for the Group's operations outside Japan are a compilation of data from: 42 Controlling Chemical Substances and Preventing Pollution Kirin Australia PTY LTD; Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd.; Kirin 43 Progress Report on Declaration of Environmental Brewery (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd.; Lion Nathan National Foods PTY LTD Commitment 44 Collaborative Relationships with Suppliers Company Profile 46 Working with Suppliers Trade Name Kirin Holdings Company, Limited 48 Valuing Employees Date of Incorporation 50 Embracing Diversity and Inclusion February 23, 1907 53 Human Resources Development *On July 1, 2007, pursuant to the transition to a pure holding company structure, Kirin Holdings Company, Limited changed its name from Kirin Brewery Company, Limited. 54 Community Outreach Programs Paid-in Capital 56 Nurturing the Young Generation 102,045,793,357 yen 57 Supporting Sports and Arts Number of Employees 275 (Number of employees of Kirin Holdings' consolidated subsidiaries: 35,150) 58 Accountable Management System Head Office 60 Risk Management 2-10-1 Shinkawa, Chuo-ku Tokyo 104-8288, Japan 61 Compliance Telephone: +81-3-5541-5321 62 Maintaining Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Sales 2,177,802 million yen 63 Public Recognition (Consolidated sales from January 1 through December 31, 2009) 64 Third-Party Opinion Main Businesses 65 Kirin Group's Sustainability Information Strategic management and oversight of the Group, and provision of specialized services (As of December 2010) KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 3 Top Management Commitment Pursuing Harmonic Coexistence with Society The Kirin Group holds fulfilling its corporate social responsibility to be an integral part of its business management. We integrate CSR efforts into our day-to-day business operations to become more relevant and more strongly connected to our stakeholders and to help achieve a sustainable society. Senji Miyake President and CEO Kirin Holdings Company, Limited Fostering Stronger Bonds company—has its Sendai Plant, and Koiwai Dairy Products has We express our deepest sympathy to the victims of the Great one of its largest plants. We will support reconstruction efforts East Japan Earthquake, which struck the Tohoku region on in the region to repay to its people for their years of support to March 11, 2011, and pray for a speedy reconstruction of the us. We hope this will encourage the affected communities and affected areas. families to foster stronger bonds with one another. Since its foundation in 1907, the Kirin Group has remained customer focused and quality focused, and has been operating Addressing Social Issues as Part of Our to stay relevant and connected to its stakeholders. The Kirin Business Strategy Group has been closely associated with and attached to In May 2010, the World Health Organization resolved to adopt the Tohoku region, where Kirin Brewery—the Group's core the Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, which 4 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 defines the responsibilities and roles of the alcohol beverage society achieve a harmonious coexistence with nature. industry in an effort to reduce alcohol-related problems (ARPs). Human resources are indispensable for our business operations. To address ARPs in society, the Kirin Group has established the In recognition of this, we will step up our efforts to fulfill our ARP Office in the CSR Management Department of Kirin Brewery, commitment to valuing our employees and embracing diversity the Group's main arm for the alcohol beverages business. As a and inclusion in the workplace. We will continue to offer greater responsible corporate group that markets alcohol beverages career opportunities to female employees. Most importantly, we globally, we take it upon ourselves to help reduce ARPs around strive to create a corporate culture in which every employee in the world. In Japan, we will continue to use Kirin Free—a the Group upholds and adopts the values and the basic action non-alcohol, beer-tasting beverage—as a key element in our stance embodied in the KIRIN WAY, engages in frank and open aggressive public campaign against drunk driving. We are now discussions with each other, and innovates the way in which we considering launching Kirin Free in the overseas markets to make do business. the effort global. Climate change is a challenge facing all people. It also has Being a Responsible Global Corporate Group serious social implications for the Kirin Group's business, which The Kirin Group's business continues to expand globally. To be a relies on the bounty of nature to make products. Therefore, it is socially responsible global corporate group, we have signed the only natural that the Kirin Group defines becoming a low-carbon United Nations Global Compact*, the 10 principles of which give corporate group as one of its high-priority CSR initiatives. In 2009, us a binding framework for our global operations. For instance, we established a long-term goal of reducing by 2050 carbon we have gone the extra mile to respect human rights—one of footprints from our global operations by half from the 1990 the principles stated in the Global Compact—by adding to the level across the board, ranging from the sourcing of materials to Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines a clause that prohibits forced consumption and disposal. We also offer eco-friendly products labor and child labor. to our customers. We are proud that, when our customers have a good time, Our environmental stewardship extends globally. Mercian, a Kirin Group's products are part of it. To meet our stakeholders' Kirin Group company in Japan, and Lion Nathan National Foods, needs and expectations, we will continue to adapt ourselves to a Group company based in Oceania, have co-developed fruity, changes in society and to integrate CSR efforts into our business high-quality wines in Australia for the Japanese market. Mercian operations. This will enable us to become more relevant and imports these wines from Australia in bulk in specially designed more strongly connected to our stakeholders and to help plastic bags, and bottles the wines into light individual bottles achieve a sustainable society. in Japan. This shipping method helps reduce CO2 emissions We hope our collective efforts will meet your expectations. from ocean transport by 60% compared with the conventional shipping method. In 2010, we announced the Kirin Group's Declaration of Support *The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary strategic initiative for businesses that are committed to exercising responsible, creative leadership for Biodiversity Conservation to reaffirm our commitment to the in aligning their business operations and strategies to global efforts for sustainable use and conservation of biodiversity and to helping sustainable development. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 5 About Kirin Group Kirin Group's Global Operations The Kirin Group is engaged in the manufacture and sales 259 consolidated subsidiaries, one unconsolidated of alcohol beverages, non-alcohol beverages, foods, and subsidiary, and 21 affiliates accounted for by the equity pharmaceuticals in Japan, the Asia-Oceania region, and method. We are striving to become a leading company in other parts of the world. As of December 31, 2010, the Asia and Oceania under the Kirin Group Vision 2015 (KV2015) Group had more than 31,000 employees, and comprised long-term business plan. Domestic Alcohol Beverages Business Overseas Beverages Business Domestic Non-Alcohol Beverages Business Pharmaceuticals and Biochemicals Business Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jeil-Kirin Pharm. Inc. Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. Northern New England, Inc. Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. BioWa, Inc. Kirin Kunpeng (China) Bio-Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Pharma, Inc. Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Shanghai Jinjiang Kirin Beverage & Food Co., Ltd. Four Roses Distillery LLC Pro Strakan Group pic Kirin Europe GmbH Kyowa Hakko Kirin Italia S.r.l Hangzhou Qiandaohu Brewery Co., Ltd. Kirin Beverage (Shanghai) Ltd. Kirin Holdings America, Inc. Kyowa Hakko Kirin (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Kirin (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Interfood Shareholding Company Taiwan Kirin Co., Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Kirin California, Inc. Kirin-Amgen, Inc Hematech Siam Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Kirin（Singapore）Pte.Ltd PT Kirin-Miwon Foods Lion Nathan National Foods Pty Ltd Iń́dustria Agrícola Tozan Ltda. Kirin Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. San Miguel Brewery, Inc. As of April 28, 2011 Group Structure Kirin Holdings Functional companies Lion Nathan National Foods Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Kirin Holdings Singapore Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Ińdustria Agrícola Tozan Ltda. San Miguel Brewery, Inc. * Kirin Kyowa Foods Koiwai Dairy Products Kirin Echo Yokohama Akarenga Yokohama Arena Kirin Group Office Kirin Business Expert Kirin Business System Kirin Real Estate Kirin Brewery Mercian Kirin Beverage Shinshu Beverage Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kirin-Amgen, Inc. * Fraser and Neave, Ltd. * Pte. Ltd. Pty Ltd. Northern New England, Inc. Domestic Domestic Pharmaceuticals alcohol non-alcohol and beverages Overseas beverages business Other businesses beverages biochemicals business business business *Affiliate accounted for by the equity method 6 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Business Segments We pride ourselves on offering products based on what customer expectations. And naturally, we do not stop there. As people want. We pride ourselves on our ability to harness we look forward with vision and dreams, we aim to continue the goodness of nature through innovative technology. We offering food and health products that bring new joy to pride ourselves on delivering tangible satisfaction and quality people's lives everywhere. Always a step ahead, the Kirin Group in everything we make. All of which ensures that we exceed supports health, pleasure and comfort in your life. Non-alcohol, Domestic Alcohol Beveragesbeer-tasting Business beverages We deliver great taste that makes people smile. Non-alcohol, beer-tasting beverages Beverage products marketed in China Beverage products marketed in Southeast Asia Beverage products marketed in Oceania Non-alcohol, beer-tasting beverages Domestic Non-Alcohol Beverages Business We create a new soft-drink culture and add value to exceed customers' expectations. Beverage products marketed in China Beverage products marketed in Southeast Asia Beverage products marketed in Oceania Beverage products marketed in China Beverage products marketed in Southeast Asia Beverage products marketed in Oceania Overseas Beverages Business Non-alcohol, beer-tasting beverages We expand our beverages business in the growing Asian and Oceania markets to create new value. Beverage products marketed in China Beverage products marketed in Southeast Asia Beverage products marketed in Oceania Pharmaceuticals and Biochemicals Business Other Businesses We leverage our technical ingenuity and prowess to help We assist people to maintain healthy and happy people around the world enjoy healthy, fulfilling lives. dietary lifestyles. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 7 About Kirin Group Kirin Group Vision The Kirin Group states in its group vision (KV2015) the goals it strives to achieve by 2015. Promoting CSR is one of the basic policy initiatives outlined in this vision. Long-term Business Plan Kirin Group Vision 2015 (KV2015) (unveiled in May 2006) The Kirin Group fosters a close relationship with customers through products that bring them the joy of food and health. We integrate our expertise in fermentation and biotechnology, manufacturing, research and marketing to pursue distinctive value and the highest quality in alcohol beverages, soft drinks and pharmaceuticals businesses with the goal of becoming a leading company in the Asia-Oceania region. 3 strategies to achieve growth The Kirin Group Vison for 2015 Consolidated targets Enhance the corporate value ・Sales ・Promote the integrated beverages Group Realize growth strategy of the KIRIN Group ¥3.0 trillion(inc. alcohol tax) ・Promote globalization ¥2.5 trillion(inc. alcohol tax) ・Create a health and functional foods ・Operating income ratio: business as a new business pillar next to A trusted corporate group Standard Group attitude 3C Over 10% alcohol, beverages and pharmaceuticals ・Overseas sales ratio: Approx. 30% (sales excl. alcohol tax, operating income) Strengthen foundation A corporate Group based on its strengths ・Further growth in the domestic alcohol ・Technical expertise ・Customer intimacy business Increased cost competitiveness Group management structure Establish Group management structure ・Reorganization into low cost business model ・Reform organizational climate ・People-focused management ・Strengthen management ・Change of corporate structure ・Continuous Kaizen ・Strengthen and adjust Group head office functions What We Strive to Accomplish by 2015 ● We aim to enhance the value of the Kirin brand both as a brand of trust and as a brand of innovation. ● We will implement three growth strategies built on the strengths of our core businesses. ● Become an integrated beverage group by leveraging the synergy between the alcohol beverages and soft drinks businesses ● Establish the foundation for business growth in the Asian market outside Japan by facilitating greater synergy among group companies and collaborating with external business partners ● Use a wealth of technical expertise to establish another core business in the food and health market that bridges the beverage business and the pharmaceutical business ● As a corporate group that uses what nature has to offer to conduct business, we are committed to the sustainable development of a safe and comfortable society and proactively fulfill our social responsibilities including the preservation of the global environment. ● We will help all employees fulfill their true potential and make it a source of competitive advantage, driven by the Basic Action Stance of challenge, commitment and collaboration (3Cs). Enhance the Kirin Group's strengths built on technical expertise and customer-relationship excellence Encourage group companies to make a tangible contribution to enhancing the Kirin brand Basic Policy Implement three strategies for strengthening the business foundation and achieving quantum-leap growth Establish a new group management structure based on a pure holding company structure Implement group-wide CSR initiatives and enhance organizational management of the Group Percentage of Sales Financial Consolidated Sales Consolidated Operating Income from Overseas Operations Billions of yen Billions of yen FY2010 Highlights in Fiscal 2010 24,000 23,035 22,784 21,778 1,500 1,459 1,516 (Liquor tax excluded) 1,284 16,000 1,000 Overseas sales 8,000 500 25% Sales in Japan 0 2008 2009 2010 0 2008 2009 2010 75% （fiscal year） （fiscal year） 8 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Medium-term Business Plan In the medium-term business plan currently under way, we are implementing CSR initiatives as one of the three basic policies outlined in the plan. 2010-2012 Medium-term Business Plan (KV2015 Stage II, unveiled in October 2009) Positioning of 2010-2012 Medium-term Business Plan (MTBP) Long-term Business Plan (KV2015) Stage III Stage II 2013-2015 MTBP Stage I 2010-2012 MTBP 2007-2009 MTBP “Three years to implement key initiatives “Three years and achieve a qualitative expansion” to kick-start growth” Follow through on key initiatives and continually shift strategic focus from a quantitative expansion to a qualitative expansion as a critical step toward achieving long-term management vision (KV2015) Under the 2007-2009 MTBP, which was the first stage of KV2015, KV2015. Specifically, we will achieve significantly higher we laid solid groundwork for achieving quantum-leap growth in profitability and greater operational efficiency across the Group revenue by: bringing the alcohol beverages business in Japan by undertaking a continuous structural reform and facilitating back to growth; implementing a strategy for becoming an deeper group synergy. Furthermore, we will remain committed integrated beverage group in Japan and abroad; and allocating to creating new value to meet diverse customer needs and to substantial management resources to capital investment in deliver a greater joy of food and health, and also to playing an building a foundation for a sustained growth. active role in the sustainable development of a safe and Under the 2010-2012 MTBP, we will follow through on key comfortable society in all aspects of our business operations. initiatives that will bring us closer to the goals outlined in 2010 Results 2012 Plan Change 2015 Target Sales Liquor tax excluded (billions of yen) 1,835.2 2,130.0 211.3 2,500.0 Operating Before amortization of goodwill 193.6 231.0 73.3 income (billions of yen) After amortization of goodwill 151.6 188.0 59.6 250.0 Liquor tax excluded. Before amortization of goodwill 2.6 Operating 10.5% 10.8% percentage points Income ratio 2.1 10.0% Liquor tax excluded. After amortization of goodwill 8.3% 8.8% percentage points or more Before amortization of goodwill 8.8% 10.0% Cash ROE or more Increase 1 the Group's corporate value by facilitating the growth of group operating companies as well as synergy among them ・Keep pursuing a strategy for becoming an integrated beverage group Basic Policy ・Generate group synergy ・Implement lean management principles and practices ・Establish technical prowess and customer-relationship excellence Implement a financial strategy to increase the Group's corporate value Pursue harmonious coexistence with society through CSR activities Segment Information Percentage of Sales by Business Segment Percentage of Operating Income by Business Segment (Liquor tax included) Other FY2010 Corporate and eliminations △ 14% FY2010 businesses Alcohol Other 11% beverages Pharmacebusinesses Pharmaceuticals 50% uticals 6% 26% 10% 21,778 Soft drinks 1,516 Alcohol beverages billion yen and foods billion yen Soft drinks and foods 7% 75% 29% ※Segment information provided on this page does not reflect the change in business segmentation effective January 2011. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 9 Our Philosophy toward CSR Kirin Group’s Corporate Philosophy and CSR The Kirin Group Identity Statement calls for us to focus on people, nature, and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and health. The KIRIN WAY defines the values we hold most dear and the guiding principles to which all Kirin employees are expected to adhere. In the Group Action Declaration, we entered into promises with each of the four classes of our stakeholders— customers, employees, shareholders, and society. The Kirin Group’s CSR activities are guided by these philosophies and policies. As a corporate group focused on food and health, we must operate and grow our business in harmonious coexistence with the global environment and society. To help achieve a sustainable society, we have given CSR a high priority in our long-term business plans (Kirin Group Vision 2015) and medium-term business plans, and have been following through on our commitment. Kirin Group Identity Statement, KIRIN WAY (Values and Stance), and Group Action Declaration Kirin Group Identity Statement The Kirin Group-Focused on people, nature and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and health THE KIRIN WAY Group Action Declaration Values Basic Action Stance To use Kirin's own technology to provide safe, The things we each The “3Cs” that govern the actions of high-quality products and services that offer Customers value and assurance to customers hold important all Kirin employees (Creation of value for customers) A customer-focused approach Challenge Striving to understand our customers better (Endeavour, risk-taking, action) To create a workplace in which each employee than any competitor; remembering the can exhibit his or her independence and Taking individual initiative without fearing importance of communication with Employees creativity, taking pride in the job and enjoying a the results; responding with change and customers to better meet their hopes and sense of meaning and purpose innovation expectations (Respect for human nature) A steady focus on quality Commitment To fulfill out responsibility to shareholders from Relentlessly pursuing quality while perfecting (Thinking it through, going the distance) a long-term, global perspective, continuously our own unique technology with Giving serious thought to all matters to see Shareholders striving to elevate our corporate value uncompromising attention to detail (Increase value for shareholders) their true nature; assuming responsibility for meeting goals and fulfilling the roles Innovation assigned to us Thinking freely and with vision to generate To contribute to the sustainable development new,exciting ideas; having the courage to of society while carrying out business activities actively propose new value Collaboration in an environmentally-conscious manner; to Society (Concerted action, mutual assistance) contribute to a better quality of life for people Integrity around the world Maintaining a fair-minded and earnest stance Working together as a team; joining forces toward all business activities to cooperate and connect (Contributing to society; concern for the environment) 10 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Kirin Group's CSR Framework The Kirin Group engages in two broad categories of CSR 2010, we announced Kirin Group's Declaration of Support activities: those we conduct in our day-to-day business for Biodiversity Conservation as a commitment to taking operations, and those we carry out as a corporate citizen. biodiversity into greater consideration when conducting CSR activities integrated into our business operations business. represent the majority of our CSR efforts. These are activities CSR activities we carry out as a corporate citizen include those that the entire Group undertakes over a mediumto longto which the Kirin Group has been committed for many years. term time frame, leveraging its core strengths. For instance, We will continue to be a socially responsible corporate group in August 2009, we set mediumto long-term reduction that gives something back to the communities in which we targets for CO2 emissions in the Group Action Plans for operate. Becoming a Low-Carbon Corporate Group. In October Kirin Groupʼs CSR Framework Sustainable Society Customer Employees Shareholders Society Group Identity Statement The Kirin Group Focused on people, nature, and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and health CSR through Business Strive to become a “low-carbon corporate group” that helps create an environmentally friendly societies Proposal of new values Respect for diversity Corporate governance Environmental management Ensuring of food safety Creation of lively workplaces Investor relations Public education on Approaches to food culture responsible drinking Compliance practices , coforming to social rules and expectations CSR as a Corporate Citizen Activities to protect water resources , United Nations University-Kirin Fellwship Program , sports sponsorship , support for the arts , encouragement for employees’ volunteer activities Group Action Declaration Creation of value Respect Increasing value Contributing to society; for customers for human nature for shareholders concern for the environment KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 11 Selecting High-Priority CSR Initiatives The Kirin Group has reviewed its CSR policy so as to enhance of their impact on society and the degree of expectation from and expand the CSR activities integrated into its business society; and finally, we selected the high-priority CSR initiatives operations. First, we assessed a wide range of social issues using on which to focus. Becoming a low-carbon corporate group is four criteria to narrow them down to those that we should one of the Group’s mediumto long-term initiatives that have address. The four criteria are: (1) whether addressing them is come out of this process. compatible with the thrust of our corporate philosophy and Social issues do not remain static as the years go by. They KV2015; (2) how much necessity and urgency exist for resolving change shape and scope at an accelerated pace propelled them; (3) whether the Group can leverage its strengths to by globalization. We will review high-priority CSR initiatives resolve them; and (4) whether the Group as a whole is poised from time to time so as to keep our CSR efforts relevant to to make a long-range commitment to addressing them. anticipated changes in society. Second, we prioritized those social issues based on the extent Process of Selecting High-Priority CSR Initiatives Assessment criteria Priority Four criteria for assessing issues Impact on society and expectations from society Compatibility of addressing them with Social our corporate philosophy and KV2015 CSR issues High activities Level of necessity of resolving them Leverage of the Group’s strengths in resolving them The Group’s long-term commitment Low Kirin Brewery's Dialogue with Stakeholders Kirin Brewery began facilitating stakeholder engagement in 2010 to use dialogue with stakeholders to better Facilitate a dialogue with Report progress to stakeholders stakeholders to understand understand their needs and expectations and take them their needs and expectations into account in its business decisions. The key component of stakeholder engagement is How stakeholder engagement works a dialogue session between the company and its stakeholders. Two sessions were held in 2010: the first in September to discuss alcohol-related problems; and the second in November to discuss the direction of Choose action items and Share internally the integrate them into business and environmental stewardship. In both sessions, participating management strategies identified needs and expectations Kirin Brewery employees and experts entered into intensive discussions. By incorporating stakeholder dialogues into Kirin Brewery's management process to identify their needs and concerns to be addressed, the company hopes to deliver results that meet the expectations of customers and society. See Page 25 First stakeholder dialogue session 12 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Page Numbers in This Report What Kirin Group Strives to Accomplish in CSR Page Kirin Group's HighKirin Group's Policies, Corresponding Numbers Category Goals Guidelines, and Principles of in This Priority CSR Initiatives Declarations Global Compact* Report Promoting a Help people enhance their mental and physical wellness. healthy and − − P.16 nutritious diet Food and Health Promoting food Offer a new horizon of food lifestyle to customers to help them enjoy − − P.20 cultures a rich, satisfying diet. Promote responsible drinking and prevent problems associated with the misuse of alcohol. Basic Policy and Action Promoting ● Use Kirin Free as a vehicle to get across the message against drunk driving in Guidelines for Addressing responsible the Steering-Wheel Keeper Campaign. Alcohol-Related Problems − P.22 ● Educate the public on responsible drinking to eliminate the harmful use of drinking alcohol in society. FoodDeliver safe, high-quality products in good condition to customers. ● Basic Policy on Quality ● Share and disclose information about the safety and quality of our products so Ensuring food safety ● Group Principles of Action − P.26 Safety that customers feel confident about buying them. ● Quality Standards Help achieve a low-carbon society through environmental stewardship—saving Environmental Sustainability energy, saving resources, and offering eco-friendly products—across the ● Basic Policy on entire value chain. Environmental Stewardship Achieving ● Reduce CO2 emissions generated from our entire global value chain by half ● Action Plans for P.32 from the 1990 level by 2050 Principle 7 a low-carbon society Becoming a Low-Carbon ● Reduce CO2 emissions resulting from our global manufacturing, distribution, and office operations by 1% or more annually through 2050 Corporate Group Principle 8 ● Bring CO2 emissions from our manufacturing, distribution, and office operations in Japan down to 35% below the 1990 level by 2015 ake biodiversity into greater consideration when conducting business so as to help society achieve a harmonious coexistence with nature. ● Basic Policy on EnvironP.36 Conserving biodiversity ● Make sustainable use of natural resources mental Stewardship ● Apply technologies to the conservation of biodiversity ● Declaration of Support Principle 9 ● Work with stakeholders to conserve biodiversity for Biodiversity Conservation ● Meet legal and regulatory obligations Collaborative Step up CSR procurement efforts and maintain fair and equitable business P.44 practices to establish collaborative relationships with suppliers. ● CSR Procurement Basic Policy Principles 1 Conducting sociallyRelationships responsible sourcing ●Share the CSR Procurement Basic Policy, CSR Procurement Guidelines, and Green Procurement Basic Policy with suppliers to solicit their support and ● CSR Procurement Guidelines through 10 ● Green Procurement Basic Policy with Suppliers practices cooperation, and work with them to promote CSR procurement practices. Respect employees' initiative and individuality and create a corporate culture Valuing employees that inspires employees with diverse talents to reach their full potential. ● Group Action Declaration P.48 ● Continue to educate employees on human rights, including the prevention of ● Compliance Guidelines Principles 1 and embracing harassment ● Charter for Hiring of through 6 ● Create a workplace environment in which female workers feel welcomed and diversity and inclusion valued People with Disabilities ●Promote the hiring of people with disabilities Valuing Employees Enhancing − P.49 Keep workplaces safe and clean so that employees feel comfortable working occupational in them. ● Compliance Guidelines safety and health ● Tale preventive measures to manage employees' mental wellness − P.52 Help employees maintain a healthy work-life balance so that they feel ● Group Action Declaration Supporting employees' motivated to exercise initiative and creativity and to feel proud and ● Compliance Guidelines work-life balance enthusiastic about their jobs. ● Charter of Work-Life Balance ● Continue to ensure that employees observe appropriate work hours Improve employees' professional skills and foster greater organizational − P.53 Investing in employees' excellence to sustain the growth of the Kirin Group. ● Group Action Declaration ● Carry out human resources development programs that support the Group's ● Principles of Human professional growth global strategy Resources Management grams − − P.54 Community Nurturing the Be a good corporate citizen by helping nurture the young generation and Outreach young generation contributing to the development of communities we serve. Programs Establish a sound corporate governance structure to promote the quantumP.59 Keeping the leap revenue growth as outlined in the Kirin Group Vision 2015 long-term business plan. Principle 10 Accountable ● Internal control system company on track ● Implement an internal control system, make continual improvements to it, and report its operational status and issues to the Board of Directors Management Ensure transparency, fairness, and continuity in disclosing information timely Keeping shareSystem and maintaining interactive communication with shareholders and holders informed investors. ● Disclosure Policy − P.62 ● Disclose information in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan and with the Securities Listing Regulations enforced by the Tokyo Stock Exchange ※ See Page 15 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 13 CSR Management System for Keeping Long-Term CSR Initiatives on Track The Kirin Group uses the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle1 to our business operations—have been in place for years and are manage its CSR activities. continually upgraded. Many of the CSR activities carried out within the Group have To step up our CSR efforts, we also address longer-term issues. become an integral part of its business operations. Therefore, The Group CSR Committee formulates and implements plans we have incorporated the monitoring of CSR practices and to deal with longer-term issues and monitors progress and achievements into KISMAP2. The compliance management achievements. system and quality management system—both fundamental to Three-Layered CSR Management System A PDCA-based, three-layered management system keeps CSR by Group companies under each theme. In this three-layered activities conducted by Group companies on track. In the top management system, the Group CSR Committee, lead units, and layer, we have the Group CSR Committee comprising officers Group companies implement and monitor CSR activities using of larger Group companies, and in the bottom layer are Group the PDCA cycle, individually and jointly. The CSR Management companies that carry out CSR activities on a daily basis. In Department of Kirin Holdings takes part in the monitoring between, a lead unit has been set up for each CSR theme— performed by the company's Strategy Planning Department of such as environmental management and socially responsible the progress on the 14 high-priority CSR initiatives. sourcing—that leads and monitors CSR activities carried out KISMAP: Kirin Innovative & Strategic Management Action Program, the Kirin Group's performance management system based on the balanced scorecard method. Three-layered CSR Management System Monitoring Reporting Group CSR Committee* Kirin Holdings (Group CSR Committee) Administrative Office Confirming the direction of CSR policy and strategy KISMAP monitoring performed Collaboration primarily by the Strategy Planning Department and secondarily by the CSR Incorporating them into Management Department Group policies and strategies Kirin Holdings and Lead unit Lead unit Lead unit Lead unit other Group companies Respecting humanity Building a low-carbon Ensuring food safety Promoting responsible and seeking diversity society (Lead units) drinking of employees Protecting biodiversity Collaboration CSR promotion department Group companies Department Department Department Department *Members of Group CSR Committee Chairman : President of Kirin Holdings Vice-chairman : Director in charge of CSR at Kirin Holdings Committee members : Full-time directors and key department managers of Kirin Holdings, and presidents of major group companies 14 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Concerted CSR Efforts across the Kirin Group The Kirin Group has been expanding its business globally. To the world meet annually to exchange insights and ideas about remain socially responsible wherever we operate, we strive to management strategies and CSR initiatives. This process helps keep abreast of the mainstream of CSR policies and practices them make concerted efforts in implementing CSR initiatives. evolving in the global arena and adopt them. In November 2010, the ISO 26000 international standard was A Kirin Holdings director in charge of CSR attended the 40th released to provide guidance on social responsibility for private annual meeting of the World Economic Forum held in Davos in and public sector organizations. We will review the standard January 2011, to get up to speed with the latest developments to ascertain how we can use it to set priorities for our CSR in global social trends. initiatives. Top executives of larger Kirin Group companies from around Kirin Group Participates in the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary, global since been working to align its employee relationships and its initiative for companies committed to exercising creative business operations ranging from procurement and R&D to leadership in maintaining responsible business practices and manufacturing and marketing with the sustainability. The Compact asks participating businesses to 10 principles. The table on Page 13 shows accept, support, and practice the 10 universally accepted how the Kirin Group's 14 high-priority CSR principles outlined below in the areas of human rights, labor, initiatives correspond to the UN Global environment, and anti-corruption. The Kirin Group announced Compact's 10 principles. its participation in the Compact in September 2005, and has See Page 13 The UN Global Compact's 10 Principles Principle１ Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights Principle２ make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In the Wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake struck since received assistance from other factories operated the Tohoku region on March 11, 2011, Kirin Holdings by the Group and secured raw materials from suppliers to and other Group companies in Japan established an minimize the impact of the earthquake and its aftermath emergency response headquarters that set out to verify on their operations. the safety of Kirin Group employees and their families, and In addition to the emergency relief aid that the Kirin Group to provide relief aid to people in the affected areas. offered to the affected areas immediately after the disaster, Some of the factories operated by Group companies in the we will assist our customers, our business partners, and Tohoku region sustained equipment damage. They have communities in their ongoing reconstruction efforts. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 15 Food and Health Our Goal Each of the Kirin Group companies engaged in into a variety of products that have gained beverage, food, and pharmaceutical businesses broad acceptance. We will continue to focus aligns its R&D, product development, our technical and creative prowess on people, manufacturing, and marketing processes to nature and craftsmanship to redefine the joy create value that meets the health needs of of food and health as called for in the Kirin customers. The Kirin Group has been listening Group's Identity Statement. to customers and translating their health needs Our Approaches As a growing number of Japanese are suffering In 2008, the Kirin Group launched the crossfrom lifestyle-induced diseases linked to an company Kirin Health Project. Participating unbalanced diet and a lack of physical exercise, Group companies brought their technical the medical community is shifting its focus expertise to the project and created from therapeutic care to preventive care, intercompany synergy to jump-start the health which includes encouraging a good diet to food and beverage business. As a result, four ensure good health. The age-old concept that Group companies introduced in 2010 the first originated in China that “medicine and food wave of Kirin Plus-i brand products that cater to have the common benefit of promoting good health-conscious consumers. health” is becoming all the more relevant today. Through the Kirin Health Project, we will People will become more health conscious and continue to offer new products to customers to have more diverse values and needs for healthy help them eat healthy and live healthy. living. Companies Participating in the Kirin Health Project Manufacturing and R&D of materials Product development marketing ・Kirin Holdings ・Kirin Holdings ・Kirin Kyowa Foods ・Kirin Brewery We combine group-wide ・Kirin Kyowa Foods ・Kirin Brewery ・Koiwai Dairy Products ・Mercian efforts to offer customers ・Kyowa Hakko Bio ・Mercian ・Kyowa Hakko Bio ・Kirin Beverage products that help them ・Companies outside ・Kirin Beverage ・Kirin Kyowa Foods the group ・Koiwai Dairy Products lead healthier lives. The Kirin Health Project Helps People Connect Socially We believe that being healthy is not just for your own good, but is at the core of your capacity to bond with others—your family and children, your friends, your neighbors, and your coworkers. You can make your life happier and more fulfilling by bringing to it a greater sense of health and wellness. The Kirin Health Project strives to help people become healthy and connect socially with each other. The Kirin Group has a portfolio of technologies that provide solutions in and around the health and functional food category. We leverage all these technologies to Katsunori Inoue facilitate synergy in creating products that make people healthy and happy, starting Project Leader Health and Functional with one person and spreading to an entire society. Food Business Promotion 16 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Products marketed by Keeping up with the Growing Health Trend Kirin Group companies Food and Health The Kirin Group offers products that meet the Kirin Group's Products that Offer Health Benefits growing needs of health-conscious customers. Low calorie content/ Low sugar Low purine Low fat Containing functional no calorie content body content Kirin Brewery markets alcohol beverages content content ingredients* Kirin Brewery with low-calorie, low-sugar, and low-purineKirin Brewery body content, such as Tanrei Green Label lowLow-malt beers and non-malt beers malt beer and Kirin Chu-hi Hyoketsu readyNon-alcohol,beer-tasting beverages to-drink liquor. Mercian has in its lineup of Chu-hi and cocktails wines the Bon Rouge series, which is richer in polyphenol antioxidant than ordinary wines. Kirin Beverage Kirin Beverage offers low-sugar, non-sugar, and Black tea drinks low-fat varieties of its Gogo-no-Kocha black Coffee drinks Mercian tea drinks and Kirin Fire coffee drinks to healthSports drinks and health drinks conscious consumers. In the food category, Soft drinks Koiwai Dairy Products offers low-fat milk and yogurt and products with functional health Koiwai Dairy Products benefits; Kirin Kyowa Foods offers a nonDairy products calorie sweetener and freeze-dried foods with Kirin Kyowa Foods functional ingredients; and Kyowa Hakko Bio Kirin Beverage Sweeteners markets medical foods and the Remake-series Processed foods health foods. We will continue to leverage our technical Kyowa Hakko Bio expertise to develop new products that offer Health foods customers a wider variety of alternatives to Medical foods meet their health needs. *Plus-i brand products included Koiwai Dairy Products Kirin Kyowa Foods R&D Efforts to Meet Health Needs Kirin Holdings conducts research in the fields The Kirin Group provides product information of food and health at its Central Laboratories to help customers make an informed decision for Frontier Technology. Other Kirin Group in choosing the right products for their health companies undertake R&D projects focused needs. In addition, we publish on our web site on products and manufacturing technologies highlights of the R&D results that the Group Kyowa Hakko Bio http://www.kyowahakkoin their research facilities to create and deliver companies produce. bio.co.jp/english/products/ new value in food and health Central Laboratories for Frontier Technology The Central Laboratories for Frontier Technology technical infrastructure. It also works with other serves the entire Kirin Group by developing research institutions in Japan and abroad to pioneering technologies in the fields of food ascertain how food ingredients affect human and health and by providing a coordinated health. Kirin Holdings:R&D Mercian http://www.kirinholdings. co.jp/english/rd/index. Researchers at Mercian's Product Development outside the company, and examine the ways in html Research Laboratory investigate the health which wine goes with food. Mercian:R&D benefits of wine with their counterparts from http://www.kirinholdings. co.jp/english/rd/index. html Kyowa Hakko Bio Kyowa Hakko Bio's Healthcare Products evaluate how they work in living organisms; Development Center leverages the wealth of develop new ingredients; develop and produce its life-science knowledge and techniques in supplements; and provide technical assistance cell biology, physiology, and nutrition to study to marketing staff. food components with health benefits and KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 17 Food and Health Helping People Suffering from Diseases Live a Better Life Kyowa Hakko Kirin strives to develop efforts on cancer, kidney, and immunological groundbreaking new drugs, such as therapeutic diseases to take advantage of its expertise in antibodies, with a sense of mission to deliver antibody technology, and works to establish them as fast as possible to as many people in proprietary drug-discovery technologies and the world suffering from diseases as possible. industry-leading manufacturing technologies The company focuses its forward-looking R&D for biotechnology-based drugs. Fighting Intractable Diseases with Therapeutic Antibodies Antibody pipeline Therapeutic antibodies, in which Kyowa Hakko provide effective solutions to treat diseases http://www.kyowa-kirin. co.jp/english/rd/antibody/ Kirin has proven expertise, engage the innate that respond poorly to conventional drugs. pipeline/index.html immune system to cure diseases. The good Kyowa Hakko Kirin will continue to leverage its thing about them is that they identify and technical prowess to develop innovative new attack only malignant cells such as cancer drugs as fast as possible and provide them cells and cause few side effects. Expectations globally for people suffering from diseases. are growing for therapeutic antibodies to Providing Online Information about Diseases and Therapeutic Antibodies Kyowa Hakko Kirin, with the assistance of experts, provides information about diseases and their treatment in an easy-to-digest fashion on the microsites within its web site. The company also provides information on therapeutic antibodies using graphics and video images on its dedicated microsite. Microsite on therapeutic antibodies Studying How the Immune System Works Microsite on Kyowa Hakko Kirin has been sponsoring the innovative drugs as soon as possible for people therapeutic antibodies for general La Jolla Institute for Allergy & Immunology with immune system disorders. audience (LIAI), a California-based non-profit research http://www.kyowa-kirin. co.jp/english/rd/antibody/ institute, since its inception in 1989. One of pipeline/index.html LIAI's missions is to discover the fundamental mechanisms of immune system disorders such as atopic dermatitis and asthma. The institute's research findings, which shed light on the causes of such disorders, have received international acclaim in academic conferences and leading science journals. Kyowa Hakko Kirin will continue to support LIAI's research into immunology and allergy, and work closely with its researchers. The company's goal is to use the results of its basic research to develop Researchers at the La Jolla Institute for Allergy & Immunology Extending Financial Assistance to Bioscience Research Projects R&D expenditures The Kato Memorial Bioscience Foundation was foundation sponsored 25 research projects In fiscal 2010, Kyowa Hakko Kirin spent 44,064 established in 1988 to promote bioscience in medical science and biotechnology, 31 million yen in R&D, in Japan. It provides financial assistance to researchers who made presentations at equivalent to 11% of its net sales. research projects, international collaboration, international bioscience conferences, and 10 and research workshops. In fiscal 2010, the bioscience conferences. 18 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Helping Developing Countries Solve Food-related Problems Food and Health United Nations University-Kirin Fellowship Program Although many Asian countries have achieved remarkable economic success, they still have serious food-related problems, such as food shortages and malnutrition of their peoples. The Kirin Group, which operates food and health businesses in Asia and Oceania, has been sponsoring the United Nations University-Kirin Fellowship Program since 1993. This program assists developing countries in Asia in their efforts to solve food problems and achieve healthy socioeconomic growth. Researchers on the 2010 Fellowship Program ・The program has sponsored 88 up-and-coming fellows from nine Asian countries in their food Achievements science research from its inception in 1993 through 2010. ・It provides financial assistance to research projects in food science in the hope that it will help Program developing countries in Asia solve their food problems on their own. outline ・It also helps fellows take the knowledge and technical skills they gain through research in Japan back to their home countries to promote scientific, technological and social progress in their communities. ・Five food researchers and scientists selected annually from universities and research institutions in Asian countries by United Nations University and the National Food Research Institute (NFRI) in Whom Tsukuba, Ibaraki Prefecture, of the National Agriculture and Food Research Organization. to sponsor ・The program provides financial assistance to fellows for one-year research projects at NFRI and for follow-up research for up to two years after they return to their home countries. Comment by a Fellow on the 2010 Program Hossain Uddin Shekhar from Bangladesh I am researching the functional benefits of ordinary fruits and vegetables that people in Bangladesh eat every day. My goal is to find ways to turn their functional benefits into health benefits. If information about their benefits is compiled in a database, we will be able to have a good idea of what mix of daily produce helps prevent what diseases. This would help impoverished people in Bangladesh maintain good health as fruits and vegetables do not cost much. I am excited about working on this pioneering research area. Hossain Uddin Shekhar Kirin Group Endorses the Table For Two Program Today's world faces two contradicting food-related feel great that my small act can make a difference in problems. On one hand, 1 billion people suffer from spreading the joy of food and health to the rest of malnutrition and hunger in developing countries; the world and I feel like I am really part of a larger on the other hand, another 1 billion in developed society. The Kirin Group will continue to play a role countries have obesity and other health problems as in addressing foodand health-related social issues a result of overnutrition. The Table For Two program with global implications, and to work with a society was launched in Japan in 2007 to address these to achieve sustainable growth. two contradicting social issues with a single set of solutions. This is how it works. When you buy a low-calorie, healthy menu item at a participating restaurant, the restaurant donates 20 yen (25 cents) of your payment to a school lunch program in a developing country; a school lunch costs about 20 yen per person in developing countries. The Kirin Group introduced the Table For Two program in company cafeterias in two of its Tokyo head offices in January 2011. Employees have responded enthusiastically to the program saying, I Company cafeteria in one of our Tokyo head offices KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 19 Food and Health Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle Exploring the Future Lifestyle of Food Deteriorating food cultures and a food crisis lifestyles and to define what role the Kirin around the world are a wake-up call to an Group should play in turning that vision into affluent and comfortable dietary lifestyle that reality. many people have come to expect. The Kirin Analyzing people's dietary lifestyles involves Group acknowledges this reality and addresses looking at the food they eat, their everyday food-related social issues that begin at home. lives, their values, and their psychological and The Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle physiological behavior. The institute conducts researches people’s dietary habits and food food and lifestyle research from various angles cultures to identify new trends. The institute and makes research findings publicly available then works with customers and Group through the web site and press releases. employees to develop a vision of future food Nurturing Food Literacy in Youth Percentage of people The Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle has and to choose the right food—among young who have little or no interest in food found that young people do not care much people so that they can make healthier food Men about what they eat. We hope to reverse this choices and start thinking about the future （%） 60 Women trend and nurture food literacy—the ability to lifestyle of food. 55.5 44.7 42.6 eat the right food, to prepare the right meal 50.2 41.6 40 44.1 Kirin Kids Class on the Secrets of Great Taste Food Education in Soccer Classes for Children 26.9 22.2 32.4 In 2010, Kirin Holdings sponsored the “It’s A Tasty We have been offering food education to 19.1 20 World – Food Science Now!” food exhibition held elementary students attending the Kirin Soccer 18.3 13.4 at the National Museum of Emerging Science Field, a soccer class for children, since 2009. 0 and Innovation in Tokyo. During the event, eight Using information boards and a brochure titled 16 20 30 40 50 60 〜 years old Group companies held 14 sessions of the Kirin Eat Healthy to Become a Better Soccer Player: the 19 (Age group) Kids Class on the Secrets of Great Taste to give Secrets of Good Dietary Habits , we help them children an opportunity to learn the importance develop the healthy, strong bodies required to of diet and the quality of what they eat. enjoy playing soccer. We also encourage them to talk about food at the table with their families. The Secrets of Good Dietary Habits A pyramid of Gogo-noKocha bottled black teas Kirin Kids Class on the Secrets of Great Taste showcased in the National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation in Tokyo. The display will make Kirin Kids School of Great Taste Partnership Program with the University of its way to Hong Kong and the Netherlands in 2011. Since 2008, we have been offering children Tokyo hands-on food education programs at Kirin We have been running a partnership program with Group plants in Japan to teach them to use the School of Arts and Sciences of the University their five senses to learn about what they eat. of Tokyo since October 2008. Kirin employees and Program about fermentation university students conduct collaborative study on Children have fun learning about the a sustainable food culture that evolves around what intricacy of the fermentation process through we eat every day. Children learning about the microscopic observation and experiments. In 2010, we took up the theme of globalization and sense of taste in the Kirin Program about the sense of taste food to study how the influx of students of different Kids School of Great Taste Children have fun learning about the mystery nationalities and food cultures into the university of the sense of taste through experiences that fosters an understanding of diverse cultures on the delight their five senses. campus. The participating students summarized the study into a booklet and offered copies to new students who enrolled in the university in April 2011. 20 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Employees Participating in the Forum on Future of Food and Health Food and Health The Kirin Group launched the Forum on Future Fellowship Program. The forum then breaks of Food and Health in 2009. Employees and into group sessions to discuss what the Kirin executives of Group companies meet twice a Group can do to help people lead better dietary year to discuss what the Group can do to help lifestyles. We will take up in future forums two people enjoy fulfilling dietary lifestyles. Themes of the most popular themes from the past: food from past forums include future food and cultures and beverages in Asia; and nutrition health lifestyles, the human perception of good and health. taste, changing diets and dining styles in Asia, In the fifth forum held in January 2011, the and happy dietary lifestyles in the future. Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle talked The forum begins with a keynote speech about what changes would shape future food by a guest speaker, which is followed by lifestyles, based on its study on projected presentations on improving dietary lifestyles by consumer trends for 2025. food researchers from Asian countries studying We will continue to develop insights into how in Japan on the United Nations University-Kirin to help people enjoy fulfilling dietary lifestyles. General session at the forum Group sessions at the forum Information on Food and Lifestyle The Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle findings on how people over 20 enjoy seasonal conducts multifaceted research on food and foods, their plans for vacations, and their lifestyles and regularly publishes its findings in attitudes and concerns about health. reports. In addition, the institute publishes reports on In 2010, the institute published research reports global beer production and consumption by on how young people who had started their country and on per-capita beer consumption careers immediately after graduating from by country, based on findings derived from college thought of drinking and their work; questionnaires sent to brewers associations what people over 20 thought about going out overseas and the latest statistics available for a drink with their coworkers; how they liked overseas. drinking in beer gardens: how they enjoyed Furthermore, it analyzed food lifestyles of year-end parties; and about their intension to 10,000 Japanese men and women from 16 to watch on TV the Japan National Team play in 69 and identified 10 distinctive patterns of food World Cup soccer games in South Africa. lifestyles, including upscale food lifestyle and The institute also reports quarterly research streamlined food lifestyle. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 21 Food and Health Socially Responsible Approaches to the Alcohol Business Our Goal While alcohol beverages give joy and pleasure and international communities to prevent to people, consuming them in an irresponsible and eliminate high-risk drinking. These manner has its costs. As a socially responsible activities include raising public awareness corporate group that manufactures and about responsible drinking; establishing and markets alcohol beverages, the Kirin Group enforcing stringent voluntary standards on takes it upon itself to address alcohol-related alcohol advertising; training our employees; problems in a straightforward and appropriate and participating in industry-wide programs manner. We have been undertaking a wide and campaigns against the harmful use of range of activities in collaboration with local alcohol in Japan and abroad. Basic Policy The Kirin Group, true to its identity statement of being “focused on people, nature and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and health,” strives to prevent high-risk drinking that may result in a variety of problems and to promote responsible drinking in a society. Action Guidelines 1 In the belief that responsible drinking has its merits and facilitates communication among people, we educate the public on sensible drinking. 2 Acknowledging that alcohol beverages have an intoxicating effect on people and that excessive drinking may lead to alcohol dependency, we conduct public-awareness campaigns on the potential problems that harmful use of alcohol may cause to prevent such problems. ● Preventing underage drinking ● Preventing drunk driving ● Preventing reckless drinking ● Discouraging pregnant women from drinking 3 We strictly adhere to laws and regulations, voluntary standards set up by the industry, and our own voluntary standards in conducting our business while promoting responsible drinking and preventing high-risk drinking. 4 We support public campaigns and grassroots activities to prevent harmful use of alcohol. 5 We establish a responsible-drinking drive month in which all employees are encouraged to participate in a training session or a self-development program. Our Approaches ARP Office In May 2010, the World Health Organization itself to helping reduce ARPs and act on the (WHO) resolved to adopt the Global Strategy commitment. The Kirin Group established the to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, which ARP Office in Kirin Brewery in February 2011 to defines the responsibilities and roles of the step up our efforts to address social issues and alcohol beverage industry in an effort to reduce health risks associated with drinking as part of alcohol-related problems (ARPs). It also calls our ongoing campaign against the harmful use for each alcohol beverage company to commit of alcohol. The Vision behind the WHO Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol ● Improve health and social outcomes for individuals, families and communities with considerably reduced morbidity and mortality due to the harmful use of alcohol and the ensuing social consequences. ● Promote and support local, regional and global actions to prevent and reduce the harmful use of alcohol. 22 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Educating the Public and Employees on Alcohol-Related Problems Food and Health Educating the Public We educate the public on alcohol and health by Alcohol and Health.” making information available to all age groups We also provide quizzes on alcohol and a selfthrough a variety of communication media. test on drinking habits on our web site as part The ABCs of Alcohol and Health For instance, we have distributed more than 6 of our public education programs. A brochure that discusses million copies of a brochure titled “The ABCs of alcohol and health in an easy-to-understand manner Communication Tools to Raise Public Awareness on the Harmful Use of Alcohol and Responsible Drinking (As of December 31, 2010) Media Type Released in Target Audience Total Copies Distributed The ABCs of Alcohol and Health Brochure 1996 General public 6,761,500 Drinking and Health: Students Edition/ Junior high school students/ 182,700/ CD-ROM 2000 Adults Edition (no longer available) Adults 14,200 Underage Drinking (no longer available) VHS video 1993 High-school and college students 33,000 Minors and Alcohol: Revised Edition VHS/DVD 2005 Junior high school students International audience and 27,200 Minors and Alcohol: Revised Edition DVD 2006 people with hearing disabilities Learn about and Enjoy Alcohol and Health Web site 2002 General public How to Enjoy Drinking Responsibly Web site 2001 General public *No longer available Supporting the Designated Driver Campaign Using Kirin Free Kirin Brewery uses Kirin Free—a non-alcohol, to further spread the message against drunk beer-tasting beverage—as a vehicle to get driving, Kirin Brewery ran TV ads to promote across its message against drunk driving and the campaign; hung campaign posters to generate increased public support and in restaurants, convenience stores, and Steering-Wheel Keeper awareness of a designated driver and safe ride supermarkets; and distributed 20,000 bottles of Campaign campaign called the Steering-Wheel Keeper Kirin Free to people on the street at 30 locations One way to avoid drunk driving is, when a group Campaign. around Japan. of people drive their cars In the spring and fall of 2010 when a national Kirin Group companies in Japan print the to a restaurant or a bar for a drink, to choose a traffic safety campaign was underway, the campaign symbol on employees' business cards designated driver from among them who agrees company marketed nationwide a limited as a symbol of our commitment to the cause. to have no alcohol during version of Kirin Free in bottles bearing the Kirin Brewery plans to print the campaign the meal and to drive the others home. This Steering-Wheel Keeper Campaign symbol symbol also on its beer cans to boost public campaign is intended to (pictured on the right). During these periods, awareness of the campaign. encourage Japanese drivers to follow this practice, and is managed by the Japan Training Programs Developed to Prevent the Harmful Use of Alcohol Traffic Safety Association, the Japan Foodservice As the Kirin Group's Basic Policy on Addressing Organization Hizen Psychiatric Center, we Association, and the Japan Alcohol-Related Problems states, we strive to encourage our employees in Japan to assess Automobile Federation. prevent high-risk drinking that may result in a their drinking habits and practice responsible variety of problems and to promote responsible drinking so that they can continue to enjoy drinking in society. alcohol for the rest of their lives. We will People drink alcohol to have a good time; develop a similar training program for the however, irresponsible drinking poses health general public to help reduce health problems risks and may lead to drunk driving. and alcoholism caused by excessive drinking in Using a training program we have developed society. This will be our second public program In December 2010, Kirin Brewery held a PR event under the supervision of the National Hospital after the one on preventing underage drinking. to promote the SteeringWheel Keeper Campaign in time for the Christmas party Responsible-Drinking Initiatives by Lion Nathan season. Professional tennis Lion Nathan National Foods’ alcohol beverages care program to prevent underage drinking. player Kimiko Date Krumm (left) and Kirin Brewery business has been supporting many programs The program’s goals include: helping young President Matsuzawa (right) to tackle the misuse of alcohol and help people develop self-confidence and a sense of at the PR event. champion a healthy-drinking culture. One responsibility; rehabilitating young people with area of alcohol misuse is underage drinking. alcohol-related problems; and helping young The company supports Youth Off the Streets, mothers acquire parenting skills. an Australian NPO engaged in a youthKIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 23 Food and Health Socially Responsible Approaches to the Alcohol Business Kirin Fund against Drunk Driving In 2010, we added the Kirin Fund against Drunk and donated to the Japan National Organization Driving as an option in our special benefit Welfare of Victims of Automotive Accidents. We program for shareholders. One million yen was hope this gives our stakeholders an opportunity raised through the 3,000-yen-per-person fund to think about responsible drinking. Joining Forces with Trade Associations GAP Group The Kirin Group has joined the Global resolution titled Global Strategy to Reduce An industry coalition representing leading beer, Alcohol Producers Group (GAP Group)—an the Harmful Use of Alcohol in May 2010, trade wine, and spirits companies international trade organization that provides associations in the Japanese alcohol industry in the world, and established to work with alcohol beverage companies with a channel of have been working with the government to stakeholders to prevent and dialogue with the WHO—and has been globally develop initiatives to address alcohol-related mitigate alcohol abuse and misuse. carrying out projects to reduce adverse effects problems including those specific to the of alcohol overuse. After the WHO adopted a Japanese market. Stop Underage Drinking Campaign We have been participating in the Stop symbol in their TV and print advertisements, Underage Drinking campaign organized by the and the association communicates the Brewers Association of Japan since its inception campaign message to convenience stores, in 2005. Participating alcohol beverage supermarkets, liquor stores, and junior high and Stop Underage companies show the Stop Underage Drinking high schools around the country. Drinking symbol Voluntary Standards on Alcohol Advertising Example of the Kirin The Kirin Group has adopted the Self-Regulatory Council, which comprises eight alcohol trade Group's voluntary standards on alcohol Code of Marketing & Advertising Practices and groups in Japan. As a leading alcohol beverage advertising Container Labeling for Alcoholic Beverages, manufacturer, we have even established more ■ Do not use a scene of a woman drinking alone in established by the Japan Liquor Industry stringent voluntary standards on advertising. broad daylight. Voluntary Initiative to Prevent Accidental Consumption of Low-Alcohol Beverages Self-Regulatory In accordance with the voluntary guidelines Code of Marketing & established by the Japan Spirits & Liqueurs Advertising Practices ■Cautionary Note : and Container Labeling Makers Association for labeling low-alcohol You must be 20 or for Alcoholic Beverages beverages, such as chu-hi and cocktails, that http://www.brewers.or.jp/ older to drink alcohol. workshop/self-pdf/ contain fruit juices, we clearly print the Alcohol Women who drink Self-Regulatory_eng.pdf Beverage logo on containers of our lowwhile pregnant or alcohol beverage products so that customers breastfeeding may risk do not mistake them for soft drinks. Moreover, affecting the health of in April 2007, we became the first alcohol their babies. beverage company to add a cautionary note against drinking by pregnant women near the Alcohol Beverage logo. Responsible Drinking Initiatives Outside Japan In January 2011, the Australian federal voluntarily adopt consumer health messages that government released the findings of an support responsible drinking choices, including independent review of Australia's labeling during pregnancy. The company has taken this regulations. Ahead of the government’s reaction proactive approach to ensure that it continues to this report, Lion Nathan National Foods’ to meet evolving community expectations for alcohol beverages business has agreed to more information on primary packaging. Countdown to a Global Launch of Kirin Free Kirin Brewery is considering launching Kirin Free—a non-alcohol, beer-tasting beverage currently available only in Japan—globally, following test marketing on the West Coast of the United States. Drunk driving is a serious social problem in the United States, one of the most motorized countries in the world. Kirin Free would give U.S. drivers an opportunity to enjoy beer-tasting beverages without worrying about driving under the influence. The company will gear up for a full U.S. national launch of Kirin Free after conducting test marketing on the West *In the beer-tasting Coast. It will also consider marketing Kirin Free, made possible with the world-first technology*, in other parts of beverage category (source: the world if consumer demand warrants. Kirin Brewery) 24 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Training Our People on Responsible Drinking Food and Health Japan Training on Promoting Responsible-Drinking All employees of Kirin Group companies in training sessions are conducted for employeesJapan attend training sessions on responsible to-be, new employees, and new managers. Kirin drinking during the responsible-drinking Brewery's Sendai Plant and a local police station campaign month in April. Designated staffers gave plant employees a Meister Against Drunk in charge of promoting responsible drinking Driving training course. provide on-site training. In addition, by-rank Training on promoting responsible drinking Overseas Kirin Brewery (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd. Kirin Brewery (Zhuhai) trains employees and more intensive education on the Chinese traffic other stakeholders on responsible drinking laws and the company's regulations against every year. In 2009, all employees received drunk driving. The company has been enforcing training aimed at preventing drunk driving. In sanctions against drunk driving by employees 2010, 200 sales people and drivers received since August 1, 2009. Lion Nathan National Foods Lion Nathan National Foods clearly and responsible choices in the workplace and at regularly communicates its responsible drinking work-related social functions at which alcohol is policy to employees. The company also runs consumed. The company encourages its people an internal social responsibility initiative, which to play a leading role in promoting responsible equips employees with the three Ps (Plan, drinking. Pace and Protect) as a tool to help them make External stakeholders Kirin Brewery's First Dialogue Session with Stakeholders who participated in Held at Kirin Brewery's head office in Tokyo on September 7, 2010 the dialogue session ● Eiichiro Adachi Kirin Brewery held the first dialogue session with how to address drunk driving and other social issues Research Chief stakeholders on the subject of alcohol-related problems. associated with drinking. Participants also talked about Head of ESG Research After President Matsuzawa opened the session what role Kirin Brewery should play in reducing the Center The Japan Research with a welcoming statement, four stakeholders—a harmful use of alcohol in society. After the session, the Institute, Ltd. representative from a consumer group, a psychiatrist, company shared internally the opinions, insights, and ● Aro Ino a representative from a bartenders' association, and a requests provided by the stakeholders, and developed Deputy Director CSR expert—discussed with members of Kirin Brewery action plans. The following are a few examples. Kasumigaura Clinic ● Tomomi Imanari Opinions and requests provided Chairperson Action that Kirin Brewer y should take by the participating stakeholders Japan Specified Non-profit Corporation to Prevent Kirin Brewery should step up its efforts to address ● Collectinformation about health problems for which Alcohol and Drug Problems (ASK) alcoholism and other health problems, such as excessive drinking is presumed to be responsible, and disclose organ failure and cancer, induced by excessive the information verified as facts ● Kazuya Watanabe drinking. ● Carry out a public awareness campaign on responsible drinking Chairman Hotel Barmen's Association, Japan ● Collect information about women's health problems for which ● Facilitator As more women drink alcohol, Kirin Brewery should excessive drinking is presumed to be responsible, and disclose the Kazutaka Ookubo address alcoholism and other health problems that information verified as facts Partner, CSR Promotion may affect them. Officer ● Stop running advertisements that explicitly encourage women to Certified Public Accountant drink (in June 2010, Kirin Brewery banned, from its advertisements, scenes of a woman drinking alone in broad daylight) Kirin Brewery should become more socially Acknowledging that the WHO's global strategy calls for alcohol responsible as an alcohol beverage company, such beverage companies in the world to address alcohol-related as by making its voluntary standards on alcohol problems, play a proactive role in reducing the harmful use of advertising more stringent, in accordance with the alcohol in society by addressing wide-ranging social issues and Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of health risks associated with drinking Alcohol, adopted by the WHO in May 2010. ● ▶ See page12 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 25 品質方針 Food Safety私たちは、安全性の確保とお客様の満足を、 何よりも優先します。 1. お客様満足度向上（お客様本位） 私たち一人ひとりは、何よりも優先して、お客様の声を 大切にし、お客様の立場での応対に心がけます。お客 様とのコミュニケーションは、さらなる品質（お客様満 足）向上の源泉ととらえ、 より満足度の高い商品開発や きめ細かな改善につなげていきます。 2.安全で安心いただける商品の提供 Our Goal （品質本位） 私たち一人ひとりは、原料・資材の調達から開発・製 Consumers are increasingly concerned 造・検査・物流 about commitment to ensuring ・販売にいたるすべての活動において、 product safety and what they eat. The Kirin Group安全でお客様が安心いただける商品 strives to ensure customer satisfaction. This commitment reflects ・サービスを提 that our products are of the highest quality by 供し、信頼を得るように努めていきます。 the Group’s core value that stands for being performing some of the most stringent qualitycustomer focused and quality focused—a value assurance practices in the food and beverage that has been running through the Group since industry. Group companies follow a standardized the early days of Kirin Brewery. The manual quality assurance manual, which begins with includes the Group Principles of Action and the the Kirin Group Basic Policy on Quality—a Kirin Group Quality Standards. Kirin Group Basic Policy on Quality We make it our highest priority to ensure product safety and customer satisfaction. 1. Increase Customer Satisfaction 2. Provide Safe and Reliable Products (A customer-focused approach) (A steady focus on quality) We make it our highest priority to listen to our customers, We offer safe and reliable products and services to our value their feedback and respond to it from their customers in all aspects of our business activities ranging viewpoint. We realize that a dialogue with our customers from the sourcing of raw materials through product give us a good opportunity to make incremental development, manufacturing and inspection to improvements to quality and customer satisfaction, which distribution and marketing so as to retain their trust in us. results in better products down to fine details. Our Approaches Kirin Group companies have become certified initiatives carried out within the entire Group. under ISO 9001 (international standards for Kirin Brewery has in place a traceability system quality-management system) to achieve stringent that enables the acquisition, storage, tracking, quality standards. Group companies continually and retrieval of the history and quality inspection improve product quality as measured against the results of each product over its entire life cycle— Kirin Group Quality Standards, using a qualityranging from the receipt of raw materials through management system for performing as-is analyses, to delivery to retailers. The company publicly identifying issues, and implementing the PDCA discloses the information recorded by the system cycle. In addition, we have established within to enhance the trustworthiness of its products. Kirin Group Office the Quality Assurance and Other Group companies in Japan and abroad Environmental Management Department, which is plan to implement a similar traceability system to tasked with centrally managing and coordinating continue to earn the trust of stakeholders around quality assurance efforts and environmental the globe. End-to-end Quality Inspection System The Food Safety Assurance Center in the Quality the PLANET centralized data management system Assurance and Environmental Management for automatically acquiring quality information and Department of Kirin Group Office uses the latest evaluation results of malt, hops, yeast, and other scientific knowledge and analysis technology to materials used to make Kirin beer. This system detect and examine traces of harmful substances enables the center, Kirin Brewery’s factories, the and microbes that contaminate and spoil food, Laboratory for New Product Development, and and to appraise the safety of food materials and suppliers in Japan and abroad to share and have products that the Kirin Group uses and markets. quick assess to registered data on quality, bringing The center has also developed and implemented greater efficiency to their quality-control efforts. 26 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Ensuring the Safety and Quality of Our Products in Every Phase of the Life Cycle Customers We ensure that our advertising and sales promotion help customers choose We make it a top our products with priority to ensure confidence. Our safety and quality salespeople in the when we design and field hone their skills develop products in understanding and that offer tangible meeting the needs of value propositions to retail customers. customers. Customer Focused Food Safety Sales Development Quality Focused Sourcing of Logistics Raw Materials We keep our product We adhere to our strict safety standards inventory at the optimal level and at Manufacturing when procuring raw the right temperature materials. In addition, so as to be able to We apply not only we regularly assess deliver fresh products scientific approaches the quality in good condition to but also our five performance of our retailers. senses to ensure the suppliers to ensure safety and quality of continual our products in each improvement to the step of the quality of the manufacturing materials we use. process, which begins with the receipt of raw materials and ends with loading products onto trucks. Responsibilities of the Food Safety Assurance Center Ensuring the products meet the regulatory requirements and safety of products internal specifications; and (6) controlling the is one of the most quality of giveaways and in-store samples used fundamental for sales promotion. Quality-assurance experts responsibilities working in the center constantly improve their that a food expertise in analysis techniques and hone their company has to sensitivity and far-sightedness so that they can fulfill. The Food provide technically credible quality assurance Safety Assurance Evaluation team at work to Kirin Group products and meet customers' Center uses expectations for quality and safety. In addition, its sophisticated ability to analyze materials the wealth of technical expertise, knowledge, and and products to assist Group companies in experience that these experts have accumulated their quality-assurance efforts. The center enable them to quickly identify developments keeps abreast of the latest information and that threaten food safety and act against these developments related to food safety, analyzes threats. risks, develops new analysis methods, and conducts evaluation tests to mitigate risks. The center's wide-ranging responsibilities include: (1) evaluating raw materials, supplementary ingredients, and beverage products made in Japan and abroad; (2) providing technical assistance to analyses performed in factories; (3) managing hygiene in factories; (4) investigating and responding to customer feedback; (5) ascertaining if Kirin Group Analyzing water using a GC-MS (gas chromatography-mass spectrometry) instrument KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 27 Food Safety User-Friendly Packaging for Every Customer Universal Design Containers and packages protect products twist, and open. Our engineers and ensure they are delivered to customers in also worked on a shipping pristine condition. carton for canned beers; they The packaging we use for our products meets beveled the carton's four high standards of quality and safety and is ecovertical edges to give it an friendly. In addition, we incorporate user-friendly octagon-shaped structure, ※ Design features and universal design* features into our packages so which resulted in greater ease elements incorporated into a product to make it accessible that customers of all ages and genders enjoy our of handling and a reduction in to people of all ages, products with ease and comfort. cardboard usage. It is a good genders, abilities, cultures, languages, and nationalities. Kirin Brewery's Packaging Development example of user-friendly and Center develops containers and packages that eco-friendly design. meet strict quality, safety, and environmental requirements under diverse real-world System to Evaluate Universal Design conditions. The center takes a customer-focused Features of a Package approach to developing user-friendly packaging, whether it is glass bottles, cans, PET bottles, or Development cartons. of packaging For instance, the ingenuity of the engineers in the center created a new advanced pecology Development Customer of container Finished bottle, the industry's lightest PET bottle (as of input Market research package 包材開発 March 2010), for Kirin Alkali Ion Water. In addition Basic designing design to being light, the new bottle sports many Prototyping universal design features: Its shape makes it easy for a person with small hands to hold; it is easy to squash after use; and its cap is easy to grasp, Applying universal design criteria Feedback Evaluation of ＵＤ性評価 universal design features Sensory evaluation Technical evaluation Evaluation result Evaluation of universal design features Kirin Brewery Packaging Development Center Evaluating the Quality of Cans and Bottles as Vigorously as Package Manufacturers お客様の要望 Kirin Brewery has developed its own measuring equipment to evaluate the quality of cans and bottles designed for its products. The company takes a scientific approach to evaluating 包材開発 universal design features in packaging by using an 容器開発 electromyograph, which records electrical activity that hand and arm muscles produce when they pick up and hold a 市場調査 ／ 基本設計 ／ 試 can or a bottle. The data are analyzed to determine what needs to be done to the design of cans and bottles to make them easier to hold. The Kirin Group takes ergonomic consideration into account when incorporating universal design elements into 開発完成品 its containers. Electromyograph 28 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Communication with Customers Customer Centers Play a Pivotal Role in Product Improvement We believe maintaining good communication CSR Departments share customer feedback and with customers is an integral part of delivering brainstorm actions to be taken for improvement. safe, high-quality products and services that they In 2010, the center proposed at these meetings 38 can trust and enjoy. ideas for improvement, In 2010, Kirin Brewery received 36,000 inquiries, 16 of which were requests, and feedbacks about its products and implemented. General services from customers by phone and email. Kirin managers of customer Food Safety Beverage received 31,000; Mercian had 4,500; centers in Group and Koiwai Dairy Products had 4,400. We realize companies meet once that when customers contact us they do so out a month to exchange of trust in and expectations for our products and information, and their services. Kirin Brewery holds a Customer Feedback staffers attend joint Meeting every month, in which staffers from operator-training Kirin Brewery's Customer Center the Customer Center and the Marketing, Sales, sessions. Production Control, Technical Development, and Keeping in Touch with Customers Through Factory Tours Kirin Brewery’s nine factories and Kirin Distillery’s seminar and a summer class on the environment. Fuji-Gotemba Distillery in Japan are open In September 2010, Chateau Mercian winery to public tours, giving visitors a hands-on reopened after renovation to serve as a handsopportunity to learn with their own five senses on information center where visitors can delve about how beers and whiskies are made. into the intricacy of Tour guides show and tell visitors what is going domestic wines and on in each step of the manufacturing process taste them. to demonstrate how much care we take to We value comments ensure the safety and quality of our products. and feedback made Visitors also have an opportunity to attend a beer by visitors during factory tours. Tour of a Kirin Brewery factory An example of using customer feedback for improvement Customer feedback What we did about it The label on the Kirin Non-alcohol, beer-tasting beverages, such as Free can reads, The Kirin Free, freeze at a higher temperature than contents may freeze regular beers and low-malt beers. Based on the when stored at a subcustomer feedback, we changed the label to read, zero temperature. The contents may freeze when stored in a subWhen I stored it in a zero temperature, such as near a cold air outlet in refrigerator running on a a refrigerator. We will continue to use customer medium setting, it froze. feedback to improve our products and services. Expert Advice Kirin Group's Approaches to Ensuring Food Safety The way the newly established Quality negative—about the quality of its products. Assurance and Environmental Management This would exceed consumers' expectations Department coordinates group-wide for food safety. ISO 26000 standards were quality-assurance efforts shows how released in 2010 to provide international seriously the Kirin Group takes quality guidelines for social responsibility, and improvement. Likewise, the gist of what the I expect that the Kirin Group will use Food Safety Assurance Center is trying to the standards to set priorities for its CSR accomplish is on the right track to earning initiatives. I hope the Group will continue the greater trust of an increasingly safetyto lead the industry in ensuring food safety conscious consumers. I would suggest that by addressing a broad range of consumer the Kirin Group go the extra mile to disclose issues and interest through expanded and Yukiko Furuya Board Member more information—both positive and enhanced touch points with them. Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 29 Environmental Sustainability Our Goal The Earth is facing a multitude of materials to consumption to recycling—directly environmental issues—climate change, natural through its business operations and indirectly resources running dry, water scarcity, and through suppliers and consumers. These effects the conservation of biodiversity—that affect have wide-ranging and global implications. The all living things. Any one of these issues, if more our business has grown in size and scope, left unattended, would be serious enough to the more deeply we recognize the importance undermine the Kirin Group's ability to continue of ensuring sustainability. to deliver food and health to customers. The Kirin Group uses what nature provides In October 2008, we updated the Group's for us to create products that are beneficial environmental policy to include a declaration to people's lives. Therefore, ensuring a of commitment to become a low-carbon harmonious coexistence with nature and the corporate group. In 2009, we set aggressive sustainable use of its blessings remain among numerical targets across the value chain in the the top priorities on our corporate agenda. Kirin Group's Action Plans for Becoming a LowOur goal is to continue to expand our Carbon Corporate Group, and have since made business while helping make a sustainable progress in saving energy, saving resources, society a reality. As a first step, we will tackle and reducing water usage. We have also been environmental issues affecting our value chain working to conserve biodiversity as outlined in two ways: by reducing the environmental in the Kirin Group's Declaration of Support load directly associated with our business for Biodiversity Conservation, announced in operations and by encouraging our suppliers, October 2010. customers, and other stakeholders, and working The Kirin Group affects the environment at each with them to address environmental issues. stage of its value chain—from sourcing of raw Kirin Group's Environmental Policy Basic The Kirin Group, which delivers food and health, is committed to creating a prosperous society that lives in harmony with nature. To achieve this objective, we are helping to preserve the environment by adopting Policy low-carbon operations in all our businesses and offering tangible environmental benefits to customers. Implementing the Basic Policy in every aspect of business along the entire value chain Conducting ongoing assessments and audits to ensure follow-through on the policy’s implementation are the two guiding principles underlying our environmental practices. We align the leadership of the Group’s senior management and the involvement of all employees toward making environmental stewardship an integral and vitally important part of business management, for which we set challenging goals. Legal compliance Technology development We hold the high moral ground to be compliant with We develop technologies that respect nature Action environmental laws, agreements and voluntary and benefit both the natural environment and standards. customers. Guidelines Environmental management system Environmental training We establish an environmental management system We continuously develop human resources that is in line with the management strategy so as to who can make a difference in promoting make continual improvements to our environmental environmental stewardship. stewardship. Communication Environmental performance We conduct community-oriented green We save resources and energy, curb greenhouse gas activities and strive to retain the trust of our emissions, prevent environmental pollution, and stakeholders by keeping them constantly implement the three Rs—reduce, recycle and reuse— informed of our practices for environmental initiatives for waste materials. stewardship. 30 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Environmental Stewardship across the Entire Value Chain Sourcing R&D Disposal and Manufacturing Recycling Kirin Group's Initiatives to Promote Environmental Stewardship across its Entire Value Chain Environmental Sustainability Distribution Consumption Sales Low Carbon Water Saving Eco-Friendly Emissions Biodiversity Resources Resources Products We announce We conserve We promote We make product We offer customers ambitious targets for biodiversity to be able sustainable packaging lighter and eco-friendly products CO2 reduction and to continue to use the management of water use resources more with low work with stakeholders bounty of nature to resources at national efficiently to help environmental loads. toward achieving create products and and regional levels achieve a zero-waste them through services. around the globe. society. effective management of our business operations. Our Approaches Kirin Group's Environmental Management System Kirin Group Office, a shared-service entity within environmental management, and an increasing This Sustainability Report covers key subjects related to the Kirin Group, has taken over responsibility for number of our offices and plants have become the Kirin Group’s environment quality assurance and environmental management certified under ISO 14001. Moreover, to integrate stewardship. Detailed data are available in the Kirin Group for the entire Group. This arrangement is intended by-site environmental management systems into Environmental Data Book, which discusses the Group's to continually improve the Group's environmental an enterprise-wide management system, Kirin environmental management management and enhance its environmental Brewery became the first beer company in Japan system, ISO 14001 certification, environmental accounting, governance. to receive company-wide certification under ISO history of its environmental The Kirin Group has been establishing an 14001 in June 2008, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin also stewardship, and site data. environmental management system based obtained company-wide certification in May 2009. on the ISO 14001 international standards on Declaration of Environmental Commitment Following up on the Kirin Group's Action Plans environmental challenges relevant to its business. for Becoming a Low-Carbon Corporate Group, These companies have integrated environmental each of the larger companies in the Group has commitment into their management objectives declared its commitment with society to meet the and have been working to deliver results. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 31 Environmental Sustainability Moving Toward a Low-Carbon Society Reducing CO2 Emissions Throughout the Value Chain Kirin Group's Action Plans for Becoming a Low-Carbon Corporate Group 定量目標 Climate change significantly affects the Earth's integrated into day-to-day business operations. In ecosystems, water resources, and food supply, and August 2009, we devised a strategy for mitigating poses serious health and safety risks to humanity. It global warming and set a medium-term target for could also affect the Kirin Group' business, whose reducing CO2 emissions directly associated with sustainability relies on the bounty of nature. our business to step up our Group-wide efforts. We To address the pressing issues of climate change, also established long-term targets for reducing CO2 the Kirin Group has made becoming a low-carbon emissions throughout our value chain ranging from corporate group a central focus of its CSR activities R&D to disposal and recycling. CO2 Reduction Targets Weighing the balance between the Earth’s finite natural CO2 absorption ability and the CO2 emissions created by mankind, 1 the We will reduce CO emissions generated from our entire global value chain by half from 1990 level by 2050. 2 See Pages 32 and 33 2 We will reduce CO emissions resulting from our global manufacturing, distribution and office 2 operations by 1% or more annually through 2050. See Page 42 3 Byoperations 2015, we will bring CO emissions from our manufacturing, distribution and office 2 in Japan down to 35% below the 1990 level. See Pages 34 and 35 Life cycle assessment Reduction targets apply to the value chains of all Group companies throughout the world. (Formulated on August 3, 2009) (LCA) A technique to quantify and assess the use of resources and the environmental load associated with all stages of a product's life cycle—from sourcing of raw materials to manufacture, use, and disposal—and their Accounting for CO2 Emissions along the Entire Value Chain environmental impact on the Earth's environment and ecosystems. To minimize our CO2 emissions throughout the and ascertained our CO2 emissions throughout value chain in the medium-to-long term, we first the value chain for the first time. To ensure the need to ascertain how much CO2 is generated reliability and transparency of the standards, we directly from our manufacturing, distribution, obtained a Scope 3 rating from Deloitte Tohmatsu and office operations, and how much from other Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. sources in the value chain—such as from the Of the 244 consolidated subsidiaries (66 in Japan sourcing of materials, sales and marketing, and and 178 overseas) in the Group, 73 companies (34 disposal and recycling. in Japan and 39 overseas) accounted for their CO2 The Kirin Group delineates and assesses the emissions across their respective value chains for environmental load across its value chain using 2009, which represent 94%, or 6.4 million tons a Independent Rating the life-cycle-assessment (LCA) method. year, of the total CO2 that the Kirin Group emitted Report for Scope 3 issued In 2010, we established the Kirin Group's Standards along its global value chain. by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification for Calculating Value-Chain Emissions of CO2 Organization Kirin Group's Operational Boundaries for Accounting for CO2 Emissions Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Materials Manufacturing Distribution Sales and Marketing Disposal and Recycling International initiative established by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development in Products Manufactured In-House 1998 to develop and provide international standards for Transportation corporate GHG accounting Transportation of of Disposal Operational products Sales activities and reporting. activities waste Production Transportation of of at Kirin facilities materials materials (R&D, manufacture, Transportation Scope 3 office operations) of waste generated Disposal The GHG Protocol defines during manufacture three scopes (scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3) for GHG accounting and reporting purposes. Scope 3 accounts for indirect Products Sourced Externally GHG emissions that are a consequence of the activities Products sourced from external contract of a reporting company, manufacturers but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the company. 32 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Measures Kirin Group Calculated Value-Chain Emissions of CO2 and How to Reduce Them Companies Have Taken to Reduce Value-Chain Environmental Load Materials Of the total CO2 emissions across the Kirin Group's We use these findings to efficiently and effectively (Standardized can-end value chain in 2009, 41% came from the sourcing achieve the Group's mediumto long-term design) Kirin Brewery and Suntory, of materials, 16% from in-house manufacturing, targets for reducing CO2 emissions while stepping two leading beer companies in Japan, have standardized 16% from the sales and marketing, 3% from up our efforts to save resources, save energy, and the design of the ends for distribution, and 1% from disposal and recycling. create eco-friendly products. That is how the Kirin their aluminum cans to reduce the use of aluminum. CO2 emissions by contract manufacturers Group integrates environmental stewardship into accounted for 17% of the total. its business operations. Kirin Group's Value-Chain CO2 Emissions in 2009 CO2 emissions across value chain: 6.8 million tons Estimated CO2 emissions: 0.4 million tons CO2 emissions calculated using the standards: 6.4 million tons Sales and Contract Materials 41% Manufacturing 16% marketing 16% manufacturing 17% Manufacturing (Renewable energy) Distribution 3% We are deploying power Disposal and recycling 1% Estimates 6% generation systems that run Environmental Sustainability on solar energy, biogas, and wind power. How We Calculate Our Value-Chain CO2 Emissions When calculating the Kirin Group's total value-chain volume) performed in each stage of the value CO2 emissions, we set organizational boundaries to chain multiplied by the CO2 emission intensity. To In April 2007, Kirin Brewery include consolidated subsidiaries of Kirin Holdings. obtain the volume of activities, we used primarily signed a 10-year sponsorship Of the 15 categories of CO2 emission sources in the the Kirin Group's own data and supplemented agreement with Yokohama City for its wind power Scope 3 defined by the GHG Protocol, we chose them with data published by industry associations. generation project. six categories that offer greater opportunities for To obtain the CO2 emission intensity, we relied on emission reduction as the Group's operational public databases—data published by government boundaries for accounting for its CO2 emissions. agencies, data published by industry associations, We obtained value-chain CO2 emissions by and data in the inter-industry table in the order of aggregating the volume of activities (consumption priority. of raw materials, energy usage, and transportation Distribution Mercian's Approaches to Reducing Environmental Load across its Value Chain (Producing PET bottles in-house) Kirin Beverage makes PET Mercian's efforts to reduce environmental load bottles that weigh 284 grams each—15 grams lighter bottles in-house in its plants, extend to all stages of its products' life cycles than their predecessors—and are the lightest in the emitting less CO2 compared with having them delivered from bottling at facilities in Japan and abroad to Japanese wine industry (as of August 2010). in trucks to the plants from transportation to consumption to disposal. The Moreover, some of Mercian's branded wines are suppliers. company imports wines, including Australian wines sold in PET bottles designed specifically for wines; co-developed with Lion Nathan National Foods, to producing and transporting PET bottles generates Japan not individually in glass bottles but in bulk in less CO2 compared with glass bottles. As these PET specially designed plastic bags, and bottles them bottles are recyclable, they help save resources. into individual bottles in Japan. This method helps Mercian has worked with Kirin Brewery to redesign keep the wines in good condition and reduces CO2 a three-liter bag-in-box for its Franzia wine. The emissions by 60% during ocean transportation. redesigned container reduces 94% of the amount of Mercian's domestic wines are sold in 720-ml glass wine left unpourable in the earlier design. Disposal and recycling (Biogas power plant operated by the Amita Group) Ocean Transportation Bottling and Transportation in Japan Consumption and Disposal Kirin Beverage provides coffee grounds as a substrate to a biogas power plant in northern Kyoto Prefecture. Importing wines from Selling wines in Selling wines in specially Redesigning the Australia, France, Italy, 720-ml glass bottles designed PET bottles to bag-in-box for Franzia and the United States —the lightest in the reduce CO2 emissions wine to reduce the in special plastic bags industry—to save during production and amount of unpourable to reduce CO2 resource and reduce transportation wine emissions during CO2 emissions as well as to transportation during transportation achieve greater recyclability KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 33 Alcohol beverages Non-alcohol beverages Environmental Sustainability Pharmaceuticals and biochemicals Other businesses kt 2,0001,892 Moving Toward a Low-Carbon Society 1,500 414 1,565 1,440 1,348 1,297 35% reduction 1,296 Efforts to Achieve 35% Reduction in CO2 Emissions 426 571 523 469 1,000 425 486 142 284 252 255 245 252 121 119 114 1,229 500 115 106 910 589 546 509 513 Challenge 25 452 Campaign A nationwide campaign to Reducing CO2 Emissions in Manufacturing, Distribution, (year）1990and2006 0 Office2007OperationsOperations 2008 2009 2010 2015 mitigate global warming (Target） initiated by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan, calling The Kirin Group strives to reduce CO2 emissions tons, from the 1990 level. on the public and businesses to take action to reduce resulting from its manufacturing, distribution, and We will continue to work hard to achieve our goals CO2 emissions. Among its corporate participants are office operations in Japan to 35% below the 1990 of reducing value-chain CO2 emissions across the 46 Kirin Group companies, level by 2015, and to reduce CO2 emissions from Group. including Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, Mercian, these operations around the globe by 1% or more CO2 Emissions from Manufacturing, Distribution, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin. In annually through 2050. and Office Operations in Japan addition, as of September 2010, 18,000 Kirin Group We have been working to reduce CO2 emissions Alcohol beverages Pharmaceuticals and biochemicals Non-alcohol beverages Other businesses employees, representing 73% of the total workforce in a manner relevant to our business. In our plants, kt 2,000 1,892 of the participating Group we have been switching to gas boilers; been using 1,500 414 1,565 1,440 1,348 35% reduction companies, were active in 1,297 1,296 571 the campaign as citizen renewable energy; installed an electricity-and1,000 426 142 523 469 425 486 284 participants. heat cogeneration system powered by biogas; 500 121 252 119 255 115 245 114 252 106 1,229 910 and streamlined manufacturing processes. In 0 589 546 509 513 452 addition, we have shifted toward greater use of (year） 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2015 (Target） rail for freight transportation, and begun switching Scope of reporting: Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd.; Mercian Corp.; Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd.;Ei Sho Gen Co., Ltd.; Kirin Logistics Co., Ltd.; Kirin Engineering to a fleet of eco-friendly cars for salespeople in the Co., Ltd.; Kirin Techno-System Corp.; Kirin Merchandising Co., Ltd.; Kirin City Co., Ltd.; Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd.; Shinshu Beverage Co. Ltd.; Kirin field. Kyowa Foods Co., Ltd.; Koiwai Dairy Products Co., Ltd., Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Medex Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Hakko Chemical Co., Ltd.; Kyowa All these efforts enabled us in 2010 to reduce CO2 Hakko Bio Co., Ltd.; Daiichi Fine Chemical Co., Ltd.; Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd.; emissions from our manufacturing, distribution, Kirin Business Expert Co., Ltd.; and Kirin Real Estate Co., Ltd. Amounts of CO2 emissions shown above include those reported as a and office operations in Japan by 32%, or 596,000 specified consigner pursuant to the Japanese Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Manufacturing EEO Program The Kirin Group's efforts to reduce CO2 emissions waste materials in its plants; for instance, to power A program initiated by Australia's federal from its manufacturing operations include making LED-lit signage, the company has installed in its government for large corporations to review and manufacturing processes leaner, achieving greater Fuji Plant a photovoltaic system on the roof of the implement cost-effective energy efficiency through fuel switching, and using formulating facility—the location that receives the ways to increase their energy efficiency, improve their more renewable energy. most sunlight during daytime. productivity, and reduce their When Kirin Brewery renovated its Shiga Plant in Lion Nathan National Foods’ dairy and drinks GHG emissions. 2010, the company built into the plant a host business continued to roll out the Australian federal High-efficiency gasof sophisticated energy-saving technologies— government’s Energy Efficiency Opportunities fired boiler Kirin Brewery has replaced including a waste-heat recovery system, a system (EEO) program that was established to identify its heavy oil-fired boilers with high-efficiency gasfor recycling and reusing water in the cleaning opportunities to reduce energy usage. The company fired boilers to reduce CO2 process, a high-efficiency ammonia refrigeration implemented many programs, such as recovering emissions. system, and high-efficiency small once-through energy previously lost and reusing it, installing highboilers—and switched fuel from heavy oil to natural efficiency burners on boilers, adopting new air gas. As a result, the plant cut its CO2 emissions by compressors, replacing to high-bay LED lamps, and half from the 1990 level. turning off lights and equipment when not in use. Kirin Brewery has been working toward the goals To date, these programs resulted in a saving of 90 Biogas power of, by 2012, reducing CO2 emissions by half and the terajoules of energy. generation Kirin Brewery generates CO2 emission intensity by 45% in its factories, both electricity with a from the 1990 level; and of reducing the emission Kirin Group Plants and Offices in Japan Using cogeneration system Energy-Efficient Equipment and Renewable using biogas produced intensity during product transportation by 6% Energy Sources by wastewater treatment facilities in its plants. from the 2006 level. The company plans to set new Equipment Installation reduction targets for 2012 through 2015. Gas boilers Installed in 24 plants and offices since 1980 Kirin Beverage has switched fuel for its boilers to Photovoltaic system Installed in 12 plants and offices since 1996 natural gas in its Maizuru Plant. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Since 2007, Kirin Brewery has been participating Wind-power system in the Wind Power Generation Project initiated by has also stepped up its efforts to reduce energy the City of Yokohama usage, to switch to alternative fuel, and to recycle Cogeneration system Installed in 7 plants and offices since 2002 NAS battery A rechargeable, largecapacity battery with a long cycle life. Since 2006, Kirin Carbon Disclosure Project Brewery's Toride Plant has been using NAS batteries, The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a project initiated by a non-profit organization of the same name established which—combined with an by institutional investors and financial institutions, and is based in the United Kingdom. It publishes a report on GHG in-house power generation emissions produced by large corporations around the world as well as on their strategies to reduce them. system running on biogas and natural gas—help reduce In 2010, the CDP published a report on 500 large corporations around the world (Global 500), of which 42 were Japanese CO2 emissions from the plant. companies, including Kirin Holdings. We scored 82 points out of a possible 100 in the Carbon Disclosure Score, and ranked second among the Japanese firms. 34 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Eco Rail Mark Distribution A certification granted to a business whose extensive use of rail for freight transportation is judged The Kirin Group reduces CO2 emissions from its to 6,670 tons in 2010. to be beneficial to the environment. distribution operations through a modal shift from Kirin Brewery became certified with the Eco Rail Mark Eco-friendly cars truck to rail and shared delivery of products to retailers, in 2010, and reduced CO2 emissions by 7.3%, or 4,500 In 2010, six companies in the Kirin Group—including and by improving the load efficiency of its trucks. tons, from the previous year. Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Kirin Kirin Beverage became certified with the Eco Rail Mark Mercian imports wines in bulk in specially designed Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Mercian—added 120 hybrid for its extensive use of rail freight in March 2006. In large plastic bags, and bottles them in Japan to reduce cars and other eco-friendly cars to their fleets. The Kirin 2010, the company worked with national retailers to CO2 emissions during ocean transportation. Group has 2,650 eco-friendly promote this modal shift, resulting in Kirin Brewery and Kirin Beverage share delivery trucks cars and subcompacts in its fleet in Japan. an additional reduction of 280 tons with the Suntory Group and Sapporo Breweries to of CO2. This brought the total annual reduce the environmental load associated with the Energy-saving vending machines CO2 reduction through the modal shift physical distribution of products to retailers. Vending machines for canned and bottled beverages are designated as specified machines under the Japanese Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Kirin Beverage has Sales and Office Operations been switching to energyEnvironmental Sustainability efficient vending machines running on a heat pump. In summer of 2011, the To curb CO2 emissions from sales and office shared servers and implementing virtual storage company will carry out a operations, the Kirin Group is switching to ecosolutions that enable the use of a single server as scheduled rolling shutdown of cooling units in some friendly cars for salespeople in the field, and if it were multiple servers, the company reduced of its vending machines working to reduce energy usage at its data center. the number of servers in its data center and cut for a few hours a day and completely turn off others Kyowa Hakko Kirin has been replacing its fleet of its power consumption by 6.2% from 6.31 million in the area served by Tokyo Electric Power Company to cars for its medical representatives in the field with kWh in 2009 to 5.92 million kWh in 2010. cut power consumption by hybrid cars since 2009. Kirin Brewery is phasing Yokohama Akarenga switched to LED lighting more than 24% in its vending machines installed in the area. in fuel-efficient, low-emission cars to replace all in its public spaces and 23 tenant stores and Annual Power vehicles in its fleet. restaurants, resulting in the reduction of power Consumption of Beverage Kirin Business System, which manages information usage by one-third and a substantial reduction in Vending Machines per Unit Shipped (kWh) systems for the Group, made its power-intensive CO2 emissions. Vending machines for canned （kW・h） data center more energy efficient. By switching to 1642 and bottled beverages 1642 2000 1500 1620 1559 1559 1349 1349 1000 1167 1167 1046 kWh per year （△36.3%） Numbers are weighted (△36.3%) 500 average power consumption 0 2005 2007 2009 2012 (Fiscal year） Source: Japan Vending Machine Manufacturers Association Environmental Stewardship Initiatives Built Expert Advice around Sustainability What impresses me the most about the Kirin Group's from external sources, such environmental stewardship initiatives is that they are built as suppliers, in its Action around sustainability and take a comprehensive approach Plans for Becoming a Lowto addressing issues of global warming, biodiversity, water Carbon Corporate Group. resources, and saving resources. When the Kirin Group The Kirin Group took a significant step in the right direction became one of the first when it accounted for CO2 emissions along its entire value corporations to announce chain and had its calculation standards reviewed and verified a declaration of support for for reliability and transparency by a third-party institution. biodiversity conservation, it Visualizing value-chain CO2 emissions is an important step for reaffirmed its position as a a company to take to reduce them. I am glad to see the Kirin corporate group that makes Kosuke Ikehara Group making a steady progress toward its mediumto longproducts from the bounty of Climate Change Project Leader term goals of reducing carbon emissions. External sources nature. World Wide Fund for Nature Japan are responsible for some of a company's value-chain CO2 I would suggest that the Kirin emissions, and those portions are often difficult to ascertain. Group discuss in a future sustainability report how Group I would suggest that the Kirin Group assess to what extent companies divide roles and responsibilities among them to external sources influence its total emissions and how much collectively achieve the Group's environmental goals. I also opportunity exists to mitigate external influence when the encourage the Kirin Group to step up its collaborative efforts Group considers expanding the boundaries for accounting with other companies, such as shared delivery of products for its CO2 emissions. to retailers. I also find it a positive move that the Kirin Group has I hope the Kirin Group will continue to lead the industry with addressed and committed to reducing both CO2 emissions its pioneering and effective approaches to environmental directly associated with its business operations and those stewardship. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 35 Environmental Sustainability Conserving Biodiversity DBJ Environmental Rating Japanese financial institutions Kirin Group's Declaration of Support for Biodiversity Conservation have begun to consider corporate practices to conserve biodiversity in their The Kirin Group relies on what nature has to offer global momentum, the Kirin Group announced financing decisions. The Kirin Group has received from the to conduct its business, and it recognizes the its Declaration of Support for Biodiversity Development Bank of Japan importance of conserving the Earth's biodiversity. Conservation in October 2010. (DBJ) the highest rating in the evaluation of its efforts to In October 2010, the 10th Conference of This declaration reflects what the Kirin Group conserve biodiversity. the Parties to the Convention on Biological has been doing all these years, and it reaffirms Diversity (COP10) was held in Nagoya, Japan, the Group's unwavering commitment to the in which the Strategic Plan of the Convention sustainable use and conservation of biodiversity. on Biological Diversity, also know as the Aichi We believe these efforts will help society achieve Target, for 2011 and beyond was adopted. As a harmonious coexistence with nature. efforts for biodiversity conservation were gaining Kirin Group's Declaration of Support for Biodiversity Conservation The Kirin Group, which relies on the bounty and goodness of nature to conduct its business, recognizes the importance of conserving the Earth's biodiversity. We take it upon ourselves to help conserve biodiversity so as to be able to continue to bring a greater joy of food and health to our customers. 1.Make sustainable use of natural resources In our business operations, we use natural resources with biodiversity consideration in mind so that people around the world can continue to enjoy and appreciate the rich bounty of nature. 2.Apply technologies to conservation of biodiversity We apply the portfolio of technologies we have acquired through business operations to the sustainable use and conservation of biodiversity while delivering a new joy of food and health to our customers. 3.Work with stakeholders to conserve biodiversity We incorporate biodiversity considerations into our ongoing environmental stewardship efforts and work with customers and communities to conserve biodiversity. 4.Meet legal and regulatory obligations We meet our obligations under laws and international treaties that govern the conservation of biodiversity to ensure that the rich bounty of nature is shared (Announced on October 6, 2010) among people around the globe. Saving a Wetland in Wither Hills Winery Wither Hills, Lion Nathan National Foods’ winery in New Zealand, has undertaken a conservation of Rarangi Making Sustainable Use of Natural Resources wetlands, whose indigenous biological diversity is of significant ecological value to the region. Wither Hills’ The Kirin Group integrates the sustainable use of Mercian conserves and manages biodiversity in conservation project at the wetlands includes resources and biodiversity considerations into its its Mariko Vineyard in Ueda, Nagano Prefecture. eradicating and controlling procurement policies and practices. The Group The 12.5-hectare vineyard was converted largely weed, replanting natives as well as protecting the rare also promotes sustainable agriculture to prevent from idle farmland in 2003. When developing plant listed as “vulnerable” farmland from being abandoned and nature from the site, Mercian was careful to preserve the by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. being destroyed. In 2010, we began assessing the landscape, paying attention to the naturel This project has been largely led by Wither Hills’ staff and a influence that our suppliers of black tea leaves— environment and scenery in the area. The local ecologist, in conjunction one of our primary procurement items—might company uses fertilizer and agrochemicals with a with the region council and the Biodiversity Fund of New have on local biodiversity. The assessment has low environmental load and has switched to mist Zealand. found that the suppliers have little adverse spraying to reduce the amount of agrochemicals influence on biodiversity. used on the vineyard. Kirin Beverage Sri Lanka Friendship Project Kirin Beverage has been using black tea leaves harvested in Sri Lanka to give a distinct taste to its Gogo-no-Kocha (afternoon tea) brand of bottled teas for 25 years. To thank tea Wither Hills Winery estates in Sri Lanka as well as to strengthen bonds with them, the company has initiated a community outreach program. The people in Sri Lanka who work on tea estates picking tea leaves all year round live in communities near the plantations. Public schools in the communities are not well Students of Loolecondera School equipped—they lack well-stocked libraries. Kirin Beverage has been donating books to who received books school libraries since 2007 so that children in the communities have good books to read. Through this friendship project, the company gives something back to the people in Sri Lanka for harvesting tea leaves that give Kirin's bottled teas a distinct taste. Mariko Vineyard 36 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Nature observation Applying Technologies to Conservation of Biodiversity project Kirin Brewery makes biotope sites in its plants available for children to learn about the The Kirin Group has developed a portfolio of seedlings. environment. proprietary technologies inspired by nature and Kirin Holding's Central Laboratories for Frontier which is expected to benefit the sustainable use Technology has discovered that lignin glycoside— and conservation of biodiversity. a complex composed of polysaccharide and lignin For instance, we have a technology to propagate extracted from milling fractions of barley—induces plantlets from the tissue of a plant, and this a strong immune activation in an animal. The technology can be used to restore a commercially laboratory has found that the complex activates logged forest to its natural state faster. The an immune system also when administered cardboard and paper packages we use for our orally to an animal. These findings can lead to the products are produced from forest resources. prevention of infectious diseases in dairy cows To make those resources sustainable along the and to the reduced use of antibiotics for them— upstream value chain, we have been working a contribution to sustainable livestock and dairy Children observing fish in a with a paper company in a project to apply farming. biotope area in a summer science project our propagation technology to growing tree (Top: Okayama Plant; Bottom: Kobe Plant) Environmental Sustainability Working with Stakeholders Conserving biodiversity protects the interests stable at a few thousand, they are investigating of local communities. The Kirin Group works how to bring the fish back to the natural with customers and local partners to conserve environment. The plant also makes the biotope Golden venus chub—a species threatened with biodiversity in the communities. site available to local children so that they can extinction—protected and bred in the biotope site in When Kirin Brewery builds a factory, the company observe fish and aquatic insects. Kirin Brewery's Kobe Plant recreates a space in it that fits seamlessly into the Kirin Beverage supports the Borneo Conservation surrounding natural environment. Kirin Brewery's Trust Japan, an NPO working to protect forests Kobe Plant built in its premises a biotope site in and establish a rescue center for wild animals in 1997, in which plant workers and local residents Borneo. The company installed vending machines have been protecting and breeding golden venus with built-in donation boxes for the cause first in chub, a fish species threatened with extinction. Asahiyama Zoo in Hokkaido in 2009, and has since As the number of fish in the biotope is remaining been installing them in other parts of Japan. Vending machine with a built-in donation box for Meeting Legal and Regulatory Obligations a conservation project in Borneo To ensure that the rich bounty of nature is shared on Biodiversity in Nagoya and the Eco Sayings Green Wave 2011 Green Wave is a global among people around the globe, the Kirin Group Contest, both as part of COP 10 Partnership campaign to encourage respects the principles of the Convention on Projects. In the sayings contest, elementary young people to plant trees and think about biodiversity. Biological Diversity and adheres to national laws and junior high students from all over Japan To celebrate the International submitted entries of their own sayings about Day for Biological Diversity that govern the conservation of biodiversity. on May 22, Green Wave Kirin Holdings has become a promotion partner living creatures. participants in different parts of the world plant trees, for the Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon In October 2010, COP 10 adopted the Nagoya thereby creating a figurative Keidanren and a member of the Japan Business Protocol on access to genetic resources and the green wave around the world. In Japan, in response and Biodiversity Partnership to spearhead the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from to the call of the Ministry their utilization. The Kirin Group has established of the Environment and a Kirin Group's efforts to integrate biodiversity couple of other ministries, considerations into its business operations. guidelines on access to genetic resources, which Kirin Brewery participated in the campaign in 2011. The Eco-First Promotion Conference, a crossoutline the use of generic resources in a manner industry environmental association chaired by that benefits people around the world. Kirin Brewery, sponsored the Open Symposium Kirin Group's Principles on Access Eco Sayings Contest Management of Genetic Resources The contest asked elementary and junior high 1.Respect international agreements on biodiversity. students to submit original sayings about 2.Gain access to genetic resources with prior informed consent of a country providing such treating living creatures and nature with resources. Do not introduce or use genetic respect and about sharing this planet with resources of unknown origin. other living creatures. From all over Japan, 484 3.Properly manage the use of genetic resources, sayings were submitted, and several good ones including the fair and equitable sharing of were commended. This event raised awareness Certificate of benefits arising from their use, in accordance with excellence awarded international treaties. of biodiversity among children and their to a contest winner parents as well as other members of the public. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 37 Environmental Sustainability Promoting Sustainable Water Resources Management Kirin Group's Efforts to Conserve Water Resources CDP Water Disclosure The Kirin Group uses nature's bounty of the land Australia, which has been experiencing a severe In addition to publishing carbon emissions by large and waters to conduct business—we rely on finite drought, Lion Nathan National Foods is striving corporations around the world, the CDP has launched water resources to make our products. to reduce its water usage to 10% below the 2009 a program to disclose the The United Nations predicts that, by 2025, twolevel by 2015. Kirin Group companies share waterusage of water resources by corporations. The Kirin Group thirds of the world's population will live under conservation measures that have worked among participated in the program water stress. Fresh water resources are unevenly them to achieve greater results. in 2010. distributed in the world, and water is already extremely scarce in some regions. Climate change Surface Water Abstraction Stress to Rivers might make the matter even worse. The Kirin Group recognizes that securing a stable supply of water and using it effectively is crucial to its global business. We address this challenge from various angles, ascertaining the risks and opportunities associated with them. The Kirin Group's efforts to conserve water resources have focused on three key areas: using water more efficiently; treating wastewater No stress Minimal use Moderate stress properly; and protecting water sources. In 2010, Stress High stress the Group used 89.3 million m3 of water in its Copyright 2008 by The Nature Conservancy and World Wildlife Fund, Inc. global operations—80.0 million m3 of which was All Rights Reserved. Percentage of Water used in Japan, and 8.9 million m3 in Oceania. In （Source）Freshwater Ecoregions Of the World（http://www.feow.org） Usage by Business 国内外の主要生産拠点における淡水使用量 Segment in 2010 Kirin Group's Efforts to Conserve Water Pharmaceuticals Resources Amount of Fresh Water We Use in Regions in and biochemicals which We Have Large Manufacturing Facilities 47% Other businesses ■We reduce our water usage by: 13% •Designing a factory layout in a manner that Millions of cubic meters Domestic alcohol minimizes water usage, such as by placing beverages Using water utility facilities at dispersed locations within a 27% more efficiently factory site •Redesigning cleaning processes and using China Installation more recycled wastewater (cascading) 0.4 Japan ■We treat wastewater before Treating discharging it into rivers and oceans by: wastewater •Applying more stringent voluntary standards 80.0 properly for treating wastewater than required by law Overseas to minimize its load on the environment beverages Oceania 10% Domestic ■We protect sources from which we non-alcohol Protecting draw water by: beverages 3% water sources •Preserving forests that protect and reproduce 8.9 water sources Usage of Water in Manufacturing of Alcohol and Nonalcohol Beverages in Japan in 2010 Technical Innovations to Use Water More Efficiently As more water is used for manufacturing operations than goes into products, The Kirin Group spares no effort to reduce water efficient use of cooling water in its factories. The reducing water usage in manufacturing makes good usage in its factories through conservation and group has reduced water usage by pumping environmental sense. the reuse of water. less groundwater and implementing, in 2007, Water that went In 2010, Kirin Brewery reduced water usage in a water-circulation system optimized for water into products manufacturing by 56%, and the water-use intensity Water Usage and Water-Use Intensity in 12％ by 40% from the 1990 level. The company brought Kirin Brewery Water used for manufacturing its water-use intensity in its brewery division from Water usage Water-use intensity operations 6.7 m3 /kl in 2009 down to 6.2 m3 /kl in 2010. Amount (million m3 per year) ntensity (million m3/kl) 88％ 40 12 In particular, its Kobe Plant achieved one of the 10.4 (Reused water, included above) lowest water-use intensities in the Japanese beer 30 9 7％ industry as a result of vigorous efforts to save 34.9 7.8 7.6 7.0 6.7 water such as by reusing cleaning water for tanks, 20 6.2 6 *Resource efficiency of fresh which constituted the bulk of water usage. 21.2 20.9 water: 18.6 The Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group has quantified 17.4 1,000 kl per 100 million yen 10 15.5 3 1,000 kl per ton of products the resource efficiency of fresh water* and uses the result to develop ways to make more 0 0 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) 38 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 temperature and use, including the recycling of of production for one liter of beer to 2.38 liters of Reverse osmosis membrane cooling water for alcohol distillation columns. water in 2010, which was 2.9 liters in 2009 and 9.5 This membrane acts as a filter for impurities while allowing Lion Nathan National Foods’ alcohol beverages liters before the treatment facility was installed. water to pass through, and it business reduced its water consumption per This is one of the best water-saving performances is used to purify water and to desalinate seawater. liter of product by 4% in 2010, and its dairy and achieved by a brewery in the world. drinks business reduced its usage by 7%. This The company's dairy and drinks business was achieved through improved housekeeping continued to make progress in reducing the practices and participation in various state amount of water government water saving programs. used per liter of milk Castlemaine Perkins Brewery built a wastewaterbottled, bringing treatment facility with a subsidy from the sate several sites into line government in 2008. Wastewater is treated using with best practicereverse osmosis membranes and reused in cooling levels for milk plants. towers and boilers, and for cleaning. As a result, the brewery improved its water usage per unit Castlemaine Perkins Brewery Treating Wastewater Properly Environmental Sustainability Wastewater-treatment The Kirin Group treats wastewater before into balancing tanks and then treated using facilities (Top: Anaerobic treatment facility; Bottom: discharging it into rivers and oceans. To minimize anaerobic and activated-sludge methods before Activated sludge treatment the load of wastewater on the environment, we being discharged. facility) implement a more stringent voluntary standards Kyowa Hakko Kirin recovers high-purity for wastewater treatment than required by law. phosphoric acids from wastewater and offers Kirin Brewery's beer factories generate wastewater them as agricultural materials. As phosphoric that contains high levels of sugars and acid resources are in short supply globally, the carbohydrates originating from raw materials as company seeks to market recovered phosphoric well as low-concentration wastewater such as acids for a variety of applications. Phosphoric acid-recovery used cleaning water. All wastewater is first piped facility Protecting Water Sources Forests perform vital services including the voluntary environmental conservation around International Year of conservation of biodiversity, prevention of our factories and offices; and community Forests The United Nations has sediment disasters, and most important—the environmental conservation carried out with declared 2011 as the International Year of Forests. recharging of groundwater. Since Kirin Brewery groups of community members. In 2010, 7,890 Kirin Brewery supports started preserving forests at water sources near employees and their family members took part in the United Nations' efforts to raise awareness of its breweries in 1999, the project has extended the project. In 2011, sustainable conservation of to other Group companies and involved we plan to encourage forests, and works with local governments and forest local communities. In 2010, we undertook local communities to cooperatives in Japan to protect water sources. forestation projects in 18 locations in Japan, and get involved in the 2,000 participants planted trees and removed project to promote underbrush. the International Year Our project to protect water sources comprises of Forests. Forest preservation project three components: forestation at water sources; in Kouchi Prefecture Protecting Underflow Water from Mt. Fuji Kirin Group's beverage Kirin Holdings has found that the groundwater that products are made Kirin Distillery’s Fuji-Gotemba Distillery pumps comes from water that from underflow water that has been purified through originates in forests. sediment layers in Mt. Fuji for half a century from rain and snow water that had sunk underground 2,000 meters or higher above sea level on the eastern slope of the mountain. To protect the water sources at the Mountain foot of Mt. Fuji, the Kirin Group plants trees along Fuji-Gotemba a road that runs through the watershed protection forest Distillery forest near the water sources. We also prune branches and thin trees in the forest to optimize growth. We Groundwater use these well-managed water resources to make our Kirin Distillery’s Fujiproducts. Gotemba Distillery KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 39 Environmental Sustainability Saving Resources and Using them Wisely Green Packaging Carton for six 350-ml Containers and packages serve several purposes has switched to lighter returnable glass bottles for cans of beers The carton, made of including preserving the quality of contents and beer, made the walls of aluminum cans thinner, fewer squares of thinner paper, is 6% lighter than its making products easy for customers to handle. and switched to the smaller 204 diameter can end. predecessor. These packages are made from finite resources Kirin Beverage has reduced the weight of its twoand become waste after use. The Kirin Group liter PET bottles. We have also been working to takes packaging seriously and seeks to reduce its help increase the recycling rate for used containers environmental load. To make better use of finite and packages. Kirin Beverage, for instance, uses resources as well as to reduce, reuse, and recycle recyclable containers for its Kirin Hypa juices. packaging materials, we established the Guidelines Moreover, we have streamlined shipping cartons Kirin Hypa juice in for Designing Green Packaging in 1998 and for our products with the consent of distributors paper container updated them in 2008. and retailers. Kirin Hypa juices have been sold in recyclable paper Kirin Brewery's Packaging Development Center containers since 2004, a has been working on technologies to improve the Kirin Brewery Rolls Out the Industry's switch from containers made of a quality and reliability of packages and, at the same Lightest Beer Can combination time, reduce their environmental load. The center In 2011, Kirin Brewery, working with three of paper and aluminum. shares with the Group companies the technologies manufacturers of aluminum cans, developed the it develops to shed weight from packages, to industry's lightest 350-ml beer can that weighs 14 Lighter Packaging grams, 7% lighter than its predecessor that weighed 15 produce packages from a smaller amount of grams. The company plans to also make its 500-ml beer (in 2010) materials and from greener materials, and to make (in 2003)cans lighter by the end of 2011. (in 2009) them easy to recycle. older Kirin Brewery will be switching to lighter cans made design The Kirin Group has taken a series of measures to of a smaller (older amount design) of aluminum to help reduce CO2 make packages lighter. For instance, Kirin Brewery emissions during the manufacturing of aluminum cans. 1.PET bottles for Kirin Nama Two-liter PET bottle Shipping carton for six-pack 350-ml cans Cha green tea drinks and Kirin of beverages(reference) Amino Supli drinks weigh Lighter Packaging 38 grams each and those for Kirin Alkali Ion Water weigh 38rams(35g) 1 475grams 42grams Carton for (in 1993) 35 grams each. Two-liter (in 2003) (in 2010) six 350-ml Beer bottle PET bottle cans of beverage 34grams (in 2009) 63grams 605grams Industry's Collection (older design) 36grams (older design) (older design) and Recycling Rates for Beverage Cans and （reference） Bottles in Japan in 2009 Recycling rate for aluminum cans 93.4 Recycling rate for steel cans 89.1 Better Use of Resources Collection rate for PET bottles 77.5 Reducing and Recycling Waste Materials Amount of Waste Materials Generated and their Percentage of glass bottles crushed into 74.2 In the Kirin Group, alcohol and non-alcohol Recycling Amount of Waste in Group Rate Materials Companies Generated and in Japan cullet their Recycling Rate in Group Companies in Japan （％） beverage businesses in Japan and abroad Sources: Japan Aluminum Can Recycling Association, generate the majority of waste materials. We are Recycling rate Waste treated in plants Recycled waste Disposed waste Japan Steel Can Recycling continually reducing waste and maintaining a 98 98 99 99 Association, Glass Bottle Amount 500 100 Recycling Recycling Promoter high recycling rate for it while developing ways (kt) 400 5 441 6 418 2 414 80 rate (%) Association, and the Council 369 for PET Bottle Recycling to make better use of industrial by-products we 3 300 60 generate instead of throwing them away. 336 327 312 263 Percentage of Waste 200 40 Materials Generated by Factories in Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Kirin Business Segment in Distillery maintain a 100% recycling rate for the 100 20 2010 100 85 100 103 waste materials they generate. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 (Year) Pharmaceuticals and biochemicals 19% Other businesses 10% Domestic Developing Better Ways to Recycle By-Products and Waste Materials alcohol beverages The Kirin Group recycles by-products and waste The company commercially produces nutrients 53% materials it generates and makes value-added for mushroom beds from spent brewing grains, materials from them. which accounts for Kirin Brewery breaks old, damaged plastic shipping the majority of bypallets into fragments and recycles them into new products it generates. pallets. Recycling a pallet generates 26 kilograms less CO2 than making a new one from pristine Domestic non-alcohol materials; this translates into an annual reduction Overseas beverages 6% of 2,700 tons in CO2 emissions. Recycled plastic shipping pallet beverages 12% 40 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Developing Eco-Friendly Products Offering Customers Eco-Friendly Products To foster a society that cares about nature, the Kirin conservation over the product's entire life cycle Group is establishing guidelines for developing from materials, manufacturing, and distribution to and marketing eco-friendly products with a low consumption, after-use disposal, and recycling. environmental load. We reduce overall environmental load across our Mercian's guidelines define criteria for designating entire value chain based on the assessment of a product as eco-friendly from the perspectives environmental profiles of our products. of low CO2 emissions, biodiversity, and resources Eco-Friendly Products Developed and Marketed by Kirin Group Companies Mercian Guidelines for Eco-Friendly Products Example: PET Bottle for Wine Environmental Sustainability Life-Cycle Stage Criteria In August 2010, Mercian started marketing seven Biodiversity consideration, lighter container, varieties of wines in PET bottles that it co-developed Materials reduced CO2 emissions with Kirin Brewery. Manufacturing Reduced CO2 emissions, reduced use of organic The light, shatter-resistant PET bottle solvent, use of solvent with proven safety keeps wine in good condition thanks to its Distribution Reduced CO2 emissions, lower environmental load oxygen-barrier feature developed using Environmental labeling, easy-to-handle container, Consumption patented technology. Another benefit lower environmental load Disposal and Reduced waste materials after use, ease of of the PET bottles is that producing and Recycling scrapping, recycling, and disposing transporting them generates less CO2 A product is designated as eco-friendly if it meets criteria in two or compared with glass bottles, and that they more stages of its life cycle. are recyclable, including plastic caps. Kirin Beverage：New Advanced Pecology Plastic Bottle Kirin Beverage has been using new advanced 2010, hosted by the Japan Packaging Institute; Asian pecology plastic bottles for its Kirin Nama Cha green Star Award in the Asian Star Contest 2010, hosted by tea drinks since 2010. The new bottle is lighter than the Asian Packaging Federation; its predecessor and has universal design elements and WorldStar Award in the for greater usability. In addition, it is made in part WorldStar Competition 2010, from plant-based materials, and requires less oil to hosted by the World Packaging manufacture. The two-liter pecology bottle for Kirin Organisation. Kirin Beverage Alkali Ion Water weighs 35 grams, the industry's established its guidelines for ecolightest two-liter PET bottle*. The new pecology friendly products in April 2011. bottle has won the following awards: Appropriate * As of March 2011 Packaging Award in the Japan Packaging Contest Kirin Brewery：Corner-Cut Cardboard Kirin Kyowa Foods：Dia Yeast REIZO Case Kirin Kyowa Foods established its guidelines for A corner-cut case is a wrap-around cardboard eco-friendly products in December 2010. One shipping case, the four corners of which are of eco-friendly products the company offers beveled off, and which requires less paper to make. is baker's yeast named Dia Yeast REIZO, which Moreover, a filled corner-cut carton is easier to temporarily stops working at low temperature carry and handle. Kirin Brewery began using these and resumes fermentation when brought back to corner-cut cartons in 2004, and uses them for 24an operational temperature. This enables bakery can packs of beverages from its entire lineup— companies to use only 250-ml cans, 350-ml cans, and the amount of dough 500-ml cans of beer, low-malt necessary for baking, beer, chu-hi, and non-alcohol resulting in reduced beer-tasting drinks (imported energy use and less waste. beverages not included). KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 41 Environmental Sustainability Controlling Chemical Substances and Preventing Pollution Environmental Regulatory Compliance and Risk Management PRTR Kyowa Hakko Kirin, because of the nature facility in one of our plants discharged wastewater Pollutant Release and Transfer of its business, handles a large amount of that exceeded local effluent standards. We Register. A system under which businesses are required chemical substances. Under its Basic Policy on immediately fixed the problem and, to prevent to report the amount of Environment, Safety and Product Safety, the recurrence of similar incidents, have since been chemical substances they release to the environment or company undertakes Responsible Care activities exercising tighter control over wastewatertransfer to other businesses. that include stringent assessment of the safe treatment operations and more vigorously Numbers of handling of chemical substances from the monitoring the discharge of wastewater. employees* participating in research phase through to their use and disposal. We regularly train our employees on environmental training The Pharmaceutical and Chemical Products environmental programs in 2010 • Waste management: 249 Division at Mercian has set a goal of reducing its management as • Wastewater treatment: 29 • Internal audit and total discharge of chemical substances specified we believe that environmental laws and by PRTR to one-fifth or less of the 2002 level in having a good regulations: 150 *Numbers of employees who 2012, and is working toward that goal. understanding attended training programs The Kirin Group assesses and cleans up any soil of environmental given by Kirin Brewery Techno Academy and Kirin Holdings contamination before selling a property. risks is essential to In 2010, a malfunctioning wastewater-treatment mitigate such risks. Environmental training for employees Material Balance The Kirin Group ascertains the effects that its business operations may have on the environment and uses the findings to take action to reduce environmental load. Shown below are the results for material balance broken down by business segment for 2010. INPUT Substances Energy 28,156TJ Freshwater 89,326km3 (Raw Materials and Packaging Materials) 2,195kt Other Domestic Other Domestic Other businesses Domestic businesses alcohol businesses alcohol 26% alcohol beverages26% beverages27% Pharmaceuticals beverages36% 33% 13% and biochemicals Domestic Domestic 6% non-alcohol non-alcohol Domestic Pharmaceuticals beverages 4% Pharmaceuticals beverages 3% Overseas non-alcohol and biochemicals and biochemicals beverages 27% beverages 5% 16% Overseas beverages21% 47% Overseas beverages10% (Raw Materials and Packaging Materials) OUTPUT Domestic alcohol beverages CO2 Emissions 1,677kt Wastewater 79,732km3 Production volume (alcohol beverages): 2,819 thousand kl Other Domestic Other Domestic (Others): 163 thousand kl businesses alcohol businesses alcohol Domestic non-alcohol beverages beverages23% 11% beverages28% 31% Domestic Production volume (beverages): Domestic non-alcohol マテリアルバランス non-alcohol 590 thousand kl Pharmaceuticals beverages 4% Pharmaceuticals beverages 3% (Others): 9 thousand kl and biochemicals and biochemicals Overseas beverages 15% Overseas beverages27% 51% Overseas beverages7% Production volume (alcohol beverages): Waste Materials 422kt 1,047 thousand kl Discharge of NOx into the Atmosphere (foods and others): 2,016 thousand kl Other businesses10% Pharmaceuticals and biochemicals Pharmaceuticals 545t Production volume (pharmaceuticals): and biochemicals 19% Domestic 1.1 thousand kl alcohol (others): 70 thousand kl beverages53% Discharge of SOx into the Atmosphere Overseas Other businesses 66t beverages Domestic non-alcohol Production volume (beverages): 12% beverages 6% 119 thousand kl (others): 1,081 thousand kl Domestic alcohol Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd.; Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd.; Ei Sho Gen Co., Ltd.; Kirin City Co., Ltd.; Kirin Merchandising Co., Ltd.; Kirin & Communications Co., Ltd.; beverages business Kirin Logistics Co., Ltd.; Kirin Engineering Co., Ltd.; Kirin Techno-System Corp.; Mercian Corp.; Mercom Corp.; Nippon Liquor Ltd.; Musee d’art Mercian Karuizawa Domestic non-alcohol beverages business Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd.; Shinshu Beverage Co. Ltd. Overseas beverages business Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd.; Kirin Brewery (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd.; Lion Nathan National Foods Pty Ltd. Pharmaceuticals and Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Medex Co., Ltd.; Kyowa Hakko Bio Co., Ltd.; Daiichi Fine Chemical Co., Ltd. biochemicals Kirin Kyowa Foods Co., Ltd.; Koiwai Dairy Products Co., Ltd.; Yokohama Arena Co., Ltd.; Yokohama Akarenga Inc.; Kirin Echo Co., Ltd.; Other businesses Kyowa Hakko Chemical Co., Ltd.; Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd.; Kirin Business Expert Co., Ltd.; Kirin Business System Co., Ltd.; Kirin Real Estate Co., Ltd. *Environmental performance data for the Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group cover the period April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010, with the exception of energy-use data that cover the period January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010. Environmental performance data for Shinshu Beverage reflect those compiled by Nagano Tomato from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010 and those compiled by Shinshu Beverage from October 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010. 42 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Progress Report on Declaration of Environmental Commitment Each of the larger companies in the Kirin Group has announced its declaration of environmental commitment (Eco-First Commitment in Kirin Brewery) and has been working to fulfill the commitment. Action Achievement in 2010 Category Continued to implement the three Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) initiatives for containers and packages. Worked with Saving can manufacturers to make beer cans lighter. Achieved a better-than 90% collection rate for specially designed resources returnable glass bottles. Continued to promote recycling of aluminum cans and glass bottles. Continued maintaining a 100% recycling rate for industrial waste materials in all of its factories since 1998. Kirin Brewery Low carbon Reduced CO2 emissions to 233,000 tons, 62% below the 1990 level, as a result of a renovation of its Shiga Plant, an emissions upgrade of factory equipment that used fluorocarbon refrigerant, reduced energy use based on analysis of energy-use structure, recycling of plastic shipping pallets, and the adoption of new transaction policy in supply chain. Conducted a water-source protection project that comprised three components: forest preservation at water sources, voluntary environmental conservation, and community environmental conservation. Encouraged employees of other Water resources Kirin Group companies nearby and local residents to get involved in the project, with the cumulative number of project participants reaching 30,000 at the end of 2010. Reduced the weight of two-liter PET bottles from 42 grams to 38 grams and 35 grams, saving 2,456 tons of PET plastics Saving resources in 2010. Continued maintaining a 100% recycling rate for industrial waste materials in its Shonan Plant and Maizuru Plant. Implemented a series of measures to reduce CO2 emissions in manufacturing, distribution, and sales phases in its value Kirin Beverage Low carbon Environmental Sustainability emissions chain: switching fuel for its boilers to natural gas in its Maizuru Plant; working with retailers to accelerate a modal shift; and incorporating an energy-efficient heat pump into more than 93% of new vending machines installed in 2010. Eco-friendly Began using new advanced two-liter pecology bottles, the industry's lightest two-liter PET bottles (as of March 2011) and products featuring universal design elements. The new bottle won WorldStar, Asian Star, and Japan Star Awards. See Page 41 Environmental Maintained and upgraded its environmental management system to remain certified under ISO 14001. management Published an environmental report to keep customers and communities informed of its environmental initiatives and and community performance. dialogue Emitted 700,000 t-CO2 of GHG, a reduction of 6.3% from the 2005 level. Implemented renewable energy solutions: a photovoltaic system in operation in its Fuji Plant all year round, and another installed in a new facility in its Tokyo Low carbon Research Park in September 2010. emissions Had switched a total of 339 vehicles for salespeople in the field to hybrid cars by the end of 2010, with a goal of having a fleet of 1,000 hybrid cars by 2014. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Continued to conduct green procurement from supply-chain partners. Saving resources Maintained a zero-emission rate in recycling industrial waste for the sixth consecutive year. Engaged in the Kirin Takasaki Water-Source Forestation Project since 2007. Co-sponsored the Kirin Fuji-Sanroku Water resources Water-Source Forestation Project with Kirin Distillery since 2009, conducting improvement cutting in the forests at the foot of Mt. Fuji. Participated in many other activities to protect water sources. Worked with local governments and residents to conserve environment and ecosystems in the areas served as water Conservation of sources to its factories—around Lake Ohara in the upper Saba River and in the reservoir in the Mitou area in Yamaguchi local environment Prefecture, and in national forests east of Lake Shikotsu in Hokkaido. and ecosystems Worked with local residents to clean up and weed streets and clean up rivers near its Sakai Plant, Takasaki Plant, Yamaguchi Production Center, Ube Plant, Tsuchiura Plant, and Fuji Plant. Reduced CO2 emissions from manufacturing operations in continued business segments (wine, pharmaceuticals and Low carbon chemicals, and fish feed) by 2.2% from the previous year. emissions Began using the industry's lightest 720-ml glass bottles. Began marketing wine in specially designed PET bottles to Mercian reduce CO2 emissions during transportation and to make it easier for consumers to handle them. Saving resources Continued to recycle industrial waste materials to keep the amount of disposed waste below the 2004 level as called for in the company's medium-term goal. Low environmental Improved the filling process so that it could handle PET bottles for wine. load Low carbon Emitted 14,059 tons of CO2 from manufacturing, distribution, and office operations, down 3.5% from the previous year. Kirin Kyowa emissions Foods Saving resources Stepped up efforts to recycle industrial waste materials it generated, and achieved a 99.4% recycling rate. Eco-friendly Introduced 29 new products that met the criteria for eco-friendly products. products Eco-First Program A program that the Ministry of the Environment of Japan has initiated to encourage corporations to be environmentally responsible and ask them to make an environmental commitment with the Minister of the Environment. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 43 Collaborative Relationships with Suppliers Our Goal Today's consumers are increasingly interested five areas collectively provide the basis for the in knowing how a manufacturer delivers safe, Kirin Group's CSR procurement practices. reliable, eco-friendly, and high-quality products Policies and Guidelines on Procurement and services to them through its supply chain. Management To ensure that our products and services meet their expectations, we establish and maintain collaborative relationships with our suppliers. Kirin Group Procurement Basic Policy To meet consumers' expectations for safety, performance, and quality, we work closely with our suppliers and encourage them to adopt CSR practices while we adhere to our environmental Kirin Group Green Procurement Basic Policy and ethical procurement policy. We have in place—under the Kirin Group Procurement Basic Policy—the Kirin Group CSR Procurement Basic Policy CSR Procurement Basic Policy and the CSR Procurement Guidelines. The CSR Procurement Basic Policy comprises five key Kirin Group areas of operational relevance: compliance, CSR Procurement Guidelines environmental concerns, quality assurance, risk management, and information security. These Our Approaches Policies and Guidelines on CSR Procurement In 2010, as part of our efforts to establish Key Contents of Kirin Group Suppliers stronger collaborative relationships with our Guidebook Chapter 1. Kirin Group's Principles of Procurement suppliers, we created the Kirin Group Suppliers ・Kirin Group's procurement policies Guidebook and provided copies to all of our Chapter 2. Kirin Group's Procurement Practices ・Organizations responsible for procurement, a list of suppliers. This guidebook contains information materials, goods and services procured, what the Kirin about the Group's procurement policies and Group expects from its suppliers Chapter 3. Building and Sustaining Long-Term Partnership. practices as well as requests to our suppliers to ・Kirin Group's approaches to building and sustaining longbuild and sustain long-term partnerships. term partnerships with its suppliers Kirin Group's CSR Procurement System In 2010, Kirin Group Office, one of the functional owned by Kirin. We are working to standardize companies within the Group, established policies and guidelines on CSR procurement the Procurement Department, which is to enhance the Group-wide CSR procurement responsible for developing, implementing, and system. Our mid-term goal is to establish a managing procurement strategies for the entire unified governance structure to step up CSR Group. Kirin Group Office is taking over the procurement efforts by Group companies procurement responsibilities of domestic Group around the world. companies (including affiliated companies) for which more than 50% of the voting shares are 44 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Building Relationships of Trust with Suppliers Ensuring Compliance in Procurement Practices We ensure that our procurement practices way communication, we have built a supplier meet our compliance requirements. In satisfaction survey and a supplier performance addition, to establish win-win relationships review into the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) with suppliers in good standing through twomanagement cycle. PDCA Management Cycle January and April through October through February March September August December Providing feedback Visiting and Evaluating of evaluation Supplier feedback Updating supplier inspecting suppliers' results to suppliers information suppliers' factories performance and facilities Reviewing proposed measures for improvement Reporting Conducting Sharing survey results of supplier results with relevant Implementing internal improvements supplier satisfaction survey departments satisfaction survey Collaborative Relationships Two-way communication between the Kirin Group and its suppliers with Suppliers Survey to Measure Suppliers' Satisfaction We periodically conduct a supplier satisfaction Examples of our practices rated survey to find out what our suppliers think of favorably by suppliers ● Kirin's staffers conduct procurement practices in a manner our procurement policies and practices, and consistent with compliance and CSR requirements. we use the findings to maintain and improve ● Kirin pays invoices from suppliers promptly. partnerships with our suppliers. In 2010, we ● Kirin's procurement staffers follow a unified set of standards sent out questionnaires to 237 key suppliers and procedures when conducting receiving inspections. doing business with Kirin Brewery and Kirin Examples of our practices rated Beverage, and received 192 responses. The unfavorably by suppliers survey is administered anonymously, and ● The manner in which Kirin sets an annual purchase volume with a supplier. returned questionnaires contain both positive ● Level of expectation for return Kirin gives to a supplier for and critical comments on the way we procure its proposal for a new product and for curbing costs. materials. We use those comments to improve Examples of our practices that need our procurement practices and, ultimately, improvement (open-ended comments) to make partnerships between Kirin and its ● Kirin does not give immediate feedback to suppliers. suppliers more effective and productive. ● Kirin accepts only a few proposals for new technology submitted by suppliers. Reviewing Suppliers' Performance When we start business with a new supplier, When we review each supplier's CSR we assess how well they understand the Kirin performance, we give it a rating of 1 to 10 in a Group's CSR policy and guidelines. In 2010, comprehensive evaluation with a total possible we assessed the compliance of 345 newly rating of 100 points. We also ask our suppliers registered suppliers with the CSR Procurement about specific environmental and quality issues Guidelines, and conducted on-site inspections and ask them to address those issues on an ad of 63 new and existing suppliers to ascertain hoc basis. We then provide our suppliers with their CSR performance. In these assessments feedback to help them continually improve and inspections, we found no case of their CSR and quality performance. For instance, noncompliance by suppliers from the CSR in 2010 we began a biodiversity survey with tea perspective. growers overseas. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 45 Collaborative Relationships with Suppliers Working with Suppliers Partnerships with Suppliers Mercian Works with Grape Farmers Where and how grapes are cultivated and the season. harvested, and by whom, determine, in no Mercian will continue to work with grape small part, the taste of wine made from them. farmers to bring great-tasting wines to wine Mercian's Château Mercian Winery in Japan lovers. buys grapes directly from its contract farmers on a continual basis. This practice is intended to ensure long-term sustainability of the agriculture in the region, and the company shares this objective with the farmers. Mercian employees regularly visit contract grape farmers in Yamanashi, Nagano, Fukushima, and Akita Prefectures to inspect the grapes growing in their vineyards and to provide quality-improvement advice on bud nipping, propagating of new vines, and pruning of vines—depending on Hands-on seminar on bud nipping to improve the quality of grapes and to determine yield Kirin Brewery and Mercian Work with a Public Research Institution on Research on Plum Wine Aroma Since 2006, Kirin Brewery and Mercian have aroma constituents of two plum wines— been working with the Plum Research Center in one made from under-ripe green plums Wakayama Prefecture to research the aroma of (conventionally made plum wine) and the other plum wine made from fully ripened nankoume, from fully ripened yellow plums—and found a plum variety cultivated primarily in Wakayama that the latter had a much fruitier aroma. The Prefecture. The latest joint research analyzed research also identified the conditions optimum for cultivating nankoume plums that give a strong ripe aroma. Using the research findings, Kirin Brewery made a new plum wine from fully ripened nankoume. The new product is named Ume Makkoi (rich and thick plum wine) and has been test-marketed in selected restaurants in Japan since March 2011. Kirin Brewery will continue to work with plum producers to find ways to develop new plum wines that appeal to a broad range of consumers. Maceration test of plums Collaborative Approach to Making Packaging More Eco-Friendly The Kirin Group implements proposals made by its suppliers to make its products better, safer, and more eco-friendly, to bring greater efficiency to its business processes, and to reduce costs. In particular, Group companies and their suppliers work together to redesign packaging to make it more eco-friendly. Lightweight E-Flute Shipping Cartons Kirin Beverage has worked with a manufacturer of cardboard to make its shipping cartons 27 grams, or 20%, lighter (per piece) than conventional cartons without compromising sturdiness. The company began using a thinner, lighter E-flute carton to ship 30 190-gram cans of Fire-branded coffee drinks in August 2010; as of June 2010, this carton was the industry's lightest carton designed to ship 30 190-gram cans of drinks (source: Kirin Beverage). Kirin Beverage will start using the eco-friendly shipping cartons also for other products. 46 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 CSR Procurement Practices by Kirin Group Companies Outside Japan Kirin Group companies outside Japan conduct company will be required to complete the CSR procurement practices to address local questionnaire in the future. social issues. Lion Nathan National Foods' alcohol The questionnaire to suppliers beverages business ensures that its procurement processes are ethically and environmentally ● Quality & product safety sound, and works closely with suppliers to ● Quality systems improve its quality, service, and productivity. The ● Management of components company helps its suppliers develop innovations ● Facilities in packaging options, materials, and equipment. ● Security, safety and environment It also supports them in the development and ● Business continuity planning implementation of sustainable farming practices. ● Sourcing, employee and community relations In 2010, the company introduced a comprehensive questionnaire for all new suppliers and for those Once this initial assessment has been completed, not previously audited. While the questionnaire the company either accepts suppliers on the was only applicable to suppliers of its alcohol basis that they meet its standards or conducts beverages business, all suppliers across the additional audits on a case-by-case basis. Working with Farmers – Lion Nathan National Foods Lion Nathan National Foods' dairy and help involve them in programs run by drinks business works with the farming Dairy Australia, a dairy industry association. Collaborative Relationships community to create a supply chain that For instance, a particular area of focus for delivers a four-way win: for farmers, for the dairy industry is to have an integrated customers, for distributors, and for the response to climate change and natural with Suppliers company. resource management. This is being To this end, the company works closely facilitated through specific Dairy Australia with dairy farmers to provide support and programs such as: ●Research into efficient use of resources ●Life cycle analysis in response to policy and implication of policy and trading. and market imperatives. Activities include: undertaking a lifecycle Activities include: providing farmers with analysis in response to policy and market practical help to manage climate change; imperatives around climate change; developing mitigation options to help increasing farm extension activities on industry respond to carbon policies; and soil fertility levels and water quality in analyzing and documenting appropriate catchments; and incorporating research and farm systems and infrastructure responses development into nutrient-use efficiency in to changes in water availability and policy. forage extension activities. ●Lower Murray Darling basin review. Activities include: working with government in developing effective policy that aids the international competitiveness and sustainability of the industry. The company also funds and hosts workshops in Queensland and Tasmania in conjunction with Dairy Tasmania. These educate not only its employees but also all dairy farmers in how to deal the company helps ease the effects of the with mastitis, an inflammatory reaction condition on cows and ensures that the of the udder tissue in cows. In doing so, milk it delivers is of the highest quality. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 47 Valuing Employees Our Goal Derived from its Corporate Philosophy, the the job and enjoying a sense of meaning and Kirin Group pledges respect for humanity in its purpose.” In the belief that employees and the Action Declaration; the declaration states that company are equal partners brought together the Group is committed to “creating a workplace by common business goals, this is what the in which each employee can exhibit her or his company expects from employees and what the independence and creativity, taking pride in company will do for them. Kirin's Principles of Human Resources Management: Valuing Employees Out of respect for each employee’s initiative and individuality (humanity) to keep improving and expanding her or his professional skills, we create a workplace environment that ensures each employee has the opportunity to bring out her or his unlimited potential. Employees The Company Employees’ commitment The company’s commitment Employees and the company Be a self-motivated and are equal partners Respect and support selfdriven individual motivated and driven employees Pursue self-motivated career development Motivate employees to strive for and achieve professionalism Be responsible for their own career and continue to improve their skills and expertise to gain Help employees with their career development professional excellence and high employability. by creating an environment in which they can acquire and exercise expertise and by giving Being put them an opportunity to learn. on the same Play an active, self-sufficient role at work footing by Communicate well-defined individual mission Being aligned to the company’s vision, business Keep employees informed of the company’s understand their role and contribution at work, goals and objectives and communicate what is and act with self-discipline and a sense of expected of them so that they can continually ownership. increase the value they bring to their jobs. Be a responsible citizen Treat employees equitably Be a self-disciplined individual who adheres to Assess equitably how employees perform to the company’s and other applicable rules, contribute to the success of the company and upholds public morals, and is sensitive to the reward their performance fairly. needs of others. Our Approaches Human resources managers from seven group philosophy toward employees including respect companies* convene the Group Human for humanity. This ensures that, when each group Resources Management Committee every company implements its own human resources * Kirin Holdings, Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, month. In this committee, they discuss the longpractices that reflect its business strategy and Mercian, Kyowa Hakko term strategic agenda and proposed new policies needs, those practices are in line with the groupKirin, Kirin Kyowa concerning human resources management, and wide, unified philosophy. Foods, and Kirin Group share a common understanding of the Group’s Office 48 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Number of Employees on Consolidated Basis Relationships with Labor Unions 40,000 36,554 35,150 31,966 30,000 The Kirin Group management considers labor unions an corporate culture. Labor-management councils held important partner in maintaining a healthy employerin Group companies provide a forum through which 20,000 employee relationship. Management and labor unions management and employees maintain a stable 10,000 interact with each other to build and sustain a winning relationship. 0 As of As of As of December December December 2008 2009 2010 Ensuring Occupational Safety and Health Number of Employees by Business Segment (as of December 2010) Business Number of The Kirin Group defines in its Compliance clean so that employees feel comfortable working Segment Employees Alcohol 11,758 Guidelines occupational safety and health as one in them. Beverages Non-Alcohol Beve11,258 of the Group's key operational considerations, and With the growing public awareness of issues rages and Foods gives it the highest priority to ensure the safety relating to workplace mental health, we take a Pharmaceuticals 5,041 and health of employees. We comply with relevant preventive approach to managing employees' Other Businesses 3,330 laws and regulations and keep workplaces safe and mental wellness. Corporate 579 Total 31,966 Respecting Human Rights The Kirin Group's policy of adhering “Relations with Employees—Respect of Human Rights and to laws and regulations as well as Prohibition of Discrimination” to social ethics is expressly outlined (An excerpt from the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines.) Always strive to maintain a workplace environment that is safe and in the Kirin Group Compliance comfortable to work in, respect everyone’s human rights, and do not Guidelines. The guidelines state in their engage in acts that lead to discrimination. Relations with Society and Respect Do not engage in any form of discrimination based on differences of 1 race, ethnicity, nationality, social status, lineage, sex, disability, health of Human Rights and Prohibition of conditions, ideology, faith, occupation or occupational status. Discrimination sections that the Group Do not engage in violence, verbal abuse, defamation, slander, forced respects employees' human rights, 2 work via intimidation, bullying, or any other violations of human rights. bans discrimination and harassment in Support and adhere to internationally accepted principles that workplaces, and strongly opposes child 3 prohibit any form of forced labor and that ensure the effective labor and forced labor. We regularly abolishment of child labor. update the Compliance Guidelines to Implement human rights training and other human rights education 4 Valuing Employees activities throughout the company and actively participate in these keep them relevant to changing social activities. requirements. Group-Wide Efforts to Respect Human Rights We train employees on human rights and Moreover, following the basic principles compliance every year. In 2010, 97% of promoted by the United Nations Global Group employees participated in human Compact, which we signed in 2005, we rights training sessions focused on owning assess human rights compliance by our homes against the backdrop of human rights subsidiaries and offices outside Japan. In We have in place observance; they learned about the nature of 2010, we conducted on-site assessments internal and external stereotypical assumptions and beliefs about of Indústria Agrícola Tozan in Brazil and the hotline systems that owning homes and land. In addition, we Four Roses Distillery in the United States, and enable employees to gauge the level of human rights awareness found their human rights practices compliant report and consult on among employees every two years. In 2010, with the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines. cases of violation or 20,000 employees, or 84% of the Group's total We will continue to monitor human rights potential violation of workforce, participated in a survey and were compliance by our overseas subsidiaries and a code of conduct for found to have strong interest in harassment offices in greater scope, taking into account human rights protection at the workplace, people with disabilities, and social environments prevalent in the countries stipulated in the privacy. These findings from the survey will be in which they operate. Compliance Guidelines. used to promote human rights initiatives. ●▶ See Page 61 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 49 Valuing Employ e e s Embracing Diversity and Inclusion Corporate Culture that Embraces Diversity and Inclusion in the Workplace The Kirin Group believes in a corporate culture acknowledges the importance of embracing that encourages employees with diverse talents diversity among employees. to interact freely with each other and meet their When we say embracing diversity among potential; such a culture will sustain the Group in employees, this has two aspects: making diversity delivering a new joy of food and health to as many happen in the workplace, and making it stick in people as possible. the workplace (inclusion). Leveraging the talents and skills of diverse We implement programs to empower female employees will meet the social needs arising from employees, to ensure a healthy work-life balance, the changing demography, diversifying values in and to promote the hiring of people with society at large, and globalization. disabilities, so as to build a workplace in which The past few years have seen an increasing diverse employees respect the individuality of number of employees with diverse backgrounds each other and comfortably demonstrate their join the Kirin Group, and the management abilities. Greater Career Opportunities for Female Workers The Kirin Group, as a first step to promoting effective in empowering more female employees diversity and inclusion in the workplace, has been to realize their full potential in diverse fields. has been offering greater career opportunities An increasing number of female employees to female workers. In October 2006, we put have been promoted to presidents of Group 1. Kirin Holdings, Kirin Brewery, and Kirin Group together Kirin Affirmative Action Initiatives1 companies, presidents of regional sales Office began implementing for systematically hiring and developing female companies, and managers in Group companies the initiatives in 2006. In 2010, Kirin Beverage employees, and set quotas for female hires and abroad. adopted the initiatives, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin launched female managers. its own initiatives. Furthermore, we established the Kirin Women's Other group companies are considering their adoption Network (KWN) in February 2007 to encourage starting in 2011. female workers to network with their female coworkers across business units. KWN offers female employees programs for raising their consciousness, career development, and leadership training, through regional meetings and Kirin Women's College. As part of our efforts to transform our corporate culture, we provide employees in managerial positions with training programs on management skills to promote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. These initiatives and programs have proved Kirin Women's College Kirin Mentoring Program Kirin Brewery has started a mentoring program for its in helping junior female workers grow professionally, female employees, which is designed to provide them and were able to improve their own leadership skills 2. The Mentor Award was with advice, encouragement and support in addressing from that experience. We received an Outstanding launched by the Japan Productivity Center to raise their career development and concerns. Performance Award in the organization category of the public awareness of the We define mentoring as an informal arrangement of Mentor Award 2010 2 significance and value of a counseling and support; a female manager (mentor) mentoring system as part of efforts to foster a corporate offers a career-track female employee ongoing council culture that encourages and and mental support on career development and other supports female workers as work-related subjects over a predetermined period. well as to motivate them One hundred pairs of mentors and mentees have to become more active in pursuing their career goals. participated in the program. We are already seeing positive changes in the workplace: Many of the mentees said they felt more motivated at work thanks to the mental support they received; mentors commented that they found it worthwhile to play a mentoring role 50 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Kirin Group's Culture that Embraces Diversity and Inclusion The Kirin Group, as a first step to promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace, has been offering greater career opportunities to female workers. This helps an increasing number of female employees realize their full potential in diverse fields. The following are the stories of two of them. The Company's Support Programs and My Understanding Colleagues Help Me Balance Work and Child Care Keiko Fujikawa Marketing Division, Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. I joined Kirin Beverage in 1997 and obtained a position in the Product Planning Department (current Marketing Department) in 2000. Since 2001, I had been involved in the product development of ready-to-drink teas and other bottled non-alcohol drinks until I took an 18-month maternity leave after having a child. I came back understanding and support; many of my male to work in the Marketing Department in 2009 and colleagues have working spouses. I'm fortunate have since been engaged in product planning and to have accumulated extensive knowledge and marketing. experience through my career, and to have earned I have taken the option of working shorter hours the trust of many of my colleagues and friends. I to have the time to take care of my child. This owe all of them a debt of gratitude for being able is quite ae I had a child. I'm the first working to continue my career in a responsible position. mother in the department. I don't push myself My hope is that more people with diverse talents too hard at work and I just want to be all I can be. will be able to make career choices that fit the life I'm grateful that the company offers a variety of stages they are in, so that they will have greater programs that support working mothers. I also opportunities to reach their full potential. appreciate the people around me at work for their Valuing Employees My Career Experience in Taiwan, Where Women Remain Employed for a Long Time Qiumei Zheng Managing Director, General Manager of Administration Division, Taiwan Kirin Co., Ltd. I joined Taiwan Kirin Most Taiwan women remain employed after in 1991 and first marriage. Handling household chores and child worked in the Sake care is a major challenge to a working mother. I Division. I'm now manage to handle them by getting support from in charge of the my family, especially from my husband. This allows Administration me to carve out time to spend with my family and Division. When also to have some time left for myself. The key is to I joined the company, I had manage your time and maintain communication a concern that male employees would call the with your family. Good time management and shots in a Japanese-owned company and female communication are what it takes to drive results in employees might have nothing important to do. business, too. That concern has turned out to be unwarranted. Taiwan Kirin is in a position to develop and provide After spending 20 years of my working life at human resources to the Chinese-speaking region to Taiwan Kirin, I've found the company gives an help the Kirin Group achieve its goal of becoming a equal opportunity for professional growth to all leading corporate group in Asia and Oceania. I hope employees, male and female. I can continue to contribute to the Group's success. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 51 Valuing Employees Embracing Diversity and Inclusion Ensuring a Healthy Work-Life Balance Maintaining a healthy work-life balance is critically receive fertility treatment; and (3) Resume-Career important for employees to feel motivated to Program allows employees who quit the company exercise initiative and creativity and to feel proud for personal reasons to return to work for the and enthusiastic of their jobs. In April 2010, we company. Kirin Brewery has also started to consider drew up the Charter of Work-Life Balance, which offering its employees options to work at home. 1: In 2007, the Ministry applies to all Kirin Group companies. We will encourage other Group companies to of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan The Kirin Group takes a systematic approach to adopt these programs to develop a diverse certified Kirin Brewery ensuring all employees—men and women—can workplace environment that supports employees' and Kirin Beverage balance their careers and home life 1. For instance, under the Act on efforts to maintain a healthy work-life balance. Promoting Measures Kirin Brewery introduced in January 2009 to Support the three new programs: (1) Work-Life Balance Development of the Conceptual Diagram of the Charter of Work-Life Balance Next Generation Support Program allows employees to take 働き続けよ 従業員の an extended leave of absence when they Feel motivated to stay with the Feel driven to perform company longer better and more effectively choose to accompany spouses who are Employees’ role ワー relocating out of town for career reasons Achieve the right work-life balance or when they choose to pursue a self多様性を重視す development opportunity outside work; (2) Company’s stance and role 環境整備 Foster a workplace Create a workplace in which Family Support Leave allows employees to environment that embraces Ensure appropriate work hours employees feel comfortable グル diversity and inclusion both physically and mentally take a leave of absence to take care of their “Respect for Humanity” in the children, to care for sick family members, Group Action Declaration to attend school events with children, or to Promoting the Hiring of People with Disabilities Feel motivat the com Ac The Kirin Group promotes the hiring of people hire more people with disabilities. with disabilities to foster a workplace in which all While each Group company continues to implement employees—with or without disabilities—find its own initiative, all of them will work together to “ Respect fo dignity and meaning in work. This approach not hire more people with disabilities. only helps make diversity happen in the workplace but also helps every employee learn to accept and Kirin Group Charter for Hiring of People with Disabilities (excerpt) appreciate diversity in the workplace. In January The Kirin Group embraces diversity and inclusion and promotes 2011, we drew up the Kirin Group Charter for Hiring the hiring of people with disabilities in a manner to foster a workplace in which all employees find dignity and meaning in of People with Disabilities. work and, ultimately, to build a society in which all people— While each Group company continues to implement with or without disabilities—work and live side by side. its own initiative, all of them will work together to 1 We hire people with disabilities. hire more people with disabilities. 2 We make our workplace environment barrier free. While each Group company continues to implement its own initiative, all of them will work together to 3 We contribute to society by hiring people with disabilities. Embracing Diversity and Inclusion Expert Advice Achieving organizational diversity is a opportunity to empower themselves through challenging task. Simply devising and leadership training and mentoring programs. implementing diversity programs is not The Group's efforts to positively influence the enough; the programs must become a workplace culture and the mindset of female way of corporate life that touches every workers will undoubtedly help them reach employee every day. The Kirin Group's their full potential. I also find it encouraging unwavering commitment to embracing for the Group to extend its idea of embracing diversity and inclusion is evident not only diversity and inclusion to promoting the in the way it implements organizational hiring of people with disabilities. I hope that diversity programs but also in the way it the Kirin Group's efforts to foster a workplace strives to have every employee stick to in which diverse employees find dignity and Professor Emiko Takeishi those programs to inject vitality into the meaning in work will help the Group become Faculty of Life-long Learning and organization. I find it encouraging that a high-performance organization adaptive to Career Studies Hosei University, Tokyo, Japan the Group gives female employees an external changes. 52 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Employees’ Professional Growth Results in the Group’s Success The Kirin Group respects humanity and believes training programs for employees, more actively in human resources development. In 2010, we support their self-motivated skill development started stepping up our efforts to develop human and learning, and groom global managers. This resources so as to accelerate the implementation will benefit employees’ professional growth as of the people-focused management practices an individual and, at the same time, enhance the called for in KV2015. Specifically, we will expand Group’s organizational strengths. Expanded Group-Wide Approaches to Leadership Training Each group company conducts human from our subsidiaries in China and Taiwan have resources development programs tailored to its been attending the Asia Leaders Forum to learn business needs; it provides training programs organizational management skills. Developing for its employees and assists them in selfprofessional skills among local staff will help motivated skill development and learning. To overseas Group companies build a foundation for foster greater organizational excellence across long-term business growth. the Group, we recruit younger managers with leadership potential from Group companies into the Kirin School of Management and train them to become a new generation of business leaders poised for global competition; in 2010, 16 employees from seven group companies participated in the management-training courses. Group companies outside Japan train their employees to grow into management positions. For instance, since 2006, selected employees Kirin School of Management Encouraging Employees to Seek New Challenges The Kirin Group encourages highly motivated employees—regardless of gender, age, or nationality—to take on new challenges and offers them an opportunity to express their individuality and maximize their potential. Employees will have more of such opportunities as the Group expands its business globally and sends more employees abroad on Valuing Employees scholarship programs. Hiroaki Takaoka Sloan School of Management Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) I'm studying for an MBA at MIT on the value. This mindset of relentlessly pursuing new company's scholarship program. My courses value is something I'm learning to emulate and include managerial economics, studies that that I hope to bring back to work. blend theory with practice, and studies When I return to Japan, I would like to maximize on issues that the world faces. I hope the the knowledge and experience I have gained practical knowledge and insights I am at MIT by sharing learning at MIT will be an asset that will help it with my the Kirin Group grow its business globally. coworkers and Studying side by side with my fellow students using it to benefit of diverse career backgrounds from 27 the success of the countries has given me a good opportunity Kirin Group. to come to appreciate their values, beliefs, and cultures. I have come to understand that Hiroaki Takaoka (second from left) Career Profile they are no different from me in the sense 1993: Joined Kirin Brewery Systems Development Division that they experience joy and despair, work and engaged in the development and operations of logistics business systems hard, and help each other. 2007: Transferred to the Strategy Planning Department at Kirin My fellow students from other countries have Holdings and engaged in formulating the Kirin Group's midterm business plan for 2010-2012 surprisingly strong entrepreneurial attitudes 2010: Started a course of study at MIT on the company's and constantly look for ways to create new scholarship program, expecting to earn an MBA in 2011 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 53 Community Outreach Programs Our Goal The Kirin Group strives to be a good corporate reflect its business focus as well as community citizen; we contribute to the development of needs. When nurturing the young generation, communities in which we operate and help we leverage our business strength and a broad nurture children—who are the creators of our network of our business partners to focus our future society. Each Group company plans and efforts on food education, science education, and carries out community support projects that soccer. Community Support Projects In Japan Kirin Beverage ● Projects Built around Products beverages whose containers Kirin Beverage donates to social causes part of have symbols of the causes the proceeds from the sales of its soft drinks printed on them. The company from specially marked vending machines. As of had donated 174.8 million yen November 2010, 2,000 such vending machines to UNICEF and Japan's National were in operation in Japan for 71 causes, Land Afforestation Promotion Vending machine that including the Pink Ribbon Project for raising Organization by the end of dispenses free drinks in the awareness of breast cancer as well as projects to 2010. event of a natural disaster revitalize communities. In addition, the company Furthermore, Kirin Beverage has, since 2006, has installed vending machines that provide free been donating books to four elementary and soft drinks in the event of a natural disaster. junior high schools near the plantations in Sri Kirin Beverage also donates to worthy causes in Lanka that grow tea leaves for its Gogo-noproportion to the sales of its selected non-alcohol Kocha black tea drinks. ●▶ See Page 36 Mercian ● Lectures on Wine in Adult Classes Mercian assists adult enrichment classes and the wine industry in Japan in the Koshu Adult human resources development projects in Class, hosted by the City of Koshu. They talked Yamanashi Prefecture, where it has a winery. about the history and cultivation of koshu grapes In 2010, Mercian employees gave lectures on to students at the Institute of Enology and legendary entrepreneurs who had pioneered Viticulture of the University of Yamanashi. ● Industrial-Academic Cooperation The Château Mercian Winery helps develop wine in Japan. The winery's employees have since young people who aspire to be winemakers. been visiting schools with wine-making classes In 2008, the winery signed an agreement on to lecture students on growing and analyzing Training in winter vine pruning industrial-academic cooperation with the City of wines and to train them in the pruning of vines. at the Château Mercian Shiojiri Vineyard Shiojiri, one of the largest producers of grapes for 54 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Kyowa Hakko Kirin ● Responsible Care Dialogue The Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group participates in a Bio's Yamaguchi Production Center, and community dialogue program promoted by the other JRCC member companies jointly held Japan Responsible Care Council (JRCC). In 2010, Responsible Care (RC) dialogue sessions with Kyowa Hakko Kirin's Sakai Plant, Kyowa Hakko local communities. RC community dialogue session in the Sakai-Senboku area. ● Sponsoring a Campaign Against Childhood Cancer Kyowa Hakko Kirin sponsors a fundraising Foundation. The campaign has been raising money campaign against childhood cancer initiated by through charity concerts and other events to fight the Mainichi Newspapers Tokyo Social Welfare childhood cancer since 1996. Responsible Care Responsive Care is an initiative that the Japan Kirin Brewery Chemical Industry Association undertakes ● Water-Source Protection Project to encourage its member companies In 1999, Kirin Brewery became the first beer sources of clean and safe water, an essential that deal with chemical company in Japan to launch a project to protect ingredient in making great-tasting beer. substances to adopt a voluntary management system to protect ● ▶ See Page 39 the environment and Overseas promote safety and health throughout the life cycle of chemical substances Lion Nathan National Foods from development and manufacturing to ● Renovating Community Facilities distribution to use and final consumption to At Lion Nathan National Foods, its alcohol completed to disposal; companies then beverages business’s Tooheys New brand has date include publicize their activities and achievements and launched a community investment program some that were maintain dialogue with called the Tooheys New Crew—a team of skilled previously the public. tradies and good mates, including employees, delayed or not doing a million beers worth of favors for the completed community. This includes renovating a local due to a lack of sports center and improving a run-down funding, and the recreational area—all in the Tooheys New company is excited that its Crew can contribute heartland of New South Wales and at no cost to these local initiatives. to the community. Projects that have been San Miguel Brewery ● Community Development San Miguel Brewery in the Philippines has made a long-term commitment to developing the country's economically deprived areas by donating basic social services. The company Community Outreach has been installing portable water tanks and providing medical services in the struggling communities near its factories. Programs Disaster Relief Efforts Disaster Relief Efforts Another form of community support activities and Chile in 2010. In 2011, and in the wake of that Kirin Group companies undertake is the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Kirin Group extending support to natural disaster relief efforts offered emergency relief aid to the affected areas around the world. Kirin Holdings donated to and will continue to support reconstruction relief funds for victims of the earthquakes in Haiti efforts. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 55 Community Outreach Programs Nurturing the Young Generation Nurturing Children Through Food Education Food is the backbone of the Kirin Group's food education using information panels and business. The Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle a brochure titled Eat Healthy to Become a Better offers elementary students a hands-on food Soccer Player: the Secrets of Good Dietary Habits. education program called Kirin Kids School of Our food-themed projects include a partnership Great Taste in Group companies' factories in program with the University of Tokyo on food Kirin Kids School of Great Japan. The program encourages children to use culture; a sponsorship for the It's A Tasty taste their five senses to develop their ability to choose World—Food Science Now! food exhibition held the right food, to prepare the right meals, and to at the National Museum of Emerging Science eat the right food. and Innovation in Tokyo; and the Kirin Kids Class We provide children who attend the Kirin on the Secrets of Great Taste, jointly organized by Soccer Field, soccer classes we sponsor, with eight Group companies. ●▶ See Page 20 Information panel for Eat Healthy to Become a Better Soccer Player: the Secrets of Nurturing Children Through Science Education Good Dietary Habits The Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group invites children offer high school students extracurricular classes to its factories and laboratories to let them on the science of yeast in beer brewing and the experience the fun and joy of science flavoring of low-calorie sports drinks. experiments. Since 2000, researchers at its Tokyo Research Park facility in Machida, Tokyo, have been visiting local elementary, junior high, and high schools in a van nicknamed Bio Adventure, which is loaded with microscopes and other experimental instruments, to give students science classes focused on genes and microbes. Since 2009, Kirin Holdings, Kirin Brewery, and Kirin Beverage have been working together to Bio Adventure science class Nurturing Children Through Soccer The Kirin Group supports soccer to, among other ● Kirin Soccer Field—Soccer Class for Children things, nurture children through the sport. In the We have been sponsoring the Kirin Soccer process, it helps soccer gain a broader fan base in Field, soccer classes for elementary students, Japan and encourages small children to aspire to in 12 cities in Japan since 2008. This program make it to the National Team. is intended to introduce children to the joy of sports and to encourage the development of Kirin Soccer Field ● Mascot Escort Kids healthy minds and bodies. Nearly 3,600 children Since 2009, the Kirin Group has been assisting participated in the classes in the first three years, the Japan Football Association (JFA) in its JFA and the program is expected to attract 1,200 Youth Program, which invites children to the more students around the country in 2011. National Team’s games held in Japan. As part of the program, we recruit and invite elementary ●Family Futsal Festival students to Kirin Challenge Cup games, in which The Kirin Group has been sponsoring the JFA ©Kumamoto they are designated as “Mascot Escort Kids. Family Futsal Festival with Kirin events since 2004 FootballAssociation Family Futsal Festival to offer people an opportunity to enjoy kicking soccer balls around indoors and outdoors. Family Futsal games are held all over Japan every year, and both experienced and novice futsal players enjoy the sport in a close-knit community environment. ©J. League Photos Mascot Escort Kids 56 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Supporting Sports and Arts Supporting Soccer The Kirin Group focuses its CSR efforts for sports on supporting soccer and has been an official sponsor of the Japan National Team for more than 30 years since 1978. We endorse the JFA Pledge for 20151 and will continue supporting soccer focusing on three key projects through 2015. In 2010, Japan's national teams, both men's and 1. The JFA Pledge for women's, did remarkably well in the international 2015: 1) The Football Family of Japan, the arena: the men's national team advanced to fans with a true love for ⒸJ.LEAGUE PHOTOS the final 16 in the 2010 FIFA World Cup South October 8, 2010 Kirin Challenge Cup 2010 football, will number 5 million strong; and 2) The Africa, and the women's team won in several Starting members of Japan National Team in the game against the Japan National Team will international games. Their accomplishments Argentina team be ranked among the top 10 teams in the world. helped soccer gain a broader fan base in Japan, National Team. ranging from enthusiastic supporters and We love soccer; we love soccer supporters and spectators that fill stadiums to casual soccer fans; and we help children fulfill their aspirations. players taking to the field on weekends to small Our commitment to supporting soccer is reflected children who aspire to become members of the in our slogan Kirin Loves Soccer. Make soccer more popular in Japan 2. Men’s Senior National Project No.1 Project No.2 Project No.3 Team, U-23 National Team (Olympic team), We support every We assist fans We help nurture the younger U-20 National Team, U-17 Japan National Team and supporters generation by introducing National Team, Women’s We support Japan National of Japan National them to the joy of sports and national team, Futsal Teams in all categories2 to Team encourage the development national team, Beach help them become one of of healthy minds through football national team We provide an environment the top 10 teams in the and organize an event in soccer world by 2015. which fans and supporters We provide small children, their cheer for the Japan National families and casual soccer players Team. with an opportunity to go out and play soccer as pastime and to continue to do so. Support soccer Nurture children 2 : Men’s Senior National Team, U-23 National Team (Olympic team), U-20 National Team, U-17 National Team, Women’s national team, Futsal national team, Beach football national team Supporting Arts and Culture Enriching People's Lives through Sponsorship for Arts and Culture Community Outreach The Kirin Group sponsors arts and culture events in the hope of providing more people with an opportunity to have cultural experiences in their Programs daily lives. Since 2008, we have been engaged in social action programs, and one of them is to sponsor the piano duo “Les Freres” in their concert tour in Japan. We reserve a section of the auditoriums they play for students of schools for the visually impaired located near the halls and, during the concerts, Kirin Group employees volunteer to help these students get to and from their seats. In 2010, we invited 146 students to 11 concerts, and 43 employees from 10 Group companies provided assistance. Kirin Group employees who provided on-site assistance at a concert KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 57 Accountable Management System Our Goal Maintaining robust corporate governance is and efficiency to corporate management as well one of the prime management objectives of the as to retain the trust of internal and external Kirin Group. We continually enhance group-wide stakeholders. corporate governance to bring greater equity Our Approaches In July 2007, the Kirin Group made the transition 2015 long-term business plan. A division of roles to a pure holding company system to optimize and responsibilities is established between Kirin its corporate structure for sustainable growth. Holdings and its subsidiaries to enable the former Kirin Holdings—the Group’ s holding company— to drive aggressive growth while allowing the oversees its operating subsidiaries engaged latter to exercise autonomy and flexibility and still in alcohol beverages, non-alcohol beverages allowing all of them to work together to add value and foods, and pharmaceutical businesses, and to the entire Group. This structure also streamlines manages functional entities that provide backeach entity's decision-making process and helps office support and services for the entire Group. make its business management more transparent The Kirin Group's corporate governance structure and sound, all adding up to maximize the Group's is intended to facilitate the quantum-leap corporate value. growth as outlined in the Kirin Group Vision Corporate Governance Structure Holding company structure Shareholders (Kirin Holdings) Compensation Advisory Committee Board of Auditors Auditing Board of Directors Appointment Advisory Committee Accounting Auditing President Group Executive Auditor Committee Group CSR Committee Group Risk Management Internal Audit Auditing Group Head Committee Department OfficeDivisions Information Disclosure Committee Internal auditing Group companies Operating companies Functional companies 58 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 In Kirin Holdings, the Board of Directors oversees as well as other Group companies, and monitors the company's day-to-day business operations directors' execution of their duties. and the Board of Auditors audits them. The Board The Kirin Group consists of diversified companies of Directors, comprising seven internal directors in Japan and abroad. To keep group-wide business and two external directors, makes important operations and CSR efforts effectively on track, business and legal decisions and governs day-towe have three oversight committees: the Group day operations. The Board of Auditors consists of CSR Committee manages and coordinates the two full-time corporate auditors and three external Group's CSR efforts; the Group Risk Management auditors, and defines the auditing policy and the Committee oversees risk management and responsibility of each auditor, based upon which compliance as a basis for CSR; and the Information auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors Disclosure Committee plays an advisory role in and other important internal meetings. The Board determining what information to publicly disclose. of Auditors also audits the company's divisions Group's Governance and Internal Control System Thoroughly Reviewed On June 11, 2010, Kirin Holdings established a 5, 2010, recommending what needed to be done Third-Party Committee Report third-party committee tasked with investigating about the Group's governance. The committee's http://www.kirinholdings. and assessing the internal control status of all complete report is available for viewing on Kirin co.jp/english/ news/2010/1105_01.html Kirin Group companies. This was in response Holdings' web site. to the discovery of inappropriate transactions In accordance with the committee's in which Mercian, one of the company's recommendation, Kirin Holdings is reviewing consolidated subsidiaries, had engaged in its its governance over its subsidiaries, including fishery feed business. Mercian, and will more vigorously assess and The committee, upon completion of control risks associated with all its subsidiaries, investigation, compiled and submitted a report to including listed subsidiaries, in the Group to the company's Board of Directors on November prevent the recurrence of similar misconduct. Maintaining Internal Control System The Kirin Group has defined the outline of operational status and issues of the internal a system for ensuring the appropriateness control system are regularly reported to the of business operations, based upon which Board of Directors as part of self-directed efforts it maintains an internal control system and to make incremental enhancements to the makes continual improvements. The ongoing system. Internal Control System as Adopted by the Resolution of the Board of Directors System to ensure that the duties performed by the Directors and employees comply with laws and the company’s articles of incorporation System to ensure the proper preservation and maintenance of information regarding the performance of duties by the Directors Regulations and other systems related to the control of risks of loss System to ensure the efficient performance of duties by the Directors System to ensure the appropriate operations of the corporate group that comprises the company, its parent company and its subsidiaries System to assign employees to assist the Corporate Auditors when the Corporate Auditors so request Accountable Management System to ensure that the employees as described in the preceding provision remain independent of the Directors System to ensure reporting by the Directors and employees to the Corporate Auditors, and other systems to ensure reporting to the Corporate Auditors System Other systems to ensure effective auditing by the Corporate Auditors KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 59 事務局（CSR推進部） 経営監査部 内部監査 Accountable Management System キリンホールディングス関係部門 Risk Management 主要グループ会社 Our Goal The Kirin Group focuses its risk management management in accordance with the Group Risk efforts on anticipating and preventing risks Management Rules. This system is implemented before they occur. When we implemented the in consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and abroad pure holding company structure, we established to ensure the effectiveness of risk management the Group Risk Management Committee, efforts throughout the Group using the PDCA which is responsible for overseeing risk cycle. Group Risk Management Committee President of Kirin Holdings Chairman of Group Risk Management Committee Administrative Office (CSR Management Department) Internal Internal Group Head Office Divisions Audit auditing Department Major group companies Crisis Management and Business Continuity Planning The Kirin Group maintains organizational to maintain group-wide crisis readiness. preparedness for crises to minimize their impact In addition, each Group company has developed on its business and customers. Pursuant to the and updated a business continuity plan designed Group Crisis Management Manual, the Group Risk to enable the resumption of business operations Management Committee shares and exchanges as quickly as possible in the event of an outbreak information with the risk management of pandemic influenza or a powerful earthquake committee established in each Group company in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Enhancing Information Security Kirin Business System provides IT support and Kirin Group Information Security Rules provide services to the entire Group. It also manages Group companies outside Japan with a basis for and maintains group-wide information them to create their own information security security, providing each Group company with rules. Group companies in Japan train all their administrative and operational guidance on employees through e-learning to make them upgrading information security. In January more knowledgeable and skillful in information 2010, we updated the Kirin Group Information management. Moreover, we supply smart ID Security Rules, which define the Group's basic cards to employees to ensure a higher level stance on information security as well as systems of security in personal authentication and in and methods for managing it. This update allowing them to access high-security areas has made the rules compliant with the ISO/ on the company premises. All these measures IEC 27001:2005—international standards for are intended to enhance information security information security management system—and throughout the Group. JISQ 27001:2006—their Japanese equivalent. The 60 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Compliance Our Goal The Kirin Group realizes that maintaining credibility and can retain and strengthen the compliance underlies all CSR activities. We trust of stakeholders. define compliance as: fulfilling both legal and The Group Risk Management Committee ethical responsibilities that society expects from manages and promotes compliance across us by adhering to laws, internal and external the Group. Each Group company integrates regulations and rules, and social norms, so that compliance efforts into risk management the Kirin Group can avoid the risk of suffering processes to ensure effective implementation. unexpected financial loss or of destroying its Compliance Guidelines The Kirin Group's Compliance Guidelines companies in Japan and of selected consolidated discuss legal compliance and spell out the dos subsidiaries abroad, so that they can understand and don'ts of ethical behavior. The guidelines' and internalize the Group's ethical principles key elements are incorporated into a handy and values. We regularly update the Compliance employee manual titled The RULE., copies of Guidelines to keep them relevant to changing which are distributed to employees of Group social requirements in Japan and abroad. Compliance Training Handy code of conduct: the Kirin Group Compliance Training employees on compliance is a critical have to do; that they are expected to give their Guidelines The RULE. step to instilling greater awareness and superiors information with not only positive but ownership of compliance in each of them. Kirin also negative implications timely and accurately; Group companies in Japan and abroad provide and that they need to act in an open and their employees with compliance training fair manner. Employees grasp these basics of annually; employees learn through group compliance to become sensitive to changes in discussions that compliance is not something society. other people do for them but something they Compliance Hotline The Kirin Group has in place two compliance staffed by a third party. The external hotline is hotlines; one is an internal hotline manned operated by a contracted consultant and offers by Kirin staffers and the other an external one greater confidentiality to callers. How Hotlines Work Normal route Hotline system Conducting fact-finding investigation Reporting, asking for advice Leader, general administration manager (anonymity guaranteed) Risk Internal Hotline management Asking for hotline staff department advice Proving feedback (preventing retaliatory action against caller) Caller Accountable Management In case of serious Resolving misbehavior an issue Providing feedback Personnel inside the department workplace (sanctions (anonymity External committee) System guaranteed) hotline Reporting, asking for advice (anonymity guaranteed) Determining disciplinary action against violator KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 61 IR室 決算説明会 株主総会 Accountable Ma n a g e m e n t S y s t e m 個人投資家向け説明会 Maintaining Dialogue with Shareholders HPを通じた情報提供 株主通信やアニュアルレポートの発行 and Investors 市場の声 経営 Increasing Corporate Value Kirin Holdings, representing the Kirin Group, in disclosing financial and business information to conducts investor relations (IR) activities that place shareholders and investors timely and appropriately. emphasis on interactive communication between Conceptual Diagram of Interactive its senior management and its shareholders and Communication Conceptual between Diagram of Interactive the Financial Communication between the Financial Community and Management Team investors. Community and Management Team Kirin Holdings' IR Section updates shareholders and Shareholders and investors investors on the Group's growth strategy and its Financial analysts progress in an easy-to-digest manner. The section regularly forwards to the company's management Kirin Holdings’ IR Section Earnings briefing comments and opinions that shareholders and General meeting of shareholders investors provide as well as the section's own Briefing for private investors insights. This interactive process helps establish Posting IR information to the company web site long-term relationships of trust between the Kirin Publishing investor newsletters and annual reports Group and the financial community and increase Input from the financial community the Group's corporate value. Kirin Holdings’ management team We ensure transparency, fairness, and continuity Award-Winning IR Activities In 2009, Kirin Holdings won the IR Grand Prix for The company was also recognized for its senior maintaining excellent communication with investors management's proactive attitude toward IR and from among 335 companies that participated in the its voluntary disclosure practices in the Awards for IR Prime Business Awards competition organized Excellence in Corporate Disclosure by the Securities by the Japan Investor Relations Association. Analysts Association of Japan. Our Disclosure Policy Disclosure Policy Method of Information Disclosure Kirin Holdings endeavors to ensure transparency, Kirin Holdings discloses significant corporate fairness and continuity in keeping shareholders information as specified in the rules for timely and investors informed on a timely basis. We disclosure of corporate information by the Tokyo disclose information in a manner and scope that Stock Exchange via the Timely Disclosure Network complies with applicable laws and regulations, (TDnet) operated by the exchange after delivering including the Financial Instruments and Exchange an advance briefing to it. Immediately following Act of Japan and the Securities Listing Regulations the disclosure via TDnet, we provide the same enforced by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In information for the news media and post it to our addition, on a regular and consistent basis, we web site. make available other information that we believe to be of interest to shareholders and investors to Quiet Period have a better understanding of us. Kirin Holdings has a period of silence that extends from the day following the end of a fiscal period Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forwardto the day of an earnings announcement for that Looking Statements fiscal period to keep the earnings information Statements made on Kirin Holdings’ web site confidential and ensure fairness to all shareholders. with respect to its current plans, estimates, During this quite period, we do not comment strategies and beliefs and those of its affiliated on or answer any questions about soon-to-becompanies that are not historical facts are released earnings results. However, we make an Kirin Holdings discloses forward-looking statements about the future announcement during this period if we expect financial and business performance of the Group. These statements results to differ materially from our earlier forecasts. information on its web site to reach a broader are based on management’s assumptions and We will also answer questions about information range of shareholders and beliefs in light of the information available at the already made public. investors. Investor Relations time of the statements. Actual results may differ http://www.kirinholdings. materially from those discussed in the forwardco.jp/english/ir/index.html looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties as well as economic conditions. 62 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Public Recognition Socially Responsible Investment Indexes There has been a growing interest in socially for its achievements in CSR initiatives, has been responsible investment (SRI) that determines included in the following SRI indexes provided by in which company to invest on the basis of its leading SRI index providers around the world. (As practices with regard to social, environmental, of December 2010) ethical and governance issues. Kirin Holdings, Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index* Ethibel Sustainability Index *Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index, the first of its kind in Japan, indexes the stock prices of 150 corporations selected for their outstanding social responsibility performance from among those listed in Japan. The index does not guarantee future performance of any stocks comprising the index. Morningstar Japan K.K. is not liable for any loss, damage, or lost earnings arising from the use of the index. Awards Kirin Group companies have received public awards we have received from authoritative recognition and awards for their achievement organizations. in diverse areas. The following are three of the Kirin Brewery Receives a 10th Annual Porter Prize In 2010, Kirin Brewery received a 10th Annual price-focused sales strategy characteristic of a Porter Prize. The Porter Prize recognizes Japanese zero-sum game to a value-focused sales strategy of companies that have achieved and maintained a positive-sum game. The value-focused strategy superior profitability in their respective industries employs a sales technique that relies on building by implementing unique strategies based on on the value proposition of a product instead innovations in products, processes, and ways of of selling on its price alone, and aligns product managing. development, manufacturing, distribution, and Kirin Brewery was awarded for transforming its marketing functions to support sales efforts. Kirin Beverage is Awarded by the Society of Soft Drink Technologists Kirin Beverage developed a nano-search Controlling a hard-to-detect spore-forming technology that enables minute details of bacterium, which shows high resistance to microbial cells to be visualized, analyzed, and disinfectant, is one of the most challenging tasks evaluated, using physical indicators at the nanoin microbial quality assurance for soft drinks. scale level. This accomplishment received This innovative nano-search technology makes an award at the 20th Society of Soft Drink it possible to easily and quickly evaluate the Technologists, Japan, organized by the Japan Soft resistance that a spore-forming bacterium has. Drink Association. Kirin Business System Receives an IT Frontier Award Kirin Business System received a 2010 IT Frontier to provide them with IT services at lower costs. Accountable Management Award from the Japan Institute of Information In the process, Kirin Business System played a Technology. The company integrated and part in the Group's CSR agenda by reducing standardized an IT infrastructure for the entire power consumption of its IT systems through Kirin Group to integrate and improve business environmentally sustainable green IT solutions. System processes performed by Group companies and KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 63 Third-Party Opinion Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is defined today as the responsibility that a corporation bears for the consequences of its business decisions and operations for society and the environment. A corporation is expected to fulfill its CSR in a manner that meets the expectations of its stakeholders. First of all, I give high marks to the Kirin Group for selecting a dozen high-priority CSR initiatives by carefully assessing a diverse range of social issues. It is a novel and ambitious approach to deciding on what to focus. To make it even more effective, I would suggest that the Group ascertain exactly what impact each of its businesses has on society and the environment, and show in a future report which impact is most closely associated with what social issues. In 2010, the World Health Organization resolved to Research Chief adopt the Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use Head of ESG Research Center of Alcohol. This strategy provides alcohol beverages Center for the Strategy of Emergence companies in the world with a basis on which to The Japan Research Institute, Limited assess the impact of their businesses on society and Eiichiro Adachi environment. When I attended the first stakeholder dialogue session that Kirin Brewery organized in September 2010, I felt that the Kirin Group should make it a top priority to address alcohol-related problems diseases, that the Group strives to address, and to (ARPs). There is an argument overseas for a relationship discuss how the Group's R&D results and product between parents' drinking habits and physical abuse benefits measure up to those needs. of their children. I realize that Kirin Brewery has been Global expansion is one of the operative words to leading the alcohol beverages industry in Japan describe the Kirin Group's business strategy. As the in its efforts to address ARPs as evidenced when it Group's business expands globally, policies and established the ARP Office. The Kirin Group should initiatives described in Valuing Employees section go on to become one of the world leaders in tackling of this report should extend externally and broadly to ARPs in the global arena. customers and those people engaged in the Group's Industrial activities are partly responsible for water supply chain. In 2011, the Organisation for Economic scarcity in the world, which has become particularly Co-operation and Development is scheduled to serious in Asia and Oceania. This report tells us how update the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises the Kirin Group has been reducing water usage in to include clauses on human rights, and the United manufacturing. I would suggest that the Group extend Nations Human Rights Council is expected to adopt its water-saving efforts to the growing and procuring the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. of raw materials by working with suppliers to reduce It is good to know that the Group is shifting its midstress on water sources. term strategic focus from a quantitative expansion to a The pharmaceuticals business as well as the health qualitative expansion. The alcohol beverages market in and functional foods business has an increasing Japan has been characterized by intense competition potential to benefit society. I like the first six pages of among manufacturers. Aggressively going after market Food and Health section of this report, as they give a share, however, may not always be compatible with comprehensive update on what the Group has been ensuring sustainability for human society and the doing in those businesses. I would like a future report Earth. I hope the Kirin Group continues to care about to delve into stakeholders' health needs, such as the its customers and to serve them with integrity and prevention of obesity and other lifestyle-induced dedication. I have provided a third-party opinion on the Kirin Group's CSR activities described in this report and on the way the Group disclosed relevant information, from the perspective of a provider of corporate information to financial institutions to serve their decision-making regarding socially responsible investment. This opinion does not express a view on whether this report presents, in all material respects, matters measured, calculated, and prepared in accordance with environmental reporting guidelines generally accepted. 64 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Expert Advice The following three experts offered us their advice in their respective areas of expertise. Ensuring Food Safety Environmental Stewardship Embracing Diversity and Initiatives Built around Inclusion Sustainability Yukiko Furuya Kosuke Ikehara Professor Emiko Board Member Climate Change Project Takeishi Nippon Association of Leader Faculty of Life-long Consumer Specialists World Wide Fund for Nature Learning and Career Studies Japan Hosei University, Tokyo, Japan ●▶ See Page 29 ●▶ See Page 35 ●▶ See Page 52 How We Act Upon Expert Advice Yoshinori Isozaki Managing Director, Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. The Kirin Group considers fulfilling CSR one of the most important management objectives, and has been helping conserve global environment and achieve a sustainable society. This report, as the 2010 report did, updates you in great detail on our CSR initiatives and activities integrated into our business operations. Four experts offered their professional assessments of our CSR activities and shared their opinions on how we could do better. We appreciate their candidness. We will incorporate their suggested improvements into the planning of our new CSR projects and activities. In particular, we realize that the three issues that Mr. Adachi raised—alcohol-related problems, water-saving efforts in the supply chain, and approaches to human rights—need to be pushed up the agenda as our business expands globally. We will step up our already aggressive efforts to address those three issues from a broader, more global perspective. While we were preparing this report, the Great East Japan Earthquake, which can only be described as unprecedented in scale, struck the Tohoku region. The Kirin Group is committed to supporting reconstruction efforts in the affected areas to foster stronger bonds among people and communities. We appreciate your feedback. Information on Kirin Group Companies' Sustainability Efforts Several Kirin Group companies report their CSR activities in English. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group CSR Report http://www.kyowa-kirin.co.jp/english/csr/report/index.html Lion Nathan National Foods Sustainability Reporting http://lnnf.com.au/sustainability/sustainability-reporting/ CSR Section in Kirin Holdings' web site http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csr/index.html List of indicators based on GRI G3 Guidelines: http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/report2011/gri_2011e.pdf KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 65 For inquiries, contact : CSR Management Department Kirin Holdings Company, Limited 2-10-1 Shinkawa, Chuo-ku Tokyo 104-8288, Japan Telephone : +81-3-5540-3454 Fax : +81-3-5540-3550 www.kirinholdings.co. jp/english/ Published June 2011 Next report to be published May 2012
