Elemental Chlorine Free paper(ECF) This Report was printed with soy ink on FSC certified paper, produced with eco-friendly method. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 100-2 Ka Euljiro, Chung-ku, Seoul, Korea 100-719 T 82-2-2002-111 www.hanabank.com 2010 Hana Bank Hana Bank 2010 Sustainability Report is our fourth sustainability report and first Communication on Progress (COP) since the company joined the UN Global Compact. On our journey to become Asia’s leading financial group, we endeavor to fulfill our social and environmental responsibilities Sustainability Report as well as to generate economic benefits. We release 2010 Sustainability Report to provide our stakeholders with information on our sustainability management activities and achievements in the year 2010. ▒ Reporting Framework This report has been prepared in accordance with the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), meeting the conditions to be declared as A+ level reporting. As required by the G3 Guidelines, Strategy and Profile, Management Approach, and Performance Indicators have all been included in the report along with the 16 additional indicators in the Financial Service Sector Supplement. You can refer to the GRI Contents Table on the Hana Bank website for more details. This report has been assured by an independent organization. ▒ Reporting Period This report presents the sustainability management activities undertaken by Hana Bank from January 1 to December 31, 2010. However, the report touched upon some activities that did not take place in the said period, since they have the potential to influence stakeholders in the decision-making process. The business performance of overseas subsidiaries was not covered in the 2010 Sustainability Report. ▒ Reporting Scope The print version of the 2010 Sustainability Report is complemented by the relevant content on the Hana Bank website. We tried to focus on major issues in the print version to enhance readability. For more detailed information and data, you can refer to Hana Bank Sustainability Management Website. (www.hanabank.com > Overview of Hana Bank > Sustainability Management) ▒ Process for Preparing the Report A task force was established to draw up the report. Members of the task force reflected diverse views of our stakeholders in the process of selecting major issues to be addressed in the report.To secure reliability in the reporting process and the contents of the report, we had the report assured by an independent organization. You can find the result of the assurance on pages 64 and 65. Hana Bank 2010 Sustainability Report is available both in Korean and in English. You may request a paper copy or download an electronic version from the official website (www.hanabank.com>Overview of Hana Bank>Sustainability Management>Sustainability Report). 02 CEO Message 04 Overview of Hana Bank 06 Sustainability Management Highlights 08 Sustainability Management System 22 Sustainable Finance 30 Culture Bank 38 Sharing Bank 48 Eco-friendly Bank 56 Talent Management 62 Key Performance Data 66 Third Party’s Assurance Report CEO Message Hana Bank succeeded in leaving the global financial crisis behind in the year 2010 with its profits returning to the pre-crisis level. Throughout the history of operations, Hana Bank has accumulated valuable experiences of achieving growth by turning crisis into opportunity. The previous year was no exception. The growth of the company was driven by passionate employees, who spared no effort to improve profitability by concentrating on sales and raise efficiency by cutting down on expenses. Getting back to the basics works wonders in times of trouble. This is a belief embedded in our corporate culture. Solutions are not far away when we adhere to basic principles. The rapid dissemination and diversification of information influences the financial needs of our clients. In an effort to meet the changing needs, Hana Bank has introduced new financial products and services including smart phone banking. Serving the community is not an option any more but an integral part of corporate management. Hana Bank is engaged in a wide array of activities to serve the public benefit and the environment as a member of the UN Global Compact. We are making efforts to provide environmentally sound economic values to our shareholders, employees, and the communities we serve. We will continue to improve our sustainability management system and step up efforts to produce better social and environmental benefits. We will continue to advocate the significance of the sustainability system and entrench the value in the corporate culture to engage more employees in our efforts to discharge social and environmental responsibilities. Thank you. President & CEO Kim, Jung Tai Overview Hana Bank has achieved rapid growth on the back of Products and We provide following products and services differentiated products and services. We are leading the Services Banking of Korean financial market through our premier comprehensive financial services network and doing our utmost to establish S-Line Installment Savings, Hana Charitable Account, Hana Dream Tree Installment Savings, Big Pot Account, etc. Personal Loans Hana Bank ourselves as a truly global financial institution. Mortgage One Loan, Hana Mortgage Loan, Interest Safety Zone Loan, Transfer Loan, etc. Corporate Loans Purchase Payment Loan, E-Purchase Loan, Receivables Collateral Loan, etc. Trust Money Trust, Property Trust, Public Trust Foreign Exchange Exchange Rate & Transaction Fee Discount Service, Web-based Foreign Exchange Service, etc. Business Hana Bank is putting a great deal of effort into boosting business performance. The outcome of the effort as of the end of 2010 is summarized as follows. (Please refer to Bancassurance Performance the chapter on the Key Performance Data on page 62 for more details.) Pension Savings Insurance, Children’s Insurance, etc. Fund(Collective Investment Stock) Stock Type, Mixed Type, Bond Type, MMF, etc. Net Income Return on Equity BIS Capital Adequacy S&BLR* Card Credit and Check Card Recruitment, Work as an Agency Ratio 9,851 10.47 14.04 1.50 % % % billion KRW Credit Rating The credit ratings of Hana Bank assessed by leading credit rating agencies are as follows CaS&BR** Asset per Employee NIpE*** Changes over Last 3 Years Moody's Fitch S&P 106.23 19,551 122 Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term * Standard and Below Loan Ratio ** Coverage against Standard 2010 A1 P-1 AF2 AA-2 % million KRW million KRW and Below Ratio *** Net Income per Employee 2009 A2 P-1 AF2 AA-2 2008 A1 P-1 AF2 AA-2 Hana Bank’s Hana Bank is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Hana Financial Group Inc. (HFG) with 4 Hana Bank’s 01 Employee Status (As of the end of 2010 / Excluding employees on secondment) subsidiaries including Hana Bank (China) Co. Ltd Operation Status General Status Category Domestic Overseas Total Hana Financial Group Inc. Executives 58 58 Employees 9,175 49 9,224 (Regular + Non-Regular) Regular Employees 7,997 11 8,008 Hana Daetoo Hana Capital Hana HSBC Hana Bank Hana Institute Hana I&S Hana SK Card Hana Daol Securities Co., Co., Ltd. Life Insurance of Finance Trust Non-Regular Employees 1,178 38 1,216 Ltd. 100.00% 50.13% 50.00% + 1s* 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 51.00% 58.00% Total 9,233 49 9,282 Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Unlisted Unlisted Unlisted Unlisted Unlisted Unlisted Unlisted Unlisted * share 02 Branch Office Status (Data from Financial Supervisory Service) Hana Bank PT Bank Hana Hana Taesan LCD Category Branch Sub Administrative Co., Ltd. Funding Ltd. Total Offices Offices Offices 100.00% 100.00% 75.10% 61.26% Overseas Local Overseas Local Listed on Listed Domestic 615 35 0 650 Singapore Corporation Corporation Exchange Overseas 4 0 3 7 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 04 + 05 Sustainability Management Highlights Release of the Hana 2010.4 Hana Bank, a frontrunner in the race to develop financial Installment Savings products promoting environmental stewardship, unveiled the Hana Account Sponsoring the Installment Savings Account Sponsoring the Suncheon International Suncheon International Garden Expo 2013 in collaboration with the city of Suncheon. 0.1% of Garden Expo 2013 the account balance goes to projects designed to build facilities for the Expo and preserve Suncheon Bay, and the account holders can receive a range of benefits as well. Induction into the 2010.10 Hana Bank was designated as “Korea’s Most Respected KMAC “Korea’s Most Company” by the Korea Management Association Consulting (KMAC) Respected Company” for 5 consecutive years, which entitled the company to a place in the Hall of Fame Hall of Fame. We earned the recognition thanks to our efforts toward Inauguration of 2009.12 Hana Bank contributed 10 billion KRW to launch the Hana Smile community contribution and shareholder value creation as well as our the Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation in December 2009. The microcredit business socially responsible activities. Going forward, we will continue to strive Microcredit provides unsecured loans to people in the low-income bracket to help to maintain our status as the nation’s most respected company. Foundation them stand on their own two feet. We will continue to use our utmost endeavor to help the poor help themselves and add value for the 2010.12 Hana Bank opened a brand flagship store in the downtown area community. Hana Bank Brand of Myungdong, Seoul under the concept of a “Bank Growing Trees.” Flagship Store Launch The store will serve as a focal point for disseminating messages on Opening of 2010.3 Hana Bank established Hana High School in March 2010, the first finance, the environment and community contribution. Donations from Hana High School independent private high school in Seoul, equipped with a concert hall visitors will go to efforts to preserve mangrove forests, which are known and a gymnasium for afterschool art and sports activities. Hana High as the earth’s carbon sinks. We run the donation drive in collaboration School provides scholarships to 30 % of students with priority given to with the National Committee for the Republic of Korea of the UNEP, the those from low-income families in an effort to narrow inequalities in environmental arm of the United Nations. education. ‘Labor-Management 2010.3 Hana Bank declared the Labor-Management Special Pledge Designated as 2011. 2 Hana Bank was voted as the Best Private Bank in Korea in 2011 by Special Pledge for for the Development of the Bank in March 2010. At the ceremony, Korea’s Best PB by Euromoney, an influential finance magazine, in recognition of its strategic the Development of the representatives of the labor union and the management pledged Euromoney for the 7th products for PB and customized asset management programs. Winning the Bank’ Declaration to cooperate in order to grow the company into a top-tier financial Consecutive Year the honor 7 years running, we will better serve our clients through differentiated comprehensive asset management services. Ceremony institution by strengthening the bank’s presence in the market and boosting competitiveness. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 06 + 07 Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management is a leading paradigm which takes into account not just financial aspects, which is a traditional corporate concern, but also non-financial issues, such as ethics, the environment and social problems, with an aim to enhance the value of corporate activities and community services. Since our foundation, we have taken the lead in sustainability management as a sound economic player and a responsible corporate citizen. We have been showcasing best practices in sustainability management through the establishment of a sustainability management value system, opinion gathering from various stakeholders, global-level engagement including accession to the UN Global Compact and the UN Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), ethical management and risk management. 01 02 Sustainability Management Value System Gathering Opinions from Various Stakeholders Hana Bank has been advocating the cause of sustainability management by establishing a value system Hana Bank gathers views from diverse stakeholders to reflect them in corporate management. We composed of Vision, Mission, Management Principles, Founding Principles, and Essential Virtue for Hana endeavor to continue to improve relevant systems in order to allocate diverse human and financial Employees. In particular, the 4 missions, that is, Customer Satisfaction, Employee Value Creation, Maximization resources according to the needs of stakeholders. of Shareholder Value, and Community Contribution, are a testament to the effort of Hana Bank toward sustainability management. Moreover,Hana Bank has grown the business on the back of the three founding principles: Independence, Autonomy, and Enterprising Spirit. These principles will continue to guide us in our future endeavors to develop into a financial institution with a strong presence in Asia. Vision Premier Comprehensive Financial Services Network 1. Listening Management Listen to stakeholders’ expectations Employees Customers Respect for People, Customer-First, Market Leader, Achievement-Oriented Principles 2. Decision-Making Independence : Independent Decision-Making Establish a set of plans to respond Various to stakeholders’ expectations Govern ShareFounding Principles Autonomy : Pursuit of Independence and Autonomy  3. Presentation  -ment Stakeholders holders Enterprising Spirit : Responsible Management Under the Strict Self-Control Present plans to stakeholders, show commitment and build Local consensus on evaluation indicators Business Communi Customers: Pursuit of Customer Satisfaction as a Financial Partner Partners -ties Employees: Employee Value Creation as a Pleasant Workplace 4. Implementation Mission Carry out plans and report results Shareholders: Maximization of Shareholder Value as Business Partner Communities: Community Contribution as a Leading Financial Institution 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 10 + 11 03 04 The UN Global Compact is a campaign initiated by the former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan to call for responsible business activities. Companies join the Compact on a voluntary basis but they are obliged to report their activities and Accession to the plans on the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. The 10 Principles require Transparent Ethical Management businesses to guard against human rights abuses, observe basic labor rights and UN Global Compact eliminate all elements of discrimination, uphold environmental stewardship in and the UNEP FI their business activities, and work against corruption in all its forms. The Principles, which have already become part of business administration at Hana Bank, present us with clear directions in sustainability management. We will continue to Hana Bank’s Ethical Management Programs endeavor to put the principles into practice and set examples for others to follow. · Securities Accounts and Transaction Records Report System · Gifts and Bribes Report System · Code of Ethics Promotion System ▶Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact · Best Ethical Management Case Contest Business should Human Rights 01. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 02. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses History of Revision to the Ethical Guidelines Business should uphold Labor Standards 03. the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 1991 | Code of Ethics for Employees and Guidelines 04. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 05. the effective abolition of child labor; and 2001 | Guidelines on Conduct 06. the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation Business should 2002 | Code of Ethics for Hana Employees Environment 07. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 08. undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and 2009 | Revision to the Code of Ethics 09. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery June 2010 | Cyber Training on Ethical Compliance for All Employees Anti-Corruption July 2010 | Biannual Ethical Compliance Self-Assessment The UNEP Financial Initiative, which was undertaken in 1991 by the UNEP, is a voluntary agreement of financial institutions on environmental sustainability. Around 169 international institutions and 7 domestic businesses are participating in the program. Hana Bank signed the UNEP FI Statement and joined the Initiative on September 5, 2007. The UNEP FI Statement consists of three categories: Commitment to Sustainable Development; Environmental Management and Financial Institutions; and Public Hana Bank has set a goal of growing into a premier financial institution Awareness and Communication. in the 21st century through ethical and creative corporate culture and sustainability management. To this end, we have established a Code Commitment to Sustainable Development (4 principles) of Ethics, which identifies the values and ethical standards for the Bank to pursue and the basic principles for employees to observe in their business activities. The employees of Hana Bank are driven by a strong 3 Categories of the sense of mission and responsibility and pursue the following 6 goals ‘UNEP FI’ Statement while upholding honesty and trust. Public Awareness & Communication Environment Management & (6 principles) Financial Institutions (7 principles) 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 12 + 13 05 Honesty and Integrity Honesty and integrity are the most fundamental values, especially in the financial industry, which is firmly rooted in credit and trust. Honesty is the highest value which is integral to earning recognition, trust and loyalty from customers and ultimately from society. Along with honesty, transparency and sincerity, integrity is an essential virtue for the employees of Hana Bank who adhere to the basic of the basics. ▶ Integrity of Hana Employees Basic of Transparency Honesty Sincerity the Basics ▶ Honesty of Hana Employees 01. Honesty of Hana Employees is ▶ to work solely to serve the best interests of customers and the company 02. Honesty of Hana Employees is ▶ to create an open internal communication to assist employees in their efforts to produce the best outcome 03. Honesty of Hana Employees is ▶ to earn trust from customers, shareholders and society through transparent management practices Employees at Hana Bank are armed with high moral principles and seek to act with honesty and integrity under all circumstances. Only those with an honest and balanced way of thinking can make right decisions and show good judgment with respect to what they should do or not do. Honesty is a source of energy that uplifts individuals, ensures the bright future for an organization and enriches our society. To Hana employees, honesty is a value to practice, a precious identity, and the highest virtue through which they can earn trust and loyalty from customers. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 14 + 15 06 Corporate Governance ▶ Board of Directors The Hana Bank Board of Directors is composed of 9 members including 5 external directors. According to the Statutes, external directors are elected at shareholders’ meetings from the list of candidates recommended by Hana Bank is equipped with a responsible management system which is designed to a nomination committee. Candidates must possess rich knowledge and experience in management, economics, maximize organizational synergy and operational efficiency. We assist managers in accounting, laws and relevant technologies. External directors convene exclusive meetings to exchange views on their role to take the lead with an ultimate goal of maximizing corporate value. The overall management issues and collect recommendations to propose to the management. All directors are required by the Commercial Law and the Statutes of the company not to be involved in businesses similar to the nature of shareholder-centered management enables us to create and increase shareholder value the company without the permission of the Board of Directors to prevent conflict of interest. and enhance their rights and interests. The Board of Directors is charged with making decisions on what is stipulated in the Statutes and regulations, what they have been commissioned to do at shareholders’ meetings, basic management directions, and Executive Directors External Directors major issues in operations, in addition to its supervisory role for the work of directors. Jung Tae Kim CEO of Hana Bank Young Sup Kim Advisor of a Law Firm Tae Pyung Yang Vice President of Young Gi Kim Auditor of Consus Asset Hana Finance Group Household Sector Management Co., LTD. Chang Sup Lim Head of Hana Bank Jong Won Park Professor from Korea University Shareholders’ Meeting Corporate Banking Sector Department of Business Administration Vice President of Hana Finance Group Suck Hyung Woo CEO of Sindoh Board of Directors Corporate Banking Sector Sang Bin Lee Professor from Hanyang Univeristy Seon Ho Jo Hana Bank Internal Auditor Department of Business Administration BoD Steering Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Business Consultation Body President and CEO Inspection Department ▶ Management Advisory Committee and IT Advisory Committee Compliance Officer Hana Bank has established the Management Advisory Committee in an effort to put customer satisfaction at the heart Executive Support Office Compliance Support Department of business operation. The Hana Bank Management Advisory Committee is composed of the nation’s top experts armed with knowledge and experience. We have in place the IT Advisory Committee designed to assist the company in Retail Banking Sector Corporate Banking Sector providing leading financial services based upon a solid IT infrastructure. Business Administration Review Customer Support Business Promotion Business Sales Capital Market Group Group Group Group Group Group Business Administration HQ Review Retail Banking HQ Sales Promotion HQ Corporate Banking HQ Capital Market HQ Members of the Management Members of the IT Advisory Committee Management Support HQ HQ Medium Business HQ New Business Capital Management Advisory Committee Small Business HQ Promotion HQ HQ PB HQ Sung Soo Kim Professor from Seoul National University Hyung Ju Kim Professor from Seoul National University HR Development HQ Trust HQ Department of Business Administration Department of Computer Science Information & Strategy HQ Yong Su Park Vice President of Bearing Point Bock Hyun Back Professor from Seoul National University Risk Management HQ Real Estate Financing HQ Corporate Business HQ Do Hwan Bae Professor from KAIST Chungcheong Business HQ Department of Business Administration Review HQ WM HQ Youngnam Business HQ Department of Electronic Data Processing Trust HQ Jun Ho Ham Professor from Yonsei Univeristy Byung Tae Lee Professor from KAIST Graduate School of International Studies Graduate School of Techno Business Seung Ho Tak Head of Seoul University IT Card Research Center Jae Min Han Professor from Korea University Department of Business Administration 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 16 + 17 07 Risk Management Hana Bank runs a comprehensive risk management system to prevent potential risk in Hana Bank convenes the Risk Committee meeting on more than one occasion every quarter in order to set limits for credit risk, market risk, and operational risk and review risk status on a regular basis. An internal risk control system, which encompasses the management activities and promote management stability and stakeholder value. An high-level management at the top and business units at the bottom, ensures a systematic risk management. The internal risk control advanced structure and systems have been established for the specific and practical system helps protect the Bank’s assets, secure accuracy and reliability for accounting data, promote the efficient use of resources, and guide and supervise employees in their compliance with relevant rules and regulations. Multiple bodies and individuals, such management of all procedures with a particular focus on preemptive risk management. We as the Board of Directors, the President of the Bank, the Audit Committee, the Compliance Officer and its support body, the have installed the Risk Committee under the Board of Directors to ensure transparent risk Compliance Support Team, are involved in the management of the internal control system for the purpose of ensuring mutual control. The position of a compliance officer is required in accordance with the Banking Act. The Compliance Officer monitors the management. Two main pillars of the risk management system are the Risk Committee, compliance of the Bank with relevant laws and regulations, reviews management soundness, ascertains whether employees and which sets risk limits, and the Risk Management Committee, which monitors compliance executives observe basic procedures and standards to protect shareholders and customers, and reports to the Audit Committee when violation of internal control standards has been identified. with risk limits and reviews risk status on a monthly basis. The management and report of ordinary risks is the responsibility of the Middle Offices of each business HQ and the Risk ▶ Internal Control System Management HQ, which is comprised of the Comprehensive Risk Management Department, the Credit Risk Management Department and the Credit-RatingTeam. Board of Directors Establish the internal (Report, Deliver) control (Report, Submit) ▶ Risk Management Structure and System system and operational guidelines President & CEO Audit Committee • Establish the internal control system • Access the internal control system and propose and operational policy recommendations • Report or submit recommendations to BOD meetings • Finance, functions, compliance, management, IT audit Groups and HQ Risk Committee Compliance Officer • Coordinate and integrate functions • Review the operation of the internal control system (monitoring) across groups and HQ → Report results to the Audit Committee • Establish the internal control policy plans → Propose recommendations on operational problems Top-Down Bottom-up Risk Management Establish risk policy Office Report risk status Business HQ Compliance Support Unit (Assess) Inspection Unit Set & distribute limits Report limits • identify and improve weak spots in • Assist the compliance officer • Assist the Audit Committee management status the internal control system and conduct → Implement internal control and • Prevention Guidelines for financial accidents monitoring compliance programs • Regulation for self-audit and auditing Risk Management • Manual for self-audit and internal control HQ Branches Risk Management Unit • Credit/interest rate/liquidity/market/operational risk integration • Establish and conduct internal control policy (Review) Comprehensive Accounting Office Credit Risk External Auditor Risk Management Credit-Rating Team Management Unit • Financial reports and internal control Team Security Management Unit • Security Business HQ Risk management based upon systematic risk management and internal control systems has led to the development of an internal Front Office Middle Office Back Office model-based risk management system for market risk, which earned an approval of the Financial Supervisory Service. Furthermore, we are managing an adequate level of risk assets through a system built for preemptive response to risk in a rapidly changing financial environment, while fostering a risk-sensitive culture to manage potential risk resulting from changes in the business environment and strengthen the risk-related capacity of all employees. Through continuous efforts to expand capital, our BIS ratio, a key financial soundness indicator, reached 14.04% as of the end of 2010. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 18 + 19 08 09 Go Beyond Hana Advocate of Sustainability Management In the year 2001, Hana Financial Group set up a vision of building a “Premier Comprehensive Financial Services Network in the 21st century.” To realize the vision, the company established a model where HFG Long-term grows together with its customers by providing differentiated products and services based upon projections Strategy on changes in financial markets at home and aboard. A decade later, in 2011, HFG saw a real opportunity to Achieve the company-wide expansion of sustainability management secure a prominent position in domestic and overseas markets and declared its commitment to a great leap forward in that direction through the adoption of the slogan “Go Beyond Hana (One).” Main Tasks Diversify community service programs Expand and apply sustainability auditing company-wide Engage actively in global initiatives on A Slogan Advocating “Go Beyond Hana” does not pursue a gradual change. It is a Mid-term sustainability management Innovation slogan for fundamental innovation, starting everything afresh Integrate social and environmental issues into Strategy the risk management system from scratch. It symbolizes the beautiful philosophy of the “idea” Ingrain sustainability management into the Build an evaluation system for sustainability organization by establishing a management management and conveys commitment to aiming for more than Hana (one). system with an emphasis on sustainability Main Tasks Implement community services strategically “Go Beyond Hana” will lay the foundation for HFG to start the Short-term Strengthen and promote financial products Openness that benefit the environment and the public journey in 2011 toward a leading financial institution with a Strategy Globalization Build infrastructure and reinforce capabilities Expand activities for the environment and strong presence in Asia. “Go Beyond Hana” is supported by 3 green business Convergence for sustainability management Launch a business unit dedicated to pillars. sustainability management Main Tasks Systemize activities related to sustainability management Increase employees’ awareness of sustainability management and strengthen relevant capabilities Establish communication system for stakeholders Participate in global initiatives on sustainability management “Go Beyond Hana”: Openness “Go Beyond Hana”:Globalization “Go Beyond Hana”: Convergence A global financial group must be Gaining the recognition as Convergence does not mean prepared to work with employees Asia’s top financial performer simple mixture of different and customers from diverse means there will be a lot of elements. Going beyond backgrounds and cultures. In this opportunities to serve employees Hana Bank will step up efforts to improve its sustainability management system the barriers of industries, context, diversity encompasses and customers of diverse generations, and cultures to and embed it throughout the organization as an integral element of the corporate not just ethnicity, gender, nationalities. To prepare for realize “innovation-driven culture. Our ultimate goal is to incorporate sustainability management into the bank’s age, nationality, or physical these opportunities, we need changes” and “re-creation management activities through the implementation of short-term, mid-term and longconditions, but also ways of to be armed with the level of through combination” – that is thinking and customs. Embracing knowledge and capacities to convergence in its true sense. term strategies. We will strive to discharge our social obligation as a leading financial and respecting differences in all compete on the global stage. Looking into various areas with institution by focusing on activities of social and environmental significance, such as aspects – that is the first pillar of Developing mindsets and flexible and open mindsets microcredit loans, the “Green Bank on the Move” campaign, and the development of “Go Beyond Hana”: Openness capacities that are competitive and striving to search for in the global market – that is environmentally-friendly products. opportunities for cross-industry the second pillar of “Go Beyond or cross-field convergence – that Hana”: Globalization is the third pillar of ”Go Beyond Hana”: Convergence. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 20 + 21 Sustainable Finance Hana Bank seeks to implement sustainable financial practices which aim to achieve social . integration by preserving the environment, addressing social challenges such as poverty and low fertility rates, and providing quality financial services for companies in various sectors and people from all walks of life. Our sustainable finance program can be divided into several different categories: financial products for the common good; products for smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); financial assistance to address social issues; microcredit for financial inclusion; green earth products; products for common concerns; and smart services to please more customers. 01 02 Eco-friendly Financial Products Products for the Government’s Sustainable Finance Policy Hana Bank, a partner in the government’s policy toward green management and cooperation for winwin growth between large corporations and SMEs, is taking the lead in developing relevant products. Hana Bank places great emphasis on environmental considerations in The prime examples are the Hana Win-Win Cooperation Corporate Loan, the Hana New Growth developingfinancial products and delivering services. We apply environmental Engine Loan CL, and the Hana Green Business Loan, with the last one still in the pipeline. screening standards when processing applications for loans and other types of assistance and focus on developing earth-friendly products and services. We have Hana Win-Win Cooperation Corporate Loan unveiled specialized products, such as the ‘Hana Solar Loan (2007)’ and the ‘Hana Provide practical financial support for SMEs through cooperation between large corporations and the Objective financial institution Installment Savings Account Sponsoring Suncheon International Garden Expo 2013 Prepare systematically for the demand of large corporations resulting from mutual growth agreements (2010).’ to be pursued by the Fair Trade Commission Strengthen relations : Strengthen relations with SMEs without assuming any losses Expected Secure new customers : Secure new business opportunities with SMEs who have not yet to do Results business with the Bank ▶ Loans Provided for Photovoltaic Power Plants Support the government’s policy : Support actively the government’s policy toward win-win cooperation including Hana Solar Loan (as of April 18, 2011) between large corporations and SMEs Hana New Growth Engine Loan CL Support the development of 17 New Growth Engines* in 3 areas designated by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in 2009 38 customers, 175.1 billion KRW Objective Boost the image as a green bank : Boost the image of the Bank supporting green growth industries Expected related to new growth engines and providing green financing Results Support the government’s policy : Cooperate in the government’s policy toward nurturing industries related to new growth engines ▶ Financial Products Addressing Environmental Issues Hana Green Business Loan Provide loans to green businesses with capital raised through green deposits introduced by Hana Solar Loan Objective the government’s green growth policy ● Loans for businesses involved in photovoltaic power plants ● Facilitation of financing for the renewable energy industry and raising awareness Boost the image as a green bank : Put into practice the Bank’s principle on green management and of the environment industry among financial Institutions Expected boost the image of the Bank’s green management Results Support the government’s policy : Contribute to the national economic development by supporting the government’s green growth policy -0.3°c Loan ● Interest rate reduction up to 0.3% for customers with eco-friendly lifestyles *New Green Tech Industries (6) : New and Renewable Energy, Low-Carbon Energy, Advanced Water Growth Processing, LEDs, Green Transportation Systems, High-Tech Green Cities Hana Installment Savings Sponsoring Engines High-Tech Convergence (6) : Broadcasting and Communication Convergence, IT Convergence the International Suncheon Garden Expo 2013 Systems, Intelligent Robots, New Materials-Nano Convergence, Biopharmaceuticals-Medical Devices, ● Contribution of 0.1% of the account balance to build facilities for the Expo Value-added Food Industry and preserve Suncheon Bay Value-Added Services (5) : Global Healthcare, Global Education Service, Green Financing, ContentSoftware, MICE (Meeting, Incentives, Convention, Events) Tourism 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 24 + 25 03 04 Microcredit for Financial Inclusion Serving the Interest of the Public through the ‘Hana Happiness Sharing Public Trust’ Hana Bank contributed 10 billion KRW to launch the Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation in December 2009. Since 1972, Hana Bank has been running the Hana Happiness Sharing Public Trust, the only one of its The microfinance of the Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation assists the entrepreneurial poor in their pursuit of kind in the country designed to serve the interest of the public. The Hana Happiness Sharing Public Trust economic self-sufficiency by providing unsecured small loans. The business serves to achieve a goal set by Hana consists of the Hana Dream Tree Public Trust, which supports children’s education, and the Hana Sharing Bank, “community contribution as a leading financial institution.” Love Public Trust, which is related to social welfare programs. A total of 11.3 billion KRW was executed as of the end of 2010. Various other products for the common good are also available. Support people with Expand the domestic Fulfill Corporate Social little access to microcredit market Responsibility established financial Hana Happiness institutions Sharing Public Trust Practice “Philanthropic Provide Increase access to Management” opportunities for the Hana Dream Tree Public Trust microcredit loans for through Hana Smile working class with the working class Microcredit little access to Foundation financial services Hana Donation Bankbook Supply educational tools and aids for elementary school students in remote regions Products available on a temporary basis Support educational facilities at special schools for the disabled Happiness Sharing SRI Equity Investment ▶ Numbers of Applications Approved (Unit: persons) Hana Sharing Love Public Trust 2009 Support the underprivileged Support multicultural households 767 persons 2010 Support non-profit social welfare organizations 0 500 1000 ▶ Total Amount Executed through the Happiness Sharing Public Trust (Unit: one billion KRW) ▶ Amount of Loans Approved (Unit: million KRW) 150 2009 6.6 million KRW 2010 11.3 billion KRW 100 ● 0 50 100 ● ● 0 2008 2009 2010 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 26 + 27 05 06 Loans for SMEs Cutting-Edge Smart Services to Meet the Needs of More Customers Although the market for SMEs decreased in the year 2010, Hana Bank provided loans amounting to 29 Hana Bank pursues sustainable financial practices which enable a growing number of customers to have access trillion KRW. In addition to raising the amount of loans for SMEs, we provide consulting services, fiscal to financial services with ease. Mobile banking services have been expanded for mobile devices including smart consultation and assistance in restructuring processes. Services for small-scale retailers are also available. phones and customers can access the Internet free of charge at wi-fi hotspots in all branch offices. We distinguish ourselves with unique financial services, such as the Hana N Plaza, an innovative web-based marketing platform, the Mobile Hana Bank, which visits customers, not the other way around, and banking services for expatriates ▶ Products and Services for SMEs working in Korea. Products and Services Objectives ● Win-Win Growth Package Loan ● Supply liquidity for suppliers to ● On-lending loans large corporations ▶ Places where the “Hana Mobile Bank” ● Hana Turn Around Program ● Provide funding for new growth can be located ● Franchise loans ▶ engine industries ● Support voluntary restructuring 220,000 ● Expressway service areas during holidays ● Assist small-scale retailers persons ● Areas where emergency relief, such as food relief, takes place ● Tourist spots during high season ▶New customers for Hana N Plaza (as of the end of 2010) ▶ Products and Services Introduced in the Year 2011 ▶ Banking Services for Expatriates Products and Services Objectives ● Opening a counter dedicated Hana N Plaza(www.hananplaza.com) Service to Chinese nationals ● Provide benefits such as a reduction in ● Information on products and services ● Support for job creation for the young ● Weekday after-hours and ● Loans funded by the Korea Credit interest rates for job-creating companies ● Provision of 60 specified financial products weekend services Guarantee Fund and the Korea ● Provide loans to high-performing SMEs in through affiliated companies Technology Finance Corporation ▶ cooperation with the Korean Credit Guarantee Fund and the Korea Technology ● Online PB Service ● Hiring Chinese nationals at call centers to provide financial ●Guaranteed loans for culture-related Finance Corporation ● Financial Consultation Service services for Chinese customers businesses ● Provide funding for the production of ● Pay-Easy Service for Vietnamese 07 movies, animations, dramas, etc. and Mongolian migrant workers The Win-Win Growth Package Loan provides funding to suppliers of large corporations based upon the credit of their customers, that is, large enterprises, from the point of receiving orders to the point of receiving payments. It is highly regarded in the market in that the loan distinguishes itself from similar Constant Effort to Reduce Environmental Degradation types of existing products by assisting 2nd-tier and 3-tier suppliers in securing liquidity relatively easily and Economic Inequality and benefiting from low interest rates. Hana Bank plans to provide services for sustainable finance and expand the number of products that take into ▶ Awards for the Win-Win Growth Package Loan account the environment and health, befitting the bank’s status as the “Green Bank on the Move.” Furthermore, ● 2nd place at the 16th Mail Economy Financial Products Awards microcredit programs are also included in our expansion plan. In the year 2011, Hana Bank will increase the ● 1st place at the 2011 E-Daily Financial Products Awards portion of loans for SMEs to 2.6 trillion KRW by contributing 50 billion KRW to the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund ● 2nd place at the Financial Supervisory Service New Financial Products Awards and the Korea Technology Finance Corporation. In addition to financial support, Hana Bank will do its utmost to facilitate business activities of SMEs by building viable cooperative networks with SMEs. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 28 + 29 Culture Bank Hana Bank, which appreciates the true value of art and culture and desires to share enriching experiences, has been at the forefront of enhancing the quality of life through cultural programs. Culture-related activities at Hana Bank have grown significantly both in quality and quantity. In 1987, we organized cultural seminars for women, the first of its kind in the country, which was followed by the opening of the Hana Love Gallery in 1991 and the launch of the Hana Cultural Affairs Advisory Committee in 1992. The cultural activities of Hana Bank are largely divided into 3 categories: programs for customers and employees; programs for the public and the community; and programs for the culturally underprivileged. Our programs provide opportunities for more people to experience the pleasure of culture enriching lives, helping us to get one step closer to a culturally wealthy society where corporate activities are compatible with cultural activities. Hana Bank’s art and culture quarterly recently published its 100th issue 01 02 Sponsorship for Music Sponsorship for Art Providing Various Musical Opportunities Providing Various Artworks in Everyday Life Hana Bank’s art sponsorship also provides various opportunities for the community to appreciate art. Hana Cyber Gallery, Hana Bank strives to provide a wide range of musical opportunities for the general public and the local community. Hana which virtually exhibits the artworks on the Hana Collection, a free exhibition of various artworks in the “Hana Love Gallery” Classic Academy arranges courses for music lovers and HFG customers. The courses are composed of performances by the in Pyungchang branch, a head office turning into an innovative art building called Art Museum in Your Neighborhood allow country’s leading artists and lectures by Park Eun-Hee, the music director of the Korea Festival Ensemble. Approximately 3,000 customers of Hana Bank to enjoy various artworks. Quarterly 「Hana Bank」is published every March, June, September, and students participated in 21 courses between 2000 and 2010. Hana Yeouido Classical Concert is a free concert for the public, December with art & culture contents. It is also available in major bookstores at 3,000 KRW as a “trans-trend magazine” with especially residents and office workers near the Yeouido region. About 500 people in a year join this concert combining all proceeds going to community contribution programs. Hana Calendar Design Contest departs from conventional ways classical music and theatrical elements. Hana Bank also sponsors Seoul Philharmonic Orchestra as part of its mecenat of designing calendars, allowing for financial institutions to engage customers, students and designers in the process of programs to support the art community. We donated 2.56 billion KRW between 2006 and 2010. Hana Children’s Economic designing bank calendars. 14 contests were held between 2007 and 2010, and the contest in 2010 received 384 entries. Musical helps elementary school children learn how the economy works through performances combining dance, songs, and economic education. The musical Jack and the Magical Wallet was performed 33 times in 2010 for 12,440 school children. Hana Cyber Gallery Hana Yeouido Classic Quarterly Hana Bank Hana Cyber Gallery • Sponsorship for Seoul Philharmonic Orchestra : Mecenat programs to support the art community • Hana Yeouido Classical Concert : Concert for the public, especially residents and office workers near the Yeuido region • Hana Classic Academy: Classical music courses for music lovers and HFG customers • Hana Children’s Economic Musical : Performance of the musical “Jack and the Magical Wallet,” a combination of dance, songs and economic education Sponsorship for Seoul Philharmonic Orchestra • Hana Cyber Gallery: Virtual exhibition of the artworks on the Hana Collections • Quarterly 「Hana Bank」: High-class quarterly published by Hana Bank, specializing in art & culture • Hana Calendar Design Contest: Departure from conventional ways of designing calendars, allowing financial institutions to engage customers, students, and designers in the process of designing bank calendars 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 32 + 33 03 Support for the Culturally Underprivileged Hana Bank puts a great deal of effort into expanding opportunities for the culturally underprivileged to fulfill its mission as an avid advocate for shared cultural experience. Programs in this category include a variety of sponsorships ranging from “Mushroom,” a theater company offering free performances to music scholarships for children with developmental disorders Hana Classic Academy to the “Angel’s Visit,” a cultural performance program for children deprived of opportunities to enjoy cultural events. Sponsorship for the Theater Company “Mushroom” Free performances for socially disadvantaged groups including the disabled and adolescents of underprivileged households Music Programs for Children with Developmental Disorders Scholarships for musically talented children of low-income families with developmental disorders Angel’s Visit Free performances for socially disadvantaged groups including children in group homes, factory workers, and senior citizen households Hana Bank, which boasts a reputation as a patron of art and culture, will continue to work toward a harmony between the business world and the art community and make the most of the knowhow it has accumulated in the process. We will maintain our frontrunner position in the race to bridge inequalities in cultural opportunities through the expansion of support for culturally underprivileged individuals and groups as well as for the public and the community. No effort will be spared on our part to engage more of our customers and community residents in various Mecenat activities and exhibitions to help them lead more enriching lives. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 34 + 35 04 Sports Sponsorship including Soccer and Golf Starting from the sponsorship for the 1998 National Soccer Team, Hana Bank has been an active advocate of the sport, whose records include sponsorships for the World Cup bidding for the 2002 and 2022 Games, friendly matches for the national soccer team, the Hana Bank FA CUP, FC Seoul in the K-League, and various amateur soccer leagues and tournaments. The LPGA Hana Bank Championship, which took its first step in 2001, has grown into an undisputed major event both in terms of history and scope over the last 10 years. In addition, Hana Bank is seeking to expand base for sports by hosting various sports and recreational activities. LPGA Hana Bank Championship Official sponsor for the 2022 World Cup Bidding Committee Organization of events to promote success in the 2022 World Cup bidding Opening of the Soccer Village 1.1 billion donation to the 2022 World Cup Bidding Committee Title sponsor for the match with Nigeria Donation of 500 Jabulani, the official match ball for the 2010 World Cup Contribution to the construction of the South Africa Youth Soccer Soccer Stadium Increase in the prize money for the Hana Bank Championship, the nation’s only LPGA tour, to USD 180 million Release of the official emblem for the “LPGA Hana Bank Championship” Campaign to build a mature gallery culture for the “LPGA Hana Bank Championship” Organization of the event “Love Birdie” Golf Hana Bank’s CEO Cup Soccer Match KATA Members Tennis Match College Synchronized Dance Sports Competition Sports for all 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Reports 36 + 37 Sharing Bank Hana Bank, a leading financial institution, believes community services to be one of its vital missions. In the mid-1990s, the scope of its community outreach programs was expanded to include such sectors as social welfare, culture, art, and education. Our activities to serve the community culminated in the creation of the Hana Love Volunteer Corps in 2004, which contributed to the culture of sharing and volunteering taking root in the company. In 2008, the Adding Hana (One) Hope Campaign was launched, setting new directions in this important cause. Hana Bank has been expanding its community outreach programs in two main categories: community services and education and sports sponsorships. Hana Kids of Asia저소득층 하나사랑봉사단의 연탄기부 providing 봉사활동 cultural and language education for children of multicultural families Promoting multiculturalism through public service advertisements 01 Support for Multicultural Families “Hana Bank implements a range of activities to contribute to building a mature multicultural society, which appreciates cultural diversity.” Korea is home to 1.2 million expatriates as of the end of 2010. The advent of multiculturalism has led Hana Bank to turn to activities aimed at creating a mature multicultural society where its members appreciate cultural diversity. We launched our support program for multicultural families on November 4, 2007 with the Vietnamese Family Day. The support program gained momentum in 2008 through the establishment of Hana Kids of Asia, an education program for children from 55,000 multicultural households. Hana Kids of Asia, which took its first step in Seoul in 2008, opened in Incheon in 2009 and Ansan in August, 2010. Under the program, a total of 55,000 bilingual story books were published to provide children from multicultural Number of Bilingual backgrounds with opportunities to learn the languages and cultures of their parents. Story Books Delivered to In addition, books designed to raise understanding of multiculturalism are provided Multicultural Families free of charge for multicultural families and the general public and two public service advertisements were produced to raise awareness of a multicultural society among the public. As showcased in the examples above, Hana Bank is engaged in a vast array of activities to contribute to the promotion of a multicultural society. ▶ 2010 Hana Bank’s Programs Supporting Kids from Multicultural Families Saturday School, afterschool programs, cultural experience programs, Hana Kids of Asia counseling for children of multicultural families, language and culture text development for multicultural education Publication & Distribution Publish bilingual story books and biographies for children of multicultural families and of Bilingual Story Books distribute a total of 55,000 books Instill pride in multicultural family members through puppet shows, artifact exhibitions, Multicultural Experience and traditional cuisine festivals “Multicultural Day” Event Cultural performances and events for marriage migrant women Public Service Raise awareness of multiculturalism through public service advertisement via print and Ad Campaign on broadcast media Multiculturalism Financial Service for Telephone counseling service in mother tongues of expatriates, translation of forms, Expatriate Workers opening of Hana N Plaza, diversification of services through affiliation with foreign banks 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 40 + 41 02 Economic Education Programs “Hana Bank focuses its efforts on teaching children how the economy works.” Hana Bank hosts diverse events to teach children the basics of economics including a musical performance titled ‘Jack and the Magic Wallet,’ which visited 150 elementary schools between April 2006 and December 2010, and the 2010 Hana Children’s Dream Festival. Moreover, an educational website named the Hana City (www.hanacity.com), which opened in October 2008, has contributed to a great number of children developing an interest in economics. As citizens of a virtual city, kids can learn about basic economic concepts and experience how the economy works as they take part in the process of production, savings and consumption. Recognized for its contribution as the country’s first social network service education site, the Hana City won the Grand Prize for Community Contribution by the Finance Sector in the Web Award Korea 2008. The Hana City went on to earn another achievement in 2009, when it was selected as a site recommended for adolescents by the Korea Communications Standards Commission. Economic Musical Titled Jack and the Magic Wallet ▶ 2010 Hana Bank’s Programs Supporting Economic Education Hana Children’s Dream Festival Provide giveaways for the Hana Dream Tree Installment Savings and the Hana Happy Birth Installment Savings Provide giveaways for fund products for children and invitations to the jang Bo-go History Exploration Hana Children’s Economic Musical Visit 150 elementary schools to stage a musical titled Jack and the Magic Wallet Hana City Provide hands-on experiences for diverse occupations customized for children Teach basic economics to elementary school children in higher grades Organize Economy Olympiads for elementary school children 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 42 + 43 03 04 An Independent Private High School, Hana High School Hana Puruni Childcare Center and Hana Care Center “Hana Bank seeks to find solutions to low fertility rates resulting “Hana Bank established Hana High School from the burden of childcare expenses and the lack of nursing to contribute to society through talent fostering initiatives.” homes and rehabilitation centers for the elderly population.” Hana Bank opened Hana High School in March, 2010. Hana High School, which is a boarding school, runs English and other foreign language courses in the curriculum. It is equipped with a concert hall Hana Bank recognizes low fertility rates and population aging as two key challenges facing our society, called the Hana Art Center and a gymnasium for afterschool art and sports programs. Divided into which has led us to turn to practical solutions. We became the first domestic bank to make a direct three categories of the International Course, the Specialized Course, and the General Course, the donation to a provincial government to help establish a public childcare facility called the Puruni school curriculum is taught in Korean and English. Since it was established by a financial institution, Childcare Center in 2008 and in the following year 2009, set another record of becoming the first such courses as economics, management, and international finance are also incorporated into the financial institution to establish an assisted living facility known as the Hana Care Center. At the Singil curriculum. Students in the top 3 % of their middle school class are eligible to apply, whereas 20 % of Hana Puruni Childcare Center, which opened in September, 2008, 21 staff members run a facility which the number of students is set aside to admit students from underprivileged families including children can accommodate up to 148 children. At the Namyangju Hana Care Center, which opened in March, of households in the lowest income quintile and multicultural families. Scholarships are provided to 30 2009, 64 care workers provide quality services for 74 occupants. We plan to expand these facilities with % of students with priority given to students from low-income families. a goal of adding 10 childcare centers and 20 assisted living facilities 05 Financial Inclusion through Microcredit Business “Hana Financial Group runs the Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation to help financially disadvantaged individuals to start a business and achieve economic self-reliance as part of its efforts to narrow Hana High School’s Mentoring Club “God of Study” widening income disparities.” Hana Financial Group inaugurated the Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation on December 21, 2009 to narrow income disparities in society by providing startup capital to the financially underprivileged to help them achieve economic self-sufficiency. The Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation contributes to creating employment and added value in society by offering unsecured loans to people in the lowincome bracket. In 2010, loans and business support programs worth 9.7 billion were executed for 810 customers and the project is expected to grow further with the launch of the Hana Smile Hope Volunteer Corps, a group of Hana employees who specializes in financial services for low-income families. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 44 + 45 06 07 Business Unit Dedicated to Community Outreach Programs Hana Love Volunteer Corps Employees at Hana Bank participate in volunteering work under the banner of the Hana Love Volunteer Hana Bank has been involved in community outreach in collaboration with other affiliates of Hana Corps. Some 3,000 Hana employees set aside a certain amount of their salary every month to Financial Group. HFG has established a microcredit business, a nursing home for the elderly, a childcare donate to the underprivileged and take part in various volunteering work. As of the end of 2010, the center and Hana High School through the Hana Finance Public Welfare Foundation and the Hana Smile membership of the Hana Love Volunteer Corps reached a total of 8,842 employees across the HFG, Microcredit Foundation. Hana Bank is providing more than 95% of the funding for the aforementioned of which 81.5%, or 7,210, were the employees of Hana Bank. Employees of Hana Bank share their activities carried out by the HFG. time and love on a regular basis for people who are subject to social exclusion in local communities, including minor heads of household, children who are forced to skip meals, the disabled, and the homeless and reach out to people living in low-income countries abroad. In 2010, the “2010 Add-Hana ▶ Social Contribution Team in the Group (One)” volunteer campaign was conducted for one month from November 24 to December 24. Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation Farm Volunteering Activity by Hana Love Volunteer Corps Hana Finance Public Welfare Hana Puruni Childcare Center Foundation Social Hana Financial Contribution Group inc. Team Hana High School Hana Care Center Hana Love Volunteer Corps. ▶ Amount of Donations by Employees by Year (Unit: million KRW) ▶ Growing Number of Members of the Hana Love Volunteer Corps (Unit: Persons) 2007 Members of the Hana Love Volunteer Corps 9000 2008 ● 8000 217, 042, 500 won 2009 7000 ● ● 2010 7,210 6000 ● Number of Hana Bank Employees among the Hana Love Volunteer Corps 5000 0 50 100 150 200 250 4000 Amount of Donations 3000 by Employees in 2010 Members ● ● as of December 2010 2000 ● ● 1000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 46 + 47 Eco-friendly Bank Advocating an “Earth-friendly Bank,” Hana Bank promotes green management for the environment. Under the banner of the “Green Bank on the Move,” we carry out green initiatives at the individual, organizational and national levels with the “Green Footprint” as the icon of green growth. Furthermore, we run a range of programs designed to minimize environmental impact and raise awareness of environmental issues among community residents. One remarkable achievement is the opening of a new concept flagship store aimed to offer differentiated services combining environmental awareness with the culture of philanthropy. Winning Pieces from the 2010 Hana Green Poster Contest 하나키즈오브아시아 강의실 풍경 01 Programs to Raise Environmental Awareness Winning Pieces from the 2010 Hana Green Poster Contest in Local Communities Down from the left, 2nd Prize, Jin Lee from Gimpo Elementary School, 6th grade Hana Bank strives to develop and raise awareness of environmental issues in local communities by 2nd Prize, Seulgi Kim from Chungryong Elementary School, 3rd grade undertaking a variety of initiatives to preserve the environment. Some of our programs, such as Hana Special Selection, Chanhyung Jo from Gwangju Samyook Elementary School, 1st grade Green Poster Contest, Hana Forest Exploration, Hana Green Concert, and Hana Forest Care, have taken 1st Prize, Sohyun Eum from Gyunggi Elementary School, 4th grade firm root as major environmental campaigns. In December, 2010, Hana Bank opened a brand flagship store in the downtown area of Myungdong, the first of its kind in the finance industry. Under the concept of a “Bank Growing Trees,” the store serves as a focal point of disseminating messages on finance, the environment and community contribution. Hana Green Poster Contest A poster drawing contest for elementary school children in two categories (the individual competition and the group competition), with the winner of the group competition getting a “Dream Art Room” built for their school Hana Forest Exploration An activity for Hana Bank customers’ families to explore and experience national forests near the metropolitan area Exhibition of Winning Pieces from the Hana Green Poster Contest Hana Green Concert Concerts taking place across the country where audience enjoy musical performances and realize the importance of the environment Hana Forest Care A project to preserve the 133-hectare forest located in Sinron-ri, Yangpyunggun, Gyeonggi Province by checking up on the status of the forest, developing walking trails and installing signs 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 50 + 51 02 Efforts to Save the Earth in Everyday Life through Energy Conservation, Reduction in Paper, and Use of Eco-friendly Supplies Hana Bank carries out various activities to lower the impact of our business operations on the environment. These activities are divided under the headings of energy conservation, reduction in paper consumption and use of eco-friendly supplies. Practices to minimize environmental impact help Hana Bank to contribute to the cause of environmental preservation as well as an overall reduction in operation expenses. Reduction in ● Use scrap paper Paper Consumption ● Recycle envelopes ● Recycle slips that have passed the storage requirement period ● Replace energy in use with eco-friendly energy sources Energy ● Raise A/C temperature during the summer time Conservation ● Restrict elevator access to lower floors ● Run the “Save Energy / Save Korea” Campaign ● Run a campaign to recommend the public to abstain from driving on a selected day of the week and encourage the use of public transit ● Purchase eco-friendly office supplies Use of Eco-friendly Supplies ● Use recyclable cartridges ● Use of recycled paper for photocopying ● Use name cards made of recycled paper ▶ Annual Paper Use (Unit : kg) ▶ Energy and Water Use 2008 572,249 ● ● Gas Use(TJ) 2009 574, 355 26.8 27.3 2010 527,258 ● ● ● Water Use(ton) 17.4 94,881 101,156 ● 59,463 ● 147 ● Electricity Use(TJ) 139.4 ● 106.7 ● 20.368 ● CO2 Emission (tco2) ● 19.405 14.699 2008 2009 2010 Hana Brand Flagship Store 1) Water Use includes waterworks use only; not the underground water use 2) CO2 Emission only includes emission from banks owned by Hana Bank Opened in Myungdong under the concept of a “Bank Growing Trees,” the store encompasses green initiatives, philanthropy, community outreach and 3) CO2 Emission is calculated based on Ministry of Environment’s 「Guide for Managing entertainment. The store also collaborates with UNEP National of Korea and runs the donation drive with the visitors of Hana Brand Flagship Store for Greenhouse Gases • Energy Mangrove Forests, “the Earth’s Carbon Sinks” 03 04 Commitment of Hana Bank An Icon for Green Growth, “Green Footprint” to Green Management: “Green Bank on the Move” Hana Bank has chosen the Green Footprint as an icon for green growth. Feet are the body part placed Hana Bank pursues green growth. Since the very beginning of our foundation, we have been at closest to nature and symbolize action to overcome challenges. The Green Footprint activities of Hana the forefront of campaigns to promote green initiatives based upon our distinctive awareness Bank are further divided into the national, organizational and individual levels. of environmental issues. In April, 2009, Hana Bank unveiled the Green Bank on the Move project, declaring, both internally and externally, our strong commitment to environment-driven management As our efforts to take part in low carbon, green growth, we run a Carapproaches. The Green Bank on the Move is an eco-friendly management program undertaken by Efforts at the National Level : Free Day campaign by designating the first business day of the month as Hana Bank, which aspires to become a major player in environmentally-friendly management. We will Take Part in Low Carbon, a car-free day so as to encourage employees and customers to use public further strengthen our image as an environment steward by implementing the Green Bank on the Green Growth transportation. Another campaign inaugurated by Hana Bank is the “Love Move initiative based upon the three values: Green Growth, Field-oriented Management, and Health. River Foot Relay,” a project to remove harmful plants from rivers. As for our efforts at the organizational level, we provide loans to support ecoEfforts at the Organizational friendly businesses. Private customers can open an S-Line Installment Savings Level : Develop Various account or take out a -0.3℃ Loan. Furturmore, the Hana Solar Loan and the Financial Products Hana Installment Savings Sponsoring the International Suncheon Garden Expo 2013 are also available for companies involved in the environment industry. Efforts at the Individual Level: Hana Bank runs such campaigns as the “Walk to Donate” and the “Show Your Love for the Environment” to promote practical environmental activities Join Programs such as the for its employees. The “Walk to Donate,” which was launched in March, “Walk to Donate” and the 2009, counts the number of steps taken by employees using pedometers to determine the amount of donation. With Season 4 completed in 2010, “Show Your Love for the the drive has raised a total of 41,477,344 KRW, donating 84,055,808 KRW to Environment” several organizations. In addition to these large-scale campaigns, Hana Bank hosts a series of small events such as “My Resolution,” where employees recommit themselves to the cause of environmental stewardship. ▶ Total Amount Raised through the “Walk to Donate” (Unit: steps, KRW) Division Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Total Duration 2009. 4. 16 ~ 5. 29 2009.5. 30 ~ 9. 30 2009. 10. 1 ~ 12. 31 2010. 3. 22 ~ 6. 30 Steps Taken 112,937,752 140,937,010 70,089,635 28,248,833 352,213,230 Hana Bank will step up its efforts towards green management as a “Green Bank on Collection 10,674,434 10,886,475 15,466,995 4,449,400 41,477,344 the Move.” In particular, we will strive to enlarge our “Green Footprint” and focus Donation 21,348,868 52,506,940 10,000,000 84,055,808 on developing green programs and products which engage our employees and UNEP National Committee customers in activities for the environment. We will continue to play a leading role Beneficiary for the Republic of Korea World Vision Korea Global Love Sharing Campaign in raising awareness of environmental issues in local communities by setting good Usage Plant 1 Million Trees Support for Haiti Earth Quake Emergency Relief Campaign Multicultural Families examples through community contribution. We wish to contribute to building a culture where all members of society volunteer for green growth initiatives. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 54 + 55 Talent Management Hana Bank values each and every one of the employees. Employees finding their work fulfilling and . enjoyable – that is the definition of a great company. Based upon the mission of “Employee Value Creation as a Pleasant Workplace,” we have been stepping up our efforts to empower employees, enhance the quality of life for employees, and establish a fair and open organization. We strive to mobilize all resources to help employees to increase job proficiency and efficiency and lead pleasant and happy lives through Capacity Building Program, Internal Communication Program, Employee Wellness Program, and Anti-Discrimination Measures. Balls hanging from the ceiling of Hanaville, Hana Bank’s Training Center, symbolize the strong will of employees 01 Employee Empowerment Hana Bank provides a wide range of training opportunities for the self-development of employees. Programs like the Career Development Plan, the Leadership Program, CoP, Hana Twitter, and Assistance for Finance-related Certificates enable employees to reinvent themselves as more professional financial experts. Farm Volunteering Activity CoP Meeting Launched in January, 2009, the New Turn, the next-generation knowledge-based management system, maximizes the concepts of participation, sharing and opening and serves to promote communication among employees. The components of New-Turn includes Knowledge Map composition, system monitoring the entire procedure from proposals all the way to implementation, online collaboration Leadership Programs include Hana Leadership Pipeline, leadership programs for branch managers New-Turn tool, Wiki, CoP and team rooms reflecting the elements of web 2.0 including blogs and library and for different positions on the corporate ladder, and programs to improve team coordination management system and collaboration. Hana Leadership Pipeline is established to strengthen leadership by cultivating Leadership Programs three essential elements; organization; achievement; and innovation. Leadership programs for branch managers and for different positions on the corporate ladder develop respectable leadership The Career Development Plan has established a 3-stage basic skill set in each Career Field. The specified skills for each position. As for programs to strengthen team collaboration, Hana Bank runs weekend and structured stage-based courses assist employees in developing their professional capacity. *Career Development Plan team-building retreats and cultural programs for employees’ families through invitations to festivals, CDP* exhibitions and historical site visits. The CoP is a field-oriented learning method, which seeks to depart from conventional ways of learning to generate and share knowledge from diverse sources and perspectives. Each community is composed of minimum six members, who hold meetings onand off-line to study and find solutions to job-related issues. **Community of Practices CoP** 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 58 + 59 02 03 Enhance Quality of Life through Employee Benefits Anti-Discrimination Measures in Employment and Remuneration Hana Bank runs wellness programs to contribute to the happiness of employees in the belief that the happiness of employees is integral to the success of the employer. We provide “Hana Bank is dedicated to providing fair treatment to all employees in the entire fringe benefits that ensure practical assistance for the lives of employees and run work-life process of human resources management ranging from hiring to performance balance programs to meet the need to improve the quality of life. appraisal to remuneration and bonus.” Hana Bank does not discriminate against applicants, based on place of birth, gender, religion, or race. We are also ▶ Comprehensive Employee Benefits Package setting good examples by taking proactive steps to hire minorities in society including the disabled. Offer medical checkup for employees aged 35 and older and spouses aged 36 and older Medical Take out an insurance (covering spouses) for which the company pays the premium in ▶ Percentage of Female Workers in Management-level Positions or Higher Support situations of diseases and natural disasters (Unit : %) Assume partial medical expenses in the case of employees and their families contracting 6.6 diseases ● 6.4 ● Housing Offer rental housing for employees with dependents 6.2 ● ● 6 Support Arrange temporary housing for employees assigned to offices far from home ● 5.8 5.6 Tuition Provide tuition assistance from kindergarten through college 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Assistance Run a daycare center Support Provide opportunities to stay and relax in holiday timeshare Gender Equality and Fair Hana Bank upholds performance-based compensation, applying the same standards for for Female Offer 2 years’ leave of absence before and after childbirth and for raising a child (1 year with Compensation workers engaged in identical functions, regardless of their gender. During the course Employees allowance) of our quantitative growth, the proportion of female employees has grown consistently Approve leave of absence for women going through infertility and the number of females in management-level positions or higher has been on the rise. Refreshing Provide refreshing holidays to enhance quality of life for employees Holiday ● Implementation of the special employment test for patriots, war veterans and their children on two occasions Hired 25 and 18 persons on November 2009 and December 2010, respectively Provide psychotherapists’ counseling for employees and their spouses (no restriction to Finding themes, confidentiality guaranteed), online education (mental fitness club, art of love, and ● Implementation of the special employment test for the disabled on two occasions Happiness special lectures on stress measurement and prevention Hired 4 and 5 persons on May 2008 and June 2010, respectively ● Signing an agreement with the Korea Employment Promotion Agency for the Disabled to increase the number of physically-challenged workers in the company in June, 2005 Oh Happy Send gifts with cards celebrating birthdays and wedding anniversaries Day ● Win an Official Commendation from the Minister of Patriots and Veterans Affairs Won a Man of National Merit in the 2009 Veterans Month Provide information to employees on wedding preparation and conflict resolution Wedding ● Anti-Discrimination in Employment counseling for couples soon to be married Support Appointment of the first female executive in 2011 Help employees to save expenses and time by introducing credible wedding planners ● Distinguished Performance of Chinese Employees Provide opportunities to work out for employees aged 40 years and older or employees High customer satisfaction at the Guro-dong branch and other branches with Chinese employees and personal Healthcare development opportunities for Chinese employees with health problems such as obesity, high cholesterol, hypertension, etc. Support Offer chances to exercise, such as workouts at gyms, swimming, yoga, aerobics, sports dance, etc. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 60 + 61 Key Performance Data A. Financial Statement Balance Sheet (Bank Account) (Unit: million KRW) Income Statement (Bank Account) (Unit: million KRW) Balance Sheet (Trust Account) (Unit: million KRW) Income Statement (Trust Account) (Unit: million KRW) Description 70th 69th Description 70th 69th Description 70th 69th Description 70th 69th Asset Operating Revenues 18,184,407 24,546,434 Assets Revenues Cash & Due from Banks 5,981,378 6,128,872 Operating Expenses 16,848,150 24,184,218 Cash & Due from Banks 1,484,886 700,999 Interest on Due from Banks 40,213 44,196 Securities 21,278,617 21,309,657 Operating Income 1,336,257 362,216 Securities 4,702,475 5,798,941 IDS* 217,592 240,828 Loans 103,631,324 98,839,085 Non-Operating Revenues 72,070 67,066 Loans 181,081 198,944 Interest on Loans 11,029 3,716 Tangible Assets 1,052,865 1,082,843 Non-Operating Expenses 93,909 99,734 PPCB* 40,000 1,054,999 IPPCB** 46,218 61,988 Other Assets 7,021,090 8,148,332 Income Tax 329,305 87,803 BPRA** 1,952,000 1,388,000 IRA*** 38,196 18,727 Total Assets 138,965,274 135,508,789 Profit of Continuing Operation 985,113 241,745 Money Receivables 1,466,826 1,421,694 Other Interest Income 33 196 Liabilities Profit of Discontinued Operation 32,185 Movables & Real Estate 5,129,521 5,235,949 GDT**** 1 49 Deposits 93,388,587 89,884,425 Net Income 985,113 273,930 Other Assets 143,399 148,677 Gain on Securities 101,026 71,695 Borrowings 24,721,256 25,448,303 Loans to Banking Account 419,285 675,487 Commissions Received 1,866 2,388 Other Liabilities 12,514,192 10,963,825 AVR*** -145 -179 Other Revenues 1,425 611 Total Liabilities 130,624,035 126,296,553 Total Assets 15,519,328 16,623,511 ILBA***** 16,794 17,698 Shareholder’s Equity Liabilities Reversal of Special Provisions 1,747 1,465 Capital Stock 1,147,404 1,147,404 Money in Trust 8,711,495 7,997,060 RAC****** loss 538 1,383 Capital Surplus 2,726,159 2,724,149 Property in Trust 6,382,878 8,049,828 Total Revenues 476,678 474,940 Capital Adjustments -2,973 -176,338 Public in Trust 16,766 16,767 Expenses AOIG*(Loss) 477,490 313,178 Mortgage Bond Trust 230,000 373,656 Gain on Money Trust 354,202 291,429 Retained Earnings 3,993,159 5,203,843 Other Liabilities 149,899 156,502 Gain on Property Trust 46,983 100,266 total Shareholder’s Equity 8,341,239 9,212,236 Special Provisions 28,289 29,698 Gain on Public Welfare Trust 714 586 Total Liabilities and Total Liabilities 15,519,328 16,623,511 Commission Paid 1,162 581 138,965,274 135,508,789 Shareholder’s Equity Loss on Derivatives Transactions 60 178 Expenses on Securities 41,101 50,601 * Private Placement Corporate Bonds * Accumulated Other Inclusive Gain Contribution Fees to Fund 133 154 ** Bonds Purchased under Resale Agreements Trust Fees & Commission 31,892 29,575 *** Allowance for Valuation of Receivables Other Expenses 89 Provision for Special Revenues 338 1,530 PACL******* Loss 4 40 * Interest and Dividends on Securities Total Expenses 476,678 474,940 ** Interest on Private Placement Corporate Bonds *** Interest on Repurchase Agreements **** Gain on Derivative Transactions ***** Interest on Loans to Banking Account ****** Reversal of Allowance for Credit ******* Provision for Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 62 + 63 B. Financial Data and Economic Value Generation and Distribution C. Economic Value Generation Financial Data (Unit: billion KRW, %) Sustainable Finance (Unit: million KRW) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Public Trust Fund Raised 16,637 24,736 Pre-Provision Income 1,945 1,112 1,777 1,988 1,807 General Operating Income 3,187 2,405 3,029 3,232 2,917 (Unit: million KRW, %, Unit) Net Income 985 274 475 1,052 1,046 240,466 SME Loans 293,777 309,637 301,126 270,945 Net Interest Margin(NIM) 1.93% 1.68% 2.06% 2.31% 2.40% Proportion of SME Loans to 38.9 32.8 36.9 37.2 38.9 Total Corporate Loans in KRW Return On Assets(ROA) 0.70% 0.19% 0.34% 0.93% 1.06% 3,894 No. of CDs and ATMs 4,236 4,245 4,286 4,120 Return On Equity(ROE) 10.47% 3.03% 5.94% 13.97% 15.97% Total Assets(Bank Account) 138,965 135,509 146,597 116,941 110,852 Customer (Unit: Point, Case) Total Liabilities(Bank Account) 130,624 126,297 137,685 109,225 103,970 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Standard and Below Loan Ratio 1.50% 1.05% 1.20% 0.77% 0.69% NCSI Survey Results 72 70 70 70 73 Ca S&BL* 106.2% 129.9% 126.8% 169.1% 172.6% FSC-Registered Customer Complaints Trends 321 555 529 372 413 Loan to Deposit Ratio1) 104.7% 113.2% 105.3% 105.9% 100.9% BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio2) 14.04% 14.98% 13.51% 11.75% 11.34% Employee (Unit: Person, %, million KRW) Delinquency Ratio3) 0.54% 0.51% 0.86% 0.64% 0.77% 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Dividend 1,934 87.9 0.0 460.0 338.0 No. Employees1) 9,282 9,614 10,913 10,099 9,230 Dividend Ratio 176.0% 8.0% 0.0% 49.0% 36.0% No. of Female Employees 5,501 5,804 6,747 6,143 5,317 Salary 4) 539.2 584.2 521.0 552.7 536.2 Proportion of female employee 59.6 60.7 62.2 61.2 57.9 Other Employee Benefits 114.9 102.3 117.8 105.6 92.4 Female Employees* 66 61 66 60 57 Donation 58.8 77.9 42.3 22.0 46.4 Proportion of female employees** 6.5 6.4 5.9 6.0 6.1 1) Loan to Deposit Ratio was calculated monthly due to the revision in banking audit process. Recruitment Trend 860 707 1,714 2,013 1,240 2) BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio has been calculated based on Base II since 2008. * Coverage against Standard and Below Loan 3) Delinquency Ratio has been calculated based on the new standard since 2007. Retirement Trend2) 1,140 1,289 739 861 537 4) Salary is Salary + Retirement Allowance + Voluntary Retirement Allowance. Recruitment Status of Disabled Workers 58 56 68 65 53 Salary of New Recruits*** 305.3 313.7 470.2 468.1 464.9 Other Employee Benefits (Discretionary) 77,290 62,888 77,685 67,912 48,217 Other Employee Benefits (Statutory) 37,640 39,443 40,105 37,702 27,823 Economic Value Generation (Unit: million KRW) Economic Value Generation (Unit: million KRW) Work-Related Accidents Case 4 7 5 3 5 1) Workers hired in the second half of the year 2010 (262persons), workers hired in year ’10 who were assigned in year ‘11 are not added 2010 2009 2010 2009 2) Contract workers based on the law for short-term workers issued in July 2009 (Fast Teller, Office Worker, Call Center, Individual Contract Workers) Net Interest Profit (Loss) 2,619,129 2,026,737 Dividend 1,934,232 87,920 3) Work-Related Accidents Cases are calculated on the accidents approval date 4) Recruitment Status of Disabled Workers are calculated on the last day of each year NPVDS* 308,327 179,686 Net Income Dividend -949,119 186,010 NPVDLR** -611,871 -726,805 Taxes 385,817 157,076 Local Community Contribution (Unit: 100 million KRW) NPFET*** -182,795 -260,263 SSRB****** 654,104 686,527 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net Profit (Loss) on Commission 406,472 366,929 Donation 58,806 77,924 Social Contribution Spending 625 849 631 350 627 Net Profit (Loss) on Trust 40,513 37,362 Depreciation and Amortization 141,275 145,283 Dividend on Securities 37,130 24,021 Total 2,225,115 1,340,740 (Unit :TJ, ton, tco2) Environment Other Operating Profit (Loss) -38,488 -11,355 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 AE**** 588,018 602,307 * Net Profit (Loss) on Valuation and Disposal of Securities Electricity Use 139.4 147 106.7 108.2 99.8 Non-Operating Profit ***** 36,967 45,256 ** Net Profit (Loss) on Valuation and Disposal of Loan Receivable Gas Use 27.3 26.8 17.4 29.1 30.3 Total 3,203,402 2,283,875 *** Net Profit (Loss) on Foreign Exchange Trading Water Use 101,156 94,881 59,463 99,814 87,835 **** Administrative Expenses (Excluding Salary and etc.) CO2 Emission 19,405 20,368 14,699 15,461 14,432 ***** Non-Operating Profit (Loss) (Excluding Donations) 1) Water use includes waterworks use only; not the underground water use 2) CO2 Emission only includes emission from banks owned by Hana Bank ****** Salary, Severance and Retirement Benefit 3) CO2 Emission is calculated based on Ministry of Environment’s 「Guide for Managing Greenhouse Gases Energy • management by objectives」 * Female Employees at Management-level Positions or higher ** Proportion of female employees at Management-level positions or higher *** Salary of New Recruit relative to Minimum wage 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 64 + 65 Third Party’s Assurance Report Dear Readers of 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report ▒ Verification process and conclusion In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess Hana Bank’s internal ▒ Foreword processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been engaged by Hana Bank to verify the contents of its 2010 Sustainability Report (the Surveyed Hana Bank’s sustainability related media information during the reporting period Report). Hana Bank is responsible for the collection and presentation of information Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data Assessed internal documents and materials within the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances information in the verification scope stipulated below Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and interviews, we held several discussions with Hana Bank on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final ▒ Our independence version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for improvement and revisions have been With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any other Hana Bank reflected. business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. ● Economic performance We compared the Report with Hana Bank’s 2010 Financial Statements and found that the financial data ▒ Verification scope presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2010 Financial Statements. Hana Bank described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. The verification process was designed to provide readers with the following information; ● Environmental and social performance We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately ● Verification of the economic section presented. We did not discover any significant errors. Review whether financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from Hana Bank’s 2010 Financial Statements Audit Report and Annual Report as defined in the Report’s performances and ▒ Recommendation for improvement conclusion sectors We hope Hana Bank’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. ● Verification of environmental and social section Review whether environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately. Improve the materiality test process by understanding stakeholder’s expectations and reflecting them “Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are appropriately reflected Conduct analytic review on the sustainability performances and improve them in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we based our evidence Develop the manual to manage and report sustainability performance data gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. April 26, 2011 Korea Management Association ▒ Verification standards Registrations & Assessments Inc. CEO : Ki Ho Park KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report 66 + 67 2010 Hana Bank Sustainability Report Administrator : CHRO Young Ho Lim Executive Support Office, Business Administration HQ, Sociocultural Team, Trust HQ, Hana Smile Microcredit Foundation, Retail Business HQ, Medium Business HQ, Small Business HQ, New Business Promotion HQ, Marketing Strategy PR Team, HR Development HQ, Secretary Support HQ, HR Support HQ * Your feedback is always welcome Marketing Strategy PR Team Tae Hee Jeon Direct tel: +82 2 2002 1786, E-mail: taeheejeon@hanabank.com
