Communication on Progress Year: 2011 Company name: Caz Creole Sector: Restaurant Number of employees: 25 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2008 Contact person: Mrs. Suzanne Athanasius Address: P O Box 13919 – 00800 Nairobi Email: cazcreole777@gmail.com Phone: 020 762 2647 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact Caz Creole is committed to continue offering total support to the Global Compact Programme of the United Nations with respect to human rights, labour rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. Caz Creole will endeavour to abide by and support the ten principles of Global Compact through our policies, services and products. Caz Creole is committed to communicating its progress and communicating the same to its employees, trade partners and other stakeholders. Mrs. Gini Staussi Chief Executive Officer 10th August, 2011 Brief description of nature of business A. Core Business Caz Creole operates a restaurant that offers Various and diverse Cuisine to a number of clients within and outside of the United Nations. Our Contract commenced in August of the year 2008. We currently offer service to: United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON), UNEP, UN-HABITAT, UNIFEM,, UNICEF, UNESCO, UNSOA, UNODC, UNDP/SOMALIA, UNFPA, WFP, ICAO, ICRAF, AFREPREN, WHO, UNIDO, United Nations, Somalia and UNEP Somalia B. Caz Creole Products Caz Creole offers a variety of cuisines such as Continental, Indian, Italian, Chinese, English, Ethiopian and Kenyan. We have a very serene and pleasant atmosphere with piped music in the back ground. We have well dressed tables, with pleasant waiters/waitress to serve you. Scope of this COP In this COP, we will report on all the 4 areas of the 10 Global Compact Principles i.e., Environment, Anti-corruption, Labour and Human Rights. Human Rights UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Current Commitment Caz Creole is committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that its policies are not complicit in human rights abuses. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Caz Creole ensures that its products are of high quality and are prepared using high degree of hygiene and care to eliminate the dangers that may be life threatening to their health. Our take away food is well packaged. Caz Creole ensures it supports to the local community by deliberately offering employment to the locals. Caz Creole promotes business with the local community. e.g. We give the local community garbage that can be used as compost. Caz Creole ensures and requires that we supply food to workers, whereby we observe a high degree of hygiene in preparation of the meals so as not to endanger the health of our patrons and staff. Caz Creole offers internship to students undertaking degree courses in Food and Beverage. Caz Creole ensures the human rights of employees are respected. Caz Creole ensures that it supports the community by purchasing local fresh producs from local farmers and markets and also purchasing local goods wherever possible, through the CSR policies. Activities implemented in the last year We purchase organic vegetables wherever and whenever possible We purchase and use vegetable oil, for cooking Caz Creole offered internship to five students undertaking degree courses in Food & Beverage Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company By maintaining our level of service we have gained many customers and endeavour to gain new clients with a corresponding increase in income. Caz Creole has realised its Corporate Social Responsibility through doing business with the local community and also employing the local habitants thus have maintained good relations with the community within which we operate in. The students on attachment have been able to get practical experience in relation to food and beverage, hence gained competence in work delivery. Future Activities planned for next year Our vision is to expand our existing business in 2011 to offer services to schools and institutions by taking up new contracts. Our expanded sphere of influence will carry along our CSR strategy working with the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. Labour Rights UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Current Commitment Caz Creole is committed to observe the UN Global Compact labour principles by elimination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour and ensuring that workers enjoy basic freedoms i.e. working hours, fair wages, leave matters, health and safety in the working place etc. One of our key elements of Corporate Social Responsibility is to address our employees’ workplace issues, as they are our number one stakeholders. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Mandatory requirement for employees to have National Identity Cards before employment. United Nations “Guaranteed Fair Employment Package” policy. Complied with the Kenya Conditions of Employment Act i.e. NSSF registration for all staff and casuals (as a retirement benefit), NHIF registration as a social medical insurance cover and PAYE tax payable to the Income Tax Department. Provision of a guaranteed net salary inclusive of housing allowance and transport allowance. Enrolled employees in a medical insurance scheme for outpatient and inpatient cover. Provision of a substantive and nutritious lunch through the services in our restaurant. as well as tea in the morning. Provision of proper uniforms to ensure the safety of employees. E.g. Shoes, gumboots, overalls etc. Provision of 21 days Annual Leave and then compassionate Leave should an occasion arise. Provision of four months paid Maternity Leave, exclusive of annual leave entitlements. Provision of Leave Travelling Allowance to employees when taking Annual Leave. Usual 8 hours working day. Overtime is paid for separately. Caz Creole does not coerce its employees to forced or unpaid overtime and thus employees are always willing to work for extra hours and hence earn extra money. The Management maintains an open door policy thus all employees are encouraged to participate in decision-making. Policy on maintenance of highest standard of staff discipline. Discipline handling procedures are strictly in accordance with the Legislation Subsidiary Agreement and prevailing labour laws. Caz Creole issues all employees with fair and transparent employment contracts in a language understood by the workers before they start working. Equal employment opportunities on the basis of qualifications regardless of sex, colour, marital status etc. Caz Creole takes all necessary measures to ensure that the company does not benefit from any forced labour. Caz Creole ensures that workers are afforded safe and suitable health & safety facilities in the workplace and training of the same. Caz Creole supplies employees with protective equipment and training necessary to perform their duties safely. Caz Creole ensures all staff are provided with transport means to ease lateness for their duties in reporting in the morning, thus functions are not delayed by lateness. Activities implemented in the last year Caz Creole engages in staff welfare by recognising outstanding performance and on the job employees in training. We submitted the stipulated legal fees of all employees and casual labourers to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), NHIF and PAYE Caz Creole provided the required four months paid maternity leave to one employee on maternity leave. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Caz Creole maintains harmony among its workers by issuing them with fair, transparent and understood employment contracts before they start working. This ensures that our employees are motivated and leads to greater productivity. Due to the open door policy, employees are able to express their grievances and the Management solves them amicably. Through our medical scheme workers who have been officially recognised as suffering from HIV/AID, access and receive ARV’s as well as their immediate family members thus increasing their productivity. The “Guaranteed Fair Employment Package” salary policy has helped to improve the working conditions of employees and has created a healthier and happier work force as well as increased the effectiveness and efficiency of the day to day running of the company. Provision of a substantive and nutritious lunch from our kitchen, as well as tea in the morning has greatly improved productivity. Due to the mandatory requirement of National Identity Cards, we have no minors working at Caz Creole and thus child labour is abolished. Several staff were awarded Certificates of Recognition in their respective fields during our Christmas staff party held on 18th December 2010. Future Activities planned for next year Employee Representatives Caz Creole plans to encourage our staff to appoint / elect employee representatives to meet regularly with the Management to discuss staff welfare and work‐related issues employees may wish to raise.Environment UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment Current Commitment Caz Creole is committed to observe the UN Global Compact environmental principles and acknowledges the generally accepted environmental principles such as legal compliance, precautionary approach to environmental challenges, use of environmentally friendly chemicals/substances and the continuous improvement through environmental management. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Caz Creole abides by, and are compliant with all relevant and new environmental legislation in the country. Caz Creole prevents and reduces waste water discharges Caz Creole engages in recycling practices in relation to natural resources. Caz Creole ensures that measures are taken to prevent and minimize operations and activities that have an impact on flora and fauna and degrade the natural environment and ecosystems. We re-use tap water to clean the kitchen floor/restaurant. We have different dustbins for paper, tin, plastic, bottles and vegetables. We use recyclable take away containers/bags Activities implemented in the last year We purchased bio-degradable packaging We have reverted to vegetable oils We re-cycled our rinsing water □ We prepared foods with reduced oils and when possible used Olive oil especially in our salads Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company By re-using fresh tap water for cleaning of kitchen and restaurant floor especially during the first two trimesters of year 2009 when we experienced severe water shortage in the country we were aple to assist UN in reducing water consumption we offered healthier food with less oil content we assisted with keeping the environment waste free by using bio-degradable products. Future Activities planned for next year 1. Continue to implement the garbage disposable system 2. Continue to purchase bio-degradable packaging 3. We intend to involve all our employees in implementing the garbage scheme to their homes and villages where possible. This will be our contribution towards conservation of environment. 4. Continue to preserve water usage thereby contributing to long term sustainability Anti‐‐corruption UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti‐‐corruption Current Commitment Caz Creole is committed to engaging only in transparent and fair business practices that do not distort the business environment. It is Caz Creole’s policy to promote an anti-corruption business environment. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Caz Creole works against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Caz Creole complies with all internationally prescribed conventions national laws and code of ethics. The company signs contracts with all clients. System in place where all employees personally sign after receiving their salaries and wages. The Managing Director has openly declared that the Company will not engage in corruption at any time or in any form. Company promotes and encourages employees to report suspicion of corruption related cases or practices. Discouraging employees from accepting corporate gifts other than diaries, calenders and stationery. Transparency in procurement procedures. Police Certificate of Good Conduct required on all workers. Payment of all business legal fees and renewal of the same to the government e.g trade license. Caz Creole discourages misuse of entrusted power for personal or private gain, which would otherwise ruin our reputation and increase the cost of doing business thus hampering economic development. Activities implemented in the last year Caz Creole implemented a process of signing contracts/agreements with all its clients and agents. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company By discouraging employees from accepting of corporate gifts other than diaries, Calendars and stationery we have been able to curb bribery. All employees are required to obtain a Certificate of Good Conduct from the Criminal Investigation Department of Kenya before employment and to renew it annually. This has enabled us to detect workers with past criminal records. Future Activities planned for next year Suppliers Caz Creole is in the process of creating prevention and monitoring procedures between the workers and suppliers. This is by creating a list which will have prices of all our suppliers against the commodities supplied. This will enable us to consult it every time we need to purchase items other than sending employees to buy the products without the knowledge of the prices. This is aimed at reducing the cost of purchase. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We intend to include this COP in our Annual Report. Donations, awards Donations We support the community in various activities, among them are: During the month of October 2010, Caz Creole contributed towards raising funds for Kenyans affected by drought and starvation due to the acute food shortages in Kenya.
