2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约 进展情况通报 Creat Group’s COP of Global Compact in 2010 科瑞集团有限公司 2011 年 5 月 Creat Group Company, Ltd May, 2011 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 目 录 一、总裁致辞 contents 二、科瑞集团简介 三、2010 年科瑞集团“全球契约”履行情况 1、将“全球契约”纳入风险控制体系 2、在民营经济领域积极传播“全球契约”理念 3、强化以人为本的科瑞文化 4、深化清洁安全新能源战略 5、启动绿色生态型地产战略 6、参与社会公益与慈善活动 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Catalogu e Ι. CEO’s speech Ⅱ.Introduction of Creat Group Ⅲ. Creat Group’s Fulfillment of Global Compact in 2010 1、Incorporate “Global Compact” in the Risk Control System 2、Actively Promote the Thought of “Global Compact” in the Area of Private Economic Field 3、Intensify Creat Group’s Culture of Putting People First 4、Deepen Clean Safe New Energy Strategy 5、Initiate Green Ecological Real State Strategy 6、Participate in the Social Welfare and Charitable Activities 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 总裁致辞 一、总裁致辞 contents 2009 年科瑞集团签署了‚全球契约‛ ，并郑重 承诺： ‚我们接受‘全球契约’在人权、劳工、环 境、反腐败这四个方面的十项原则，在企业发展 的同时持续关注、努力促进‘全球契约’原则的 贯彻和落实。 ‛科瑞集团所以签署这个契约，是因 为这个契约包涵了人类营造和谐、公平社会的基 本约律，它与科瑞集团的企业文化精神是完全一 致的。 ‚全球契约‛中有关鼓励无害环境技术发展与推广的表述，给我们留 下深刻印象。能源与环境的关系是我们历来关注的问题。中国的快速发展， 必然伴随着能源需求的急速增长，中国在 2009 年已经超过美国成为世界第 一大能源消耗国，但中国的能源结构还很落后，煤炭占了百分之七十，节 能减排的任务十分严峻。 我们一直坚持认为，经济发展不能以损害环境为代价，一个负责任的 企业应该对新能源需求未雨绸缪，及时制定前瞻性策略。科瑞集团很早便 提出了在全球经济发展视野下，加快节能减排新技术开发，积极促进中国 经济向低碳环保转型的企业发展目标。特别是在 2009 年投资银河资源， 建设澳大利亚凯特琳锂辉石矿和中国江苏张家港碳酸锂生产基地，积 极为中国乃至世界的新能源建设出力。 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 总裁致辞 我们相信，经济与环境的协调关系将越来越受到世界的关注，人们对 清洁能源的需求与要求也将越来越高、越来越具体。清洁，同时必须安全， 这是科瑞集团对新能源的基本诉求。新能源如果潜在危害难以估量和驾驭， 其对未来环境的破坏可能会是灾难性的。科瑞集团将始终把开发利用清洁 而又安全的能源作为企业新能源战略的目标和方向。 在过去的 2010 年，科瑞集团不断完善企业各项规章制度，积极拓展新 能源开发与利用的空间，努力承担着企业对社会与环境发展的历史责任。 科瑞集团总裁 任晓剑 2011 年 5 月 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 CEO’s speech Ι. CEO’s speech In the year of 2009, Creat Group signed off “Global Compact” and committed with dignity “we accept ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We’ve kept implementing the Global Compact while we grow our business. The Global Compact covers social harmony for human beings that Creat Group strives to maintain its corporate culture in these shared values and principles. That’s why we entered into the Compact. We are convinced by the expression of the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies encouraged in the Global Compact. We paid much attention to the relationship between energy and environment. The rapid economic growth in China propels the great demand for energy. In 2009 China had became number 1 energy consumption country surpassing the United States. However the energy resources structure is still backward. Coal mine consumption accounts for 70%, therefore the mission for energy saving and emission reduction is quite challenging. We believe that the economic growth should not hurt environment. A responsible business unit should undertake a precautionary approach to new energy demand and prepare policies in advance. Creat group started to promote technologies development for energy saving and emission reduction with vision of global economic growth, as well as a transformation to low carbon and environmental protection objectives when China economy grows. Specifically in 2009, Creat Group invested in Galaxy to explore Cattlin spodumene lithium mine and production base of lithium carbonate in Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu, China, as a contribution to the new energy development in China and worldwide. We believe that the world will pay more attention to the relationship between economy and environment and the demand for clean energy are getting much higher and specific. Clean energy must be safe. It is what Creat Group pursues. It might bring devastating damage to the environment if there are potential risks beyond controls in the new energy. Creat Group take development of clean energy and safe resources as our strategic goals from time to time. 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 CEO’s speech In the year of 2010, Creat Group had kept improving corporate policies and controls, explored opportunities for development and utilization of new energies in order to fulfill its obligations for the community and environment. CEO of Creat Group Mr. Ren Xiaojian May, 2011 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 科瑞集团简介 二、科瑞集团简介 科瑞集团成立于 1992 年 7 月，是一家产业投资型跨国集团，重点投资涉及金融、 制造、资源、地产等行业，总部设在北京。 科瑞集团得益于中国的改革开放，并努力希望企业成为改革开放的实践者和探索 者。科瑞集团拥有丰富的金融高端人才，善于发现价值、培育价值并实现价值，曾开 创性地设计‚新世纪房地产投资收益券‛，建设性地推进‚城市信用社‛，规范化地筹 组中国民生银行，为改革开放中的民营企业开拓了许多重要的融资渠道。 科瑞集团始终践行产业强国的理想，让产业投资与整合中国产业资本配置，提升 中国产业管理水平，提高中国产业竞争力，扩大中国产业在国计民生中的作用结合起 来，从而使资本运作与促进社会协调发展和改善民生紧密联系在一起。科瑞集团产业 投资向以眼光高远，判断准确见长，且融合合作共赢的运营理念与资源配置的综合实 力，能够帮助投资产业获得良好成长预期，并通过上市运作实现跨越式发展，确立并 强化行业领先地位——科瑞集团投资整合的河南平高电气公司、烟台安德利浓缩果汁 公司、上海莱士血液制品有限公司，都获得巨大成功。 科瑞集团洞悉中国未来发展将面临资源短缺的潜在危机，未雨绸缪，在全球范围 开始积极寻求绿色矿产资源和投资平台，先后投资在伦敦上市的 ZZL 矿业公司（现在 更名科瑞资源）和在澳大利亚上市的银河资源。科瑞资源作为科瑞集团海外矿业基金 平台，希望站在国家资源战略的高度，为中国企业‚走出去‛提供积极有效的帮助。 银河资源拥有全球第二大锂矿资源，矿石通过海上运输到中国江苏张家港，由银河锂 业加工为电池级碳酸锂，使之成为世界第四、中国最大的碳酸锂生产商，对清洁能源 的开发与利用产生了积极影响。 科瑞地产注重人文情怀，把更多的注意力放在调整都市紧张的节奏，让烦躁的都 市人通过亲和自然的休闲，体味绿色生活的轻松与惬意。科瑞集团与长春市签署的开 发莲花山协议，提出了绿色生态休闲度假概念，它的建成，将为发展城市新型绿色旅 游休闲项目提供范例。 科瑞集团怀有强烈的感恩回报意识，积极支持和参与各种慈善捐助、灾害救助等 活动，努力承担企业对社会的责任。 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Introduction of Creat Group Ⅱ.Introduction of Creat Group Founded in July, 1992, headquartered in Beijing, Creat Group is a transnational investment group, which has developed a comprehensive investment portfolio across a range of sectors including financial services, manufacturing, resources and real estate. Creat Group benefits from China’s Open-door policy and strives to make itself the practitioner and explorer of the Reform and Opening-up. Creat Group has a large team of financial high-end talents, who is keen on the discovery, cultivation and realization of value. Creat Group has initially designed the “New Century Real Estate Investment Profit Securities”, constructively promoted “Urban Credit Community”,and standardized the organization of China Minsheng Banking Corp, Ltd, with the result of expanding various important financial channels for private-owned enterprises in the process of Reform and Opening-up. Creat Group has consistently carried out the ideal of strengthening the country by industrial development, by allocating industrial investment and the integration of China’s industrial capital, elevating China’s industrial managerial level, improving China’s industrial competitiveness, expanding China’s role of industry in national economy and people’s livelihood. With the advantage of farsighted vision and accurate judgment, Creat Group has integrated the win-win cooperation operational concept with the comprehensive strength of resources allocation, gained the ability of helping investment industry attaining favorable growth expectation, and realized transitional development by listed operation, thus establishing and strengthening its leading role in the industry. For example, Creat Group has invested and integrated Henan Pinggao Electric Company (HPE), Yantai Andre Juice, Shanghai Raas Blood Products Company (RAAS), which achieved a great success. As Creat Group understand thoroughly that China’s future development will encounter the potential risk of resources shortage, Creat Group has taken preventive measures, initiated to seek green mine resources and investment platform, by investing in succession not only in the ZZL Mine Company (now the changed name is Creat Resources), listed in London, but also in the Galaxy Resources listed in Australia. As the overseas mining funding platform of Creat Group, Creat Resources expects to stand at the height of national resource strategy, and provide active and effective assistance for Chinese enterprises’ implementation of “going abroad” strategy. Galaxy Resources owns the second lithium mine resource in the world, transports the ores to Zhangjiang Port, Jiangsu Province of China by shipping. Then, Galaxy Lithium Mine Company processes the mines into battery grade lithium carbonate, making it the biggest lithium carbonate producer and impacting a positive impact on the development and utilization of clean energy. 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Introduction of CREAT Group Creat Group attaches great importance to humanism sentiment and focuses more on the adjustment of tense urban tempo and lets the fretting urban dwellers sense the relaxation and pleasure of green life by coming close to the nature. Creat Group and the Municipal Government of Changchun signed an agreement of Joint Development of Lotus Mountain, and put forward the concept of green ecological recreational holiday. The construction of such a resort will set an example for the development of a new green recreational urban holiday program. With the strong consciousness of gratitude and reciprocation, Creat Group vigorously supports and participates in various charitable donations, activities of disaster rescue and social request for assistance, with the aim of shouldering the corporate social responsibility (CSR). 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 2010 年科瑞集团“全球契约”履行情况 三、2010 年科瑞集团‚全球契约‛履行情况 2010 年，科瑞集团积极宣传‚全球契约‛的基本精神，履行‚全球契约‛的各项 约律，不仅将‚全球契约‛纳入集团的风险控制体系中，而且制定了《科瑞集团反贿 赂与反腐败政策》，从制度上强化了反对商业腐败的原则。同时，科瑞集团利用筹组中 国民营经济国际合作商会的工作机会，向更多民营企业宣传‚全球契约‛的基本原则， 扩大了‚全球契约‛在中国民营经济领域的影响。 2010 年，科瑞集团旨在保护环境的清洁能源开发与利用进入实质性实施阶段，银 河资源位于澳大利亚的凯特琳锂辉石矿建成投产，位于中国江苏张家港的锂电池原料 碳酸锂生产基地奠基开工。 在过去的 2010 年，科瑞集团不断完善公司各项规章制度，积极拓展新能源开发与 利用的空间，努力承担着企业对社会与环境发展的历史责任。 1、将‚全球契约‛纳入风险控制体系 科瑞集团十分重视‚全球契约‛，因为它的基本原则与科瑞集团的企业文化精神相 一致，因此，科瑞集团把防止违背‚全球契约‛作为重要的风险控制环节加以落实。 风险控制是科瑞集团对项目进行理性与安全把握的重要环节，2010 年，科瑞集团 要求各分支机构，每个项目的运作都必须符合‚全球契约‛的十项约律，并要求风险 控制部门，将是否履行‚全球契约‛纳入项目审核的风险控制体系。 科瑞集团的公平竞争商业信仰，与‚全球契约‛中的‚企业应反对各种形式的贪 污、包括勒索和行贿受贿‛的约律不谋而合。为了更加具体地践行契约，科瑞集团在 2010 年制定了《科瑞集团反贿赂与反腐败政策》并进行了全员培训，要求公司的领导、 员工或代理人均不能利用行贿换取商业利益，任何违反本政策的人员都将受到纪律处 分，包括终止劳动合同。 2、在民营经济领域积极传播‚全球契约‛理念 2010 年，全国工商联委托科瑞集团牵头筹备的中国民营经济国际合作商会筹组工 作，得到了商务部和国家发改委的大力支持，进入到最后的国家审批阶段，2011 年将 完成注册成立。这个旨在服务大型民营企业‚走出去‛开展境外投资业务的全国性商 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 2010 年科瑞集团“全球契约”履行情况 会组织，聚合了大部分中国民营企业中的佼佼者。科瑞集团受全国工商联委托，负责 筹组商会的成立，与许多大型民营企业建立了良好的互信关系。科瑞集团希望利用中 国民营经济国际合作商会这个平台，积极传播‚全球契约‛的基本理念，扩大‚全球 契约‛在中国民营企业中的影响，希望更多的中国民营企业成为‚全球契约‛的签约 者。 3、强化以人为本的科瑞文化 创建伊始，科瑞集团就高度重视企业文化建设，倡导‚忠诚、团结、勤奋、进取‛ 的创业精神，号召科瑞人将高昂的创业激情、现实的创业理性和务实的创业行动有机 结合起来，推动企业的发展。 经过发展，科瑞集团的战略决策更加稳健，运作经营更加理性，制度管理更加规 范，企业文化更加鲜明，明确了‚诚信重义、合作共赢、坚韧执着、创新高效‛的核 心价值观，突出了科瑞集团重视人的品质磨练，关注人的发展的新企业文化理念。 科瑞集团强化以人为本的企业文化，特别重视保护员工的权益，充分发挥工会的 协调功能。2010 年集团在改进管理制度的过程中，认真听取工会对‚奖金管理办法‛、 ‚休假管理办法‛、‚员工福利、奖励、惩罚‛等制度的意见，使集团在制订与员工切 身利益相关的制度时，能够听到更多直接来自员工的声音。 本着以人为本的企业文化精神，科瑞集团工会建立了职工偶发事件关爱基金，对 遇到重病或遭遇重大家庭变故急需帮助的员工，给予必要的经济抚恤，让员工体味到 科瑞集团对员工的珍重与关爱。 4、深化清洁安全新能源战略 科瑞集团相信，经济与环境的协调关系将越来越受到世界的关注，人们对清洁能 源的需求与要求也将越来越高、越来越具体。清洁，同时必须安全，这是科瑞集团对 新能源的基本诉求。新能源如果潜在危害难以估量和驾驭，其对未来环境的破坏可能 会是灾难性的。因此，科瑞集团将始终把开发利用清洁而又安全的能源作为企业新能 源战略的目标和方向。 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 2010 年科瑞集团“全球契约”履行情况 科瑞集团相信，清洁安全的锂电池蓄能产业，是改变中国高投入、高排放、低产 出落后能源状况的一个理想选择，也是中国作为能源需求大国谋求持久发展的当然选 择。 2009 年 9 月 3 日，科瑞集团与澳大利亚银河资源公司签署合作协议，科瑞集团成 为银河资源第一大股东。 银河资源碳酸锂建设项目分为两个部分，一部分是澳大利亚凯特琳矿山采矿厂建 设，另一部分是中国江苏张家港的碳酸锂加工厂建设。 2010 年 11 月，经过一年的紧张建设，澳大利亚西澳州凯特琳矿山采矿厂正式建成 投产，标志着科瑞集团新 能源战略进入了实质性的 发展阶段。作为清洁能源 应用的积极实践者，我们 在凯特琳矿山的建设中特 别安装了 14 块巨型太阳能 光电板组成的电力供应系 统，为矿山生产提供电力， 从产品生产的源头开始， 凯特琳矿山太阳能光电板电力供应系统 便强调对新能源的应用和减少对环境的破坏。 随着银河资源凯特琳矿山采矿厂建成投产，科瑞集团加快了中国江苏张家港碳酸 锂加工厂的建设步伐，并开始积极寻求更多的锂矿资源，以求形成更大的产业规模， 加快和扩大锂电池市场应用的速度和领域。 5、启动绿色生态型地产战略 科瑞地产强调社会责任，关注城市的和谐发展，注重人文情怀，把更多的注意力 放在调整都市紧张的节奏，让烦躁的都市人通过亲和自然的休闲，体味绿色生活的轻 松与惬意，以释放紧张心情。 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 2010 年科瑞集团“全球契约”履行情况 科瑞集团认识到，中国正处于工业化、城镇化的高速发展期和人民生活水平快速 提升期。当前，中国城市化水平已经超过 40％，未来十年，中国城市化率的目标是 60％， 集中体现为商业地产的持续需求和发展趋势。但是，任何不关注环境保护的野蛮开发， 都可能给城市带来难以医治的创伤。 2010 年，科瑞集团与长春市签署了开发莲花山协议，并提出了绿色生态休闲度假 的概念，并为保护地区环境、美化地区环境制定了详细可行的方案。莲花山项目占地 17 平方公里，是集滑雪场、会所、温泉、生态酒店、康复中心、网球中心、生态住宅 于一体的大型休闲旅游基地，它的建成，将为发展城市新型绿色旅游休闲项目提供范 例。 莲花山项目效果图 6、参与社会公益与慈善活动 2010 年 4 月，科瑞集团捐款 500 万元帮助青海玉树地震灾区人民恢复重建。 2010 年 7 月，科瑞集团牵头策划，并在北京成功举办了‚血浓于水，大爱无疆— —2010（北京）江西抗洪赈灾大型慈善活动‛，组织带动 23 家江西在外企业商会、各 地赣商，向家乡江西洪涝灾区捐款捐物合计价值 3549 余万元。 科瑞集团还长期参与‚红丝带基金‛组织的公益活动，关心支持艾滋病患者和感 染者。 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Fulfillment of Global Compact of Creat Group in 2010 Ⅲ.Fulfillment of Global Compact of Creat Group in 2010 In 2010, Creat Group was dedicated to promoting the soul of global compact and implementing various engagements of global compact. Not only has Creat Group put the global compact into the framework of its risk control, but also it has set out The Anti-Bribery and Anti-corruption Strategy of Creat Group in order to strengthen the principle of anti-commercial corruption institutionally. Meanwhile, Creat Group took the opportunity of establishing the China International Chamber of Commerce for the Private Sector to promote the fundamental principle of the global compact amongst the private sector and affected more in the field of private economy in the result. In 2010, Creat Group put into action the clean energy exploitation project aiming to protect the environment. Not only was the Australian Cattlin spodumene lithium mine of the Galaxy Resources Ltd. completed and put into production, but also the Lithium carbonate production base in Zhangjia Port of China was founded. In the past 2010, Creat Group was committed to perfecting all the regulations of the company constantly, expanding new energy exploitation and utilization space as well as making every effort to assumed its historical obligation for social-environmental development. 1、Incorporate “Global Compact” in the Risk Control System Creat Group attaches much importance to the Global Compact, for its fundamental principle corresponds with the corporate culture of Creat Group. Therefore Creat Group regards the prevention of infringing on the Global Compact as an important risk control step for implementation. The risk control is an important step for Creat Group to develop projects rationally and safely. In 2010, Creat Group not only required all the braches to make the running of every project comply with the ten engagements of the Global Compact, but also required its risk control department to put the Global Compact implementation into the project-auditing risk control framework. Creat Goup’s commercial belief of fair competition complies with the engagement in the Global Compact, which is that enterprises should be against corruption, extortion and offering or accepting bribes in any form. In order to implement the Global Compact more concretely, the Creat Group set out the Creat Group Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Stratety in 2010, and conducted a training of entire staff requiring the managements, staffs and agents must not offer bribes for commercial benefits. Anyone who offends the requirement will be punished with disciplinary treatment or even labor contract termination. 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Fulfillment of Global Compact of Creat Group in 2010 2、Actively Promote the Thought of “Global Compact” in the Area of Private Economic Field In 2010, Creat Group was entrusted by the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce with a task to organizing the setting-up of the China International Chamber of Commerce for the Private Sector, which has stepped into the final stage of state approval and will be founded and registered in 2011 with strong support from the Ministry of Commerce and the State Development and Reform Commission. This national chamber of Commerce is to combine most of the best China’s private enterprises with an aim to providing service for large-scale private enterprises’ engaging in investment business outside the territory of China. Creat Group, who was entrusted by ACFIC with setting up the Chamber of Commerce, has established a good relationship based on mutual trust with many large private enterprises. Creat Group expects to promote the fundamental principle of the Global Compact by the platform of CICCPS and consequently strengthen the Global Compact’s influence on China’s private sector. Hopefully more and more China’s private enterprises will be signatories of the Global Compact. 3、Intensify Creat Group’s Culture of Putting People First Creat Group has paid much attention to the cultivation of corporate culture ever since its foundation. Creat Group advocates a pioneering spirit of “loyalty, Unity, Diligence, Enterprise”, which calls on Creat’s everyone to combine high pioneering spirit, and realistic venture rationality and practical entrepreneurship actions together and thereby push enterprises forward. After long-term development, Creat Group makes strategic decision more firmly and safely, runs the business more rationally, adopts more canonical system administration and more fresh and clear corporate culture. Creat Group has made clear its core values of “frank honesty, win-win cooperation, firmness of purpose, innovation and efficiency”, which highlights Creat’s new corporate culture philosophy focusing on employees’ character-forging and development. With the purpose of strengthening people-oriented corporate culture, Creat Group attaches much importance to the benefits of its employees as well as brings the coordination function of its labor union into full play. In 2010, Creat Group listened seriously to the opinions of the labor union regarding such systems as bonus management, off day management, employee welfare &prize &punishment, by which the group could know more about employees’ concerns when developing systems in relation to their benefits. Based on the people-oriented corporate culture, the labor union of Creat Group has established a relief fund for employees’ accidents, which can provide necessary comforts and compensations to needy employees caught in a deathly ill or suffering a family 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Fulfillment of Global Compact of Creat Group in 2010 misfortune. This makes employees feel the care and warmth from Creat Group. 4、Deepen Clean Safe New Energy Strategy We are convinced that the harmonious relationship between economy and environment will increasingly attract the world attention. People raise much higher and more specific demand and requirement to the clean energy. Meanwhile, security is the basic requirement of Creat Group to the new energy. If new energy is under potential danger, out of control and assessment, it may bring devastating damage to the future environment. Creat Group has always regarded the development and utilization of clean and safe energy as the goal and direction of the company’s new energy strategy. Creat Group believes that the clean safe lithium storage power industry is not only an ideal choice to change China’s energy resources utilization status of high-cost investment, high emission and low yielding, but also an evitable choice for china with a massive energy demand to keep a sustainable development.On 3 September 2009, Creat Group signed a cooperation agreement with Australian Galaxy Resources Ltd. and became its biggest shareholder. The Lithium carbonate project of the Galaxy Resources Ltd. consists of 2 parts. One is the Australian Cattlin spodumene lithium mine, and the other is the Lithium carbonate production base in Zhangjia Port of China. In November 2010, after one year of grueling construction, the Australian Cattlin spodumene lithium mine was formally completed and put into production, which signified that the new energy resource strategy of Creat Group had stepped into a development stage of real substance. As a practitioner of clean energy resources application, we installed an electricity system composed of 14 huge solar photovoltaic panels during the construction of the Cattlin spodumene lithium mine especially for the mine’s production, which highlighted new energy resources application and less environmental destruction. The Solar panels power system of Cattlin spodumene lithium mine After the Australian Cattlin spodumene lithium mine was completed and put into production, Creat Group sped up the construction of the Lithium carbonate production base in Zhangjia Port of China. Meanwhile, Creat Group began to look for more Lithium mine 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Fulfillment of Global Compact of Creat Group in 2010 resources so as to expand the scale of the industry and thereby give a boost to the Lithium battery market. 5、Initiate Green Ecological Real State Strategy Creat Group attaches great importance to corporate social responsibility, pays attention to urban harmonious development and humanism sentiment, and focuses more on the adjustment of tense urban tempo and lets the fretting urban dwellers sense the relaxation and pleasure of green life by coming close to the nature. Creat Group recognizes that China is in the process of industrialization. Urbanization is at the phrase of rapid development and people’s living is drastically escalating. At present, China’s urbanization rate is beyond 40%. In the next ten years, China’s urbanization rate’s goal is 60%, with the concentrated characters of sustainable demand and development tendency in the commercial real estate sector. However, any brutal development which shows no concern about environmental protection may bring incurable trauma to the urban areas. Creat Group and the Municipal Government of Changchun signed an agreement of Joint Development of Lotus Mountain, put forward the concept of green ecological recreational holiday, and formulated a detailed and feasible plan for the protection and beautification of the environment within the territory in 2010. Lotus Mountain project occupies an area of 17 square kilometers, serves as a large-scale recreational tourist basis combined the functions of skiing resort, club house, spa, ecological hotel, rehabilitation center, tennis center and ecological residence. The construction of such a resort will set an example for the development of a new green recreational urban holiday program. The Renderings of the Lotus Mountain project 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 Fulfillment of Global Compact of Creat Group in 2010 6、Participate in the Social Welfare and Charitable Activities Creat Group has participated in social welfare and charitable work. Creat Group took the lead in planning and successfully holding “Blood Thicker Than Water, Boundless Love— Grand Charitable Activity Combating A flood and Relieving Disaster Victims in (Beijing) Jiangxi, 2010”in April, 2010.Creat Group organized and promoted 23 Chamber of Commerce out of Jiangxi, Jiangxi entrepreneurs to donate 3.549 million worth of money and goods to their hometown of Jiangxi. Creat Group has also participated in the public welfare activities organized by “Red Ribbon Fund” and supported AIDS patients and HIV carriers. 2010 年度科瑞集团全球契约进展情况通报 2011 年，科瑞集团将继续执行集团战略规划，在新能源领域和绿色经 济领域加快发展，并积极承担企业社会责任，以自身的实际行动践行对‚全 球契约‛做出的承诺。 In 2011, Creat Group will continue to implement its strategic plan, accelerate development in the areas of new energy and green economy, vigorously shoulder corporate social responsibility and uphold its commitments of “Global Compact” by its practical actions.
