Communication on Progress 2011 Communication on Progress 2011 Statement of continued support Develco is a highly recognised engineering company designing high-end electronics and embedded software. Innovation, reliability, and future-proficiency are keywords. Point of rotation at Develco is the UN Global Compact. The ten principles constitute the basis for Develco and our employees – it issimply the way we are doing business. We believe that a sustainable approach at all levels affects our results and bottom line in a direct, positive way. Our customers and subcontractors all form part of our CSR policy. We regard the value chain as a whole and expect our close partners to comply with the ten principles in the UN Global Compact as well. Therefore, we have included the ten principles in our basis contract in order to make subcontractors substantiate their compliance with the UN Global Compact. The environment constitutes the point of departure in many of the solutions that we design. Though, we always have to counterbalance our efforts and our results. It is crucial to us that our CSR initiatives and the products and services that we deliver to our customers do keep up their balance. We are pleased to participate in the network of UN Global Compact partners. Networking is a cornerstone in our innovation and design business and we look forward to participating in the CSR activities together with the other engaged and responsible companies. At the same time, we are proud and humble to be part of the UN Global Compact. It is a great pleasure for me to confirm that Develco reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kresten Nørgaard Christensen, Managing Director Communication on Progress 2011 The Develco approach Our approach to the UN Global Compact is at the same time strategic, business-driven, and responsible. At Develco, the skilled employees constitute the foundation for the business. As highly skilled technical specialist, the engineers are a valuable asset when it comes to advising our customers. Our mission is to turn our customers into winner companies. By providing high quality counselling on sustainable solutions, we contribute to make our customer’s products future-proof and competitive. The UN Global Compact principles have been integrated in our ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 system thus being inherent part of our working processes. Actions undertaken Principles 1-2: Human rights All activities in Develco support and respect the protections of internationally proclaimed human rights. It is a matter of course that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principles 3-6: Labour Being a knowledge-based development company, the Develco employees and their innovative competencies constitute our most valuable asset. Well-being, education, and working conditions in general therefore are high priority areas for the management. Occupational health and safety measures have been taken to ensure the optimum working conditions in our offices. Every year, we conduct an satisfaction surveys. We put up ambitious objectives objectives that have all been fulfilled within the fields of employee satisfaction as well as customer satisfaction. Develco is conscious of work-life balance and has established flexible working hours and tolerance for personal issues. Develco’s initiatives are not limited to our own nation. In South Africa, we conduct an educational program for domestic workers within the field of energy awareness. The program is called Domestic Workers Energy Awareness (DWEA) and is based on the fact that domestic workers use a lot of energy when they are working without knowing much about energy. We are in the process of elaborating educational material. We have teamed up with South African partners who conduct interviews and training of the domestic workers. Later on this year, we are organising a big CSR event in Johannesburg. Communication on Progress 2011 Principle 7-9: Environment Develco is ISO 14001 certified and supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Being a design house, our own local impact on the environment is very limited. We have installed intelligent light control all over the building to ensure that all lights are turned off or dimmed when possible without assailing the working environment of our employees. Our advice on sustainable solutions to our customers is where we can make our greatest impact. We work with environmentally friendly technologies that are low power thus minimizing CO2 emissions. All our products comply with the Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). Procedures at Develco also comply with WEEE Directive meaning prevention of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), and in addition, the reuse, recycling and other forms of recovery of such wastes so as to reduce the disposal of waste. We also seek to improve the environmental performance of all operators involved in the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, e.g. producers, distributors and consumers and in particular those operators directly involved in the treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment. Principle 10: Anti-corruption Develco is a design house operating on market conditions. Profitability is a requirement and necessary assumption for our ability to conduct corporate social responsibility. Develco has a long-standing anti-corruption policy stating that corruption or bribery is not acceptable in any form or under any circumstances. Hence Develco is committed to ethical and responsible business practice.
