COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2010 Dear Reader IFU’s and IØ’s (the Funds) overall mission is to enhance sustainable economic growth, development and more equitable income distribution by financing private sector investments in developing countries and reforming economies. Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy is ambitious and is based upon international UN, ILO and OECD conventions, declarations and agreements. We hereby seek to contribute to the global achievement of the UN Millennium Development Goals. It is our objective that our investments contribute to a lasting economic, environmental and social sustainable development through the creation of healthy and safe workplaces and the transfer of knowhow and cleaner technologies. We wish to contribute to the social and economic development of the local community – and we also encourage the project companies to engage themselves locally. We are committed to securing high CSR standards as a fundamental aspect of sound business management of IFU’s investments and business practice. IFU’s Supervisory Board, manage­ment, employees and advisers must conduct all their business operations in accordance with the values and the spirit laid down in the CSR policy. We signed up to the 10 UN Global Compact principles in 2008, because they are a set of universal principles that help us underline our CSR policy, wherever in the world we create business, and we are committed to implement­ing and advancing these principles together with the project companies and within IFU’s sphere of influence. Copenhagen, April 2011 Finn Jønck Managing Director, CEO Private sector investments create development IFU, the Industrialisation Fund for Developing Countries, is fund manager for IØ, the Investment Fund for Central and Eastern Europe. IFU was founded in 1967, IØ in 1989. For four decades, IFU has proved that good business for all parties very often requires investment and development to go hand in hand. We ensure business opportunities for Danish companies abroad, and we create local jobs and local income in the countries we invest in. The Danish government decided in 2010 that IØ’s activities are to be phased out, and IØ cannot enter into new commitments. | 2 | Communication on Progress (COP) Our CSR policy adapted to and integrated into its procedures and operaThe Funds’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy tions so that CSR remains a strategic issue after the Funds states that the Funds’ investments shall, on an ongoing have exited. Active ownership through board representabasis, contribute to the creation of jobs and income, imtion is an important means to achieve this goal. proving corporate governance, sound environmental and social performance, and development in the local commuWe advocate a strategic approach to CSR, because we benities involved. The full policy can be found in an annex to lieve it is the right approach to get added value from the this document. time and resources allocated. The Funds see no incompatibility in doing business in an ethical and transparent manThe CSR policy covers the four areas of the UN Global ner and achieving good financial results, if this is done Compact: human rights, labour rights, environment and with the right approach. At the same time, we are aware anti-corruption. The policy also has special focus on clithat many project companies are struggling with practical mate change, occupational health and safety, animal welissues in their daily operations such as enforcing the use fare and community development. This Communication of personal protective equipment and the number of on Progress (COP) focuses on the areas where the Funds working hours. can make a significant difference through their efforts and encouragement towards the project companies, and The Funds induce each project company to adopt its own thereby fulfil commitments in the CSR policy. CSR policy, which clearly defines and describes the company’s vision, strategy and operational guidelines, and e.g. This COP, required annually of all signatories to the UN sign up to UN Global Compact. The Funds see this as a Global Compact, includes both IFU and IØ (the Funds) signal of strong commitment and anchoring of CSR in the and constitutes the mandatory reporting as required by company, although other means may be used to ensure the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99 a (7). high standards. In 2010, 27% of the IFU project companies had a written CSR policy or were covered by a CSR The baseline compliance policy policy made by the parent company. This is four percentIt is the policy of the Funds that project companies must age points higher than in 2009. For IØ, 11% of the project be in compliance with all host country legal and regulatory companies had a CSR policy. requirements regarding CSR issues at all times. In addition, international standards must be used as a baseline New due diligence tool for significant CSR issues. If these standards are not met, In 2010, IFU introduced an updated due diligence tool as the project company must draw up and implement a propart of the appraisal process for new projects. It is called ject specific CSR Action Plan to address these issues the Global Compact Self Assessment Tool and was within a reasonable timeframe. launched at the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit in June 2010. The tool may be used by companies of all sizes Both during due diligence and monitoring of project comfrom all sectors and provides a means of testing their perpanies, the Funds focus on whatever CSR issues are mateformance on the UN Global Compact principles. rial and significant for the specific investment, which vary in every case depending on the project in question, and IFU took part in the development of this new tool to prowhat is most significant from a country and sector specific vide IFU and its project companies with an instrument point of view. based on international standards and best practice that inspires continuous improvement and enables them to The Funds have an exclusion list of sectors in which we do track and demonstrate progress. not invest. New CSR status reporting guidelines Active ownership – beyond the baseline IFU requires all project companies to prepare an annual The Funds’ goal is for a project company’s CSR objectives CSR Status Report for discussion and ap­proval by their to be anchored in its business strategy and be fully boards of directors. The CSR Status Report serves as a | 3 | Communication on Progress (COP) tool for the company to get an overview of its perforIn 2010, IFU joined BSR, Business for Social Responsibility, mance and identify issues for improvement. IFU has which is a network of members including leaders and launched a new set of guidelines to improve the project other peers and stakeholders – all focused on creating viacompanies’ CSR reporting and thus ensure that relevant ble sustainable solutions. Here IFU will benefit from the information becomes available to the board. insights, expertise and relationships within the network from years of hands-on work in the field. CSR Advisory Board and other stakeholder engagements Development of competences within IFU To keep up-to-date with new opportunities, dilemmas and Procedures and knowledge about CSR issues are part of risks, IFU has a CSR Advisory Board with four members, IFU’s ongoing development of competences through intereach representing important IFU stakeholders on one of nal sharing of knowledge, courses and other forms of the issues: human rights, environment, development and training. This contributes to the continuous improvement corporate policy. The board meets regularly to discuss key of the quality of IFU’s advice to project companies. issues such as media communication, due diligence tools, supply chain dilemmas and anti-corruption and facilitation In 2010, IFU held a board seminar to train investment payments. The members are: managers and external advisers in handling CSR dilemmas • J ohn Nordbo, Conservation Director, within corporate governance in their capacity as board Head of Climate Programme, WWF members in IFU’s project companies. • Jakob Simonsen, Director, UNDP Nordic Office • S une Skadegaard Thorsen, Senior Partner, Global CSR Also, all investment managers and employees working • M alene Østergaard, CSR & Environment Director, with project companies completed a training course in the Danfoss new CSR due diligence and reporting tools. IFU is member of the association of European DevelopIFU FOCUS training of project companies ment Finance Institutions (EDFI), a group of 15 organisaTo encourage and help project companies to improve their tions. EDFI has established a working group for harmoniperformance and set up their own policies and systems, sation of appraisal procedures on CSR issues, which is a the Funds introduced IFU FOCUS for the first time in strong network for IFU and facilitates knowledge sharing 2010. IFU FOCUS is a seminar on CSR and HR facilitated between sister organisations. by IFU and delivered by international and local experts to Participants in IFU FOCUS China, held in Beijing 27-28 September 2010. | 4 | Communication on Progress (COP) the management of IFU’s project companies. CSR and HR and proved appropriate to make people with different are key elements in building strong and sustainable combackgrounds discuss the same dilemmas. panies. Separately, CSR and HR represent specialist functions with cross functional impact. Together, they leverage In China there were 32 participants from 21 companies one another and are part of the definition and execution of (47% of IFU’s active project companies in China) and in good management practice. Vietnam 30 participants from 13 companies (65% of IFU’s active project companies in Vietnam). In 2011, IFU FOCUS IFU FOCUS creates a framework for training, new insight will focus on India and Africa. and sharing of best practice. It provides a platform for exchanging solutions to daily challenges for companies in Danida CSR Training Fund similar situations and provides an opportunity for netIFU manages the Danida CSR Training Fund, which proworking with companies and managers with the same invides training grants for IFU’s project companies. In 2010, terests and experience. The topics covered vary according IFU gave commitments to grants for eight CSR training to the needs in the region where the seminar is offered. programmes in five countries including training in managThe UN Global Compact was introduced to the particiing chemicals, personal protection equipment, HIV and pants as a universal instrument to reach high standards on other health issues. The project companies have shown key CSR issues. considerable interest in applying for these grants, which have a total annual budget of DKK 3m. In 2010, IFU FOCUS was held in China and Vietnam with focus on CSR as a business case and the current status on Climate and energy investments labour law, practices and dilemmas. The seminars also faIFU seeks investment opportunities that help address the cilitated discussion and sharing of best practices on anticlimate and environmental challenges that developing corruption and facilitation measures. To initiate discuscountries face. In 2010, eight new climate and energy insions, the UN Global Compact Dilemma Game was used vestments were made, which contributed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Climate and energy investments involve the production of renewable energy, the manufacture of components for the production of renewable energy, a significant increase in energy efficiency and energy savings, energy consultancy, biogas production, landfill gas recovery, as well as climate and energy facilities or funds. Reviews of project companies IFU regularly commissions external experts to make CSR reviews of either country or sector portfolios. The reviews cover all active projects in operation and relevant issues in IFU’s CSR policy. All project companies reviewed receive a report including possible recommendations for further action and improvement of performance. Since 2005, 63 project companies have been reviewed. In 2010, 19 project companies in eastern and southern Africa were reviewed. In general, the companies showed genuine intentions and efforts to comply with CSR requirements. However, instances of non-compliance were identified mainly regarding systematically formalising existing practices, and recommendations were made to take immediate action. IFU will follow the companies’ initiaAnyang Biogas, China. tives to implement these recommendations closely. | 5 | Communication on Progress (COP) Assessment of CSR performance son for the increase for IØ is the improvements made in Each year IFU carries out an internal assessment of its the classification for several projects (mainly fair to good), portfolio regarding compliance with its CSR policy. Each combined with the fact that there are significantly fewer project is classified into one of five categories as follows: projects classified in total (almost 30%), so the improveexcellent, good, fair, poor and critical. ments have a proportionately higher effect on the overall result. In 2010, compliance assessments were carried out for 179 IFU projects. The compliance assessment does not inThe reasons for projects being classified as either poor or clude 30 projects that are in the process of being estabcritical vary and include sewage treatment not working lished, eight projects with no physical activities, and ten optimally, poor reporting or improper use of personal proprojects being exited. Similarly for IØ, assessments were tective equipment. carried out for 57 IØ projects. The compliance assessment does not include three projects that are in the process of CSR in the supply chain being established, ten projects with no physical activities, Many companies around the world have been associated and five projects being exited. with suppliers violating CSR standards. The Funds encourage project companies to minimize this risk by in different The CSR classification is a combination of three separate ways making their CSR policies clear towards their suppliclassifications: 1) environment; 2) occupational health and ers and promoting improvements. This is a major task, essafety (OHS); and 3) human rights and labour practices. pecially because it often requires striking an equitable and Projects with the classification good are in compliance practicable balance between the commercial imperative with local legislation and international standards, e.g. of profitable business, and the ethical demands that flow World Bank EHS guidelines on significant CSR issues. Profrom any CSR abuses by the supplier. The initial reaction jects with the classification excellent go beyond that. Promight be to cease to use the supplier. However, it does not jects with the classification fair, poor or critical are proserve the overall goal of securing human and labour rights jects to which IFU pays much attention to advise the and reducing pollution of the environment as the violaprojects on how to improve their CSR performance. tions will probably continue. A better CSR approach is to For IFU, the classification shows an improvement comencourage and persuade the supplier to raise its perforpared to 2009 with an increase in the total combined mance by continuously supporting the supplier’s efforts. score of projects classified as either good or excellent In 2011, the Funds will focus on how to further support the from 77% to 82%. The increase can be attributed both to project companies in their effort to improve performance an improvement in the classifications made for several in their supply chain. projects, and the fact that the projects exited in 2010 had below-average classifications. For IØ, the classification The Funds’ CSR performance shows an improvement compared to 2009 with an inThe Funds’ have their head office in Copenhagen and crease in the total combined score of projects classified as small regional offices in New Delhi, Beijing, Accra, Nairobi either good or excellent from 79% to 87%. The main reaand Johannesburg. Two of the African offices are in the Human rights and CSR Total score (%) Environment (%) OHS (%) labour practices (%) classification IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ Excellent 26 34 27 33 23 35 28 33 Good 56 53 57 50 56 54 54 56 Fair 17 13 14 17 19 11 17 11 Poor 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 Critical 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 | 6 | Communication on Progress (COP) same building as the Danish embassy. In 2010, an average wide array of cultures and therefore need to understand of 71 people were employed at the Funds including 56 at not only political, social and economic features of a counthe head office. Looking at the significant CSR issues for try but also be sensitive to local cultures and appreciate an organisation doing office work and visiting project the impact of these aspects in a business and social concompanies around the world, the Funds pay special attentext, including anti-corruption, which requires strict staff tion to building performance including heating and elecethics. IFU is furthermore represented on the board of tricity, health issues, transportation and compliance with Transparency International Denmark staff ethics. The Funds’ investment managers participate in board The Funds’ head office moved in 2010 to new and refurmeetings and visit the project companies, which means bished buildings, which is expected to reduce both heatthat the Funds have many travel kilometres every year. It is ing and electricity consumption by up to one third due to also often necessary to be present on site to be able to better insulation and new IT equipment. monitor all aspects of a company’s performance. The Funds try to find the right level of travel and keep it to a The Funds have a comprehensive set of guidelines on staff minimum using e.g. new communication tools. But often ethics formalising the ethical standards and policies applithe Funds’ investments operate in an area where these cable for all IFU employees. IFU employees deal with a communication tools are not yet available or reliable. | 7 | Communication on Progress (COP) Annex 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) Scope ination and encourage the project companies to promote IFU’s overall mission is to enhance sustainable economic gender equality. growth, development and more equitable income distribution by financing private sector investments in developing Labour rights: IFU requires that all employees in the procountries and reforming economies. ject companies have as a minimum the right to rest, reasonable limitation of working hours, periodic holiday, and IFU’s investments in project companies shall on an ongoreasonable remuneration. All employees must be allowed ing basis contribute to the creation of jobs and income, imfreedom of assembly and participation in workers’ organiprovement of corporate governance, sound environmental sations. and social performance, and to development of the local communities. We seek to ensure that our investments will Occupational health and safety (OHS): Sound OHS procontribute continually to sustainable development. cedures include application of principles of industrial hygiene, substitution of hazardous substances, establishIFU is committed to securing high standards of CSR as a ment of work procedures and material safety data sheets fundamental aspect of sound business management of and ensuring personal protective equipment. IFU requires IFU’s investments and business practice. IFU’s Supervisory that project companies establish joint labour-manageBoard, manage­ment, employees and advisers must conment health and safety committees. duct all their business operations in full accordance with the values and the spirit laid down in the CSR policy. Environment: IFU requires that the project companies actively manage their environ­men­tal im­pact, and that they IFU has signed up to the 10 UN Global Compact princitake actions to improve their environmental performance ples, and we are committed to implement­ing and advancas appropriate. The project companies must support a ing these together with the project companies and within preventive and precautionary approach to environmental IFU’s sphere of influence. IFU’s policy is based upon interchallenges. national UN, ILO and OECD conventions, declarations and agreements, and we hereby seek to contribute to the Climate change: IFU encourages the project companies to global achievement of the UN Millennium Development contribute to climate change mitiga­tion and adaptation in Goals. accordance with the spirit of the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change. The project companies should give attenIssues of concern tion to major contributions to climate change and conThe main issues of concern covered by IFU’s policy are the sider appropriate meas­ures to minimise the effect. following: Anti-corruption: IFU does not accept corruption and bribHuman rights: It is a fundamental value of IFU to respect ery. The project companies or their repre­sentatives should the basic human rights, and we cannot accept forced or not accept bribes in any form and should not provide imcompulsory labour and the use of child labour in activities, proper benefits to customers, agents, contractors, suppliwhich are dangerous to the moral or physical well-being ers, employers or to government officials. IFU is member and development of the child. IFU advocates non-discrimof Trans­parency International. | 8 | Communication on Progress (COP) Excluded product areas: IFU does not finance projects, Legal framework and norms which produce goods and services that are prohibited in Project companies must at all times be in compliance with Denmark for any environmental, human rights or other host country legislation regarding CSR issues. Good CSR CSR reasons. performance is defined by the norms of ethical behaviour in the various countries and is thereby under constant deCommunity development and society aspects: IFU envelopment. Therefore, IFU and the project compa­nies shall courages the project companies to con­tribute to the debe in continuous dialogue with their stakeholders to be velopment of the local community within their ability and able to act proactively in accordance with their expectathe scope of their core business and business concept. In tions and demands. countries seriously affected by the hiv/aids epidemic, IFU requires that an hiv/aids policy be adopted by the project Whenever significant CSR issues are identified in a procompanies. ject, relevant international standards must be used as a baseline. In case of deviations, the project company must Animal welfare: IFU requires that animals used in food draw up and implement a CSR action plan to mitigate the production, for other commercial purpos­es or for testing issues within a reasonable timeframe. The CSR action plan are treated properly. IFU requires that veterinarians and must be approved by the project partners, including IFU. agriculture technicians do efficient controls and inspecIn case of breach of the CSR policy IFU is entitled to take tions. the neces­sary measures including exiting the project company. Responsibilities and approach IFU’s CSR objectives and activities must be anchored in Transparency and stakeholder dialogue the business strategies of the project compa­nies and must IFU will provide transparent and accountable information be fully adapted to and integrated into their procedures about their own activities and achievements and conand operations. IFU will induce each project company to stantly strive to improve the quality and extent hereof. adopt a written CSR policy, which clearly defines and describes its vision, strategy and operational guidelines. The We encourage our investment partners and project comproject companies must strive to constantly improve their panies to be transparent and informative about their busiown CSR policies, standards and performance and pronesses and CSR performance in order to create the best mote these towards their suppliers where relevant. possible platform for a continuous and proac­tive stakeholder dialogue. IFU will enhance and support the project companies directly and in cooperation with other invest­ment partners IFU is committed to the principles of stakeholder engageand relevant stakeholders in identifying areas of improvement and will, where appropriate, engage in policy diament, determining action plans and strengthening their logue with their partners and with governments on issues environmental and social management capacity. For this related to CSR. purpose, IFU will make its experience and tools available and seek to mobilise support to development of compeThe above CSR Policy was approved by IFU’s Supervisory tence in the project companies. Board on CSR objectives and activities of the project companies 23 October 2008 must be based on a thorough assessment and broad unSigned Finn Jønck derstanding of the interrelationship between the project company and the local community, taking into account the economic, political, cultural and social contexts and diversity in which they operate. IFU has prepared a set of CSR appraisal and monitoring guidelines to assist in the implementation of the CSR policy. | 9 | Communication on Progress (COP)
