2010 Corporate Responsibility Report CB Richard Ellis ethics and environmental compliance stewardship governance health and safety philanthropy workplace Stakeholder Letter aimed at maximizing the potential of our workforce, CBRE was named to the “Companies That Care Honor Roll” in About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. early 2011 for the fourth consecutive year. About this Report • Our commitment to a diverse workforce and inclusive Environmental Stewardship workplace remains a key element of our core values and corporate culture. In 2010, despite extensive cutbacks Ethics and Compliance in other areas, we continued corporate support for our Governance employee networking groups—African-American; Women’s; Dear Stakeholder, Hispanic; and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Health and Safety In 2010, CB Richard Ellis continued to build on its mission to (LGBT). In addition, we incorporated diversity into our lead the industry in corporate responsibility, achieving several Philanthropy succession planning strategies and boosted the diversity critical milestones. Our fourth annual Corporate Responsibility Workplace components of our talent acquisition programs. All of these Report outlines our endeavors and accomplishments in the initiatives are aimed at attracting more diverse candidates Global Reporting Index six core areas of focus that remain the highest priorities to our industry—and CBRE in particular—and fostering a for our stakeholders: governance; ethics and compliance; working environment where they see clear opportunities to philanthropy; workplace and labor-related performance; health fulfill their career aspirations. These efforts prompted a real and safety; and environmental stewardship. estate trade magazine to profile our “Culture of Diversity” Among our achievements: earlier this year. • CBRE reaffirmed its commitment to cultivating a best-in• CBRE fulfilled the pledge we made in 2007 to become class learning organization with the planned re-invigoration carbon neutral. Earlier this year, we completed a final of CBRE University, which had been cut back during the measurement of our 2010 carbon footprint, and economic downturn. The company appointed a Chief implemented carbon offset projects around the globe, in Learning Officer and is establishing educational programs accordance with internationally accepted standards. We are to supplement our many other business line training and the first company in our space to achieve carbon neutrality. distance learning initiatives. The year 2010 also saw robust environmental improvements • In the area of Health and Safety, we surpassed our goal in across our operations. As a result of our sustainability efforts, reducing injuries on the job, as more than 99 percent of our CBRE ranked in the top 6 percent of Fortune 500 firms in worldwide workforce remained free of healthand safetyNewsweek’s “Green Rankings.” related incidents. In addition, because of our increasingly • Our professionals responded generously to people and vigilant practices and comprehensive training programs, organizations in need, donating volunteer hours and funds fewer workers suffered injuries resulting in days lost from to more than 280 different charitable groups around the work and days of work restriction. For 2011, we have set our world—more than ever before. Charitable contributions most ambitious goal ever for keeping CBRE employees safe by the company and employees rose 56% year-over-year and healthy. CB Richard Ellis 2010 to $6.4 million. For these efforts and our many programs 2 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • We made significant progress in ethics and compliance, remain committed to our corporate responsibility endeavors expanding our staff in this area by 25 percent globally, and because they form the foundation of our business success. The About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. rolling out important policy initiatives company-wide. significant progress we made in 2010, despite the still uncertain About this Report business climate, is a tribute to the energy and commitment Although business prospects have brightened considerably Environmental Stewardship of our 31,000 professionals around the globe. They bring our over the past year, the global economy still faces meaningful values to life every day, improving both our operational integrity Ethics and Compliance challenges. But no matter what unfolds, CBRE will and the communities where we live and work. We look forward Governance to updating you on new developments in the year ahead. Health and Safety Sincerely, Philanthropy Workplace Global Reporting Index Brett White Chief Executive Officer CB Richard Ellis 2010 3 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. CBRE is incorporated in Delaware in the United States. The CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a Fortune 500 and company’s Class A common stock is traded on the New York About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world’s Stock Exchange under the symbol “CBG.” During this reporting About this Report largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2010 period, there were no significant changes in the size, structure Environmental Stewardship revenue of US$5.1 billion). The Company has approximately or ownership of our company. 31,000 employees (excluding approximately 4,900 employees Ethics and Compliance Operational Structure of affiliate companies), and serves real estate owners, investors CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. is a holding company that Governance and occupiers through more than 300 offices (more than 400 conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries, including affiliates) worldwide. CBRE offers strategic advice Health and Safety both wholly owned operations as well as affiliated offices, in and execution for property sales and leasing; corporate Philanthropy more than 60 countries. We report our results of operations services; property, facilities and project management; mortgage through five business segments: Workplace banking; appraisal and valuation; development services; investment management; and research and consulting. • The Americas is our largest segment of operations and Global Reporting Index provides a comprehensive range of services throughout In 2010, CBRE advised clients on 60,275 property sales and the United States and in the largest metropolitan regions lease transactions valued at US$128.1 billion. As of December in Canada and select parts of Latin America through both 31, 2010, we managed more than 2.9 billion square feet wholly-owned operations as well as independent affiliated of commercial properties and corporate facilities around the offices. As of December 31, 2010, our Americas segment world (including property managed by our affiliate offices). had more than 19,300 employees (excluding approximately Commercial mortgage loan originations, including loan 1,600 affiliate employees) and accounted for 62.9% of our sale advisory, totaled US$15.7 billion; and loan servicing, 2010 revenue. including loans serviced by GEMSA—a joint venture between • Our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) segment CBRE Capital Markets and GE Capital Real Estate—totaled operates in 42 countries with our largest operations located US$123.1 billion. We completed 115,275 appraisal and in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain valuation assignments in 2010, and our project management and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2010, within contract value was US$14.6 billion. EMEA, we had more than 4,475 employees (excluding 2010 Revenue by Business Line approximately 1,400 affiliate employees). Our EMEA 35% Property and Facilities segment accounted for 18.3% of our 2010 revenue. Management 34% Leasing • Our Asia Pacific segment operates in 13 countries. Our 15% Sales principal operations in Asia are located in China, Hong 7% Appraisal and Valuation Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. The 3% Investment Management Pacific operations include Australia and New Zealand. 3% Commercial Mortgage As of December 31, 2010, Asia Pacific had more than Brokerage 1% Development Services 6,550 employees (excluding approximately 1,900 affiliate CB Richard Ellis 2010 2% Other 4 Corporate Responsibility Report employees) and accounted for 13.1% of our 2010 revenue. Stakeholder Letter • Operations in our Global Investment Management externally—that requires us to re-state information provided segment are conducted through our indirect wholly owned and there have been no significant changes in our corporate About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. subsidiary CB Richard Ellis Investors, L.L.C., which we also responsibility strategy from previous reporting periods. About this Report refer to as CBRE Investors, and its global affiliates. As of CBRE embarked on this reporting process through informal Environmental Stewardship December 31, 2010, Global Investment Management discussions with stakeholders and by conducting a materiality had 425 employees and accounted for 4.2% of our 2010 Ethics and Compliance assessment in accordance with the principles of the Global revenue. Reporting Initiative (GRI), the globally accepted independent Governance • Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow framework for reporting on sustainability issues. In preparing Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide Health and Safety this report, we were influenced by the G3 Guidelines which, at Development Services primarily in the United States Philanthropy the time we began preparing this year’s report, were the most to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as recent version of the GRI. Since then, the G3.1 Guidelines Workplace well as for its own account. As of December 31, 2010, have been released and we will report against those guidelines Development Services had 177 employees and accounted Global Reporting Index (or whatever is the most recent version of the GRI available) in for 1.5% of our 2010 revenue. next year’s report. We have self-declared this report as meeting 2010 Revenue by Financial Reporting Segment the criteria for GRI Application Level B. 62.9% The Americas Since we are a U.N. Global Compact (UNGC) participant, we 18.3% EMEA 13.1% Asia Pacific have also communicated our progress toward the 10 UNGC 4.2% Global Investment Principles. Management 1.5% Development Services Our Index, which contains references to specific GRI indicators and standard disclosures, and UNGC principles, can be found on page 54. In the Index, we made an effort to show the section(s) and page(s) where each GRI indicator or standard disclosure, and each of the 10 UNGC principles is located, but Please refer to the CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. 2010 Annual it is important to note that some are addressed across multiple Report for more information about CBRE and our operations. pages and/or sections. About This Report For this report, we did not undertake a formal external This report provides an overview of the social, economic and validation process, but all data is supported by documentation, environmental impacts of CBRE globally in 2010. This is our internal systems and information from external organizations. fourth annual Corporate Responsibility report, with the most We may consider independent external assurance by an recent previous report (our 2009 Corporate Responsibility auditing organization for future reports. report) published in May 2010. After publishing our previous CB Richard Ellis 2010 report, we have not received any information—internally or 5 Corporate Responsibility Report Awards and Milestones Stakeholder Letter Only commercial real estate services company in the Fortune 500; #440 in 2011 About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Highest ranked commercial real estate services company Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance # 1 brand for 10 consecutive years Governance Health and Safety #6 outsourcing company across all industries; #1 among commercial real estate services firms Philanthropy Workplace Only commercial real estate services firm included on the Forbes Global 2000 Global Reporting Index Highest Ranked Commercial Real Estate Services Firm on Black Book of Outsourcing List Global Excellence in Outsourcing Award Recognizing The World’s Premier Commercial Real Estate Services Firm Voted Best Property Investment Advisor Top 30 “green” company in U.S. and highest ranked in financial services U.S. EPA 2011 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award (reflecting 4 consecutive years of Partner of the Year status) Global Advisor of the Year for 4th time since 2005 World’s Best Property Consultant Named to “Companies that Care” 2011 Honor Roll; 4th year in a row CB Richard Ellis 2010 6 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE has undergone significant growth and global expansion updates through early 2011 are included. This report excludes over the past decade. Our number of employees has grown joint-venture and affiliate office information, unless otherwise About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. from less than 10,000 in 2000 to more than 31,000 (plus noted. We plan to continue reporting on our initiatives annually. About this Report another 4,900 employees of affiliate companies) in 2010. This report and future updates can be accessed online through Environmental Stewardship While some of this growth has been organic, much of it the Corporate Responsibility section of www.cbre.com. occurred through our more than 60 acquisitions in that For questions regarding the report or its contents, contact Ethics and Compliance same general time period. As a result, we have programs responsibility@cbre.com. Governance and systems that are not yet globally integrated and require Our Corporate Responsibility Framework manual compilations; creating integrated systems is a key Health and Safety and Vision corporate priority. In 2010, we made significant progress in Philanthropy CBRE is the global leader in commercial real estate the planning, design and early-stage building and testing services. We believe that with great leadership comes great Workplace of systems and structures that will globally integrate vital responsibility: responsibility to lead with integrity; responsibility corporate data. Once complete, these systems and structures Global Reporting Index to respect our people, partners and planet; responsibility will streamline or eliminate many of the manual processes we to support the communities in which we live and work; and currently use. We believe these and other efforts underway will responsibility to share with others the good fortune in each of benefit our Corporate Responsibility reporting in the future. our lives. This vision is further echoed in our corporate values— For now, however, there remains information for which the Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence (RISE)—which are systems have not yet been developed and/or that we are timeless and universal, and transcend all markets, service lines, unable to report globally. Also, because our Corporate languages and business cultures. Responsibility reporting is still a relatively new initiative, While business and macro-economic conditions improved especially outside the U.S., we are just beginning to track from the recessionary depths of the previous year, the overall certain data and statistics. As noted above, we are taking business environment in 2010 was hardly robust. Responding steps to establish a streamlined data-gathering process and to the early stages of recovery, we kept our promise to our create centralized systems to collect corporate responsibilityemployees and brought back some of the compensation related (and other) data across the company. For now and for and other expenses we were required to reduce during the next few years, however, the process will remain manual the downturn. We also made strategic financial and other and have limitations which we disclose herein transparently. investments to position our company for the recovery. Given Except where noted, the information covered in this report that our Corporate Responsibility agenda includes issues of highlights our corporate responsibility initiatives in 2010 (January strategic and competitive importance, we continued to focus on 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010). When available, these areas and make progress toward our goals. CB Richard Ellis 2010 7 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Awards and Recognition Carbon Neutrality Sustainable Operations Client Service Professional Education and Accreditation Engagement and Influence Sustainable Reporting What Lies Ahead Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Philanthropy Workplace Environmental Stewardship Global Reporting Index In response to the ongoing global discussion about climate change and its impact on the natural environment, CBRE remains committed to minimizing that impact for our company and our clients. By leveraging sustainable real estate practices in our operations and on behalf of our clients, CBRE continues to influence and improve the built environment through resource conservation, emission mitigation and best practices. CB Richard Ellis 2010 8 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Awards and Recognition Carbon Neutrality Since announcing our environmental initiative in 2007, CBRE In 2007, CBRE became the first company in our sector to adopt About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. has been consistently recognized as a sustainability leader in a company-wide environmental policy and one of the few About this Report both our own operations and our client offerings. In 2010, that global companies to adopt a goal of becoming carbon neutral Environmental Stewardship reputation was acknowledged through the following key awards for 2010. Since then we have developed a broad platform and accomplishments: of sustainable practices and programs for use in our own >>Awards and Recognition operations and in real estate strategies for our clients. • Newsweek ranked CBRE No. 30 in its 2010 Green Rankings, >>Carbon Neutrality a list which measures the environmental performance of the We have achieved our 2010 neutrality goal by implementing Sustainable Operations 500 largest U.S.-based publicly traded companies. That is an carbon mitigation programs, such as green leasing standards Client Service improvement from the No. 45 position in the previous year. and sustainable operation protocols, and offsetting the CBRE was the highest-ranked firm in the financial services remainder carbon mitigation project investments, outlined later Professional Education sector. in this section. For 2010, the company offset 50,600 metric and Accreditation • The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named tons of carbon emissions. Engagement and Influence CBRE as a 2010 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award CBRE measures its carbon footprint annually using the Sustainable Reporting Partner of the Year, the company’s third consecutive year of internationally accepted standard known as the World Resources recognition. What Lies Ahead Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The 2010 carbon • CBRE was recognized as one of two finalists in the 2010 measurement included all global emissions from sources Ethics and Compliance Association of Climate Change Officers’ first ever Climate controlled or owned by CBRE, including our global fleet of Leadership Award, Corporate Category. Governance vehicles, and direct electricity consumption (or Scope 1 and 2 • Bloomberg-Maplecroft ranked CBRE 135 of 339 U.S. Health and Safety emissions). In Australia, where carbon neutrality is defined by companies on its 2010 Climate Innovation Index. federal legislation, the measurement also includes emissions Philanthropy • CBRE Mumbai obtained its LEED® Silver certification and resulting from company activities that the firm does not directly all CBRE UK offices obtained ISO 14001 certification. Workplace control, such as corporate travel (Scope 3 emissions). These offices are the latest in a list of global environmental Global Reporting Index certifications that include LEED® in Beijing, Denver, Madrid, In line with internationally accepted carbon market and Minneapolis and Washington, DC, and a 5-star NABERS government standards, CBRE has purchased carbon offsets (National Australian Built Environment Rating System) rating from socially responsible projects around the globe. These in North Sydney, Australia. projects were purchased through either JP Morgan Climate • The CBRE Hong Kong office received a Hong Kong Green Care or 3Degrees, and are certified according to the most Building Council Merit Award for Interior Projects in Existing stringent carbon industry standards, including the Verified Buildings. Carbon Standard (VCS), The Gold Standard or the Climate • The certification of Seattle Union Station, LLC in March, 2011 Action Reserve (CAR). Projects include: marked the 100th CBRE-managed building to obtain LEED® CB Richard Ellis 2010 certification, a goal to which CBRE committed in its 2007 • A conservation-based forest management project that 9 Corporate Responsibility Report partnership with the US Green Building Council (USGBC). increases sequestration and storage of carbon in a native Stakeholder Letter redwood forest in Mendocino County, California, in the U.S. practices in each geographic and operational area, and vet • Methane capture and destruction projects in the U.S. outcomes against our corporate policy and global strategy. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. • The replacement of traditional wood and coal burning About this Report Americas stoves in developing Cambodian and Ugandan communities 2010 U.S. Operations Audit Environmental Stewardship with higher efficiency stoves, which minimizes mining and deforestation in those areas Continuing to build on our 2007 environmental commitment, in Awards and Recognition • Technology that allows a fertilizer production facility run by March 2011 CBRE’s U.S. operations conducted its fourth annual >>Carbon Neutrality co-op farmers near Uttar Pradesh, India to replace naphtha audit of our U.S. offices. The information gathered through (a toxic petroleum byproduct) with natural gas this survey continues to provide key operational best practices >>Sustainable Operations • A biomass project near Novodvinsk, Russia that converts the that drive improved sustainability and support our carbon Client Service wood waste generated by a local paper mill to energy that neutrality goals. The data also enhances our understanding of Professional Education supplies heat to neighboring communities CBRE’s unique operational challenges, and informs decisions and Accreditation and investments that elevate our environmental consciousness. The firm’s efforts were led by its global Toward a Greener Engagement and Influence Equally significant, these findings can be leveraged to improve Tomorrow Committee under the guidance of Sally Wilson, operational sustainability for our client base. Sustainable Reporting global director of environmental strategy, and Dave Pogue, U.S. director of sustainability. The process was supported and the Chief among the findings was that 100% of our U.S. offices What Lies Ahead results validated by consultants PricewaterhouseCoopers and recycled paper in 2010. Additional best practices occurred in Ethics and Compliance ICF International. more than 90% of offices surveyed, including: Governance In 2010 CBRE continued to focus our reduction efforts on our • Recycling of paper (100%), toner/cartridges (98%), and Health and Safety largest occupied spaces (as measured by square feet and/or aluminum and plastic (90%) carbon output) in the U.S. CBRE has begun developing facilities • Utilization of controlled thermostats (92%) Philanthropy standards for our occupied space, which includes an electricity • Purchase of recycled paper (97%) Workplace sub-metering requirement for all U.S. offices undergoing lease renewal and/or tenant improvements. Through new audit criteria, we also identified two areas Global Reporting Index needing improvement in 2011. These are: We remain focused on mitigating emissions by improving our sustainable operational performance, as outlined in the next • Increasing local “green team” committee from 60% section. • Increasing local environmental philanthropy participation from 38% Sustainable Operations Our global approach to sustainable performance is founded 2010 U.S. Operations Certification on regionally relevant environmental management systems 2010 marked the second year of CBRE’s Toward a Greener implemented at the local office level. We adhere to best Tomorrow Certification, which recognizes and rewards those CB Richard Ellis 2010 10 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter offices that have most fully implemented CBRE’s sustainability As the sustainability leader in this region, CBRE’s UK operations standards. Certification criteria are aligned with aspects of the are managed via an ISO 14001 environmental management About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. USGBC’s LEED® and EPA ENERGY STAR® programs and are system comprised of objectives and targets that include About this Report customized to the unique operational requirements of a firm of measurement and reporting, resource and waste management, Environmental Stewardship our size and complexity. The certification program applies to and numerous relevant other criteria. As of 2010, CBRE also all U.S. offices over 5,000 square feet (approximately 90), of participates in the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Awards and Recognition which 81 earned certifications. These include: Efficiency Scheme, the UK government’s program to improve Carbon Neutrality energy efficiency and cut CO2 emissions in public and private • 4 Gold (compared to 1 in 2009) sector organizations. Recycling in our UK offices is monitored >>Sustainable Operations • 34 Silver (22 in 2009) weekly on the Datastation Environmental Monitoring site, an Client Service • 43 Bronze (36 in 2009) innovative service that quantifies recycling impacts, and Burcote • 5 not certified (6 in 2009) Professional Education Consultancy Limited has been appointed by CBRE to monitor and Accreditation In the Americas, these initiatives are developed and and assist in environmental management throughout the UK. Engagement and Influence implemented by CBRE’s Eco Knights, a group of more than Other examples of sustainable practices around the region 100 employees who voluntarily support corporate goals of Sustainable Reporting include: achieving carbon neutrality and becoming a more sustainable What Lies Ahead organization. • CBRE London office waste is composted off site and our St. Martin’s Court office has a rooftop wormery that acts as a Ethics and Compliance EMEA decomposer for small waste quantities. Governance Comprised of more than 40 countries, CBRE’s EMEA region • CBRE Croatia is a founding member of the Green Building has the most varied and complex fabric of business practices, Health and Safety Council of Croatia, and local leadership is engaged on the cultures and languages. As a result, most sustainability board of directors. Additionally, the office is seeking locally Philanthropy practices and initiatives are driven at the local and/ or country relevant certification for energy efficiency. level, and managed against a regional sustainability policy. Workplace • CBRE Poland advised on the LEED® Gold certification of the An annual audit of CBRE offices across EMEA reported the RONDO 1 property, in which we are also a tenant. RONDO Global Reporting Index following: 1 is the first multi-tenanted office tower in Europe to achieve such a distinction. • 96% of EMEA offices have recycling programs in place • CBRE offices in The Netherlands include carpooling and • 90% of printers across EMEA are now set as a default to cycling initiatives, fair trade coffee, Forest Stewardship double-sided print and all have power save modes for when Council-certified office paper and micro-fiber cleaning. not in use, up from 42% the prior year • CBRE is a corporate member of the Green Building Council • 65% of EMEA offices have electricity submeters Denmark and a supporter of CO2 Neutral, an initiative that • 62% of EMEA offices use low energy light bulbs neutralizes the CO2 generated by our Danish website. • More than 33% of EMEA offices provide bicycle parking facilities CB Richard Ellis 2010 11 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Asia Pacific • Build awareness internally, with clients and in the wider In this region, distinct market, cultural and regulatory demands community through awareness programs and advocacy. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. drive sustainability practice, a trend reflected in our operations. About this Report In Asia (China, India, Japan, Korea and Singapore), we The year 2010 saw significant sustainability activity in CBRE’s continue to mature on pace with the emerging market interest, Environmental Stewardship Pacific operations, with a focus on energy and paper-use and sustainability-dedicated staff and initiatives increased in reduction, green cleaning, recycling and education. Awards and Recognition 2010 across the region. We introduced “The New Leaf,” an The Toward a Greener Tomorrow program developed in the internal publication that covers regional advancements, best Carbon Neutrality U.S. in 2009 was implemented across Australia and New practices and progress. >>Sustainable Operations Zealand in 2010 with a region-wide survey of sustainability In 2010 CBRE Asia’s primary operational focus was on >>Client Service initiatives. Results showed that: ensuring the significant number of our new office fit outs were Professional Education • 90% of offices have recycling facilities designed and constructed according to green building best and Accreditation • 90% do not purchase bottled water practices. Accordingly, the new offices in Hong Kong, Kowloon, Engagement and Influence • 97% do not purchase plastic cups and cutlery Shanghai and Mumbai were all created using LEED® for • 80% recycle toner cartridges Commercial Interiors as a framework. CBRE Mumbai was Sustainable Reporting awarded LEED® Silver and our Hong Kong office was the only CBRE Pacific established a dedicated Sustainability team to What Lies Ahead commercial interiors project to receive a 2010 Hong Kong manage our operational performance in the region, raise Green Building Award. Ethics and Compliance awareness internally and with clients, and create a service Governance offering to assist clients in reducing their environmental Additionally, in Japan, CBRE participated in the ECOCAP impacts. The region developed a three-year strategy and seven initiative, a recycling effort that recycled more than 66,000 PET Health and Safety sustainability commitments: caps, which in turn funds vaccines for children in developing Philanthropy countries. • Reduce the impact of CBRE Pacific operations with targets Workplace to reduce our overall CO2 emissions by 5% in 2011 based Our New Delhi offices eliminated paper in their Project Global Reporting Index on 2010 base year (including those related to energy, travel, Management trainings, opting for online training instead; and paper use and waste sent to landfill). adopted new paper recycling across all local service lines. • Monitor and report our progress, and review targets CBRE Taipei adopted electronic file storage and transfer systems accordingly. 3 • Ensure top ten regional CBRE offices have verified green ratings. to minimize paper waste. Client Service consecutive years • Work with our clients and suppliers to reduce their impacts. Environmental sustainability is a unique component of CBRE’s awarded ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year • Initiate, support and implement innovative strategies to corporate responsibility because it also represents a broad set reduce the impacts of the built environment. of client services. As the world’s largest commercial real estate CB Richard Ellis 2010 • Support green building education for staff. services firm, CBRE is uniquely positioned to both influence 12 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter and learn from the sustainability requirements of our clients, many of whom are similar in size, complexity and geographic U.S. Sustainability by the Numbers About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. diversity. Often the lessons learned in implementing our own Year-end 2010 About this Report sustainable strategies can translate into—or be informed by— ENERGY STAR® Environmental Stewardship the sustainability services we provide our clients. Buildings Benchmarked and Registered 1,373 SF Benchmarked and Registered 242M Awards and Recognition Our sustainability services cover management and operations Buildings that Earned ENERGY STARS 256 of, and transactions and consultancy for, our clients’ Buildings with ENERGY STARS in Process 26 Carbon Neutrality Buildings Eligible to Apply for ENERGY STARS 211 commercial real estate needs, as well as consulting expertise. Sustainable Operations Given the 2.9 billion square feet of client property CBRE LEED® >>Client Service manages globally and the billions of additional square feet Existing Building we influence through other client services, our environmental Certified Projects Managed by CBRE 134 Professional Education Certified Projects through CBRE Consultation 87 impact potential expands well beyond our own occupancy and and Accreditation Buildings Pursuing Certification 144 operations. As a result, in 2010 we developed or enhanced SF Pursuing Certification 55M Engagement and Influence our services in each of our global regions. Some key examples Buildings Engaged in Sustainability Services 619 include: SF Engaged in Sustainability Services 146M Sustainable Reporting What Lies Ahead • In 2010, we launched CBRE Solar in conjunction with Smart New Construction Buildings Certified 13 Energy Capital, a solar finance, development and advisory Ethics and Compliance firm. CBRE Solar provides solar power purchase agreements, Commercial Interiors Governance roof leases, advisory services, project development services, Projects Certified 52 Health and Safety project management services and solar project investment Core & Shell opportunities. Philanthropy Buildings Certified 17 • We also launched CBRE Carbon, which provides credible, Workplace transparent and economically viable carbon offset solutions to real estate owners, corporations and government and engaging 146 million square feet in LEED® services (see Global Reporting Index agencies. “U.S. Sustainability Tracker”). CBRE began developing globalized standards and operating CBRE Global Corporate Services launched Global Energy procedures for our building management practices through & Sustainability (GES) corporate delivery platform. The GES Asset Services across all regions. This effort will ensure platform drives consistent, quality energy efficiency and the highest and best management practices are applied sustainability solutions to all corporate accounts around the strategically across client portfolios. world. In the U.S., CBRE led the industry by benchmarking and In June 2010, CBRE UK announced an exclusive new registering 242 million square feet of ENERGY STAR buildings partnership with global energy consultancy McKinnon & Clarke CB Richard Ellis 2010 13 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Lessons Learned: Translating Carbon Neutrality into Client Service As we continue to seek better ways to reduce our own emissions worldwide, we also continue to seek better ways to About this Report engage our clients in their similar pursuits. CBRE recognizes the environmental impact potential of our efforts on behalf of Environmental Stewardship our clients and the billions of square feet of property we manage for them worldwide. Achieving our own carbon neutral pledge has given us the knowledge, skills and credibility to guide others in a similar path – if not to full carbon neutrality, Awards and Recognition at least to a better understanding of options and outcomes that improve the sustainability of their real estate through Carbon Neutrality energy use, waste and water. Sustainable Operations We are increasingly aware that the impact of small performance improvements across our managed portfolio far surpasses >>Client Service CBRE’s own relatively small corporate footprint. Our ability to benchmark, measure and improve even a modest portion of our U.S.-based Asset Services office portfolio can produce a carbon reduction greater than our company’s entire carbon Professional Education and Accreditation footprint. Our work on behalf of buildings seeking LEED® EB certification produces similar, larger emission reductions. CBRE’s comprehensive energy management programs at our clients’ corporate sites have saved those clients millions Engagement and Influence of dollars in costs, and eliminated thousands of tons of CO2 emissions from the environment. Our efforts to inform and Sustainable Reporting engage building occupants through events such as Earth Hour, and our efforts to train employees in energy conservation programs, have significant impact. Those informed inform others and take action both at work and in their communities. What Lies Ahead And finally, our work in advancing the academic study of sustainability’s economic outcomes helps inform the marketplace Ethics and Compliance of sustainability’s many benefits, making the case for improving the sustainable performance of every building. Governance We fully recognize both the opportunity and the inherent responsibility to use our scale, global reach and acquired Health and Safety knowledge to improve our managed real estate, and to educate and motivate our clients and occupants toward improved environmental performance. And that, more than our own mitigated and neutralized carbon emissions, is the true lesson Philanthropy learned. Workplace Global Reporting Index (M&C). The agreement will enable CBRE to help purchase costIn one of Poland’s largest property deals of the year, CBRE effective electricity, gas and water, and offer invoice validation advised IVG on the sale of Horizon Plaza Office Complex services on behalf of its clients across Europe. in Warsaw, Poland; the property is among the country’s best examples of sustainability and energy efficiency. CBRE India provided project management services for Adobe Systems in its facilities consolidation in Noida, India. The Building Consultancy has been instructed to project-manage campus is seeking LEED® certification and is intended to be the the construction of an innovative $6.4M eco-friendly Enterprise largest green campus in India. The assignment is just one of a Centre in the UK, which will be Europe’s largest community built number of such LEED® certification assignments CBRE Project from straw bale, an environmentally friendly construction option. CB Richard Ellis 2010 Management has performed for clients across Asia. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE Japan’s Asset Services group supported client Takaracommercial real estate professionals how to reduce energy Gumi in its efforts to develop a government-required consumption. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. sustainability improvement plan for the client’s 11-property About this Report In the Pacific, critical employee and client education efforts logistics portfolio in the Kanto area. were required by the region’s rapidly changing regulatory Environmental Stewardship CBRE Pacific established sustainability services that include frameworks around carbon emissions and energy efficiency, Awards and Recognition NABERS ratings, building efficiency improvement planning, especially the Building Energy Efficiency Disclosure Act / sustainable development, government funding and incentive Commercial Building Disclosure program. The Australian Carbon Neutrality facilitation, and sustainability management systems. federal government program requires all office sales and Sustainable Operations leasing transactions over 2000 square meters to declare As a result of regional property management efforts, the QV1 >>Client Service an energy efficiency rating. Over 90% of CBRE agency staff building in Perth achieved the highest NABERS IEQ (Indoor attended training on this issue, along with a large percentage >>Professional Education Environmental Quality) rating in Australia while under CBRE of the Asset Services and other teams. and Accreditation management. Additionally, Pirie Street Adelaide received a >>Engagement and Influence 4.5—5 star NABERS rating, the highest possible rating. More than 100 CBRE employees have participated in CBRE’s Eco Knights, an Americas volunteer group that supports CBRE’s Sustainable Reporting CBRE India provided project management services for Adobe corporate tasks of becoming a more sustainable organization Systems in its facilities consolidation in Noida, India. The What Lies Ahead and achieving our carbon neutrality goal. campus is seeking LEED® certification and is intended to be the Ethics and Compliance largest green campus in India. CBRE Pacific has Green Building professionals in every business Governance line, including 11 NABERS Accredited Professionals and 33 Professional Education and Accreditation Green Star Accredited Professionals and Associates. The latter Health and Safety As of year-end 2010, more than 440 CBRE professionals is the accreditation offered by the Green Building Council worldwide (a 10% increase over 2009) obtained the LEED® Philanthropy Australia and New Zealand Green Building Council. AP designation, which signifies advanced knowledge in green Workplace building practices. Engagement and Influence Global Reporting Index In order to remain at the forefront of environmental leadership More than 115 CBRE employees in the Americas have been in the commercial real estate services industry and the global designated as Green Knights, a CBRE Institutional and business community, CBRE has remained actively engaged in Corporate Services program that helps clients strategically global conversations about climate change and the environment transform their facility operations via sustainable practices, as a whole. Some of those efforts include: products and behaviors. CBRE continues our relationships with various non-governmental By year-end 2010 more than 9,000 Americas attendees organizations and environmental specialists around the globe had participated in the Building Owners and Managers including The Climate Group, World Wildlife Fund, The Association’s Building Energy Efficiency Program (BOMA Natural Resources Defense Council, United States Green CB Richard Ellis 2010 BEEP), an extensive four-part education program that teaches 15 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Building Council and other global Green Building Council CBRE Asia launched “Sustainability Asia,” a CBRE Research organizations, and numerous other region-specific entities. publication that addresses real estate sustainability issues, About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. including market updates and in-depth articles about green About this Report The company developed industry’s first Green Building Global building issues in collaboration with third party industry experts. Certification Guide, covering 15 key green building standards in Environmental Stewardship all global regions. CBRE Pacific established sustainability networks across the Awards and Recognition region, including: CBRE’s LEED® experts co-authored the USGBC’s Green Carbon Neutrality Operations Guide. Released in 2010, the guide helps multi• Pacific Sustainability Forum, which raises awareness across all Sustainable Operations tenant office owners, managers and service providers reduce the business lines environmental impact of their commercial real estate assets. • Technical Services Sustainability Forum, which shares Client Service strategies and encourages innovation in managed properties CBRE engaged more than 260 million square feet of client Professional Education • Green Champions Network, which implements local and Accreditation support in World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Earth Hour 2010, responses to improve CBRE’s footprint and more than 300 offices around the world participated in the >>Engagement and Influence event. In 2010 CBRE issued and collaborated on a number of relevant >>Sustainable Reporting studies and position papers pertaining to the ownership, CBRE spoke at and participated in events of The Climate management and occupancy of real properties. Chief among What Lies Ahead Group’s Climate Week, in which business, government and these was Do Green Buildings Make Dollars and Sense?, Ethics and Compliance NGOs gathered in New York City to call for climate action. the second part of a landmark study conducted with the Governance In a record-setting effort in April, CBRE hosted more than 150 University of San Diego (USD) and McGraw Hill. Additionally, Earth Day events at CBRE-managed properties in the U.S. our Law Firm Practice Group published Law Firms Build a Health and Safety Case for Green: Recent Trends in Law Firm Sustainability Philanthropy CBRE developed a partnership with The Green Standard, Practices, an overview of sustainable law industry strategies, a sustainable product NGO, through which CBRE offered particularly those employed by those firms on American Lawyer’s Workplace the Green Purchasing Accredited Professional Training to Top 100 Law Firms. Global Reporting Index professionals around the world. CBRE was the first commercial real estate services firm to provide training on green Sustainable Reporting procurement best practices for its building managers and In addition to this report, CBRE reports on sustainability sourcing specialists. matters through various third-party organizations, including 1,373 CBRE UK participated in the Verdantix Green Quadrant® the UN Global Compact, Global Reporting Initiative, Carbon Disclosure Project and numerous investment indices. Many of buildings benchmarked Sustainable Real Estate Advisors survey. CBRE was ranked these and other reports include criteria which may not directly and registered in ENERGY STAR® among the top seven sustainable real estate advisory market apply to our company. By way of organizational transparency, leaders by Verdantix, an independent sustainable business we offer the following insights. analysis and advisory firm. CB Richard Ellis 2010 16 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter As a financial services firm, the environmental impact of our potential impacts on biodiversity and endangered species.. To operations is relatively low by comparison to similarly sized the best of our knowledge, we do not own or occupy facilities About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. firms in other industries. In 2010, our global operations or land on or adjacent to protected habitats or areas. About this Report electricity use was 60,641,934 kwh and our distillate fuel (oil) We have not been issued any fines in violation of environmental Environmental Stewardship usage was 230,232 gallons. Our natural resource use and regulations or law, nor have we been responsible for or party to waste stream are not related to manufacturing, research and Awards and Recognition any significant spills. development, logistics and other resource-intensive activities. Carbon Neutrality Since we do not produce, package or transport goods, we do What Lies Ahead not track any packaging source or reclamation efforts, nor do We will continue to leverage our leadership role in the Sustainable Operations we transport hazardous waste or water. commercial real estate services industry to develop our client Client Service service platform and operations as they relate to assisting The majority of our operations occur in office settings, and in Professional Education clients with sustainable practices. We will remain engaged in most cases, we lease but do not own the space we occupy, and and Accreditation global discussions as they relate to the built environment and our leases comprise only a small portion of the buildings in Engagement and Influence its impact on environmental sustainability. We intend to keep which they are located. As a result, we do not have the means pace with the maturing market understanding of sustainable >>Sustainable Reporting to track materials source or use beyond recycling efforts; water performance and employ that understanding in our own withdrawal or discharge; or significant air emissions beyond >>What Lies Ahead performance and client services. those indicated elsewhere in this report section. Ethics and Compliance Our operations are largely based in urban and suburban Governance areas, minimizing our exposure to protected natural areas and Health and Safety Philanthropy Workplace Global Reporting Index 81 offices that received Toward a Greener Tomorrow certification CB Richard Ellis 2010 17 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Overview Ethics and Compliance Programs Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and Assessment What Lies Ahead Governance Health and Safety Philanthropy Workplace Global Reporting Index Ethics and Compliance CBRE continued to expand globally this year—and the Ethics and Compliance Program was no exception. Ongoing growth and recent troubled economic times serve as both a reminder and an affirmation to CBRE that the surest path to financial sustainability is remaining true to our RISE Values. Our leaders around the globe know that maintaining a culture of ethics and compliance is the cornerstone of our business philosophy. Implementing these values consistently in 60 countries globally is easier said than done, especially when viewed through the lens of local cultures and business practices. Conduct that appears appropriate from one culture’s perspective might be perceived differently from another’s. In the midst of dynamic change—both at CBRE and in global markets—the challenge for our Ethics and CB Richard Ellis 2010 Compliance Program continues to build an integrated global compliance function, while recognizing the unique and 18 Corporate Responsibility Report essential differences that make our company strong in local markets everywhere. Stakeholder Letter Consistent with these themes—globalization and respect for units within the company, the program continued its focus on local cultures and differences—in 2010 we made significant maximizing impact through prudent and efficient management About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. strides in our efforts to improve key elements of the Ethics of our resources. We challenged ourselves to continue to About this Report and Compliance Program. More than ever before, our global find new ways to do more with less by leveraging inexpensive Environmental Stewardship compliance team operated as an integrated unit, delivering technologies and innovative methods to share knowledge, tangible value to clients, colleagues, vendors, communities norms, trends and learning across the global regions. Ethics and Compliance and other stakeholders. The year also presented our program The activities of our Ethics and Compliance Program were >>Ethics and Compliance with its most significant challenge yet: the company uncovered Overview not stand-alone initiatives. Viewed from an organizational potential violations of our internal anti-corruption policies by a perspective, they are a reflection of a larger set of goals Ethics and Compliance handful of employees in a local office of the China operations articulated by senior management several years ago to: Programs group. CBRE made an immediate voluntary disclosure to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and • Build an organization that attracts and retains the world’s Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and Exchange Commission (SEC) and kept those agencies fully most talented employees; Assessment informed of our ongoing investigation, its results and our • Base our interactions with clients, employees and others on voluntary remedial efforts. In January 2011, CBRE received honest, fair and transparent dealings; and What Lies Ahead a “No Action” Letter from the SEC and similar notice from • Increase our brand recognition as being synonymous with Governance the DOJ confirming closure of the investigation without any superior service to our clients, improving conditions in the Health and Safety enforcement action. global community, and adhering to uncompromising ethical principles. Philanthropy While we are pleased with the outcome, the experience With these goals in mind, our Ethics and Compliance reinforced our resolve to continue the growth and maturation Workplace Program is designed to reinforce CBRE’s core values— of our best-in-class global Ethics and Compliance Program. If Global Reporting Index Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence (RISE) and we learned anything this year, it is that CBRE employees, and ensure compliance with Company policies, and the laws and our clients, shareholders and stakeholders expect nothing less. regulations that apply to us globally. This is accomplished by Ethics and Compliance Overview incorporating five central programs in business processes, In 2010 senior company leadership continued to demonstrate practices and culture, including: “In 2010, we worked commitment to a globally integrated and locally significant with top legal and • Clear policies on ethical wrong-doing and consistent audit experts to design Ethics and Compliance Program. The program expanded the procedures related to follow-up and remediation; and roll-out critical number of dedicated staff in several local regions, created enhancements to our • Regular communications and outreach from senior already stringent antiinnovative (and new) local management oversight roles, rolled corruption programs.” management focused on practical examples of how out important global policy initiatives, and addressed areas employees can identify, avoid or report inappropriate highlighted in the previous year’s country compliance risk behavior in all regions of the globe in which we have assessments. Consistent with our culture and similar to all other business operations; CB Richard Ellis 2010 19 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • Proactive distance learning and employee training programs be driven by uniform global ethics standards, but implemented that reinforce our culture and commitment to identifying and with flexibility, reflecting diverse conditions at the local level. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. resolving harassment, fraud, conflicts of interest, bribery and To achieve this goal, we created an ethics and compliance About this Report other material ethical issues; infrastructure in which compliance officers from all over the Environmental Stewardship • Ownership of ethics outcomes in our business units; and world interact and learn from one another, but report up through • Aggressive risk identification, audit, and compliance monitoring regional compliance officers to a global Chief Compliance Ethics and Compliance that includes a globalized whistleblower hotline, internal Officer, who reports directly to the Board of Directors. >>Ethics and Compliance investigations program and strict non-retaliation policy. Overview In 2010, we made the following improvements to our global Ethics and Compliance Programs infrastructure: >>Ethics and Compliance A detailed description of our programs can be found in our Programs • Ethics and Compliance Program staff grew by 15% globally. previous reports. It is important to emphasize, however, that Internal Audit Programs, • The recommendations of country compliance risk in September 2004, the Board of Directors adopted “as the Risk Identification and assessments, introduced in 2009, began to be implemented, highest policy of this Corporation”— a comprehensive ethics Assessment and new assessments for the year were completed. and compliance program to serve a global workforce that What Lies Ahead • Country and regional Compliance Committees were today totals more than 31,000 employees. Implementing introduced in the Americas and our Asia Pacific (APAC) Governance an ethics program across the world is demanding, because regions. Each committee is comprised of senior business the program must respect the norms, laws, behaviors and Health and Safety leaders in the region, and Compliance or Legal languages of numerous diverse cultures. That is why CBRE Department staff. The committees review the annual Philanthropy makes our Standards of Business Conduct available online, country risk assessments, oversee implementation of the as the heart of our ethics program in every country where Workplace recommendations, and provide oversight for preparation of we operate, in both English and the local language. It Global Reporting Index the next annual assessments. provides a universal set of ethical principles and guidelines • Regional compliance summits were held in Latin America that every professional, no matter where they work within the and North America, and culminated with a three-day session organization, can refer to as a benchmark to determine if their in APAC that included participation from compliance, behavior meets the highest standards of ethical conduct. enterprise risk and legal department staff from every region. 15% Since 2004, our Standards of Business Conduct have been These summits help to break down silos by providing translated into approximately 30 languages. All employees are for face-to-face, cross-border interaction between local required to annually review and acknowledge the ethics code, compliance/legal staff and business leaders in the regions. growth in compliance and legal staff globally and attend training to absorb its principles. In 2010 more than Lessons and innovations discussed at these summits are 98% of our global workforce completed its annual certification. shared by regional compliance officers in quarterly meetings, and adopted and disseminated in a manner that reflects the Ethics and Compliance Infrastructure unique characteristics of local markets. Because CBRE operates globally, an effective program must CB Richard Ellis 2010 20 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Systems Training and Communications of distance learning. We launched anti-corruption training CBRE has instituted a comprehensive menu of policies, in all the regions, and met our goal of launching a global About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. education and communications programs to underscore process to ensure all new employees complete several About this Report the critical nature of ethics and compliance in our business required training programs within 30 days of hire (Standards Environmental Stewardship operations. These training programs and communications of Business Conduct, Harassment Prevention/Workplace include: Behavior, the Employee Handbook with RISE values, and in Ethics and Compliance targeted countries, Anti-Corruption Training). • Annual Certification: Through our annual global certification Ethics and Compliance • Specialized Training Based on Risk Assessments: Additional Overview process, our employees reaffirm their commitment to the RISE specialized programs were rolled out focusing on various values and several specific policies (harassment-prevention, >>Ethics and Compliance aspects of ethics and compliance issues. Similar to years anti-bribery/corruption, confidentiality, etc.). Employees Programs past, the programs were targeted to relevant employee are also required to affirmatively report any suspected audiences based on topic or need – in some cases reflecting Internal Audit Programs, material wrongdoing of which they might be aware. For the Risk Identification and issues identified in our country risk assessments. second year in a row, more than 98% of our total employee Assessment • Anti-corruption: Improved anti-corruption policies, training population of more than 31,000 completed the certification programs and compliance systems were implemented and What Lies Ahead within the 30-day compliance period. Numerous instances will be discussed in detail below. Governance of suspected wrongdoing were reported, but after thorough • Social Media: CBRE is at the forefront in helping define and investigation the actual incidences of serious misconduct Health and Safety implement new policies for a globally networked world. We were small in number and impact. worked for many months and introduced a global policy Philanthropy • Tone from the Top Communications: Regular monthly and related to appropriate use of social media. The policy quarterly publications set the tone at the top, including Workplace encourages our employees to experiment with such media “Compliance Corner,” “Ethics Examiner,” and “The CBRE but do so in a manner consistent with company policies and Global Reporting Index Standard,” circulated to all CBRE employees by the Chief values, including transparency and respect. Compliance Officer and/or other highly visible senior • Workplace Violence: Policies and procedures in the area of executives in the company. The reports highlight material workplace violence were strengthened and we are currently employee investigations and disciplinary actions and inform in the process of establishing annual risk assessments employees on the wide range of aggressive systems CBRE 98% has in-place to detect wrongdoing, regardless of who is and upgraded on-site physical security protocols. In some regions we have formed a first responder strike team when involved. employees globally allegations of potential or actual workplace violence are who completed • Conflicts of Interest Management: A comprehensive conflictreported. our online ethics of-interest management system includes client disclosure certification program • Information Technology Security: The company rolled out policies and procedures and risk awareness guidance. This a best-in-class global policy to protect our confidential system ensures that all required disclosures are made. and private information, and guard against unauthorized • Core Legal, Ethics and Compliance Training: In 2010, CBRE access of company systems and information. We introduced CB Richard Ellis 2010 continued to roll out programs based on core principles enhanced data security systems in 2010, including password 21 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter protection on all mobile devices and computers, encryption thorough, consistent and unbiased investigation. Uniformity protocols, and annual audits and risk assessments relating to of process and outcomes in an investigation is achieved by About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. our IT and Information Asset systems. It is our long-term goal requiring our investigators to attend annual training and regular About this Report to develop a global system to catalogue when customer or case peer-review meetings. Environmental Stewardship employee privacy data have been compromised. In 2010, The number of whistleblower tips continues to rise year-overthere were no incidences of compromised data privacy. Ethics and Compliance year which means that our employees are comfortable bringing Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification issues forward, and is a sign that our program is working. We Ethics and Compliance Overview and Assessment believe this is attributable to the numerous communications Our Internal Audit group conducts planned and random and training programs that highlight this channel for reporting >>Ethics and Compliance reviews of many of our business units to augment our misconduct, and from our zero-tolerance policy on retaliation. Programs compliance programs. Internal Audit dedicates more than As the number of tips has increased, the percentage of people >>Internal Audit Programs, 10,000 hours each year to financial internal control and doing so anonymously has remained steady, and yet well below Risk Identification and management assessment related to Sarbanes-Oxley. industry norms. To us, this signals that our employees feel safe Assessment and empowered to report their suspicions. What Lies Ahead As reported last year, annual country-level legal and compliance risk assessments were launched in 2009 and In fact, compared to our competitors and all other industries, Governance improved upon in 2010. Compliance committees and other our helpline vendor has informed us that CBRE employees are Health and Safety infrastructure improvements (described above) have been significantly more likely to identify themselves when reporting implemented to ensure that the risk assessment activities suspected wrong doing. We believe this is in part due to our Philanthropy are embedded in annual business plans, and owned and strict non-retaliation policy and the fact that we are explicit Workplace implemented by local and regional business leaders. In about communicating outcomes so that employees see that Global Reporting Index addition, risk assessment activities will inform our allocation reports are handled rigorously. of resources to target and minimize identified compliance risk Public Policy and Political Participation while improving the quality of service we provide our clients, CBRE encourages our employees to be knowledgeable and employees and other stakeholders. active in civic life, charitable endeavors and political affairs. 100% Whistleblower Hotline, Internal Investigations and Non-retaliation Policy We are proud to support the many employees who serve on countless local and regional boards of organizations working employees no longer CBRE continues to focus significant energy and resources on on pubic policy issues of importance to our business and the with the Company who engaged in or improving our internal avenues for reporting and investigating communities in which we live and work. It has long been our threatened any form suspected unethical or illegal activities. This includes a practice, however, that the company generally does not lobby of workplace violence (that was reported) worldwide anonymous reporting system that is available (or fund lobbying of) government officials, or make financial online and through country specific toll-free phone numbers. or in-kind contributions to candidates, campaigns, ballot Once an allegation of serious misconduct is logged into the measures, political parties or political activities of any kind in CB Richard Ellis 2010 system, internal investigators are required to conduct a prompt, any country. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter While generally we have not taken positions on public policy in agencies as soon as the evidence was uncovered, kept them the past, in 2010 there were two notable exceptions. First, we informed of our investigations, and the matter ended with About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. continued our commitment to participate in the policy debate a “No Action” letter from the U.S. Securities and Exchange About this Report regarding effective solutions to climate change; particularly Commission and similar notice from the Department of Justice. Environmental Stewardship those that will facilitate the reduction of greenhouse gas Although the investigation ended, our efforts to eradicate emissions from buildings (which make up a substantial portion Ethics and Compliance incentives and perceived opportunities for violations of our of the worlds’ greenhouse gas emissions). This is a position we anti-corruption policy and law have continued in earnest. In Ethics and Compliance have taken since 2007 and in 2010 we confirmed our carbon Overview previous editions of this report we have described in detail our offset program in support of carbon neutrality. commitment to building aggressive policies, controls, audit Ethics and Compliance Second, CBRE weighed in on the rule-making procedures of systems and training programs to prevent violations in this Programs several government agencies in the U.S. with direct applicability area. In 2010, we worked with top legal and audit experts to >>Internal Audit Programs, to the business practices of the commercial real estate industry. design and roll-out the following enhancements to our already Risk Identification and In keeping with our commitment to transparency, our comments stringent anti-corruption programs: Assessment were publicly disclosed and submitted, with the goal of What Lies Ahead • Employee Expense Reimbursement Policy: We have helping improve public trust in our company and government strengthened controls over business meals, entertainment, Governance institutions. We anticipate our interest in participating in similar gift giving and business trips by establishing strict guidelines proceedings will continue in 2011, and we will maintain our Health and Safety on expense limits, pre-approval and approval requirements. commitment to participate in policy debate in a transparent, • Gift Giving/Receiving Policy: To avoid potential conflicts of Philanthropy informed, respectful and responsible manner. interest, we have tightened the rules and internal oversight Workplace Significant Fines and Legal Actions for and approval controls related to gift giving and receiving, Global Reporting Index Non-compliance or Anti-competitive Behavior and disclosure. CBRE was not subjected to significant fines or sanctions for • Policy on Client Engagement: Our client due diligence non-compliance with the law in any country. No claims of antiprocess and standard client contracts have been competitive behavior were filed against the company in 2010. strengthened to ensure our business dealings are with companies and other entities with adequate ethical standards 0 Anti-corruption In 2010, CBRE discovered through our internal investigation and controls. • Policy on Vendor Engagement: We made significant revisions number of people process that a small group of employees at a local office in employed at CBRE who to our policy to ensure aggressive vendor due diligence were discovered to have our China operations had potentially engaged in behavior in including, whenever possible, a right to audit any records lied in the course of an violation of our ethics and anti-corruption policies. We retained internal investigation related to transactions on behalf of CBRE; an accurate books of serious misconduct outside counsel and an independent audit firm to conduct an and records provision, and contract termination for violation exhaustive internal investigation. As stated in the introduction of any anti-corruption laws or our own anti-corruption to this section, we self-disclosed to the appropriate government standards or policy. CB Richard Ellis 2010 23 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • Employee Hiring Policies: Enhanced standard background What Lies Ahead check procedures when hiring employees and interns to CBRE invites the cooperation and feedback of all of our About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. minimize the risks of hiring employees who have participated stakeholders in continually improving our Ethics and About this Report in unethical conduct in the past. Compliance program. Our Ethics Helpline is available to all Environmental Stewardship stakeholders 24/7. These enhanced policy changes are in addition to our core Ethics and Compliance anti-corruption requirements, including but not limited to: Our Global Goals for 2011 1. Reinvigoration of our global policies regarding managing Ethics and Compliance • The Global Anti-Corruption Policy, which is translated into at Overview conflicts of interest. least 30 languages and is applicable to all CBRE employees 2. Documented improvements in anti-corruption and bribery Ethics and Compliance globally. policies, controls, oversight and training programs. Programs • Mandatory anti-corruption training programs for employees 3. Completion of a global ethics survey of stakeholder >>Internal Audit Programs, in several targeted countries of operation including new perceptions regarding the company’s commitment to ethics Risk Identification and employees within the first 30 days of employment. and compliance, perceptions of the effectiveness of the Assessment • New employee requirements to provide a written sign-off company’s current programs, and measurement of general >>What Lies Ahead to comply with the company’s ethics and anti-corruption knowledge of the core elements of our program such as the policies; all employee mandatory annual re-affirmations of Governance Ethics Helpline, non-retaliation policy, and various training their personal commitment to adhering to our anti-corruption programs. Health and Safety policy in their daily activities. 4. Systematic review and implementation by local and regional • Proactive anti-corruption risk assessments conducted Philanthropy business leaders of the recommendations in our country-level in selected countries with the purpose of continuously annual compliance risk assessments. Workplace strengthening and improving controls. 5. Continued push to imbed the compliance infrastructure into Global Reporting Index • Quarterly review and sign-off on anti-corruption financial local business operations. controls. 6. Adoption of more efficient modes of communicating and • Periodic audits of the country-level anti-corruption controls disseminating ethics and compliance innovations and and activities. practices. 61% employees who reveal their identify when reporting potential wrongdoing at CBRE CB Richard Ellis 2010 24 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance Governance Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct Governance Overview and Structure Managing Conflicts of Interest Enterprise Risk Management Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement What Lies Ahead Health and Safety Philanthropy Workplace Global Reporting Index Governance A business governed by a strictly transaction mindset will realize only short-term and irregular success. At CBRE, we believe one of the reasons we have held our industry-leading position is because our clients recognize and appreciate our rigorous governance practices and the ethical principles that permeate all aspects of our global operations. CB Richard Ellis 2010 25 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct established by the NYSE. We have separated the roles of Chief CBRE has established a mission and set of corporate values Executive Officer and Chairperson of the Board since 2001 in About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. that, together with our governance structure and ethical recognition of the differences between the two roles. Our Board About this Report practices, allow us to effectively serve our clients, shareholders Chairperson, who is independent of management, provides Environmental Stewardship and employees with integrity. The guidelines for ethical behavior oversight and guidance to the Chief Executive Officer, sets the in our business operations are outlined in our Standards of agenda for Board meetings and presides over meetings of the Ethics and Compliance Business Conduct, which include specific policies and codes full Board. Our Board Chairperson is independent and leads Governance related to appropriate behavior and good governance. Every meetings of the full Board and executive sessions of the Board new employee is given a copy of the Standards of Business when management is not present. >>Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct Conduct, and the document is posted electronically to our Board candidates are selected on the basis of outstanding intranet and public website, and is available in 30 languages. >>Governance Overview achievement in their professional careers, broad experience, and Structure We have also adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial personal and professional integrity, their ability to make Managing Conflicts Officers that is intended to promote honest and ethical independent and analytical inquiries, financial literacy, mature of Interest conduct and compliance with the law, particularly as related to judgment, high performance standards, familiarity with our the company’s financial record-keeping and the preparation business and industry, and an ability to work collegially. Other Enterprise Risk Management of financial statements. In addition, we have implemented a factors include having members with various and relevant Governance Metrics rigorous anti-corruption policy globally to help avoid violations career experience and technical skills, and having a Board that and Stakeholder Engagement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. is, as a whole, diverse. What Lies Ahead laws. Our non-U.S. employees receive a copy of this policy, The Board’s work is partially accomplished through its which is also posted electronically to our intranet and public Health and Safety committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance website. Philanthropy and Nominating (Governance), Acquisition and Executive. Governance Overview and Structure The Audit, Compensation and Governance committees Workplace Board of Directors are considered key governance committees, and each Global Reporting Index The governance of CBRE is supervised by a 10-member Board member is independent under the standards referenced of Directors, nine of whom are deemed independent, and the above. In addition, we have determined that each of our tenth is our Chief Executive Officer, Brett White. Pursuant to our Audit Committee members qualifies as an “Audit Committee Corporate Governance Guidelines and the listing rules of Financial Expert” under relevant U.S. Securities and Exchange the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Board must consist Commission standards. More information on the roles of of at least a majority of independent directors. No director our Board committees can be found in the Investor Relations qualifies as “independent” unless the Board affirmatively section of www.cbre.com and in our annual proxy statements. determines that the director has no material relationship Each year, our Board and its key committees conduct an annual with CBRE or any of our subsidiaries (either directly or as a performance self-assessment with the purpose of increasing the partner, stockholder or officer of an organization that has a effectiveness of the Board and its committees. CB Richard Ellis 2010 26 Corporate Responsibility Report relationship with the firm). This is in accordance with standards Stakeholder Letter The Board plays an active role, as a whole and also at the for annual and long-term business performance, based committee level, in overseeing management of the company’s on either global or line-of-business financial performance, About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. risks. The Board engages with management to ensure the strategic progress, and the creation of stockholder value. Our About this Report Board understands the material risks associated with the compensation programs are more fully described in our annual Environmental Stewardship company’s strategy and operations, including business proxy statements. segment, reputation, credit, liquidity and compensation Ethics and Compliance Managing Conflicts of Interest issues. The Board looks to its key governance committees to CBRE is the largest commercial real estate services provider Governance identify, report on and manage risks relevant to their areas in the world. As a result, there may be times when conflicts of competency. The company’s Compensation Committee is Mission, Values, Principles of interest arise. Through the firm’s policies, education and and Codes of Conduct responsible for overseeing the management of risks relating oversight efforts, we proactively manage such conflicts in to our compensation plans and arrangements. The Audit >>Governance Overview full accordance with the law, our Standards of Business Committee oversees management of risks related to our and Structure Conduct and our RISE corporate values. At the Board level, financial reports and record-keeping and potential conflicts >>Managing Conflicts our directors must report any potential conflicts of interest of interest. Governance manages risks associated with the of Interest with the company. When a potential direct conflict of interest independence of the Board of Directors and the composition or corporate opportunity situation arises, it is reviewed, and >>Enterprise Risk Management of our Board and its committees. Through management and approved or rejected, by our independent Audit Committee. committee reports, the Board determines whether management Governance Metrics For more information on our conflict management system at the and Stakeholder Engagement is adequately focused on identifying and managing risks, and employee level, see the “Ethics and Compliance” section of this assesses the Board’s own oversight of risks associated with its What Lies Ahead report. governance and delegation decisions. Health and Safety Enterprise Risk Management Our Board retains responsibility for the Corporate Responsibility Philanthropy We have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management process initiatives outlined in this report. Two key non-Board task forces to identify, assess, respond and monitor the most significant Workplace have been set up to advance our goals in this area, one for strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks to the Corporate Responsibility generally, and the other specifically Global Reporting Index organization. Annually, senior leaders across the organization for environmental stewardship. The Corporate Responsibility are interviewed regarding these risks based on a standard task force is led by a member of executive management, who Business Risk Inventory developed and maintained by our reports to our Chief Executive Officer and updates the Board Global Risk Management group, with input from internal and on the programs on a regular basis. external sources. These risks are aggregated and the Executive Executive Management Risk Committee (ERC) assesses them against commonly CBRE employs executives who share our vision of sustainable accepted prioritization criteria (i.e., impact, likelihood, etc.). performance and our corporate RISE values of Respect, The ERC is comprised of the General Counsel and Chief Integrity, Service and Excellence. Aligning our executives’ shortCompliance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, President, Chief term goals and long-term vision with those of our shareholders Financial Officer, Group President—Global Services and SVP of CB Richard Ellis 2010 27 Corporate Responsibility Report is a top priority. To achieve that goal, we reward executives Corporate Strategy. For the most significant risks, “risk owners” Stakeholder Letter are assigned and are responsible for implementing CBRE’s risk governance matters. However, in addition to the Risk Metrics analysis, response and reporting tools for the applicable risk. ratings noted above, we engage in dialogue with current and About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Quarterly updates for each of these significant risks are then potential investors, creditors, clients and peer companies to About this Report provided to the ERC. This process is proving to be best practice gather feedback regarding our governance practices and in the industry and enhances our ability to manage risk for our other issues of importance to shareholders. For example, Environmental Stewardship company. shareholders have engaged with us to discuss issues of Ethics and Compliance importance to them as part of our annual meeting process in Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement 2011. We welcome the ongoing dialogue we anticipate having Governance CBRE seeks full transparency in its public disclosures and with these shareholders relative to their specific policy interests. Mission, Values, Principles strives to demonstrate a strong standard of governance relative It is notable that all directors received more than 96.95% of and Codes of Conduct to our industry. Risk Metrics, one of the major institutional votes from shareholders in 2010. Governance Overview proxy advisors, rates public companies based on a corporate and Structure governance grid. This grid ranking is based on a number of Shareholders, employees and other interested stakeholders with factors and is relative to the indices in which Risk Metrics places concerns or recommendations are encouraged to contact our Managing Conflicts the company. On the Risk Metrics grid as of April 1, 2011, the Board or any of its committees. Information on how to contact of Interest company was ranked as follows: our Board/committees is posted in the Corporate Governance >>Enterprise Risk Management section under Investor Relations on www.cbre.com and is • Board Low Risk provided in our annual proxy statement. >>Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement • Audit Low Risk • Compensation Low Risk Except for Works Councils in certain European countries, >>What Lies Ahead we do not otherwise have organized employee councils or • Shareholder Rights Low Risk formal methods of collecting input from the various employee Health and Safety These rankings are not comparable to prior years because groups throughout the company. Our employees are always Philanthropy Risk Metrics changed its scoring and ranking methodology encouraged to communicate directly and informally with at the end of 2010. Previously, companies were ranked on management and are given multiple avenues to do so without Workplace a relative percentage basis compared to other companies in fear of retaliation, including by filing anonymous reports Global Reporting Index their respective indices. However, the grid rankings for CBRE through the CBRE Ethics HelpLine managed by EthicsPoint, a represent, in our view, a continuation of the strong governance third-party provider. ranking percentile from last year. What Lies Ahead When formulating governance policies, the Board regularly CBRE has flourished by adhering to the highest ethical monitors the analysis of Risk Metrics, given its role as standards and reinforcing them in everything we do. We intend a governance-activist advisor to numerous institutional to continue this path while always being open to opportunities shareholder interests, as well as other shareholder advisory to refine and improve our policies and practices. We know firms and large shareholders themselves. that our leadership can only be maintained by keeping our corporate values—Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence—at CBRE has not implemented a formalized process for CB Richard Ellis 2010 the heart of our governance practices. 28 Corporate Responsibility Report systematically gathering the views of outside stakeholders on Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Health and Safety Overview Injury and Illness Performance Notices of Non-Compliance Health and Safety Awards and Recognition Health and Safety Training What Lies Ahead Philanthropy Workplace Global Reporting Index Health and Safety In 2010, CBRE enhanced its global health and safety platform and performance. Our health and safety performance results showed significant and continued improvement in many areas. But the year was not without some challenges, which required a swift response and adjustments to our approach and processes. Our health and safety priorities continue to be prevention, protection and compliance. CB Richard Ellis 2010 29 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Health and Safety Overview during the second half of 2010 was nearly half that of the first Our results for 2010 were outstanding in many regards. The six months. The most significant reductions occurred in the last About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. content of our health and safety platform, in terms of guidance quarter, in which only 13% of all ladder incidents occurred. About this Report and program structure, continued to expand. Through more While our safety performance statistics are now able to feature Environmental Stewardship defined performance measurement, more accountability for more data from other global regions, our safety performance performance, and enhanced performance data utilization, Ethics and Compliance statistics in the U.S. are still the most complete, and it is in this we were able to address certain trends and reduce the rate of region that we continue to manage the majority of our selfGovernance incident in many key areas. perform population. The greatest amount of hazard exposure Health and Safety In addition, we were able to identify other issues and trends potential is still found in the U.S., and is predominantly >>Health and Safety Overview and make similar adjustments on an as-needed, where-needed associated with facility management and maintenance basis – a capability we have sought to develop in our platform. activities. >>Injury and Illness Performance In similar fashion we are expanding this concept to include In the absence of global safety performance benchmarks, we Notices of Non-Compliance performance in our fleet vehicle safety program. refer to data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) for Health and Safety Awards Injury and Illness Performance a comparative average to gauge our performance relative to and Recognition The performance measurement process that CBRE began in the key functional groups found in our facility management and Health and Safety Training 2007 was refined further in content and analysis capability, and maintenance services activities. strategic utilization. Our monthly summary performance review What Lies Ahead According to the BLS, the average number of recordable extended beyond injury and vehicle accident statistics to include Philanthropy injuries among these functional groups is approximately 3.8 urgent notification and more detail on emerging trends. The per 200,000 work hours (or 100 workers per year). In the Workplace information also featured timely guidance and alerts relative to U.S., CBRE was more than four times better than the national those compliance-related issues and challenges not necessarily Global Reporting Index average with a recordable injury rate of 0.92, and a combined driven by incident or injury. global injury rate of 0.57. We were able to be more strategic and deliberate in our For 2010 we established a recordable injury rate goal of actions and improvement initiatives than ever before. For È8% example, in the second quarter of 2010 our performance data demonstrated that the number of incidents associated with 1.0 or less, which we more than achieved. In the U.S. our 0.92 rate represents a significant improvement (21%) over decline in day lost the 2009 recordable injury rate of 1.17. We also saw further ladder use among our maintenance technicians needed to be from work as a result improvements in safety through a reduction in the frequency of of injury addressed and changed. As a result, we prioritized this topic in injuries that resulted in days lost from work and days of work our health and safety communications. Incident performance restriction, which declined 8% and 33% respectively. in this area was measured and reported, and our online safety training courses were adjusted to include more ladder safety Our goal for 2011 is to perform below the incidence rate of training. As a result, the number of incidents that occurred 0.90 injuries per 100 workers, representing our most ambitious CB Richard Ellis 2010 30 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE Recordable Injury Rates vs. U.S. National Averages requirement that an exit door be unlocked at all times. The penalty amount was $975, and the deficiency was corrected About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Incidence Rate per 100 Workers 5 4.70 immediately and abated to the satisfaction of the regulator. 4.50 About this Report 4.5 4 3.80 3.80 3.70 There were no other notices of violation or citation issued to 3.5 3.30 Environmental Stewardship 3 CBRE by any other regulators in any other global region during 2.5 Ethics and Compliance 2 2010. 1.5 1 0.92 Governance 0.63 0.57 Health and Safety Awards and Recognition 0.5 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 The Royal Society for the Prevention Health and Safety CBRE US CBRE Canada CBRE EMEA CBRE APAC CBRE LAC CBRE Global Landscaping Services Services to Buildings Facility Support Services Janitorial Services Other Support Services Real Estate Property Mgmt of Accidents (RoSPA) Health and Safety Overview In the United Kingdom, RoSPA Safety Awards Injury and Illness Performance have been recognizing health and safety success since 1956. This safety recognition >>Notices of Non-Compliance National Averages Source – U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics program provides organizations with an opportunity to prove >>Health and Safety Awards their ongoing commitment to health and safety excellence goal yet for that metric. and Recognition and performance improvement. RoSPA is among the longest Health and Safety Training Within the U.S. specifically, there were 63 injury events that running and most highly respected occupational safety awards were serious enough to result in one or more days lost from programs globally. What Lies Ahead work (as prescribed by the attending physician), which totaled Philanthropy 2,782 days, (or 22,256 work hours) lost against a total of 35.7 In 2010, CBRE was recognized by RoSPA for meeting the Merit, million hours worked. Bronze, Silver, Gold and Gold Medal award criteria 63 times in Workplace 2010. These awards recognize the leadership and commitment Global Reporting Index Regretfully, in August 2010 there was one work-related fatality to safety and health excellence by CBRE’s Property and Asset involving a CBRE employee who appeared to have fallen from Management group. CBRE was awarded the following in 2010: a step ladder. The resulting investigation into the event by CBRE and the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Merit Award – 3 63 (OSHA) has not provided a conclusive explanation for the exact cause of the event. Bronze Award – 13 Silver Award – 34 Gold Award – 12 RoSPA awards for health and safety Notices of Non-Compliance Gold Medal Award – 1 excellence in 2010 In 2010, there were two instances in which CBRE was inspected by OSHA. One of these inspections resulted in a citation. The The most prestigious of these awards is receiving the RoSPA citation was issued relative to a violation regarding a magnetic Gold Medal Award for a fifth consecutive year. Only companies lock on an exit door that was not functioning properly. The who have achieved the Gold Award recognition for five to nine door was secured in a manner that was in violation of the consecutive years are eligible for this very prestigious award. CB Richard Ellis 2010 31 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Health and Safety Training professionals receive. However, all CBRE employees are Health and safety training was promoted with more emphasis required to participate in training on our corporate policies and About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. and greater visibility than in previous years, and played more of procedures, including our Standards of Business Conduct, and About this Report a strategic role in our performance improvement initiatives. the aspects of human rights protection that are relevant to our Environmental Stewardship operations. Through the CB Richard Ellis Foundation’s Safety Training Ethics and Compliance program, our online health and safety training options were While we do not have a formal joint management-worker selected both through the input of key health and safety health and safety committee, we encourage employees at all Governance professionals globally, and through the measured results of our levels of the organization to provide feedback and advice on Health and Safety 2010 injury performance. This was the first year that our online health and safety procedures relevant to their occupation. Health and Safety Overview safety and health training curriculum selection considered This input from our employees is used to enhance our health strategic objectives and performance challenges. Together, and safety policies and procedures, as well as our training Injury and Illness Performance this input gave us the ability to deliberately select the training programs. Notices of Non-Compliance courses that would be offered to our employees. CBRE does not have any formal trade union agreements that Health and Safety Awards CBRE has placed a high degree of emphasis and value on cover health and safety topics. and Recognition OSHA’s 10-hour General Industry health and safety training. What Lies Ahead >>Health and Safety Training Over the past few years more than 1,000 CBRE employees The health and safety priorities for CBRE in 2011 are primarily have completed this training, 324 of whom were either taking >>What Lies Ahead aimed at continuing our performance improvement through or had completed the training by year-end 2010. Philanthropy incident prevention and growth of our health and safety In 2010, employees logged over 13,300 hours of training programs and platform globally. The initiatives and priorities Workplace time on the CBRE Foundation’s Safety Training program. The that we have implemented in recent years have contributed Global Reporting Index number of safety and health training hours logged through to better programs, processes and performance results. But other CBRE training sources has not been officially calculated. the dynamics of our work environments and the challenges We do know, however, that they are significant, given the we encounter daily will require continual self-assessment and volume of new employee health and safety orientations, appropriate adjustment of our goals and priorities in order to training relative to specific operations and complex task ensure our incident prevention strategies are effective. assignments, client-required training, and training driven by While we are pleased with our performance results in 2010, mandatory regulatory requirements. we realize that our actions going forward will determine our The nature of our business means our security personnel continued success and improvement in 2011. focus on asset protection and are not involved in activities CBRE remains driven and committed to the sustained growth and operations that would potentially result in human rights of our health and safety culture for all of our stakeholders, violations. Because of this, we have not deemed it necessary including our employees, the clients we serve, and the CB Richard Ellis 2010 to specifically address this topic in the training our security beneficiaries of our success. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Philanthropy Philanthropy Overview CB Richard Ellis Foundation and Programs Local Initiatives around the World Selection of organizations supported by CBRE and its employees in 2010 What Lies Ahead Workplace Global Reporting Index Philanthropy At CBRE, we approach our commitment to community service and philanthropy with the same enthusiasm and creativity as we approach our business, every day. Our professionals are dedicated to bettering the communities where they live and work, and we continue, as a firm, to build on that passion for assisting those in need, all over the world. CB Richard Ellis 2010 33 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Philanthropy Overview For the third consecutive year, CBRE was recognized for these CBRE’s corporate philanthropy efforts have always and other efforts and named to the 2010 Companies That About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. been driven by our dedicated professionals, who have Care Honor Roll. The Center for Companies That Care, a About this Report enthusiastically moved our programs forward while widening U.S. nonprofit, bestows this distinction on companies that Environmental Stewardship and diversifying their scope. As a result of our employees’ demonstrate, among other characteristics, a commitment to feedback and suggestions, beginning in 2009 we took steps enhancing the quality of life for employees and communities. Ethics and Compliance to empower our local offices to make charitable-giving CB Richard Ellis Foundation and Programs Governance decisions and support them in the causes most important to The CB Richard Ellis Foundation Health and Safety them. and CBRE Cares – United States Philanthropy During 2010, our professionals embraced the new Governed and executed by the CB Richard Ellis Foundation— emphasis on local giving as a mandate to support a host an independent, non-profit, public-benefit corporation that >>Philanthropy Overview of organizations large and small, donating volunteer hours funds the company’s philanthropic initiatives—CBRE Cares is >>CB Richard Ellis Foundation and funds to over 280 different groups around the world— the company’s corporate giving and volunteerism arm in the and Programs more than ever before (see “Local Initiatives around the U.S. The program serves as an overarching platform to further Local Initiatives around World”). These efforts were supplemented by the CB Richard employees’ philanthropic efforts on many levels, including local the World Ellis Foundation’s fund-matching program. In addition community outreach and support, disaster-response initiatives, to donations-in-kind, in 2010 CBRE and our employees and the development of locally driven, nationally sanctioned Selection of organizations supported by CBRE and its globally donated more than US$6.4 million, a 56 percent programs. employees in 2010 increase from 2009’s total of US$4.1 million. In 2010, CBRE’s U.S. company and employee donations What Lies Ahead Of the many volunteer efforts undertaken by our employees totaled US$3.9 million, a 34 percent increase over 2009’s Workplace around the globe in 2010, the launch of the Shelter US$2.9 million. This included US$742,000 of employee Program—the cornerstone of CBRE Cares, the company’s contributions to the CBRE Cares 2010 annual campaign and Global Reporting Index philanthropy program in the U.S.—was perhaps the most the company match. widely embraced. The Shelter Program aligns our charitable In 2010, CBRE Cares launched its national Shelter Program efforts with our business by focusing on improving housing to help improve shelter and housing opportunities for those opportunities for those in need. in need in our communities. The initiative kicked off with Additionally, CBRE has a long history of responding to natural BuildMonth in September, during which employees across disasters. In 2010, our employees answered the call to assist the country participated in more than 20 housing rebuilding victims of the Haiti earthquake in January and the Pakistan projects alongside our national Shelter Program charitable floods in August. With the company match, CBRE contributed partners—nonprofits Rebuilding Together and HomeAid—as US$280,000 to the American Red Cross’ Haiti Relief and well as Habitat for Humanity (See “BuildMonth” sidebar). Development Fund, and $50,000 to UNICEF’s Pakistan Floods CB Richard Ellis 2010 Children’s Appeal. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter In addition, in 2010 the over 2009. Since its inception in 2001 and U.S. expansion company began a new tradition in 2004, the program has grown to serve more than 76 About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. of incorporating large-scale shelters in 53 cities. In addition, the original program was About this Report rebuilding projects into the expanded in 2010 to offer supplemental support to these Environmental Stewardship programming for national CBRE shelters through school-supply donations, holiday parties, conferences and corporate clothing drives and more. Ethics and Compliance initiatives. Known as “BuildDays,” • Celebrations in a Box. Celebrations in a Box provide Governance these popular events bridged young hospital patients with an escape from their daily geographies and business lines, as employees from across the challenges. This program enables CBRE employees to create Health and Safety U.S. rolled up their sleeves, side by side, for a good cause. In a package filled with favors, supplies and goodies to host a Philanthropy 2010, professionals attending the CBRE Industrial Conference party for patients and their families. Philanthropy Overview helped rehabilitate ten houses and a homeless shelter in New In 2010, CBRE continued to promote the philanthropic Orleans, LA, that had been damaged by Hurricane Katrina. >>CB Richard Ellis Foundation passions of its employees by returning 75% of all funds raised Company employees attending the Women’s Networking and Programs through the CBRE Cares annual campaign to our client account Forum in Chicago, IL, refurbished an elementary school and Local Initiatives around teams and local offices to be allocated to the causes most a resale shop owned by a women’s shelter. And attendees of the World important to them. The CB Richard Ellis Foundation matched the CBRE Office Conference in Los Angeles, CA, revitalized a half of these employee donations. The remaining 25% of funds Selection of organizations community center. supported by CBRE and its raised during the annual campaign benefitted corporate giving employees in 2010 Though officially launched in the final months of 2010, to causes related to shelter and poverty housing, environmental the Shelter Program is already a success, far exceeding sustainability and community service. What Lies Ahead our expectations. During the year, more than 1,800 CBRE Workplace Fundraising Efforts – Canada employees donated more than 10,000 hours of sweat equity to In Canada, CBRE offices staged a variety of creative Global Reporting Index complete housing rebuilding projects across the U.S. fundraising events in 2010, with employee, company and During 2010, U.S. employees continued to support signature private-donor contributions topping US$1.5 million in philanthropy programs developed by our own employees support of organizations such through CBRE Cares—driving the expansion and impact of as the United Way, Juvenile 1,457 these unique initiatives at the local level: Diabetes Research Foundation, Parkinson Society Canada and birthday cakes • Birthday Cakes and More for Homeless Children delivered to homeless Heart and Stroke Foundation and disadvantaged Program. Through this program, employees deliver of Canada. children at local personalized cakes to homeless children to help them organizations celebrate their birthdays. In 2010, 1,457 cakes were delivered to children at local organizations, an increase CB Richard Ellis 2010 35 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter The CB Richard Ellis Charitable Trust and Charity The Hong Kong Council of Social Service once again awarded About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Champions – United Kingdom CBRE the “Caring Company Logo” in recognition of community The CB Richard Ellis Charitable Trust, founded in 1987, involvement and commitment to being a responsible corporate About this Report coordinates our employee volunteer and fundraising activities citizen. CBRE received the special “Five-Years-Plus” logo to Environmental Stewardship in the UK The Trust is assisted by approximately 30 “Charity mark its fifth consecutive year receiving this designation. Champions” in CBRE offices across the UK, who are tasked Ethics and Compliance In the Pacific region, which comprises CBRE offices in Australia with encouraging their colleagues to actively engage with their and New Zealand, employees raised a total of AU$289,438 Governance communities. In 2010, employees in the UK supported more (US$294,229), more than doubling the previous year’s than 60 national and international charitable organizations Health and Safety contributions. The region’s key charitable initiative during the through both individual efforts and office-wide fundraising Philanthropy year was its “Walk for a Wish” event in April (See “Walk for a activities. These initiatives resulted in employee and company Wish” sidebar). Through this event, the Pacific region offices Philanthropy Overview contributions of more than £127,000 (US$198,000), of which raised more than AU$105,000 (US$107,000) for children’s £13,000 (US$20,000) was donated by the Trust.* >>CB Richard Ellis Foundation charities Starlight Children’s Foundation Australia and and Programs In addition, in 2010 CBRE made a contribution of £10,000 Make-A-Wish New Zealand. In addition, Pacific region >>Local Initiatives around (US$16,000) to its national charity partner LandAid, which professionals supported a range of other causes, with Australia the World helps young, disadvantaged individuals in the UK learn staff collectively contributing AU$179,943 (US$183,596) to new skills to improve their lives. With this donation, CBRE’s a variety of organizations, and employees in New Zealand Selection of organizations supported by CBRE and its total contributions to the nonprofit reached £137,000 contributing NZ$4,495 (US$3,502). employees in 2010 (US$214,000). Local Initiatives Around the World What Lies Ahead Local Contributions in the Asia and Pacific Regions Our offices around the globe served their local communities in Workplace CBRE professionals in Asia demonstrated a focused 2010 in a variety of ways: commitment to philanthropic engagement in 2010. The Global Reporting Index Americas region’s creative fundraising efforts and events have benefitted CBRE’s Bank of America Global organizations such as The Community Chest of Hong Kong, Corporate Services account Operation Smile Vietnam, Operation Blessing China, Hong team—encompassing more Kong Cancer Fund, Singapore’s Down Syndrome Association than 800 professionals across and Thai Red Cross Society. the U.S.—hosted its first CBRE Rob Blain, CEO & Chairman, Asia Pacific, raised a total Cares “Month of Caring.” of US$300,353 via two fundraising auctions organized by Each region sponsored a Operation Smile Vietnam and the Foreign Correspondents’ philanthropic activity to benefit Club, respectively, and offices and employees donated a cause of its choice. Throughout the month, employees were US$14,754 to various local charities. provided with information on how to serve their communities, CB Richard Ellis 2010 tools to contribute financially, and accounts of their colleagues 36 Corporate Responsibility Report *Figures based on the Charitable Trust year of October 31, 2009 – October 31, 2010. Stakeholder Letter doing good works. Fundraising activities supported the CBRE’s summer interns planned and hosted a carnival fundraiser American Cancer Society, United Way, Atlanta Community at the New York City office, where attendees enjoyed a bake sale, About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Food Bank, Philabundance, North Texas Food Bank and frozen drinks, putting contest, Wii Tennis contest, blackjack, raffle About this Report Colorado Food Bank. and “Guess Your Executive” game. Later in the summer, the intern Environmental Stewardship class of 34 college students used the funds raised to cater a dinner In New York City, CBRE Service Engineer Hector Algarroba and for 100 residents of the Ronald McDonald House of New Ethics and Compliance his family operate the HHS Foundation, a nonprofit that helps York City. The remaining money funded transportation, tickets less-fortunate children in the Dominican Republic in the areas Governance and food for a trip to Six Flags Great Adventure in mid-August for of recreation, health and education. Since 2003, HHS has the families staying at the facility. Health and Safety facilitated the donation of nearly 4,000 wheelchairs to amputees Philanthropy and disabled individuals in the Dominican Republic and Haiti, Darrell Martin of Valuation & Advisory Services, Kevin Kaufman and in 2010 distributed hundreds of backpacks filled with school of Brokerage and J.R. Burwell of Asset Services in Portland, Philanthropy Overview supplies to children in the Dominican Republic. The foundation is Oregon, joined forces as “Team CBRE” for the Bike Multiple CB Richard Ellis Foundation currently educating the Santo Domingo community about cholera, Sclerosis: Explore Oregon bike ride. The event raised more than and Programs and recently completed the construction of its first library. In 2010, US$320,000 for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society >>Local Initiatives around Hector was nominated by Major League Baseball and “People” Oregon, with the CBRE team contributing a total of US$10,000 the World magazine as a candidate for its “All-Stars Among Us” campaign, for the cause—earning it the designation of the #10 fundraising which recognizes individuals who go above and beyond on behalf team. Team Captain J.R. Burwell was the event’s #7 individual Selection of organizations supported by CBRE and its of their communities. fundraiser. employees in 2010 CBRE’s Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, office raised US$80,000 for Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) What Lies Ahead Camp John Marc at the 12th Annual Chefs Showcase black-tie CBRE partnered with two UK Army charities—the Coldstream Workplace gala, which featured dishes by Dallas’ top chefs, as well as a Afghan Fund and The Soldiers’ Charity—to host the silent auction, casino and music from The Emerald City Band. Coldstream Cup, a golf outing at the prestigious New Zealand Global Reporting Index The donation will enable more than 320 children to attend the Golf Club in Surrey, England. Key clients, CBRE executives non-profit camp, which serves local kids diagnosed with chronic and serving soldiers comprised the 18 foursomes. More than illnesses and major physical disabilities. Since the event’s inception, £100,000 (US$156,000) was raised to be divided equally $6.4 CBRE has donated over US$1.3 million to the camp, enabling more than 5,000 children to attend over the years. between the two charities. The money will go toward providing direct financial support to million wounded soldiers and bereaved CBRE global employee Tim Donohue of the Stamford, Connecticut, office traveled to service families. and company Moshi, Tanzania, to summit Mount Kilimanjaro in support of donations in 2010 the mission of The Westchester Coalition for the Hungry and Two teams from CBRE’s Dublin, Homeless, (WCHH), for which he serves as Resident on the Board Ireland, office took on the Four of Directors. WCHH estimates that Tim’s fundraising efforts for his Peaks Challenge in support of CB Richard Ellis 2010 climb amounted to nearly 11,000 cans of food for those in need. homelessness charity Focus 37 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE “Builds on Compassion” Across the U.S. During BuildMonth 2010 Throughout September 2010, CBRE professionals in cities from San Diego to New York went to work About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. improving housing and shelter for those in need in their communities as part of CBRE’s “Get Out and Give About this Report Back” BuildMonth. The event, which served as the official launch of the Shelter Program—the cornerstone of CBRE Cares—saw over 1,000 employees from more than 20 offices across the U.S. collaborate with Environmental Stewardship colleagues to complete a range of housing rebuilding projects. Ethics and Compliance Following months of planning and countless fundraising efforts—from bowling tournaments and blue-jean Governance Fridays to pancake breakfasts—CBRE employees joined representatives from our national Shelter Program charitable partners, Rebuilding Together and HomeAid, as well as Habitat for Humanity, to paint, build and landscape at private residences, Health and Safety homeless shelters, transitional housing and other facilities. The company provided employees with paid time off for their participation in these projects. Philanthropy In Inland Empire, CA, employees painted a home for abused and neglected children, while Tampa, FL, professionals made various Philanthropy Overview landscaping improvements at a local transitional housing facility. CBRE volunteers helped refurbish a home in Nashville, TN, that had been CB Richard Ellis Foundation severely damaged by flooding, and gave a women’s shelter in San Diego, CA, a much-needed facelift. With teamwork and enthusiasm, the and Programs CBRE volunteers made quick work of the projects, enjoying the chance to get their hands—and clothes—dirty for a worthy cause. But the real success was found in the grateful smiles and kind words of those benefitting from the volunteers’ efforts. >>Local Initiatives around the World “CB Richard Ellis’ CBRE Cares Shelter Program, which assists HomeAid and its 20 chapters across the country in helping the homeless rebuild their lives, has provided HomeAid with a blueprint for how companies can work with non-profit organizations to address societal Selection of organizations issues. Watching hundreds of CB Richard Ellis professionals roll up their sleeves and physically make a difference in our homeless shelters has supported by CBRE and its employees in 2010 been a great experience—for both our homeless clients and the caring people of CB Richard Ellis. We look forward to continuing to work in partnership with CB Richard Ellis and its people to help America’s homeless help themselves.” – Jeff Slavin, Chief Executive What Lies Ahead Officer, HomeAid Workplace “CB Richard Ellis has been a partner of Rebuilding Together since the fall of 2010, and during that time they have provided incredible impact to Global Reporting Index communities across America, focusing on homeowners who are in great need of our assistance. CB Richard Ellis has matched its corporate identity as the world’s largest commercial real estate services company with its philanthropic passion to volunteer and improve housing nationwide. Their engaging volunteers and dedication to service make them a fantastic contributor in our efforts to address the housing needs of our nation’s lowincome homeowners.” – Gary Officer, President & Chief Executive Officer, Rebuilding Together CB Richard Ellis 2010 38 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Ireland, helping to raise more corporate donation in support of a JPMorgan Chase running than €87,000 (US$116,000). event. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. The event challenged the teams About this Report A team of 20 runners from CBRE’s Paris, France, offices to climb the highest mountains in took to the pavement, joining more than 22,000 others at a Environmental Stewardship each of Ireland’s four provinces 6.5-kilometer race in central Paris. All funds raised by the team during one weekend. Each Ethics and Compliance were donated to the fight against cancer. team climbed 11,937 feet and Governance completed a road trip of more A team from CBRE’s Warsaw, Poland, office joined 20,000 than 800 miles. fellow walkers to participate in the Ecco Walkathon. For each Health and Safety kilometer walked, Ecco donated €1 to one of two charity Philanthropy In Spain, CBRE continued to assist a charity for the homeless, projects: SOS Children’s Villages’ work with orphans in providing financial and professional support for the Philanthropy Overview Burundi, or the World Wildlife Fund’s efforts to protect the construction of a new education center, which began in 2009. polar bear’s Arctic habitat. CB Richard Ellis Foundation The education center was completed in 2010 and is fully and Programs operational. Asia Pacific >>Local Initiatives around In 2010, CBRE China concluded the fourth year of its “Save a In 2010, CBRE Germany employees provided support for the World Child’s Life” program, which it rolled out in 2007 across Greater Vision of Hope, World Vision and UNICEF, among other Selection of organizations China in conjunction with Operation Blessing China. During charitable organizations. In addition, CBRE Germany made a supported by CBRE and its employees in 2010 What Lies Ahead London-to-Paris Charity Bike Ride Raises US$40,000 for UK Charities In April 2010, more than 40 CBRE UK professionals and their clients, friends and family spent four-and-a-half days cycling from London, UK, Workplace to Paris, France, for CBRE’s inaugural London-to-Paris Charity Bike Ride. Departing from London’s Paternoster Square, the participants—who Global Reporting Index represented all levels of cycling experience—pedaled for 13 hours a day, covering a total distance of 330 miles. As they made their way to the French capital, the riders made stops in Canterbury, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Amiens and Cergy-Pontoise for some much-needed shuteye. Despite gusting wind, pouring rain and even some hail, not to mention more than 100 flat tires, the group remained in high spirits throughout the event, thanks in part to 60-mile training rides in the weeks leading up to the event. 75% In total, the team raised more than £25,000 (US$39,000) to be distributed among four charities: CBRE Cares funds • Rainbow Trust Children’s Charity provides support to families who have a child with a returned to U.S. offices life-threatening or terminal illness. and account teams to be allocated to • The World Land Trust is an international conservation organization that works to protect local causes most important to them rainforests and other wildlife habitats. • Age Concern supports individuals in the UK over age 50. • Shelter works to alleviate the distress caused by homelessness and insufficient housing. CB Richard Ellis 2010 39 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE’s Pacific Region Raises US$107,000 for Children’s Charities Through Inaugural “Walk for a Wish” Event About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. In April 2010, more than 850 CBRE Asset Services employees, tenants, suppliers, friends and About this Report family—including Tom Southern, President & CEO, CBRE Australia & New Zealand—laced up Environmental Stewardship their sneakers to participate in concurrent 10-kilometer walks through major cities across the Pacific region as part of the inaugural “Walk for a Wish” fundraiser. Participants pounded the Ethics and Compliance pavement in Auckland, Christchurch and Wellington in New Zealand, and Sydney, Melbourne, Governance Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide and Canberra in Australia. Health and Safety The Walk for a Wish event was created to raise funds for Starlight Children’s Foundation Australia, which provides programs Philanthropy and support to seriously ill children and their families, and Make-A-Wish New Zealand, which grants the wishes of kids with life-threatening medical conditions. CBRE Australia/New Zealand has long supported those organizations, and established Philanthropy Overview Walk for a Wish as a central charitable initiative to bolster its fundraising for the worthy causes. CB Richard Ellis Foundation and Programs In total, AU$105,000 (US$107,000) was raised through the event—more than double the offices’ original goal. According to Sam Cuccurullo, Executive Managing Director, Asset Services, CBRE Asia Pacific, Walk for a Wish represented an ideal >>Local Initiatives around opportunity for employees to get out and raise money for worthwhile organizations while further unifying the Asset Services the World teams across CBRE’s Australia and New Zealand offices. The successful event culminated in a live webcast at each walk Selection of organizations location. supported by CBRE and its employees in 2010 What Lies Ahead the year, the program facilitated surgeries for 10 children with be donated to the Down Syndrome Association (DSA) and Workplace congenital heart disease in the surrounding areas of Chengdu in sold at the organization’s thrift shop, which prepares young Sichuan Province. CBRE Chengdu employees visited the children adults with Down syndrome for possible work opportunities. Global Reporting Index during their hospital stays. Since 2007, CBRE has funded heart The Singapore office also donated S$5,000 (US$4,000) to the surgeries for 40 children from impoverished families in Hebei and DSA’s gala dinner and dance in November 2010 to raise funds Sichuan provinces through this program. for its childhood education programs. CBRE Thailand sponsored two drinking-water filtration systems Employees from CBRE’s Tokyo, for rural schools. Since 2000, CBRE has sponsored 17 water Japan, office laced up their filtration systems serving more than 6,000 people. The initiative sneakers to raise money for breast is the signature project of the Rotary Club of Bangkok South, cancer awareness at the annual and CBRE is recognized as the organization’s longest-serving “Run for the Cure/Walk for Life” corporate sponsor. event, in which participants circled the Imperial Palace. The Singapore employees pooled used clothes, shoes and books to CB Richard Ellis 2010 event raised 40 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter JPY6.3 million (US$77,388) to help breast cancer victims and other senior executives across Australia, traded their beds for raise awareness about the disease in Japan. cardboard and sleeping bags and spent a night out on the streets About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. to raise funds and awareness for Australia’s 100,000 homeless About this Report The Bangalore, India, office was appointed project manager individuals at the St. Vincent de Paul Society’s annual CEO for Cisco’s Project Samudaya in Raichur, Karnataka, India. Environmental Stewardship Sleep-Out. Of the AU$2.6 million (US$2.7 million) raised in The project involves building 3,570 housing units as well as a total, CBRE contributed AU$50,000 (US$51,000), with Tom Ethics and Compliance health center and two schools for flood-affected families in the Southern—who raised the third-most money in Sydney— Raichur district. Governance collecting AU$38,960 (US$39,751) for the cause. Health and Safety Tom Southern, President & CEO, CBRE Australia & New Zealand, CBRE’s Adelaide, South Australia, office participated in the Santa and Phil Rundle, Managing Director, CBRE Adelaide, along with Philanthropy Fun Run to raise money for children’s charity Variety, which is Philanthropy Overview Selection of Organizations Supported By CBRE and Its Employees in 2010 CB Richard Ellis Foundation Active Senior Living Residence | Boca Raton, Florida, U.S. Metrocrest Social Services | Carrollton, Texas, U.S. and Programs Age Concern | United Kingdom Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation >>Local Initiatives around Aid to Victims of Domestic Abuse, Inc. | Palm Beach County, Florida, U.S. Multiple Sclerosis Society the World American Cancer Society National Kidney Foundation American Diabetes Association North Fulton Community Charities | Atlanta, Georgia, U.S. >>Selection of organizations supported by CBRE and its American Heart Association Nuestro Pequenos Hermanos Orphanage | San Jorge, Nicarágua employees in 2010 American Lung Association Omaha Children’s Hospital | Omaha, Nebraska, U.S. American Red Cross Operation Blessing China | China What Lies Ahead Any Soldier Our Little Haven | Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S. Workplace Big Brothers Big Sisters Oxfam International Boy Scouts of America PATH Global Reporting Index Camp John Marc | Dallas, Texas, U.S. Pediatric Brain Tumor Foundation Cascade AIDS Project | Portland, Oregon, U.S. Po Leung Kuk Newcomers’ Ward | Hong Kong, China Catholic Charities Project Access Dallas | Dallas, Texas, U.S. Children’s Cancer Research Fund Rainbow Trust | United Kingdom 10,482 Children’s Miracle Network Rebuilding Together City Team Ministries | San José, California, U.S. Right to Dream Academy | Accra, Ghana volunteer hours Cristo Rey Jesuit High School | Baltimore, Maryland, U.S. Rise School of Houston | Houston, Texas, U.S. donated to the CBRE Cares Shelter Program Crossroads Urban Center | Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S. Ronald McDonald House Denver Rescue Mission | Denver, Colorado, U.S. Salvation Army Oasis-Youth Support Network | Australia Doctors Without Borders Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation Down’s South | London, UK San Francisco Food Bank | San Francisco, California, U.S. CB Richard Ellis 2010 41 Corporate Responsibility Report Edmund Burke Elementary School | Chicago, Illinois, U.S. Second Harvest Food Bank of Central Florida | Orlando, Florida, U.S. Enlighten – Action for Epilepsy | Hong Kong, China Sharp Grossmont Hospital Foundation | San Diego, California, U.S. Stakeholder Letter Evergreen Negro Cemetery | Houston, Texas, U.S. Sparrow Pediatrics Child Life Center | Lansing, Michigan, U.S. Feed My Starving Children St. Mary’s Food Bank of Phoenix | Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Finkl Academy | Chicago, Illinois, U.S. St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital About this Report First Place School | Seattle, Washington, U.S. St. Vincent de Paul Society | Australia Gilda’s Club Starlight Children’s Foundation Environmental Stewardship Good Shepherd Community Center | Dallas, Texas, U.S. Steve Waugh Foundation | Australia Ethics and Compliance Goodwill Industries of South Central California | California, U.S. Stone Zoo | Stoneham, Massachusetts, U.S. Governance Group Health Foundation | Seattle, Washington, U.S. Stop Child Trafficking Now Habitat for Humanity Susan G. Komen for the Cure Health and Safety Haiti Relief and Development Fund Team Survivor Northwest | Seattle, Washington, U.S. Philanthropy Half the Sky Foundation | China The Alzheimer’s Association Head Start of Shawnee Mission | Overland Park, Kansas, U.S. The Coldstream Guards Afghan Fund | United Kingdom Philanthropy Overview Heading Home | Greater Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network CB Richard Ellis Foundation Helen DeVos Children’s Hospital | Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S. The Princess Closet | Chicago, Illinois, U.S. and Programs HHS Foundation The Soldiers’ Charity | United Kingdom HomeAid Tumbleweed Center for Youth Development | Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. >>Local Initiatives around the World Hugs From Home | Oakhurst, New Jersey, U.S. UJF of Greater Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S. Jonathan’s Place | Dallas, Texas, U.S. Union Rescue Mission | Los Angeles, California, U.S. >>Selection of organizations Junior Achievement United Way supported by CBRE and its L.A. Family Housing | Los Angeles, California, U.S. Vikings Children’s Fund | Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S. employees in 2010 La Rabida Children’s Hospital | Chicago, Illinois, U.S. Voices for Children What Lies Ahead Lance Armstrong Foundation Watts Labor Community Action Committee | Los Angeles, California, U.S. Workplace LandAid | United Kingdom West Dallas Community Centers | Dallas, Texas, U.S. Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Willow Oaks Elementary School | Memphis, Tennessee, U.S. Global Reporting Index Locks of Love WINGS Women’s Shelter | Schaumburg, Illinois, U.S. Lupus Foundation of Harrisburg | Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, U.S. World Land Trust | United Kingdom Make-A-Wish Foundation Wounded Warrior Project Matter of Trust YMCA CB Richard Ellis 2010 42 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter dedicated to enriching the lives Program throughout the country—particularly during of children in need throughout BuildMonth 2011 in September. This will involve providing our About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Australia. Each of the more than professionals with user-friendly resources and tools to initiate About this Report 1,000 participants received a Santa projects in their communities; working with our Shelter Program Environmental Stewardship suit for the run, which involved a partners to develop new and innovative opportunities for four-kilometer trek around the River collaboration; and continuing to effectively communicate the Ethics and Compliance Torrens. Similar events were staged impact these projects have on the individuals they serve. Governance in Sydney and Melbourne to raise a We look forward to continuing the tradition of hosting CBRE total of more than AU$99,000 (US$101,000) for Variety. Health and Safety BuildDays as part of the programming for internal events, and Philanthropy CBRE Sydney, Australia, participated in the 40th annual Sunin May 2011 held a project in Chicago, Illinois, in conjunction Herald City2Surf event in August. The 14-kilometer run takes with the CBRE Women’s Networking Forum. Philanthropy Overview participants from Hyde Park in Sydney’s central business district As the Shelter Program expands and gains momentum in 2011, CB Richard Ellis Foundation through the tunnel at Kings Cross and up “Heartbreak Hill”—the and Programs we will roll out an online tool enabling our professionals to most challenging portion of the course—to finish at the iconic earmark donated funds specifically for the program. >>Local Initiatives around Bondi Beach. With more than 80,000 total participants, the 2010 the World event was the largest to date and raised more than AU$2.5 million In addition to these goals, we continue to improve on (US$2.6 million) for a variety of charities. For its part, the “CBRE to the dissemination of information about the company’s Selection of organizations supported by CBRE and its Surf” team collectively raised more than AU$3,292 (US$3,359) for philanthropic efforts to better inform our external stakeholders. employees in 2010 The Steve Waugh Foundation. Internally, we focus on leveraging CBRE’s monthly CBRE Cares >>What Lies Ahead News, a publication that shares stories and photos from our What Lies Ahead professionals’ charitable efforts and serves to build enthusiasm Workplace CBRE strives to lend a hand in communities around the world and momentum for future philanthropic involvement. We will by leveraging its global footprint and building upon the Global Reporting Index continue to communicate our efforts externally via traditional charitable spirit of its professionals. The year 2010 represented avenues, as well as social media outlets such as Facebook and the first full year under the company’s enhanced corporate Twitter. philanthropy program, which put local giving decisions in the hands of our people. The positive feedback and support In 2010, CBRE in the UK committed to a corporate partnership 280+ we have received—and witnessed in the form of even more good works—encourages us as we embark on another year of with Habitat for Humanity, which works to provide decent, organizations supported charitable initiatives, with our deeply passionate professionals affordable housing to individuals by CBRE at the helm. The CB Richard Ellis Foundation will continue in 2010 in need in nearly 100 countries to financially supplement our local offices’ charitable efforts worldwide. CBRE’s involvement through its fund-matching program. with the nonprofit encompasses both employee engagement CB Richard Ellis 2010 In the U.S., CBRE Cares will focus on expanding the Shelter 43 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter and sponsorship. In 2011, following a corporate donation, will continue to support communities that have fallen victim to employees throughout the UK will be given the opportunity natural disasters with relief grant-making and fundraising efforts About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. to participate in a number of Habitat for Humanity projects to support individuals in affected areas. About this Report during the work week. In addition, CBRE will donate £15,000 In addition, CBRE in Hong Kong recently established a CBRE Environmental Stewardship (US$23,000) and recruit teams for Habitat for Humanity’s Charity/Sponsorship Committee. This group will advise on the major corporate fundraising event, the annual Hope Ethics and Compliance Challenge, which will be held in July. company’s allotment of resources for local philanthropic efforts and provide support to colleagues pursuing personal charity Governance CBRE in Spain will continue to work with Fundación Prodis work. Health and Safety to identify work placements for handicapped individuals in Spanish shopping centers in 2011. Fundación Prodis is a In the Pacific region, CBRE professionals from all company Philanthropy nonprofit working to improve the educational, social and business lines across Australia and New Zealand will plan and Philanthropy Overview employment integration of intellectually handicapped children. execute the second-annual Walk for a Wish event. An ambitious It is also the only European organization to provide university fundraising goal of AU$500,000 (US$510,000) has been set. CB Richard Ellis Foundation and Programs education to people with Down syndrome. CBRE has already A significant focus of the Pacific region’s charitable efforts in organized placements for three people in shopping centers Local Initiatives around 2011 will be the continued provision of support for victims of the World in Madrid and Barcelona, and will secure placements for an the devastating floods that ravaged Queensland, Australia, additional five in the near future. Selection of organizations following weeks of heavy rains in December 2010. The CB supported by CBRE and its Following the success of the London-to-Paris Charity Bike Ride Richard Ellis Foundation will donate 50 cents for every dollar employees in 2010 in 2010—during which 43 CBRE employees, friends and family donated by our employees to the Queensland Premier’s >>What Lies Ahead cycled to Paris to raise more than £25,000 (US$39,000) for Disaster Relief Appeal. four charities—the event’s organizing committee is planning Workplace CBRE in the Pacific will also place a greater emphasis on local the 2011 event, which will end in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. community service by providing its employees with opportunities Global Reporting Index Funds raised will be donated to the Osmani Trust, The Backto volunteer with the Salvation Army on a quarterly basis. In Up Trust and Street Kids International. addition, the company will use its internal newsletter, CBRE CBRE is also reviewing opportunities for an EMEA-wide Today, to more effectively communicate charitable opportunities charitable effort in 2011, possibly in partnership with UNICEF. to its employees and continue to recognize and encourage their philanthropic efforts. In Asia, CBRE employees will continue to focus on supporting local charities in 2011, such as The Community Chest of Hong As the world’s largest commercial real estate services company, Kong, Operation Smile Vietnam and Operation Blessing in CBRE is committed to fulfilling its role as a responsible China. corporate citizen by continuing to support and add value to our communities. Service is woven into the fabric of our corporate CBRE employees in Asia have a long history of responding culture, and we look forward to expanding our charitable CB Richard Ellis 2010 to natural disasters such as the South Asian tsunami, China’s horizons in the coming year and beyond. 44 Corporate Responsibility Report Sichuan earthquake and India’s Bihar flood. CB Richard Ellis Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Philanthropy Workplace Workplace Overview The CBRE Workforce Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect Benefits and Total Compensation Performance Management and Recognition Learning and Development What Lies Ahead Workplace Global Reporting Index As a professional services firm, CBRE recognizes that the reputation and strength of our company is a direct reflection of the quality of the people we attract, hire and retain. We want our employees to know they have tremendous opportunities to grow and make an impact. We truly believe the success of our company depends upon fostering a respectful, challenging, diverse and rewarding workplace that provides our employees with a solid foundation upon which they can build their career and serve our clients. CB Richard Ellis 2010 45 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Workplace Overview “The priority of the Human During 2010, CBRE continued to focus our human resources About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Resources Department is efforts on organizational efficiency, while bringing back some of About this Report the HR initiatives that were suspended due to cost containment to support our leaders in Environmental Stewardship efforts implemented during 2008 and 2009. In early 2010 we achieving their business results. added a new position to the company’s senior executive team In order to do so, we need a Ethics and Compliance and appointed Chris Kirk as our Global Director of Human qualified and capable human resources Governance Resources. This position provides strategic vision and global staff, a global HR platform, and an leadership to our human capital initiatives. Reflecting the value Health and Safety of our human capital, this position reports to the President of engaged workforce. During 2010, and Philanthropy our global company. continuing into 2011, we are focused Workplace on implementing programs and tools In selecting Chris Kirk, we promoted from within and chose a >>Workplace Overview talented business and legal executive with a demonstrated track designed to achieve business success.” record of success, who has been with the company for over —Chris Kirk, Executive Vice President/Global Director of The CBRE Workforce 10 years. Following Mr. Kirk’s appointment, we reorganized Human Resources Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance the corporate Human Resources department to better align it and Respect The global business and economic conditions we faced with business operations, including a streamlined management Benefits and Total structure in the Americas. in 2008 and 2009 required us to make some significant Compensation operational changes. In an effort to maintain our company’s During 2010, we also began to focus on the global delivery financial strength and stability, among other cost containment Performance Management of Human Resources services. Two new Regional Human and reduction efforts, we were forced to reduce our workforce and Recognition Resources leadership positions were added – one for Asia and some of our employee compensation and benefits. Learning and Development Pacific and the other for Europe, Middle East and Africa Throughout the process, we were committed to treating people What Lies Ahead (EMEA). A talented Human Resources executive was recruited with dignity and respect – a commitment continued during from the external market for the Asia Pacific position, and 2010. When practical, we provided the affected workforce Global Reporting Index we promoted a seasoned Human Resources executive from with advance notice in excess of what the law requires of staff within our organization to the EMEA position. The reorganized reductions and significant operational changes. In instances Americas structure, coupled with the establishment of regional where we could not provide advance notice, employees structures in our other global regions, sets the foundation for received the economic benefit of notice through pay in lieu the improved implementation of global Human Resources of notice, consistent with our severance plan. Our severance strategies and platforms. plan, benchmarked to industry standards, offers benefits to fulland part-time qualified employees, including separation pay, a healthcare stipend and access to outplacement services. In addition, we complied with the notice requirements of CB Richard Ellis 2010 46 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter relevant labor and employment laws, and collective bargaining of ongoing property operations and tenant relations, while agreements, as applicable. our Building Engineers provide the daily maintenance About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. necessary for the physical viability of the properties. Over About this Report 2010 marks the fourth year in which CBRE has reported 6,800 employees assist our corporate clients in the optimal on measures related to our labor practices and workplace Environmental Stewardship use of their real estate, including Facilities Managers, Project environment. Because our human resources information Managers and our Maintenance & Engineering employees who Ethics and Compliance systems (HRIS) are not globally integrated, we currently are provide direction on strategic space utilization, retrofit existing not able to accurately compile, compare and consistently Governance space, and develop and implement capital improvement report information on our global workforce demographics plans. Our corporate employees include financial analysts, Health and Safety and statistics. However, during 2010, the global integration of information technology specialists, legal and risk management Philanthropy our human resources information system became a priority. In professionals, communications and marketing specialists, 2010, our Canadian and Australia/New Zealand businesses Workplace research analysts, human resource professionals, and many completed their conversions to our HRIS. We also began a others who collectively contribute to the successful operation of >>Workplace Overview project to implement a global HRIS by expanding and adapting the company. the system used in the U.S. to other global operations. As each >>The CBRE Workforce phase of this expansion is completed, we will be closer to our Despite this diversity, there are some things that all of our Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance goal of a seamless global employee reporting system. employees have in common, regardless of where they work and and Respect the job duties they perform: CBRE only employs individuals 18 The CBRE Workforce Benefits and Total years of age and over; we do not tolerate or engage in forced Compensation The nature of the global commercial real estate services or compulsory labor in any of our worldwide operations; and business means that CBRE has an extremely diverse workforce. Performance Management we offer a competitive compensation and benefits package We have a total worldwide workforce of approximately 31,000 and Recognition consistent with (and in many cases significantly more generous employees (excluding employees in our affiliate offices) located than) local standards; and perhaps most importantly, they all Learning and Development in 60 countries on six continents. This diversity is as broad share our commitment to our corporate values of Respect, What Lies Ahead as our global reach. Our diversity on any dimension, such Integrity, Service, and Excellence. as beliefs, color, backgrounds, religions, sexual orientation, Global Reporting Index gender, and the like, serve to make our workplace an engaging Though we support the right to exercise freedom of association environment. and collective bargaining, less than 3% of our global employee population operates under any form of collective bargaining Our workforce includes over 7,000 commercial real estate agreement. We have seen the number of employees in the U.S. brokerage professionals who represent clients in all facets covered by collective bargaining agreements increase as our of sale or lease transactions in major metropolitan areas. In business has grown in new markets and new industry sectors. addition, nearly 7,900 Asset Services employees manage real In our global operations, there are no areas where these rights estate assets on behalf of real estate owners/investors. Our are at risk. Real Estate Managers perform services such as management CB Richard Ellis 2010 47 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter culture. We also understand that the term “diversity” can have Center for Companies That Care 2010 Honor Roll different meanings in different cultures, countries or global About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. In early 2011, CBRE was named to the Companies That Care regions. About this Report Honor Roll for the fourth year in a row. To be named to the Honor Roll, a company must complete a detailed annual Standards of Business Conduct Environmental Stewardship application addressing each of the 10 characteristics of a We define our ethical values in our Standards of Business company that cares. The application is reviewed by a panel of Ethics and Compliance Conduct. The document has been translated for employees independent judges and the results are combined with the results of a comprehensive employee survey. Companies that achieve of each country in which we operate, and made available Governance high marks in both the application and the survey are named to via www.cbre.com, our employee intranets and in printed Health and Safety the Honor Roll. materials. Our Standards of Business Conduct are introduced Philanthropy Companies That Care demonstrate the following 10 during the employee’s first few days with the company. For characteristics: example, in North America, all new employees are required Workplace 1. Sustain a work environment founded on dignity and to participate in a self-study program on Business Conduct respect for all employees Workplace Overview and Ethics. The Standards of Business Conduct state our value 2. Make employees feel their jobs are important 3. Cultivate the full potential of all employees system regarding—among other things—hiring, termination The CBRE Workforce 4. Encourage individual pursuit of work/life balance of employment, workplace behavior, severance benefits and >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance 5. Enable the well-being of individuals and their families employee conduct towards each other, our clients, our business and Respect through compensation, benefits, policies and practices partners and our communities globally. 6. Develop great leaders, at all levels, who excel at Benefits and Total managing people as well as results Compensation In 2010 in Asia, CBRE conducted training sessions covering a 7. Appreciate and recognize the contributions of people who work there great majority of the employees to ensure that the Standards of Performance Management 8. Establish and communicate standards for ethical behavior Business Conduct and related policies and practices are being and Recognition and integrity followed and applied to all aspects of our daily operations Learning and Development 9. Get involved in community endeavors and/or public and business processes. Furthermore, resources have been policy What Lies Ahead 10. Consider the human toll when making business decisions committed on an ongoing basis to foster a work environment which is legally and ethically compliant, socially responsible, Global Reporting Index and “safe” (e.g., harassment-free) in a most liberal sense. Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect The CBRE workplace culture is grounded in policies and In addition, during 2010, we completed our first-ever global practices that foster employee choice, opportunities for career recertification by asking all employees to reaffirm their advancement, mutual respect and principled behavior. The continued commitment to our Standards of Business Conduct. company continually implements organizational guidelines and Consistent with our collaborative approach with our workforce, programs that facilitate an ethical and respectful workplace. we also provided options for employees to raise questions or have further discussions with our corporate compliance We believe our values, clients, employees and communities are department. best served by fostering a diverse workforce and an inclusive CB Richard Ellis 2010 48 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Diversity and Inclusion invitations to diverse student groups to visit us while on CBRE aspires to be known for an inclusive culture and the campus. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. diversity of our employees. The following are highlights of our • We were very pleased with the diversity in our promotional About this Report 2010 efforts to further this goal: decisions. However, we were disappointed that our overall Environmental Stewardship diversity representation in management and sales positions • Our Chief Executive Officer, Brett White, signed the CEO has held relatively constant despite efforts to improve. We Ethics and Compliance Statement of Support for Women’s Empowerment will work to increase our efforts in these areas during 2011. Principles – a set of Principles for business offering guidance Governance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace “We noted the comprehensive analysis Health and Safety and community. They are the result of a collaboration of your workplace and the actions Philanthropy between the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM, part of UN Women) and the United Nations taken, specifically with the introduction Workplace Global Compact, of which CBRE is a member. of executive coaching to foster the Workplace Overview • In Australia, we received our Equal Opportunity for Women development of employees.” in the Workplace Program accreditation. The CBRE Workforce —Mairi Steele, Acting Director, Australian Government, Equal • Our U.S. Diversity Council, led by the President of the >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency Americas and comprised of senior company leaders, the and Respect directors of our Networking Groups, and HR and Corporate Networking Groups Benefits and Total Communications representatives, facilitated the sharing of There are currently four diversity-focused networking groups Compensation best practices among our Networking groups and provided within our U.S. operations: the African-American Network, Performance Management feedback on the results of overall company efforts. For Hispanic Network, Women’s Network and the recently and Recognition example, during 2010 we continued our efforts to support established Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) and expand our networking groups. Our Board of Directors, Network. These groups are sponsored by senior executives and Learning and Development the Americas Operating Management Board, and the funded by the company; however, their mission and activities What Lies Ahead Americas Advisory Board for Brokerage, all increased the are driven by their members. Global Reporting Index diversity of their members. • We made deliberate efforts to incorporate diversity objectives Our networking groups enhance the company’s diversity into normal business processes, such as succession planning. efforts by aiding in the recruitment, engagement, retention and In addition, as we refreshed college recruiting efforts, development of employees from diverse backgrounds, cultures we made plans to attend historically black colleges and and lifestyles. The groups help members develop rewarding universities, a Hispanic-accredited university, and chose career paths and gain recognition for their leadership through colleges based on their diversity and international student valuable mentoring and educational opportunities; serve as representation. Our 2011 college plans also include specific forums for networking and information-exchange; and unite CB Richard Ellis 2010 49 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter members in community service and outreach. In addition, companies around the world. Importantly, it implements the they are instrumental in helping to establish company policies, principles embodied in our RISE values and our Standards of About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. programs and initiatives related to diversity, training and Business Conduct. About this Report professional development. Below are a few highlights related to In 2010, we continued our harassment prevention training Environmental Stewardship our networking group’s endeavors in 2010: program in the U.S. and Latin America. Newly hired U.S. Ethics and Compliance • Our Women’s Networking Group celebrated its 10 th employees participate in an innovative online training program, Anniversary with a “CBRE’s Got Talent” theme for its annual which was expanded to include Canada and Latin America, Governance conference. a goal we set last year. Developing an inclusive culture that Health and Safety • Our African American Networking Group refocused its promotes high levels of integrity and ethical behavior is a key Philanthropy efforts to support employees from a broader array of our organizational priority and an ongoing process. We believe lines of business. these training and communications programs have enabled Workplace • The LGBT Network sponsored participation at the Out & us to take an industry leadership role in creating a collegial, Workplace Overview Equal Conference and began a project in collaboration with harassment-free workplace in which all employees can develop Human Resources to complete the Human Rights Campaign and succeed. The CBRE Workforce Index, also sponsored by Out & Equal. >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance Regretfully, however, allegations of harassment or • When the company aggressively sought to improve the and Respect discrimination occasionally occur. Once reported, our internal representation of diverse employees in key groups, the investigation teams act swiftly to uncover and evaluate the Benefits and Total Networking Groups were consulted on college recruitment Compensation facts, take remedial action if warranted, and eliminate the target selection. root causes of any problematic behavior. Most investigations Performance Management Harassment Prevention of harassment claims are initiated immediately (within a day) and Recognition Unlawful harassment, in whatever form and regardless of and are completed within 30 days. CBRE handles allegations Learning and Development the intent, is a form of discrimination and interferes with our of harassment or discrimination with the utmost care and What Lies Ahead commitment to equal employment opportunity. It has no place attention. We understand that the only way our employees can at CBRE. Our Harassment-Free Workplace policy reflects the succeed at their jobs is if they feel safe, secure and welcome in Global Reporting Index strongest possible statement in support of CBRE’s commitment the work environment. to the prevention of unlawful harassment, discrimination and Regulatory Compliance retaliation in the workplace. The policy also emphasizes that CBRE acts in accordance with all laws regarding minimum CBRE will not tolerate harassment or retaliation and provides and/or living wages. The company also abides by all national definitions and examples to help our employees identify them. and local requirements regarding overtime pay, timekeeping, Additionally, the policy clearly describes our expectations of and rest and meal periods. If any compliance issue is brought all employees, including noting the special responsibilities of to our attention, it is promptly researched and remedied as managers. We worked with leading legal experts to formulate appropriate. and draft a policy that is consistent with best practices of great CB Richard Ellis 2010 50 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE is also vigilant in jurisdictions where regulatory the advancement of women, but has compliance is a continuous challenge. For example, in the About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. woven this into the global business culture People’s Republic of China, aside from the national Labor Law About this Report and Labor Contract Law, there are also regional variations in of its entire operation. CBRE has set an Environmental Stewardship labor rules and regulations. The company is fully committed to important standard for the industry to regulatory compliance. follow.” Ethics and Compliance Relationships and Alliances —Gail Ayers, PhD, CREW Network CEO Governance Our company has a long-standing, strategic alliance with Health and Safety Benefits and Total Compensation Commercial Real Estate Women, or CREW, the professional We understand that employee benefit participation is an Philanthropy network of women in the commercial real estate industry. important part of the employment relationship. CBRE offers all During 2010, we continued our relationship with CREW by Workplace full-time employees a benefits package generally made up of providing a company-paid internship to its nine North American the following components: Workplace Overview college scholarship award winners. The internship had both educational and experiential components. We also continued • Health benefits, including medical, dental and vision; The CBRE Workforce our commitment to CREW as the lead sponsor for their five• Income continuity benefits, such as disability and life >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance year research initiative. Moreover, CBRE provided faculty insurance, and severance/redundancy programs; and Respect members for CREW’s Annual Conference. • Retirement benefits; and >>Benefits and Total • Convenience benefits, such as time off with pay. Compensation In addition, during 2011, we will further expand our relationship with the Real Estate Associates Program, which We strive to be inclusive of all employees when possible. Performance Management is designed to encourage professionals who are AfricanFor example, in the U.S., a full-time employee is defined as and Recognition American to consider the real estate industry as a viable an employee who works at least 30 hours per week (most Learning and Development career alternative. We also work with Catalyst, Inc., a global employers require 40 hours). This more inclusive definition of What Lies Ahead organization dedicated to improving the lives of women in the full-time employment results in over 95% of our employees workplace. being eligible for our complete benefits package. In addition, Global Reporting Index paid time off is offered to part-time employees, and all U.S. “Women provide tremendous value employees are eligible to participate in the 401(k) retirement to the industry and smart businesses savings and investment program. During 2010, we announced like CBRE embrace this truth. CREW plans to reinstate our 401(k) company match in the U.S. Network is fortunate to partner with such effective January 1, 2011. a forward-thinking company that not Due to the severe economic recession, we found it necessary in only demonstrates through its business the U.S. to reduce our operating expenses. Consistent with our practices its commitment to diversity and values, we sought creative ways to minimize our expenses and CB Richard Ellis 2010 51 Corporate Responsibility Report implement cost-containment programs while maintaining jobs Stakeholder Letter and providing an extensive menu of benefits to our employees U.S. performance management systems and the number of and their families, including same-gender couples. When employees globally who receive formal performance reviews. About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. reductions to compensation and benefits became necessary, About this Report In Asia, continuous efforts have been made over the we worked diligently to communicate our reasons, provided past several years to build and enhance a performance Environmental Stewardship ample notice of the changes to our employees, and maintained management process and system that reflects western-business a competitive benefits and total compensation package for our Ethics and Compliance best practices while being relevant for most Asian cultures. employees. Supportive human resources infrastructure elements are being Governance True to our commitment to restore pay when conditions developed and implemented to ensure consistency, compliance, Health and Safety improved, in June 2010 we restored pay to 100% of its prevalue-creation and sharing across the regional businesses. This Philanthropy reduction level and, later in the year, we substantially restored includes structured learning and development programs and our employees’ bonus potential, which had been reduced by a competency framework that applies to all employees, and is Workplace 50% in 2009. As these compensation changes were made, integrated with key human resources processes. Workplace Overview our senior executives and more highly compensated employees The Company honors our employees globally with more than took the biggest and first reductions and waited the longest for The CBRE Workforce 200 individual or group awards that recognize leadership, the restorations. Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance commitment, ethics, financial performance, community and Respect Performance Management and Recognition involvement, philanthropy and more. One example is our CBRE is a meritocracy and our employees are empowered Ambassador Award, founded by the Women’s Network to >>Benefits and Total Compensation and encouraged to achieve the level of success their skills and recognize non-sales professionals in North America. In 2010, desire allow. Currently, virtually all of our U.S. based, nonwe received over 500 nominations for 10 possible awards. >>Performance Management commissioned employees receive formal annual performance and Recognition To further recognize and support our employee’s community reviews. Outside the U.S., our progress toward this goal is Learning and Development service efforts, during 2010 we implemented an Employee subject to local laws, customs, and the building of our global Volunteer Day in the U.S. to allow employees to spend up What Lies Ahead HR information system. In addition, our commission-based to two days on volunteer activities that are related to CBRE’s sales professionals receive regular, ongoing performance Global Reporting Index philanthropic priorities, such as housing construction and feedback and coaching to help them achieve clearly stated renovation. performance objectives. Informal recognition is also very important to our organizational During 2010, we implemented a simplified performance culture. For example, during 2010, the President of the management tool, which was expanded to include an Americas sent a thank you note to over 750 military veterans employee development plan. We also provided this document in our company for their past and present service in the U.S. electronically to facilitate communication between our military branches. geographically disbursed workforce. Similar performance management systems exist in our businesses outside the As we continue to expand our performance management and CB Richard Ellis 2010 U.S. It remains our goal to report in the future on our nonemployee recognition programs, our efforts will remain rooted 52 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter in a philosophy of respect in the workplace, stable employment runs between CBRE in United Kingdom and CBRE in China. and fair compensation for the work performed regardless of Applicants come from all UK universities for approximately 45 About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. age, gender, religion, national origin, sexual orientation or undergraduate brokerage opportunities in this program, as well About this Report gender identification. as a two-year professional development program. Environmental Stewardship Learning and Development What Lies Ahead Ethics and Compliance A significant commitment was made during the latter half In the coming year, we plan to make progress on a number of of 2010 to re-implement CBRE University, which had been workplace and employment-related fronts. We will continue the Governance suspended in 2008. Its mission is to provide exceptional effort to build the global infrastructure (information systems, Health and Safety learning opportunities to improve both individual and company policies and organizational structure) we need to support our Philanthropy success. We established the position of Chief Learning Officer business and position CBRE as a worldwide employer of choice. and filled it with one of our highest-performing managers. Workplace To further our Human Resources goals, we need to gather Significant financial resources have been allocated to reand consolidate more information on our global employee Workplace Overview launch CBRE University in 2011. The University will supplement demographics. Currently, outside the U.S., Canada and our many other business line and distance learning training The CBRE Workforce Australia/New Zealand, the company has not yet implemented initiatives. As specific plans for the University curriculum Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance a technology platform that allows us to reliably collect and develop, the number and type of participants will be and Respect analyze this information on a consolidated basis. This affects determined. our ability to analyze and report key indicators, including the Benefits and Total Compensation In Asia, we increased the size of the Learning and Development total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, team and extended both in-house and external programs gender and region. Over the next two years, we will continue to >>Performance Management to colleagues in Singapore and South Korea. We initiated a work toward creating this platform. In addition, we will engage and Recognition new coaching culture, encouraging line managers to take a our global human resources staff to create consistent global >>Learning and Development coaching and mentoring approach to developing their team standards for the collection of reliable data. >>What Lies Ahead members, and this will be extended further in coming years. A We completed two Employee Engagement surveys for a new leadership development program was launched across the Global Reporting Index significant portion of our employee population, each having an Asia region to identify emerging leaders, bring them together at overall response rate of over 70%. Asia’s survey, their first, was learning events, work together on cross-border project topics, completed in 2010 and the North America’s survey, their first and be mentored by senior executives. In 2010, 33 highin a number of years, was completed in July 2011. Asia noted potential employees graduated from this new program. key issues and suggestions which were discussed by the Survey In Europe, we continued to sponsor the CB Richard Ellis Action Committee in each country, with proposed actions and Professor of Real Estate Finance at Reading University. In initiatives to improve the working environment and overall addition, we recognized the fifth anniversary of a very wellemployee satisfaction and engagement levels. A similar review recognized “Chinese Exchange” internship program that of survey results will occur for North America. CB Richard Ellis 2010 53 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Stewardship Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Philanthropy Workplace Global Reporting Index GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index Global Reporting Index As global discussion about climate change and its impact continues, attention to minimizing carbon emissions and conserving our natural resources is increasing around the globe. As buildings are widely viewed as a significant contributor to carbon emissions, CB Richard Ellis continues to lead the commercial real estate industry in improving how those buildings are built, sourced, managed, occupied and sold. This ability to influence and improve on sustainable real estate practices is a fundamental principal of our environmental leadership. CB Richard Ellis 2010 54 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Strategy and Analysis About this Report 1.1 Executive management statement Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3 Environmental Stewardship 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About This Report, pages 5-7 Ethics and Compliance Organization Profile Governance 2.1 Name of organization About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 Health and Safety 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 Philanthropy 2.3 Operational structure of the organization About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4-5 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 Workplace 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 Global Reporting Index 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 >>GRI Standard Disclosures Index 2.7 Markets served About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 2.8 Scale of reporting organization About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 4 GRI Performance Indicators and 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 5 UNGC Principles Index 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., page 6 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About This Report, page 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About This Report, page 5 3.3 Reporting cycle About This Report, page 5 3.4 Contact points for questions regarding the report and its contents About This Report, page 7 3.5 Process for defining report content About This Report, page 5 3.6 Boundary of the report About This Report, page 7 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About This Report, page 7 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced About This Report, page 7 operations, and other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations About This Report, page 7 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any restatement of information provided in earlier reports About This Report, page 5 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods About This Report, page 5 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures in the report GRI and UNGC Index, page 54 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report About This Report, page 5 CB Richard Ellis 2010 55 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Governance About this Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Governance, page 26 Environmental Stewardship 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance, page 26 4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive Governance, page 26 Ethics and Compliance members Governance 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction Governance, page 28 to the highest governance body Health and Safety 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization's performance Governance, page 27 Philanthropy 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Governance, page 27 resolved Workplace 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Governance, page 26 Global Reporting Index governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental and social performance >>GRI Standard Disclosures Index 4.8 Internally developed statement of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Governance, page 27 GRI Performance Indicators and relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their UNGC Principles Index implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Governance, page 27 identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with Governance, page 26 respect to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principles is addressed Governance, page 27-28 by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About This Report, initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses page 5; Environmental Stewardship, pages 9-17; Ethics & Compliance, page 22; Health & Safety, page 31; Philanthropy, pages 34-44; Workplace, page 49-50, 52 4.13 Significant memberships in organizations Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About This Report, page 5; Environmental Stewardship, pages 9-17; Ethics & Compliance, page 22; Health & Safety, page 31; Philanthropy, pages 34-44; Workplace, page 49-50, 52 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance, page 28 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom organization engages Governance, page 28 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Governance, page 28 and by stakeholder group CB Richard Ellis 2010 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Governance, page 28 56 Corporate Responsibility Report organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Economic About this Report GRI Reference UNGC Principle Environmental Stewardship DMA Disclosure of management approach for economic performance Stakeholder Letter; About CB Richard Ellis Group, Ethics and Compliance Inc., pages 4-5 GRI EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating CB Richard Ellis Group, Governance costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained Inc. 2010 Annual Report Health and Safety earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments on www.cbre.com GRI EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities Stakeholder Letter; About 7,8,9 Philanthropy due to climate change This Report, page 5; Environmental Stewardship Workplace Global Reporting Index GRI EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at Workplace, pages 48, 52* 1 significant locations of operation GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily Environmental Stewardship; 8,9 >>GRI Performance Indicators and for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or probono engagement Philanthropy UNGC Principles Index GRI EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the Philanthropy extent of impacts Product DMA Disclosure of management approach for product performance Stakeholder Letter; About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., pages 4-5; Ethics & Compliance GRI PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Health & Safety assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures GRI PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Health & Safety, page 31 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes GRI PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Ethics & Compliance, and losses of customer data pages 21-22 CB Richard Ellis 2010 *This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources 57 Corporate Responsibility Report evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Environmental About this Report GRI Reference UNGC Principle Environmental Stewardship DMA Disclosure of management approach for environmental performance Environmental Stewardship 7,8,9 12 Ethics and Compliance GRI EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Stewardship 7 17* Governance GRI EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environmental Stewardship 7 Health and Safety 17 GRI EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environmental Stewardship Philanthropy 17 GRI EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and Environmental Stewardship 8,9 Workplace services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 12-15 Global Reporting Index GRI EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect consumption and reductions achieved Environmental Stewardship 7 9-13 GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Stewardship 7 17 >>GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index GRI EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environmental Stewardship 7 17 GRI EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environmental Stewardship 7 17 GRI EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to, protected areas Environmental Stewardship 7 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 17 GRI EN12 Description of significant activities, products and service on biodiversity in these areas. Environmental Stewardship 7 17 GRI EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Stewardship 7 17 GRI EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Environmental Stewardship 7 17 GRI EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in Environmental Stewardship 7 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 17 GRI EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight Environmental Stewardship 7 9 GRI EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight Environmental Stewardship 7 9 GRI EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved Environmental Stewardship 7 9-12 CB Richard Ellis 2010 *This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources 58 Corporate Responsibility Report evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Environmental (continued) About this Report GRI Reference UNGC Principle Environmental Stewardship GRI EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight Environmental Stewardship 7 17 Ethics and Compliance GRI EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Stewardship 7 17 Governance GRI EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Stewardship 7 Health and Safety 17 GRI EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Stewardship 7 Philanthropy 17 GRI EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous Environmental Stewardship 7 Workplace under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of 17 Global Reporting Index transported waste shipped internationally GRI EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Environmental Stewardship 7 GRI Standard Disclosures Index habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and 17 runoff >>GRI Performance Indicators and GRI EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of Environmental Stewardship 7,8,9 UNGC Principles Index impact mitigation 12-15 GRI EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Environmental Stewardship 7 category 17 GRI EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Environmental Stewardship 7 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation 17 GRI EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Environmental Stewardship 7 used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce 17* GRI EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environmental Stewardship 7 9-10 CB Richard Ellis 2010 *This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources 59 Corporate Responsibility Report evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Labor About this Report DMA Disclosure of management approach for labor-related performance Workplace* 1,6 Environmental Stewardship GRI LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region Workplace, page 47 6 GRI LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partWorkplace, pages 51-52 1,6 Ethics and Compliance time employees, by major operations Governance GRI LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Workplace, page 47 1,3 Health and Safety GRI LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes, including whether Workplace, page 46 1 it is specified in collective agreements Philanthropy GRI LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Health & Safety, page 32 1 Workplace safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Global Reporting Index GRI LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of Health & Safety, pages 1 work-related fatalities per region 30-31 GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health & Safety, page 33 1,3 >>GRI Performance Indicators and GRI LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee per category Health & Safety, page 32 UNGC Principles Index GRI LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Workplace, page 53* CB Richard Ellis 2010 *This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources 60 Corporate Responsibility Report evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. Social About this Report GRI Reference UNGC Principle Environmental Stewardship DMA Disclosure of management approach for social performance Stakeholder Letter, pages 6,10 2-3; Environmental Ethics and Compliance Stewardship; Philanthropy; Workplace Governance GRI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's anti-corruption policies and Ethics & Compliance, page 10 Health and Safety procedures 21* Philanthropy GRI SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Ethics & Compliance, page 10 19 Workplace GRI SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Ethics & Compliance, page 10 Global Reporting Index 22-23 GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and Ethics & Compliance, page 10 related institutions, by country 22-23 >>GRI Performance Indicators and GRI SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly Ethics & Compliance, page 10 UNGC Principles Index practices, and their outcomes 23 GRI SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEthics & Compliance, page 10 compliance with laws and regulations 23 Human Rights DMA Disclosure of management approach to human rights performance Workplace* 1,2 GRI HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Workplace, page 47 1,3 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights GRI HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Workplace, page 47 1,2,5 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor GRI HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Workplace, page 47 1,2,4 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor GRI HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies and procedures Health & Safety, page 32 1,2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations CB Richard Ellis 2010 *This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources 61 Corporate Responsibility Report evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. For more information, visit www.cbre.com/responsibility or email responsibility@cbre.com
