Sustainability Report 2011 Year ended March 31, 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 USHIO Group at a Glance USHIO INC. began operations as a manufacturer of industrial light sources in 1964. The company has since evolved into a “light creator” that provides light units, equipment, and systems as well as “light solutions” through developing new light sources and developing and applying proprietary optical technology. Net Sales Segments Other Businesses Equipment Business 2% Equipment Business 58% FY2010 ¥145.1 billion Light Sources Business Light Sources Business 40% Corporate Profile As of March 31, 2011 Other Businesses Company Name USHIO INC. 2-6-1, Otemachi, Head Office Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Established March 1964 Paid-In Capital ¥19,556,326,316 Employees 5,269 (Group-wide) Our Goals for this Sustainability Report Approach to Materiality at the USHIO Group High High In planning USHIO’s Sustainability Report 2011, we thought about what kind of Rank C Rank B Rank A stakeholders would be taking the time to read it, and what information we Importance to stakeholders should provide for those stakeholders. We decided to report different informaes Reporting tion in the booklet and online versions to suit each respective format. We also iti in printed c tiv material fa added a glossary of specialist terminology at the bottom of each page. This nc e o ta report was written in our own format based on: Global Reporting Initiative p or Reporting through web and other media im ic (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Generation 3 (GRI G3), and the tri ns In Environmental Report Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2007 Version) from the Japanese Ministry of the Environment. High Importance to USHIO Contents C2 USHIO Group at a Glance 2 Top Message 5 Feature: Nurturing Plants with Light How Agriculture Becomes a Science Sub-segments and Main Products Key Strengths 10 USHIO’s CSR Visual image equipment · Digital projectors for cinemas · Global market share for digital cinema projectors 45% 13 Governance · Digital projectors for non-cinema applications (control rooms, simulators, signage, virtual reality, Corporate Governance and others) and Compliance Optical equipment · Optical equipment for manufacturing semi· Global market share for UV curing equipment for 14 People conductors, flat panel displays and electronic bonding LCD panels 70% components (exposure systems, photo-cleaning · Global market share for step-and-repeat projection Relationship with Employees units, photocuring systems, and others) lithography tool for flip chip substrates 95% · UV phototherapy devices and other medical · Global market share for roll to roll projection lithography equipment tool for TAB/COF 100% 16 Quality · EUV light sources for next-generation semiconductor lithography Relationship with Customers and Business Partners Discharge lamps · UV lamps for manufacturing semiconductors, flat · Global market share for · Global market share for lamps 18 Society panel displays, and electronic components · A range of lamps and industrial LEDs for use in UV lamps for lithography 75% for cinema projectors 55% · Global market share for Relationship with Society cinema projectors, data projectors, office equip· Global market share for lamps for document ment, illumination, and other optical equipment surface cleaning equipscanners 70% 20 Environment ment for LCD panels 85% Environmental Vision Halogen lamps · For use in office equipment · Global market share for lamps for fixing toners 65% and Management · For illumination applications (commercial facilities, stage and studio lighting, specialized lighting, Global Warming and others) Countermeasures · Halogen heaters Contributing to the Environment Through Products Machinery for industrial uses and others · Plastic forming applications, peripheral machinery Conserving Resources · Industrial machinery and systems 24 Financial Reporting 25 Third-Party Opinion Response to Third-Party Opinion • Use of Web site • Scope of Report In addition to preparing the Sustainability Report 2011 Time Period: This report basically covers FY2010 based on the approaches outlined on the left, we provide (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011), more comprehensive and detailed reporting on our Web but also includes some continuing site. Please refer to the USHIO corporate Web site for activities from before FY2010, and details at the link shown below. some activities in FY2011. http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/index.html Organizations: All USHIO business sites and group companies worldwide For detailed information about the USHIO Group’s business activities, please see our • The Tri-colored Leaf–A Symbol of the USHIO Group’s Activities Annual Report 2011, and our The Tri-colored Leaf that appears on the cover of this report is designed to symbolize the three Web site. primary colors of light in a budding leaf motif that symbolizes the natural environment. At the same time, the design represents three elements of sustainable management—financial viability (red), social responsibility (blue), and regard for the environment (green). Our goal is to grow each of these leaves through steady, daily activities, until they produce a powerful trunk. 1 Top Message In March 2011, Japan was struck by an earthquake and tsunami of unprecedented size. I would like to start by extending my deepest sympathies to those who were affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, and offering my prayers for their swift recovery. USHIO responded to the earthquake by immediately establishing a Disaster Response Headquarters and working as a group to gather information and respond as needed. Fortunately, no employees in Japan were injured or suffered any physical losses, and Group companies were quickly able to recover despite slight damage sustained by production facilities. From April onward, USHIO established an Operation Countermeasures Committee under the president, to make a stronger framework for ongoing cooperation and links in operations company-wide. This disaster has caused industries to reflect long and hard. They have been made to see that many of the capacitors, ICs and other high-use, core electrical components used widely around the world are made in factories located in the Tohoku area; more so than they had thought. Even one missing part can prevent the assembly of a product that uses hundreds or thousands of parts. To sustain society, we must be able to provide products and services under any circumstances. This is the reason that companies exist, and it is one of their most important responsibilities to society. In this sense, the aftermath of the disaster has been a painful reminder to corporate management of the importance of managing risk. <Ushio’s measures in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake> · Donated relief funds through the Japanese Red Cross Society and other organizations · Supported recovery of suppliers in disaster-affected areas and secured relief support items (sent drinking water and relief funds, dispatched delivery trucks, etc.) · Supported recovery activities for customers in disasteraffected areas and established a product delivery system in line with recovery status. · Established an Emergency Power-Saving Committee to respond to rolling blackouts due to supply shortages, revised production shifts, reorganized production bases, and implemented measures to reduce fixed power consumption. 2 USHIO has many products that have a high market share. Steady Development of the Digital Cinema Business Now more than ever, people are asking us about how we For example, the USHIO Group has the top share of the raise efficiency in daily operations, and how we implement global market for cinema projectors, and we are vigorously risk management for rare but significant events. promoting a shift from conventional film projectors to digital cinema projectors. CSR Derives from Everyday Operations A reel of cinema film for a single movie has a diameter of The USHIO Group has set out the 2020 Environmental around 1.5 meters, containing several kilometers of film. Vision. In fiscal 2010, we formulated our Third Environmental Numerous copies of this film must be made and distributed Action Plan and took steps to help preserve the environment. to cinemas throughout the world, requiring significant At the same time, we moved quickly to establish a frametransport-related use of petroleum resources. By contrast, the work to strengthen our corporate social responsibility (CSR) digital format allows a movie to be contained in a single small activities in general. From fiscal 2011 we formulated and hard disk—and in some cases, even this is not needed as published a CSR Action Plan to clarify our focus areas for the movie can also be distributed via satellite communication. CSR initiatives. We believe that creation of this plan will help Moreover, in addition to energyand resource-saving benour existing CSR activities penetrate further into the daily efits, digital cinema projectors are also capable of rendering operations of every part of the Group, thereby promoting finer quality images, 3-D and other advantages to enrich the CSR even further. cinema experience. As such, they are rapidly being adopted In fiscal 2010 especially, the overseas portion of our net at cinemas in mature regions such as Japan and the U.S. sales surpassed 70%, and the number of overseas employees in the Group reached 3,041 persons, versus 2,228 in Solid-state Light Sources Business Japan (USHIO and group companies in Japan). We will work White LEDs for common everyday lighting needs are drawing to strengthen interaction and links across the Group and to attention recently as an environmentally friendly technology match operations to diverse regions and personnel. We will that saves electricity. The adoption of solid-state light also ensure that compliance is rigorously upheld throughout sources in projectors has proved to be a challenge however, the Group. as projectors require an unusually powerful light source. To In October 2010, USHIO formally declared its support for meet this challenge, and hasten the development of a the United Nations Global Compact of principles concerning powerful laser light source for use in cinema projectors, human rights, labor standards, the environment, and antiUSHIO made U.S. semiconductor laser manufacturer Necsel corruption. As the spheres of corporate activity become Intellectual Property, Inc. into a wholly owned subsidiary. global, we believe it is important that the scope of CSR A great benefit of lasers is their long operating life. Another initiatives also expands internationally. advantage is their potential ability to produce more vivid images. In the near future, USHIO plans to lead the industry USHIO Group’s Medium-term Management by introducing a laser light source for projectors on to the Plan and CSR market. The entire USHIO Group is working together towards The USHIO Group’s medium-term management plan, known this goal. as the Medium-Term Vision, sets out targets for net sales, operating income and other financial measures. It also lists six themes for key business strategies. These themes set out a clear direction for USHIO to develop a sustainable business. They show how USHIO can contribute to the creation of an abundant society by providing products and technological solutions through its light-related businesses. 3 Top Message Promoting Environmentally Friendly Businesses Another example of further application is in using artificial USHIO’s environmental initiatives take two forms: reducing light both to grow plants and to control weeds. This exciting impact on the environment at factories, and making environfield is explored in the feature section of this report. We hope mentally responsible products. Since its inception, USHIO that readers will find it informative and interesting. has worked to produce light more efficiently and make light sources with longer replacement cycles. At present, the We aim to continue to provide satisfaction and hope to all equipment business has grown to account for around 60% of our stakeholders. To this end USHIO will continue to seek of our operations, and our environmentally-focused R&D new fields where it can make a unique contribution. activities cover not only light sources, but the power supply and all other components that they need. Another project under development is modules for manufacturing solar cells. Looking ahead, we believe there are even wider environmentrelated applications for light, such as safe, reliable chemicalfree processes for disinfection and water purification. Shiro Sugata President and Chief Executive Officer USHIO’s Vision for the Three Years to March 31, 2014 Quantitative Targets Key Business Strategies 1. Aiming at steady growth of digital cinema Net Sales · Acquired Luminetx business and further development of non· Acquired 49% of NECSEL ¥210 billion cinema business 2. Reinforcing the development of leading-edge · Capital and business alliance with ADTEC Engineering photo lithography and promotion of its business · Agreement with Philips to acquire the EUV business 3. Promotion of solid-state lighting business 4. Developing the product lineup for LCDs, semi and fine PCB markets 5. Focusing on environment-friendly business · NECSEL became a wholly owned subsidiary 6. Promotion of business alliances, joint ventures, · Agreement with Shochiku and Warner Mycal to and M&A introduce a program for digitalizing cinemas in Japan ROE At Least 10% Operating Income ¥27.5 billion 2008 2009 2010 2011 2014 4 Feature Nurturing Plants with Light How Agriculture Becomes a Science Business activities that help protect the environment Global population growth is creating problems involving food, water and the environment. Health care systems are needed to care for aging populations. Energy problems are emerging as more people worldwide enjoy better living standards. Dealing with these problems will demand extensive and well-planned initiatives. USHIO believes that “light” is one pathway to solving these problems. We have many years of experience in the use of a broad array of optical technologies. Using our accumulated expertise, we believe we can make an even greater contribution to society as a manufacturer of industrial light sources, medical devices and environmentally responsible devices. USHIO is currently participating in more than 30 projects in Japan and overseas that bring together private-sector, public-sector, academic, venture capital and other partners in a cooperative framework to help create a recycling-based society. We are using this collaboration to transform new types of light into viable products and businesses. All manufacturers today have environmental obligations including energy conservation, the 3Rs,* the efficient use of materials, developing “green” products and other activities. But our commitment to social responsibility goes farther. We will utilize the full potential of light to create a better future and innovative ideas for new types of light. We strongly believe that this is the mission of USHIO as a manufacturer that specializes in light. * The three R’s are Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. They are key words in the drive to achieve a recycling-based society that places a minimal burden on the environment. 5 Feature New Industries Originating From Agriculture Nurturing Plants with Light Today, we can purchase a rich variety of fresh fruits and vegetables almost any time of the year. Since agriculture shifted from open fields to greenhouses and other enclosed environments in the 1970s, farmers have been able to meet the needs of consumers for fresh produce throughout the year. Today, consumer needs involving food have advanced even further to include preventive health care. In response, the agricultural sector has started to create “plant factories” that grow produce with both nutritional and medicinal benefits. Our constantly evolving perception of food People have always perceived food as a source of calories, minerals, vitamins and other vital nutrients. But since the 1970s, there has been a growing demand for food that tastes better and makes life more enjoyable and fulfilling. In Japan, one result was demand for a year-round supply of fresh vegetables that are normally seasonal and cannot be imported. The need for these vegetables grew steadily since the 1970s, mainly in the restaurant industry. Today, about 80% of Japan’s tomatoes, cucumbers, bell peppers and other vegetables are grown in artificial environments to maintain a steady supply all year round. The transformation of agriculture Seeking ways to grow vegetables and other agricultural products continuously and efficiently has been a major theme of agricultural research for many years. The goal is to grow these plants even in locations and seasons where they do not survive in nature. Traditional agriculture relies on experience and intuition to grow crops outdoors where they are vulnerable to changes in the weather. But agriculture today uses high-tech equipment and environmental control systems to grow plants scientifically. Only in this way can the needs of consumers be satisfied. To advance to the next step, research is currently focused on two new themes. One is “plant factories” that use artificial light. The other is “functional vegetables” that incorporate antibiotics, vaccines or other substances that enable the prevention of health problems through food. 6 Using Light to Control Plant Growth My research involving the relationship between light and plants has revealed that light is the most important factor that influences how plants grow. My goal is to accumulate detailed data about light and functional plants. For example, I want to know how much 310nm wavelength light is needed to have a molokheiya plant produce a particular amount of chlorogen, which is a type of polyphenol. My research is greatly assisted by LEDs, which generate light at precise wavelengths. Incidentally, growing rice requires light with 10 times the intensity of ordinary artificial light. That means more heat is produced along with the light. I asked USHIO LIGHTING, INC. to develop an LED unit for growing rice. They created a unit that has fewer LEDs and uses an advanced heat removal system. Eiji Goto, Agriculture is not the only beneficiary of USHIO’s breakthrough. The new LED unit also holds much Professor of Agriculture Chiba University potential for speeding up the use of LED illumination systems in all types of primary industries. The shared origins of functional vegetables and medicinal foods Many common foods contain well-known substances that promote good health. For instance, tomatoes have lycopene, tea has catechin and blueberries have anthocyanin. New substances are still being discovered. One example is lutein, which is found in large quantities in turnip leaf and spinach. A powerful antioxidant, lutein is believed to help prevent eye problems like cataracts and macular degeneration. Basic research in fields like genetic engineering may produce more breakthroughs. One current research theme involves incorporating an influenza vaccine in rice. This “edible vaccine” would eliminate the need for injections. Agricultural products with both nutritional and medicinal value have many advantages. They can be consumed safely by people of all ages, and effectively provide vaccines in unsanitary regions without the use of syringes. The same technology can also be used to place vaccines and drugs in animal feed. Overall, there is much potential for preventing infectious diseases and other hazards. Light and plant factories How do you grow functional vegetables? The main requirement is an environment that is not affected by the weather, regional characteristics or other aspects of the natural environment. Plant factories with completely artificial environments are the answer. These facilities can use a number of advantages to provide a consistent supply of fruits and vegetables: no agricultural chemicals are needed because the factory shuts out insects and diseases; harvest volumes and times can be accurately predicted; and furthermore, only the minimum amounts of water and fertilizer are required. Another advantage is the ability to artificially control temperature, humidity, air currents, the level of CO2 and other items that determine the growing environment. With this flexibility, growers can produce crops that have added value by consistently including desired properties and functions. Critical to creating this added value is the most important factor affecting the growth of plants: light. 7 Feature Light gives life to plants How Agriculture Becomes a Science Light—Essential to the survival of plants and animals We tend to take the immense benefits that light provides for granted. But we still have much to learn about the properties of light. Do plants “see” light? Seeds sprout in the spring. Then plants grow rapidly in the warmth of summer and produce flowers. In the autumn, we harvest fruit and other end results of this growth. How do plants know when the time is right for each step? Plants are subject to fluctuations in temperature, humidity and other environmental conditions. The most importance of these is the wavelength of light, and the duration of exposure. Red light is needed for seeds to sprout. For growth (photosynthesis), plants require red and blue light. Flowers bloom when there is even more red light along with long hours of exposure. Then fruit, grain or other types of food emerge under red and blue light. Ultraviolet light is needed to make agricultural products even more nutritious. Plants time their growth to precisely match seasonal changes in the wavelengths of light and hours of sunlight. Clearly, plants have some type of “eye” that detects the wavelengths and the duration of exposure to light. This enables them to control the timing of their growth. Growing plants with light from USHIO Skillful use of this “eye” allows growing plants to achieve specific objectives. For instance, photosynthesis produces sugar when a plant’s chlorophyll is exposed to light with a wavelength of 400–700nm. The amount of sugar is almost directly proportional to the intensity of the light. We can use this knowledge to expose plants to light of a specific frequency during each phase of its development. Growing plants in this manner will open the way to producing functional vegetables while controlling cultivation times and the amount of nutrients they contain. Red light Ultraviolet light The relationship between light and how plants grow Blue light Red light (large volume) Red light Blue light Red light Seeds sprout Plant growth Flowers bloom Fruit forms More nutrients (photosynthesis) 8 Weed Control Using Light Plastic greenhouses used to grow tomatoes in Japan are often surrounded by horsetail, (equisetum arvense) one of the most difficult weeds to eradicate even with herbicides. I asked USHIO to make a UV device to test how UV rays affect about 20 varieties of weeds. My experiments succeeded in demonstrating that horsetail grows hardly at all when exposed to UV light. Next, I want USHIO to design a UV device that requires no special power unit by using solar cells or other power sources. The unit should be effective in only a short time and consume as little electricity as possible. Many researchers are studying weeds in Europe and the U.S. But no one is using light. Our research team wants to be at the forefront of progress in the field of weed control. Masaru Ogasawara, Professor of Agriculture Utsunomiya University One example is the use of rice as an “edible vaccine.” Scientists want to know what kind of compounds will develop in rice with variations in the timing, wavelengths, and length of exposure to light. Research has been performed with a variety of light sources. To support studies using LEDs, USHIO partnered with Chiba University to develop a high-output LED unit to enable grain to be grown under artificial light for the first time.* The unit produces two types of light. Red LEDs generate the 660nm wavelength light needed for photosynthesis. Blue LEDs provide the light required for morphogenesis, the biological process in which a plant forms its distinctive structure. USHIO combined these LEDs with its exclusive technologies for dissipating heat, mounting LEDs and creating optical designs. Using this device facilitates very efficient tests to ascertain how each wavelength of light generated by LEDs influences the growth of plants. Chiba University is already using USHIO’s innovative LED unit to perform this research. * First time in the world for grain (as of October 31, 2010) Weeds vs. UV light Rice is bathed in light from In other research, scientists are studying ways to use light to intentionally prevent plants from growUSHIO’s high-output LED ing. Currently, herbicides and manual labor are the only ways to remove weeds. Although modern units. This trial is the first time in the world that grain herbicides are safe to use, there are concerns about the considerable detrimental effect on the has been grown under artificial light. environment. Furthermore, herbicides are not suitable for parks, along highways and railroads, and in many other locations. Removing these weeds by hand is a costly task for local governments and companies. The solution is to use ultraviolet rays to prevent weeds from growing. Plants grow as chlorophyll uses the energy in light to synthesize adenosine triphosphate (ATP). For red light, plants take in only the amount of light that they can use. But when exposed to a type of UV rays that normally do not reach the Earth’s surface, the energy in this light combines with oxygen to produce reactive oxygen. The resulting oxidation causes the plant to die. At Utsunomiya University, scientists are using USHIO’s UV-XEFL® mercury-free light source to expose plants briefly to UV radiation. The aims are to stop the growth of vines and prevent flowers from blooming and pollinating. This research may lead to new ways to block growth and the production of seeds by unwanted plants. USHIO’s vision As you can see, there are still many unexplored frontiers in the field of light. Agriculture is just one of many areas where progress in the use of light can yield major benefits. USHIO has much expertise in optical technologies cultivated in industrial fields like semiconductors, LCDs and electronic components. We are determined to extend this know-how to other areas. Air and water pollution, optical medical care and diagnoses, and new energy sources are just a few of the many fields where we are applying our expertise. We will continue to take on these global challenges, finding innovative solutions that use light. The mercury-free UV-XEFL® is the world’s first UV light source that permits selection of a particular wavelength. 9 USHIO’s CSR Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) We consider it natural that a corporate citizen should observe Society laws and regulations, contribute to society, and take steps to protect the environment. These are the foundations of all corporate activity. In addition, a corporation should build good relationProvide new value to society ships with its various stakeholders and advance by creating and through excellent products offering new value to contribute to society. This is the kind of and excellent service corporation that USHIO is working to become. USHIO Stakeholders Build good relationships Compliance USHIO Group Management Philosophy 10 Action Guidelines The USHIO Group’s approach to CSR can be seen in the manTo translate our management philosophy into concrete action, agement philosophy underpinning all activities of USHIO and we abide by the 10 Action Guidelines listed below. These guideUSHIO Group members. In 1965, the year after the Company lines shape the goals and behavior of every USHIO employee. was founded, four key emphases were created based on the desire to make USHIO an indispensable company for everyone Chapter 1 We shall aim to be a company that accepts diverse individual by drawing on the wisdom of employees to grow. The wording qualities and values and where people work together of these four key emphases has been revised over the years to and pursue self-learning and self-improvement. reflect the changing times. Chapter 2 We shall strive for the company’s sustainable growth through our innovative, proactive and prompt management. Chapter 3 We shall respect the basic human rights of all individuals and endeavor to create bright, safe and pleasant working environment. Chapter 4 We shall provide high-quality, safe products and services at appropriate prices and carry out fair and equitable business transactions. Chapter 5 We shall work to earn the understanding and trust of society. Chapter 6 We shall comply with laws and regulations and carry out fair business activities in accordance with socially accepted practices. Chapter 7 We shall fulfill our duties to the best of our abilities in conformity with internal regulations and standards. Chapter 8 We shall promote environmental protection and the efficient use of resources. Chapter 9 We shall carry out proactive public relations activities while respecting the value of information and intellectual property rights of third parties. Chapter 10 We shall contribute to the development of respective regions where we conduct business as a member of the international community. Glossary CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility): The responsibility of a company as an Compliance: Literally, compliance with laws and regulations. At one point this was entity in global society. all the word was taken to mean, but in recent years it has come to include observing Stakeholders: People who are concerned or affected in some way by the decithe rules and norms of society, and contributing to society. sions and actions of an organization. Generally described as people who have a stake in a company. 10 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csrprogram (Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society) Formulation of a CSR Action Plan From fiscal 2011, USHIO has created a CSR Action Plan (Policy) quality, society, and environment. These items are then broken and taken steps to reinforce its CSR initiatives. The plan covers down further into action policies. items classified under the five pillars of governance, people, Five pillars Issues Specific action policies Promulgation Further promulgate management philosophy and 10 action guidelines throughout the company Conduct activities to raise awareness of CSR inside the Company Internal control Establish a system for internal control and step up implementation Establish a global CSR promotion system (Understand the current status in Global measures each country) Establish a compliance that Establish and promulgate a system for disaster preparation and accident encompasses international BCP prevention (Safety standards, disaster preparation standards, etc.) standards in global corporate Review and strengthen product supply systems activities, work to publicize CSRGovernance Specify the laws and regulations that relate to USHIO’s operations, related information and establish Compliance and stakeholder communication, and ensure they are observed, along with relevant internal rules. ethics and strengthen and enhance the Stay abreast of changes and trends in relevant laws and regulations. governance framework Building Restructure information security levels to meet regulation levels. Page 13 information security systems Expand internal education about information security Fair and impartial Maintain and develop sound relationships with all stakeholders business activities Protecting Observe intellectual property protection policy property rights Promote education on human rights, cultivate and practice a spirit of respect for other people, respect the dignity of the individual, eliminate discrimination Human rights Promote the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact throughout the Company Achieve and maintain a ratio of employees with disabilities above the legally Promotion of required minimum diversity Considering workplace enviIncrease the ratio of female employees on the main and management career tracks ronments, human rights, and People Work to reduce working hours as a way of promoting work-life balance diversity of values in hiring and using human resources Promotion of Give consideration to employees who are raising children Page 14 work-life balance Make child-raising programs easily accessible, and promote an environment free from gender-role prejudice Health and safety Work to reduce the number and severity of work-related accidents measures Employ a wide range of personnel, review and improve systems for training, Human resources human resource management, and evaluation Carry out CSR awareness raising activities in the supply chain Initiatives to meet the needs of CSR Procurement Examine options for carrying out CSR awareness raising activities in supply chains customers, shareholders, and of Group companies Quality business partners based on Quality Inculcate measures to raise quality, product safety and customer satisfaction observance of market rules, and regulations Creation of solutions to meet Develop products with global application and create markets Page 16 new social needs Engage widely with society at all levels from local to international, cooperating and coordinating with other groups in contributing Social contribution Increase activities to contribute to local communities, and step up participation in Society to education, culture, welfare, activities environmental activities development and other aspects of society Page 18 Engage in corporate activities to protect the environment. Strive to meet both environmental and busiEnvironPromote Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan (Refer to Phase Three of ness needs, including addressing Environment ment the Environmental Action Plan for details) global environmental problems affecting biotopes Page 20 Internal control: The process of forming rules for conducting business appropriSocial needs: Among the various needs in the world today, this refers to needs ately within an organization such as a company, and ensuring business is conducted in public or social areas such as the environment, poverty, human rights, welfare in accordance with these rules. In the wake of incidents of large-scale financial and health. reporting and accounting fraud in the U.S., compliance has become an important issue worldwide. 11 USHIO’s CSR CSR Promotion Framework United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles USHIO has established a CSR Committee, which is chaired by USHIO has declared its support for the United Nations Global the president. The committee decides on policies for the whole Compact of principles concerning human rights, labor standards, Company relating to CSR initiatives. The CSR Committee the environment and anti-corruption. We have joined the local UN establishes subcommittees as needed to oversee practical network supporting the compact, Global Compact Japan Network, implementation of the policies it has decided, and discusses and have taken an active role in various sectional activities. specific initiatives and ways to promote them. CSR Promotion Framework CSR Committee (Chairperson: president) CSR Department Separate subcommittees UGN Group for each initiative companies Business Divisions United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles and Our Initiatives United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles USHIO’s Related Initiatives Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally The third section of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and sets out clear requirements for respecting basic Human human rights for all people, and prohibits unfair Rights discrimination, among other measures. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. e Pages 10, 14 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective The USHIO Group respects the International Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Under the third Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; section of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines, the Labor Company strives to promote good laborStandards Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and management relations, abolish discrimination in the workplace, and create working environments that are cheerful, safe, and comfortable. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. e Pages 10, 14 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Section 8 of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines Principle 7 challenges; clearly states the Company’s position on actively working to protect the environment. We also EnvironPrinciple 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and formulated our 2020 Environmental Vision and ment are now working to implement Phase Three of the encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Action Plan. Principle 9 e Pages 10, 20 technologies. Under section 6 of the 10 Action Guidelines, USHIO strives to prevent corruption and to AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including conduct fair business activities. We have also Principle 10 Corruption extortion and bribery. set up a Compliance Committee and the USHIO Hotline (internal reporting system). e Pages 10, 13 Glossary The United Nations Global Compact: This initiative was set up in 1999 by Kofi UGN: Ushio Green Network. An organization for promoting environmental action and Annan, the United Nations secretary general at the time. The Global Compact calls information sharing at USHIO Group sites. for organizations to take practical steps to follow ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. 12 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/governance (Corporate Governance System) Governance http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/compliance (Compliance) Corporate Governance and Compliance The basic policy of the USHIO Group is to ensure the transparency and efficiency of the Group’s management, and increase corporate value to meet the expectations of all of the Group’s stakeholders. To this end, we place the establishment and maintenance of systems of internal control, incorporating compliance with laws, regulations, social norms, corporate ethics, and J-SOX regulations, as a top management priority and make every effort to promote these systems. Corporate Governance management strategies and mediumand long-term manageWithin the management control structures of USHIO, we have ment policies with respect to USHIO and the entire Group. In established the Board of Directors, which determines manageaddition, the USHIO Group has a business unit structure and an ment policies and makes decisions about other matters of the executive officer system for the purposes of strengthening and highest importance. The directors also oversee the management speeding up the execution of business operations by the repreof business operations. Meanwhile, the representative directors sentative directors. are responsible for conducting business operations. The Board of Directors has a regular meeting once a month in principle, and Compliance unscheduled meetings are held when necessary. We also have a It is widely recognized that breaches of compliance can underBoard of Corporate Auditors as an auditing body with six memmine the very foundations of the public’s trust in a company or bers including three outside corporate auditors. Each corporate government, and carry a risk of significant losses through claims auditor conducts audits within their specialized field of auditing. for damages, and sharp declines in sales. At USHIO we have Furthermore, to assist the Board of Directors in reaching deciestablished a Compliance Committee to address compliancesions, we established the Executive Council and the Group related concerns, including potential risks, across the entire Coordination Council. These advisory units examine and discuss Group as early as possible. USHIO’s Internal Control Framework General Meeting of Shareholders Appointments and Appointments Appointments removals and removals and removals Reporting Board of Directors Reporting Independent Auditing Firm Auditing Board of Corporate Auditors • Approval of appointments and reappointments Reporting Appointments • Appointments Reporting Auditing • Evaluation of appropriateness and removals and removals of financial audits • Supervision Reporting Representative Directors Product Liability Committee Instructions and Reporting about supervision important matters Security Export Control Committee CSR Committee Executive Council • Deliberate important matters Compliance Committee • Oversee implementation Business Auditing Department Submitting policy Authorization of policy proposals and plans proposals and plans Divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates * Established July 2011 Glossary Corporate governance: This refers to a company’s mechanisms for management J-SOX: This refers only to the section of Japan’s Financial Instruments and and supervision. Supervision refers not to monitoring for suspicious activity in Exchange Law of June 2006 that relates to the obligation to submit an internal management, but rather setting targets for management and evaluating performance. control report. As the Japanese version of the SOX law, it is referred to as J-SOX. In other words, a mechanism for ensuring that management is managing the PL: This refers to Product Liability. Japan’s Product Liability Act sets out the liability company for the shareholders. of a manufacturer for loss of life, injury or loss of property suffered by anyone as a result of using a defective product. 13 People Relationship with Employees By working to fulfill its responsibilities to society, the USHIO Group aims to create a company where employees can work with enthusiasm and a sense of purpose. As is clear from the first item in the Group’s management philosophy: “Build both a prosperous Company and prosperous employees,” this goal has remained the same since the Company’s foundation. Respecting Human Rights to continue promoting employment of people with disabilities and The USHIO Group respects the International Labour Organizaworking to make the workplace more comfortable for them. tion’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our 10 Action Guidelines for business activities commit us to Employment of People With Disabilities working to eliminate discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion and nationality and for any other reason unrelated to (%) 2.1 ability or job performance, and to forming and maintaining good labor-management relations through dialogue based on good 2.0 faith and mutual trust. USHIO also declared its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in October 1.9 2010. The principles relate to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. USHIO is promoting initiatives to 1.8 ensure adherence to them. FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Diversity Utilizing Global Human Resources We are working to develop and utilize global human resources by Work-Life Balance introducing an international study program for employees, hiring Support Programs international students, sending personnel from Group companies We are committed to developing a working environment that overseas to work at the parent company in Japan, and providing enables both men and women to balance their jobs and home opportunities for interaction between Group companies. life without excess worry. We offer childcare leave and other support programs that go beyond legal mandates. In March Support for Working Women 2009 we created the Work-Life Balance Handbook, which conUSHIO INC. strives to help employees balance their work tains information on programs for balancing work. It also conresponsibilities with having and raising children, which is a major tains information on child-raising and maternal welfare, how reason women quit their jobs, and to create a company where managers should respond, and other tips for employees who women can work easily. As a result, the percentage of women would use the programs and for their managers. In June 2009 employees in sales and technical positions has been increasing. we earned Kurumin certification under the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation for the second Employment of People With Disabilities time. There are only 67 companies nationwide that have earned USHIO INC. employs 40 people with disabilities as of March 31, the certification twice (as of June 2009 and announced by the 2011. Employees with disabilities make up 2.02% of the comMinistry of Health, Labour and Welfare). pany’s workforce, which is above the legal requirement of 1.8%. Various initiatives are also conducted to promote employment of Employees Using Childcare Leave people with disabilities. They include holding workplace tours, FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 participating in group presentations and actively recruiting at local Men 0 0 2 schools. Workplace considerations include putting sliding doors Women 23 26 29 on restrooms, installing handrails on stairways and other meaTotal 23 26 31 sures to improve disabled access at our business sites. We intend Glossary ILO: The International Labour Organization was established by the 1919 Treaty of Work-life Balance: This refers to regulating the workplace and the social environVersailles. As an international organization, the ILO works in all countries to improve ment to allow people to enjoy full lives while working. The concept extends further labor conditions and realize social justice. than the simple reduction of overtime, calling for initiatives that improve the quality of Diversity: The principle of diversity calls for the creation of organizations that allows both work and private life to achieve synergies. diverse people to achieve their full potential, regardless of race, gender, age, or beliefs. 14 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/peoples (Working Together with Employees) Paid Vacation and No-Overtime Days Education and Training for Human Resources Based on a commitment to work-life balance, we designate Development certain days as no-overtime days and prearrange paid vacation Various training programs have been established to facilitate the days to give employees time to spend with their friends and development of personnel capable of acting independently and family or on their own pursuits and to help create a more to make it possible to align the company’s prosperity with dynamic working environment. We believe that performance enriching the lives of individual employees. improves when employees maintain their physical and mental health by taking time off to relax and rejuvenate. Globalization Training International study program: This program is designed to provide employees with specialized knowledge and technical Percentage of Paid Vacation Days Used skills and give them an international outlook through exposure to (%) culture and knowledge in Japan and overseas. 100 Support for Self-Development 75 Correspondence courses: This fiscal year we have a lineup of 50 roughly 296 courses on subjects ranging from management to computer skills, in addition to basic classes on foreign languages 25 and technical topics and certification courses. When employees 0 finish a course, they are paid a bonus. The courses accommoFY2008 FY2009 FY2010 date the desire of employees to keep learning. In fiscal 2010, a total 336 courses were taken. TOEIC testing: TOEIC tests are given to employees who want Occupational Health and Safety to gauge their English ability and further improve it. The company Preventing Work-Related Accidents pays a portion of the testing fees. A total of 95 employees took Safety patrols are conducted at each office and worksite with the the test in fiscal 2010. goal of completely eliminating work-related accidents. We are also switching to alternatives to organic solvents that have been implicated in health problems. Frequency of Work-Related Accidents FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 0.59 0.30 0.00 Building Good Industrial Relations USHIO provides regular opportunities for management and labor representatives to come together for discussions. This is one way that we strive to improve the workplace environment, and to build good industrial relations. Kurumin: The Kurumin symbol is used by companies who receive certification from Frequency of Work-Related Accidents: This number shows the frequency of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare after creating and implementing an accidents as the number of work-related fatalities or injury-accidents occurring per 1 action plan for supporting employees in child-rearing, and meeting certain standards. million labor hours. 15 Quality Relationships with Customers and Business Partners To accurately grasp the needs of our customers, we think from their perspective, then work as one with our business partners to improve our product development and quality. In this way we provide products and services with appealing quality that goes above and beyond the run-of-the-mill. Quality Policy UPS (Ushio Production System) USHIO has created unified quality policies for the entire Group UPS (Ushio Production System) is the name of a new initiative and continued its efforts to improve quality. aiming to establish a unique new production system at USHIO’s Harima Division from fiscal 2011. Amid a rapidly changing business environment, it is important to be able to efficiently supply Basic Philosophy high-quality products in any environment. To achieve this, we USHIO regards product quality as an overriding priority saw the need to return to the basics of manufacturing and bring and will promptly provide global markets with high quality, all employees together to establish our own unique production safe products and services that are highly reliable and system. The main thrust of the UPS initiative is ZD (zero-defects) economical in order to fulfill the requirements of customers. activities, which seek to eliminate defective work by stimulating individual autonomy and enthusiasm among employees and Action Guidelines fostering creative thinking. Using the ZD activities as a frame1. We will act rigorously in putting the customer first and work, each division will establish parallel working groups, putting quality first, and will develop appealing products including a “Worksite Improvement Team,” “Quality Assurance with cutting-edge technology to fulfill the requirements System Improvement Team,” and an “Education Improvement of customers and earn their trust. and Awareness Promotion Team,” to build a truly robust 2. We will strive to further improve quality by developing production system. entity-level quality management systems and continually working to improve their effectiveness in order to Mechanism for Establishing UPS meet the needs of customers. 3. We will work to share information with customers, Establishing UPS make cost improvements, develop new products, pioneer new markets, and promptly provide global markets with high quality, safe products that are highly A System for Zero-defect Production reliable and economical. ZD activities Reform manufacturing (Reduce variation) Reform quality assurance system April 1, 2010 Promote Shiro Sugata awareness President and raising Chief Executive Officer Strengthen infrastructure USHIO INC. Reform personnel development (training) Reform awareness-raising activities for all employees Lamp Handling Manual Many of the lamps that USHIO handles are extremely specialized and require users to have specialist knowledge. Realistically, many of the people using our lamps in their workplaces do not have specialist knowledge, and USHIO has received numerous enquires from customers asking about the correct way to use its products. To meet one area of this need, we created a dedicated user’s manual for the xenon lamps that are used in cinema projectors, and distributed it to cinemas throughout Japan. The manual uses photographs to enable even first time users to Glossary Due Diligence: Originally this was a financial term referring to general research Conflict Minerals: Conflict minerals are gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten mined in activities relating to a company, real estate asset or financial instrument targeted for the regions around the Republic of Congo that find their way into products. Under investment or an M&A. In the 2008 United Nations report on human rights issues by the 2010 U.S. financial reform bill, SEC registered companies are obliged to report John Ruggie, due diligence was proposed as necessary for corporations to fulfill their on their use of such minerals. This disclosure is required because of concerns that responsibilities regarding human rights. Due diligence is also included in the ISO26000 such mining products are a source of funding for armed groups that are known to international guideline on CSR activities as an item for organizations to undertake. commit serious human rights abuses in the Republic of Congo. 16 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/customer (Working Together with Customers) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/supplier (Working Together with Business Partners) understand, and covers the construction of the lamp, the operastrengthen relations tion of each component, handling and disposal, troubleshooting, with suppliers by proand more. We also offer to dispatch staff to conduct onsite moting greater undertraining sessions on request. standing of USHIO’s current status and CSR Procurement and Checking for Conflict Minerals activities. Cooperation from business partners is crucial for USHIO to contribute to the world through excellent products and services. Support for AcquirSeminar for explaining Green Procurement CSR procurement initiatives are intended to build relationships of ing Eco-Action 21 Standards sustainable coexistence between USHIO, its business partners, Certification and society. In fiscal 2011 we will conduct a CSR survey of our We have held Eco-Action 21 (EA21) seminars since fiscal 2006 suppliers and analyze the results. We have also started a survey in order to help develop harmonious relations with business to ascertain the usage of conflict minerals in components, as partners based on mutual prosperity. In fiscal 2009, we part of our due diligence. expanded and enhanced the EA21 seminar and held a course on acquiring EA21 certification. As a result, in fiscal 2010, the Green Procurement Standards percentage of certified business partners of USHIO INC.’s At USHIO, we have established Green Procurement Standards Gotemba Division acquiring environmental management to guide material purchasing, and these standards are posted on system (EMS) certification stood at 63.9%, above our target of our Web site. While complying with the RoHS directive and other 60%. Activities are underway in fiscal 2011 to achieve our goal laws and regulations specific to each country we operate in, we of having at least 70% of certified suppliers acquire EMS stipulate our own list of chemical substances with an environcertification. Many suppliers of USHIO INC.’s Harima Division mental impact, and comply with both internal and external have also joined in the program, with several acquiring EA21 requirements relating to chemical substances contained in certification in fiscal 2010. products. Under the Green Procurement Standards, we issue forms for self-assessment of standard compliance systems, and Fair, Impartial, Stable Procurement Activities request that our business partners put in place an environmental USHIO INC. regards free and fair competition between compamanagement system (EMS). From March 2008 we have also nies as the source of dynamic development for society. In our joined the JAMP consortium and become involved in creating relationships with business partners, we always respect the industry-wide systems. position and rights of suppliers, comply with relevant legal requirements, observe social norms and engage in sound Supplier Seminars business practices. Following the revisions to the USHIO Group’s Green ProcureProcurement activities are the responsibility of staff in procurement Standards, a seminar for suppliers was held at the Harima ment divisions who have received special training and instruction. Division in June 2010 to explain the revisions. This briefing For new transactions, quality, cost, delivery dates, environmental included the latest trends in REACH and other environmental performance and other factors are determined on the basis of regulations, and USHIO’s environmental and CSR initiatives. We objective criteria and fair, impartial transactions are conducted. worked to further strengthen relations with suppliers by promotMoreover, since the Great East Japan Earthquake, procureing greater understanding of USHIO’s current status and activiment staff have also conducted prior risk analysis, and stepped ties. Between November 2010 and March 2011, USHIO also ran up reviews of business continuity management (BCM) for materi17 seminars on how to present data in JAMP/AIS formats. We als, mainly by preparing manuals for responding to risk events will continue these seminars from April 2011, and work to allay and upgrading information on material supply, production sites our business partners’ concerns about surveys of chemical and transport routes, including for secondary and tertiary suppliers. substances contained in products. We will work to further Environmental Management System: Often abbreviated as EMS, an environmenJAMP: JAMP stands for Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium. The consortal management system is a system where companies, groups and other organizatium was established in 2006 by volunteer corporations to help strengthen management tions set their own environmental policies and targets then take measures to achieve of chemical substances throughout supply chains at the industry-wide level. them. Examples include the ISO14001 international management standard, the BCM: BCM stands for Business Continuity Management. It is a management Eco Action 21 standard of Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and the EU Ecomethod for establishing policies and plans for continuing business operations and Management and Audit Scheme, EMAS. responding quickly and effectively in the event of a natural disaster or other situation where normal supplies and systems may be impaired. 17 Society Relationship with Society We shall contribute to the development of respective regions where we conduct business as a member of the international community. The USHIO Foundation The USHIO Foundation was established in 1994 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the founding of USHIO. Its purpose is to contribute to the development of human resources, learning and culture. The foundation was designated as a public interest incorporated foundation by the Japanese government in April 2011 and made a new start as the USHIO Foundation. Its main projects include supporting the development of the next generation of human resources who will be responsible for leading the world in the future by providing scholarships to assist with their studies, and promoting further interaction and mutual understanding between Japan and other countries. In 2010, the foundation proScholarship recipients at a scholarship vided scholarships to 50 graduate students (including overseas students) and 13 students presentation ceremony in specialized courses at colleges of technology. Factory Tours for High School Students Lectures at Universities (USHIO Gotemba Division) Lecture on Environmental Concepts USHIO gives factory tours to local high school students as a way (CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA) to communicate with the local community. In 2010, high school For two years running, CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA students from a local high school in Gotemba made two trips to has given lectures on environmental concepts at Wilfrid Laurier visit the respective sites of the Gotemba Division, where they University in Waterloo, Ontario. The university is well known for observed production lines and other operations. The students its outstanding business and economics programs, and has toured UV lamp production lines and manufacturing processes taken a leading role in promoting educational quality by integratfor equipment with lamps embedded in them. These experiing sustainability practices in its education programs. These ences served as good opportunities to deepen their interest and programs include units on ISO14001, sustainable development understanding of USHIO as a specialized lighting company. and environmental accounting. When students of the lecture voiced a request to see how environmental concepts were put in practice in a real-world context, CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA responded by organizing a factory tour. Lecture on Optical Technologies (USHIO) USHIO conducts lectures on optical technologies each year at the University of Tokyo, as part of its involvement in CORAL, the Consortium on Education and Research on Advanced Laser Science. In 2010 we gave the lectures for the third time, with the lesson in June consisting of a lecture on “UV light from lamps, methods of generating VUV light, and industrial applications for High school students visit the Gotemba Division light,” and practical modules on “the spectroscopy and photochemical reaction of UV light.” A large number of students researching light participated eagerly in both the lectures and the practical modules. As part of its contribution to society, USHIO will continue to support the development of young students who will be the optical technicians of the future. Glossary 18 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/contribution (Working Together with Local Communities) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/society (USHIO Group Support for Culture and Learning) Participation in Himeji Akari Fantasy World The Relay for Life involves continuous walking for 24 hours, on (USHIO LIGHTING, INC.) the grounds of local schools, through parks and on sidewalks, USHIO LIGHTING supports the non-profit organization (NPO) Akari with teams taking part in a relay format. Walking for 24 hours no Machi Himeji, which participates in the Himeji Castle Festival without resting is meant as a way of signifying support for people as part of activities to promote education about light, as well as battling cancer, which is a 24 hour-a-day fight that takes a toll on culture, the arts, and healthy development of children. At one of the body. USHIO employees also raise money by selling homethe events, called “The Spirit of Love for Himeji Castle Expressed made cakes and cookies and auctioning off handmade gift basThrough Sand,” which is held by the Himeji Junior Chamber kets and other items no longer used at home. Through these International, a 6-meter-high replica of Himeji Castle is created in activities in fiscal 2010, the team donated over $3,736 to the Higashi Oyashiki Ato Koen, a park sited on a former samurai American Cancer Society. residence, using sand carried from the Tottori Sand Dunes. Around the sand castle stand another 60 or so sand sculptures Donations for the Victims of the Great East Japan made by city residents. When night falls, the spectacle is lit up Earthquake (Group) with halogen lamps provided for the occasion by USHIO LIGHTDonations in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake of ING. The company March 11, 2011 came not only from Japan, but from Group also helps with “Star business sites in Europe, the U.S. and Asia. At CHRISTIE Night Zoo”—the illumiDIGITAL SYSTEMS nation of the local zoo U.S.A., employees made which has become a use of their remaining traditional part of the holiday leave to collect Himeji Castle Festival. donations as they had In this way, USHIO after the Haiti Earthquake, LIGHTING helps to with CHRISTIE DIGITAL Illumination of sand sculptures made by enliven local events. SYSTEMS contributing a city residents further 50% of the amount Fundraising initiatives at USHIO INC.’s Gotemba Division USHIO Angels (USHIO AMERICA, INC.) as a matching gift. Employees of the Oregon Operation Division, located in the town of Newberg, are called “USHIO Angels” by some members of the Participation in the Prefectural Citizens’ community. The nickname was given by people aware of the Forestation Project (NIHON DENSHI GIJUTSU) charitable spirit and activities of the employees of the Oregon In June 2010, five employees from NIHON DENSHI GIJUTSU Operation Division, which started in 2005 when a co-worker participated in a prefectural citizen’s forestation project operated succumbed to cancer. It is now the name of the team formed by by the Kanagawa Trust Midori Foundation, helping to cut back employees for the Relay for Life, an event held in cities and towns the undergrowth in a patch of planted forest. In total, around 100 around the country every year by the American Cancer Society. participants joined the event. After the work was finished, volunteers heard a mini-seminar on forests. Members of the USHIO Angels Participants in a prefectural citizens’ forestation project NPO: NPO stands for Non-Profit Organization. NPOs conduct a range of social Matching Gift: When corporations or other groups collect gifts or donations, they contribution activities, and do not aim to distribute profits to their constituent members. may contribute an additional amount equal to the collected amount. This is known Businesses that aim to create profits may themselves be recognized as NPOs, but the as a matching gift. profits they generate are allocated to fund various social contribution activities. 19 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/environmental (Environmental Management System) Environment Environmental Vision and Management 2020 Environmental Vision The USHIO Group formulated its 2020 Environmental Vision with Under Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan, which the goal of becoming a company able to contribute through its started in fiscal 2010, we extrapolated back in time from our business activities to the realization of a low-carbon, recyclingvision for 2020, and broke down our vision into a set of specific oriented society that preserves biodiversity by the year 2020. goals through a process called “back casting.” 2020 Environmental Vision Through Lighting-edge technologies, we will contribute to: creation of a low-carbon society, conservation of resources, and preservation USHIO’s vision for the Company in 2020 of biodiversity. Low-carbon society Recycling-oriented society Goals and Targets of Phase Three of Biodiversity-preserving society USHIO’s Environmental Back casting Action Plan 2010 2013 2020 Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan provides the folfour environmental issue committees for each measure to prolowing four environmental themes: environmental management, mote activities: a Global Warming Countermeasures Committee, activities to promote environmentally conscious product perfora Green Products Committee, a 3R Committee, and a Green mance, activities to promote environmentally conscious operaProcurement Committee. Please refer to the corporate Web site tions, and environmental and social contribution activities. The for information on these activities and results for fiscal 2010. plan also sets out 17 specific measures and targets, and sets out http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/manage/plan.html Four Environmental Themes of Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan Environmental Activities to promote Activities to promote Environmental and management environmentally environmentally social contribution conscious product conscious operations activities performance · Strengthen environmental · Expand lineup of environmen· Strengthening global warming · Communication with governance tally conscious products countermeasures stakeholders · Carbon management · Conserving resources · Social contribution activities · Chemical substance manage· Preserve biodiversity ment system (CMS) Committees for Each Measure Promote Activities Global Warming Green Products Committee Green Procurement Committee 3R Committee Countermeasures Committee Glossary Low-carbon Society: A society that reduces its CO2 emissions to prevent global Biodiversity-preserving Society: A society that supports a rich variety of life by warming. protecting diversity in genes, living organisms, and biotopes. Recycling-oriented Society: A society that uses resources carefully, promoting Back casting: A technique for setting targets by working backward from a future sustainable recycling through reuse and other means. vision to the present. 20 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/energy (Global Warming Countermeasures) Global Warming Countermeasures We have set goals for 2012 of reducing baseline CO2 emissions (the average for fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2008) from energy consumption by 4% and in logistical operations by 10%. Fiscal 2010 Targets and Results Reducing CO2 Emissions in Logistics Operations Reduce CO2 emissions from energy consumption USHIO INC. reduced CO2 emissions in logistics operations by Reduce by 1% from base level e 6.6% increase 17% compared with base levels (the average for fiscal 2006 to Reduce CO2 emissions in logistical operations fiscal 2008). Specifically, the Harima Division and the Gotemba Reduce by 2% from base level e 17% reduction at USHIO Division conducted joint transport, shortening domestic transport INC., examined methods for quantifying Group emissions distances, and reducing deliveries by consolidating loads. Fiscal 2010 emissions increased compared to fiscal 2009, but this is Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions from Energy largely due to an increase in deliveries in line with increased Consumption production. Our main focus in CO2 reduction initiatives is on Despite a targeted 1% reduction in emissions from base levels, transport costs. Efforts include downsizing packaging to emissions in fiscal 2010 increased by 6.6%. The main reason increase loading efficiency and improving loading methods. was an increase in production activity in line with business expansion. In order to increase production at Group companies CO2 Emissions in Logistics Operations in Asia, some sites started operating new production lines. However, even when the impact of these new lines is discounted, (w) overall Group emissions increased 1.8% from the base level. 800 744.7 On the other hand, successful measures at each site to reduce 675.4 654.9 power usage and changes in the product mix meant that emis600 sions per unit sale decreased by 1.5% from the base level. CO2 emissions (tons) 400 Group CO2 Emissions and Breakdown 200 (tons of CO2) 30,000 0 26,836 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 25,179 24,626 22,721 Fiscal 2010 Target: 24,927 20,000 Initiatives Ahead With our production volume increasing, it has become extremely difficult to achieve our target reductions on CO2 emissions from 10,000 energy use. Despite having to take other measures in response to power shortages following the March 2011 earthquake, we will also focus on the following initiatives. 0 Base level 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 1) Take measures and reinforce links between all sites with the premise that energy is a cost n Base level n USHIO Group n USHIO INC. n USHIO PHILIPPINES n USHIO (SUZHOU) n CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS n Other 2) Focus on measures and information sharing targeting the top * Top four contributing companies to USHIO Group total CO2 emissions four CO2-emitting sites. 3) To reduce CO2 in logistics operations, create mechanisms to * Separate emissions coefficients are used to calculate results for each region. tie cost-cutting through efficiency to CO2 reduction. 4) Examine other options for reducing emissions apart from reducing fixed energy consumption, such as emissions trading, etc. CO2 coefficient: CO2 coefficients represent the amount of CO2 emitted per 1kWh of electricity supplied. The USHIO Group uses the published figures from the respective power companies that supply each site. 21 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/greenproducts (Green Products) Contributing to the Environment Through Products We will strive to ensure that our activities benefit customers who use our products, while aiming to develop Super Green (SG) products and to achieve a 25% improvement in the eco-efficiency of products by 2012. Fiscal 2010 Targets and Results Development of SG Products Enhance range of super green products Products eligible for certification as an SG product must be the Develop a total of five or more certified SG products best in their class, while offering superior environmental perforGroup-wide e Five products certified mance in terms of energy efficiency, extended lifetime, 3R Enhance eco-efficiency design, materials used, applications and so forth. In addition, Enhance the eco-efficiency of core products by 15% e the product must satisfy our new USHIO environmental factor* Achieved for 10 of 18 core products requirement, which was estabImprove the recycling ratio of specific materials lished to clarify our standards Establish materials collection systems, establish designs that following a fiscal 2009 review of make products more easily reusable, monitor materials colleccertification requirements in tion results and consider numerical targets for 2011 and light of recent trends in society. beyond e Established a collection system for xenon cinema As of March 2011, the Group lamps, implemented a collection service has certified five SG products, and plans to certify a further Development of Environmentally Conscious five during fiscal 2011. Super Green Products Label Products * USHIO Environmental factor At USHIO, we incorporate our Environmentally Conscious = (Power output ratio x lifetime ratio) {(Input ratio)2 + (3R volume ratio)2 + Product Assessment Manual into our Design Standards so we (Chemical substance content ratio)2} can preevaluate the environmental impact of our products starting in the design stage. When the environmental perforLCA (Life Cycle Assessment) Initiatives mance of a product has been improved based on this evaluaNo matter how much CO2 emissions are reduced at factories, tion, it is certified as an environmentally conscious product. If a these activities are not meaningful if CO2 emissions increase product is outstanding even among environmentally conscious when the manufactured products are actually used by customproducts, and uses innovative environmental technology on a ers. Meanwhile, products can provide both cost and environmencompletely different level from existing products, it is certified tal benefits for customers if they use energy-efficient products. as an SG product. Therefore, to quantitatively measure the environmental impact of products and services over the entire life cycle, USHIO formuUSHIO’s System of Environmentally Conscious Products lated LCA guidelines in 2006 and has implemented LCAs ever since. In fiscal 2009, LCAs were implemented for all major USHIO lamp products. Going forward, we will expand LCA activities to SG Product Standards · 80 points or higher in environmentally various devices in order to satisfy the needs of customers. Development Road Map conscious product standards · Environmental factor of 1.5 or higher SG · Transparency assurance Initiatives Ahead Products In fiscal 2011, USHIO will not only certify SG products, but it will also take steps to provide information about these products, Environmentally Conscious and to put them into use. Environmentally Product Standards 1) Certification of SG products (Group total so far: 10 products) · Satisfies essential conditions Conscious Products · 60 points or higher 2) Promote SG products’ systems in Group companies · Factor improvement 3) Enhance the eco-efficiency of core products by 20% compared with fiscal 2000. 4) Make the sales contribution from environmentally conscious products visible, thereby raising awareness in each division. Glossary Environmental Factor: A comparison of the environmental efficiency of a newly LCA (Life Cycle Assessment): A method of assessing the environmental impact of developed product and past products can be expressed numerically as an environa product not only during its use, but at every stage throughout its life cycle, from mental factor. Higher numbers represent greater improvements. raw material to manufacture, distribution and disposal. 22 Conserving Resources http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/conserve (Conserving Resources) We intend to improve our ratio of waste volume to material input by 10% from fiscal 2009 levels by fiscal 2012 by linking environmental initiatives with business performance. This will be accomplished by eliminating inefficiencies through material flow cost initiatives, improving recycling rates for specific materials and other measures. Fiscal 2010 Targets and Results Implementation of Material Flow Cost Accounting Reduce waste emissions (MFCA) Promote zero emissions e Share waste processing informaWe continued to promote use of MFCA, mainly at the Harima tion between Group companies and sites in Japan, and Division. By improving our processes, in particular reducing quartz promote conversion of waste into valuable resources glass off-cuts, we improved the waste volume to input ratio by Improve the ratio of waste volume to total input of core materials about 9% in fiscal 2010, compared with fiscal 2009. A monthly Improve the ratio of waste volume to material input at lamp resource production improvement meeting is held at Harima production sites in Japan by 2% e Ratio of quartz glass waste Division, to report on and promote initiatives in each department. improved 18% at USHIO INC.’s Harima Division, started impleWe are also promoting measures to reduce the waste menting material flow cost accounting at Group companies volume to input ratio of quartz glass at the Fukuzaki Plant of Effectively utilize water resources USHIO LIGHTING. Reduce input by 2% from input basis e 0.5% improvement Eliminate the usage of hazardous chemical substances Initiatives to Reduce Water Use Selection of key chemical substances e Agreed to advance This theme has been newly added to Phase Three of the to first target on elimination of VOCs Environmental Action Plan. During fiscal 2010 we analyzed water usage by the USHIO Group as a whole for fiscal 2009, and Initiatives for Reducing Waste came up with measures to suit the level of need. At USHIO Efforts to reduce waste resulted in further sharing of information PHILIPPINES where water use was found to be particularly high, on waste processing at each business site, with many making we switched to a recycling system for reusing water from April progress toward achieving zero emissions. As a result, the cost 2011, enabling us to reduce water use by 45% compared to the of processing waste for the Group in Japan was down 29.8% previous year. compared with fiscal 2008. At USHIO INC.’s Harima Division, we worked to turn waste Initiatives Ahead into a valuable resource, reduced processing costs and utilized We will continue our activities from fiscal 2010 in 2011. The main material flow cost accounting to improve the waste ratio for initiatives are as follows. quartz glass material by 18%. 1) Share information throughout the Group on waste processing methods, and promote conversion of waste into valuable resources Waste Volume 2) Promote material flow cost accounting, and examine other (t) (t/100 million yen) areas to apply it apart from quartz glass 1,500 1.08 1.10 3) Reduce water use by installing water-saving equipment 1,283 1,301 4) Continue analyzing water use at each site, and determine the 1,213 main sites where action needs to be taken 1,000 1.00 5) Develop a clear picture of VOC use at each site, and propose 1.00 measures to reduce use 0.90 500 0.90 386 352 253 0 0.80 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) n Waste volume (left scale) n Final disposal volume (left scale) Waste volume per unit of sales (right scale) Zero Emission: Zero emission is a concept under the Resource-Circulating Society VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds): VOCs are found in many substances, proposed by the United Nations University. The goal is not only to reduce the amount including paint, printing ink, adhesives, detergents, gasoline, and thinners containing of waste generated, but to utilize waste substances as resources in production. toluene, xylene and ethyl acetate. VOCs can cause atmospheric pollution and affect Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA): Material flow cost accounting focuses human health. on resource and energy losses that occur in production processes, and performs an overall cost evaluation including material cost, processing cost, and equipment depreciation costs. 23 Financial Reporting Key Performance Indicators Net sales Operating income/ Net income/Return on equity (ROE) Operating income ratio (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) 19.7 20.0 200 20 20 20 12 10.3 9.4 151.4 148.1 16.5 150 145.1 15 15 15 9 13.0 13.5 14.0 15.4 120.8 119.0 6.2 9.7 100 10 8.9 10 10 6 4.7 9.5 7.2 7.4 2.3 7.0 50 5 6.1 5 5 3 3.4 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) n Operating income (left scale) n Net income (left scale) Operating income ratio (right scale) Return on equity (right scale) Total assets/Equity ratio Capital expenditures/R&D expenses Net income per share/ Dividends per share (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Yen) (Yen) 24 24 300 90 10.0 150 25 78.5 22 74.3 76.8 71.5 71.9 8.4 20 20 250 75 120.16 7.6 120 112.96 20 237.5 216.6 217.2 7.5 202.1 6.7 6.7 200 184.4 60 5.8 90 15 5.4 5.5 5.1 150 45 5.0 4.8 4.8 71.72 60 52.95 10 100 30 2.5 30 25.76 5 50 15 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) n Total assets (left scale) n Capital expenditures n Net income per share (left scale) Equity ratio (right scale) n R&D expenses Dividends per share (right scale) Overseas Sales Asia North America Europe (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 50 47.1 50 25 44.1 41.3 21.2 40 40 39.2 20 37.8 35.7 35.2 34.5 15.9 30 30 15 14.7 14.2 27.6 27.5 13.2 20 20 10 10 10 5 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 24 Third-Party Opinion Masaatsu Doi Associate Professor Faculty of Regional Policy Takasaki City University of Economics USHIO’s Sustainability Report 2011 has two major changes Another point that was also made last year is that it is difficult compared with the report for the previous year. The first is an to see what kind of fundamental policy informs the Company’s exciting new feature on pages 5 to 9, that discusses light, agrisocial contribution activities. USHIO has been active up until culture and plants, (specifically nurturing plants and preventing now in a wide range of social contribution activities, including weeds with artificial light). Here the report explores the potential through a foundation, but with the current presentation of these of USHIO’s unique optical technologies and the new ways that activities, the external observer could be forgiven for forming the Company is engaging with society in a way that is easy for the impression that they are largely ad hoc. I think this should readers to grasp. In fiscal 2010, USHIO’s performance received be addressed. a boost from strong sales in the 3-D and digital cinema projector In the section on “specific action policies,” the current disclosub-segment. Now we see that USHIO has a bright future in the sure shows basic policies, but it would be desirable to show mediumand long-term in these new business fields of agriculspecific numeric targets and plans here also. Stakeholders also ture and the environment. The second change lies in the formuexpect companies to apply PDCA cycles to their CSR action lation for the first time in fiscal 2011 of a CSR Action Plan, which plans to gradually evolve the issues and activities each year. sets out five pillars and focus areas of CSR at USHIO, and speUSHIO plays a vital role in today’s industry as the producer of cific action policies for achieving them (see page 11). In giving numerous industrial light sources. The Company’s activities my third-party opinion in last year’s report, I noted that it was extend beyond the field of illumination, to using light as energy, difficult to see the position of CSR within the Company’s busiand to phototherapy technologies in the field of healthcare; the ness processes. This year this issue appears to have been rempotential and expectations for USHIO seem to expand conedied. As USHIO’s CSR gradually evolves, there are still some stantly. In this year’s CSR Action Plan, the initiative “Creation of other areas that require attention. I will address them below. solutions to meet new social needs” could be taken as meanFirst of all, the CSR Action Plan for fiscal 2011 is presented ing creation of social innovation that generates new social as a breakdown of “five pillars,” “issues” and “specific action value. This has become an increasingly important area of focus policies.” However, there is a need to explain why USHIO in recent years as companies’ roles in society have become picked up on each of the “issues” that the Company should more prominent. As USHIO continues to lead us into a new era tackle. These explanations should also be expanded upon in of light, I hope the company will develop its abilities in social separate pages. To give an example, there is no really clear innovation to channel the ability of business to solve a range of explanation as to why USHIO needs to promote diversity. social problems, while aiming for sustainable management. Response to Third-Party Opinion Tadashi Taki Director, Officer in Charge of CSR We appreciate receiving valuable feedback once again this year topics into our business processes in our CSR Action Plan, from Dr. Masaatsu Doi, Associate Professor of the Faculty of which started from the fiscal year ending March 2012. We will Regional Policy, Takasaki City University of Economics, on our continue these initiatives going forward. Sustainability Report 2011. Moreover, we will strive to play a leading role as a social innoThis year’s report carries a feature section on light, agriculture vator, using our business capabilities to address social problems and plants. With this feature, we hope to provide a concrete while communicating closely and continuously with our stakeexample of how we are practicing our management philosophy, holders from a more global perspective. Through these initiatives, “contribute to society through superior products and innovative the Group will work together to fulfill its social responsibilities, research and development.” We were also encouraged by Dr. and continue to merit trust and respect as a company. Doi’s favorable evaluation of our efforts to incorporate CSR 25 Environmental Consciousness of this Publication This publication is printed on paper approved by the Forest Stewardship Council at a green printing certified plant using waterless printing, which is highly effective in reducing volatile organic compounds (VOC). In addition, the computer-to-plate (CTP) method of printing is used to eliminate the intermediary materials required for the plate-making process. Environmental Management Group Corporate Social Responsibility Department Administration Division USHIO INC. 2-6-1, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8150, Japan E-mail:kankyo@ushio.co.jp www.ushio.co.jp/global/ 1110G①-2000S① Printed in Japan
