MOL Group Environmental and Social Report 2011 The 12th edition April 2010–March 2011 Bluer Oceans, Cleaner Environment and Sustainable Future Editorial Policy Scope The MOL Group has reported on its Group-wide environmental protection activities Period every year since October 2000, when we published the first Environmental Report. FY2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) In 2003, we renamed the publication the Environmental and Social Report to In addition, some activities begun prior to FY2010 and activities during FY2011 (April encompass the Group’s overall social contributions as well as environmental protec1, 2011 to March 31, 2012) are reported with notes. tion initiatives. Organizations Reference Guidelines In principle, all MOL Group companies that do business in Japan and overseas. –Environmental Report Guidelines 2007, Japanese Ministry of the Environment * The MOL Group –Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Japanese Ministry of the Environment Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (320 consolidated subsidiaries –G RI (Global Reporting Initiative) (GRI Guidelines Version 3.0) and 60 equity-method affiliates). Please visit our website to view comparison charts with the GRI Guidelines and * “The company” in this report refers to Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (MOL). UN Global Compact Data Web http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/index.html Financial data is based on consolidated results unless otherwise noted. Our environmental performance is divided into the following three categories. Previous issue: September 2010 Reported activities are based on No. 3 below, but data is available only for items This issue: September 2011 covered in Nos. 1 & 2. Next issue: September 2012 (scheduled) 1. Activities conducted at MOL (including all operated vessels). 2. Activities at MOL and 56 consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, as well as activities conducted at equity-method affiliates—Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. and Nippon Charter Cruise, Ltd. 3. In addition to No. 2, activities conducted by 18 key overseas subsidiaries. Besides this report, information concerning the MOL Group’s CSR activities can be found in the “CSR/Environment” section of our website, which was completely revamped in February 2011 to make information easier to read. Web http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/index.html Marine Transport and Environment Glossary Container Terminal Chartered Vessel Box-shaped shipping containers hold electrical products, apparel, food and other A vessel borrowed from a ship owner or other party. cargo for transport by land or sea. A container terminal is where vessels berth to load and unload containers. LTIF An abbreviation for Lost Time Injury Frequency, it refers to the frequency of Ship Recycling/Scrapping work-related accidents per hour per 1 million people. The company sets an LTIF Scrapping refers to the dismantling of aging vessels in the interest of safe operation target with the goal of ensuring the occupational health and safety of seafarers. and protection of the marine environment. Ship recycling refers to the reuse of steel plates and other parts obtained when scrapping vessels after hazardous GHGs substances have been properly disposed. An abbreviation for greenhouse gases, the most well-known of which is CO2. GHGs are blamed for global warming because they trap heat. Ship Bottom (Antifouling) Paints Refers to paint applied to the bottom of vessels to prevent marine organisms from IMO attaching themselves to vessels. When attached, the organisms increase hull Abbreviation for International Maritime Organization. The IMO is one of the specialresistance when traveling through the water, reducing fuel efficiency. ist agencies of the United Nations and deals with all maritime-related matters. Tugboat LNG These are small but highly powerful and maneuverable boats used to pull large The abbreviation for liquefied natural gas. When natural gas is cooled to approxivessels by rope so that they can safely dock and leave shore. Tugboats also push mately minus 162ºC, it liquefies and becomes one-six-hundredth of the volume the bows of vessels to guide and point them in the right direction. of its gaseous state, facilitating the transport of large quantities. Double Hull MARPOL Treaty Double hulling refers to the double plating of a vessel’s outer plates or fuel tanks An international agreement designed to prevent pollution of the marine environin order to prevent spills of cargo and fuel oil into the marine environment in the ment from oil, chemical substances, waste, and exhaust emissions from ships. event of a grounding or collision of vessels. Atmospheric emissions are also governed by this treaty. CO2 Emissions per Unit Load (ton-mile) MOL Refers to the volume of carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted for transporting 1 ton of The abbreviation for Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. cargo 1 mile. The measure is used for comparing the energy and environmental efficiency of cargo transport. NOx The abbreviation for nitrogen oxide, which is contained in exhaust gases emitted Coastal Transport when a ship burns fuel oil. NOx is one of the causes of photochemical smog and Refers to the transport of food, daily necessities, industrial materials, oil and other acid rain. cargo from domestic port to domestic port. PM Ballast (Water) An abbreviation for particulate matter, especially diesel emitted particulate, soot When a vessel has no cargo, the propellers can rise above the surface due to and dust contained in exhaust gases emitted by ships when they burn fuel oil. buoyancy. To prevent this from happening, seawater, called ballast water, is injected to add weight and submerge the vessel to a certain degree. SOx The abbreviation for sulfur oxide, which is contained in exhaust gases emitted Modal Shift when a ship burns fuel oil. SOx causes acid rain and atmospheric pollution. Refers to establishment of a transportation system with a low environmental burden by switching to low-impact modes of transport. Specifically, this involves switching from automobiles and airplanes to railways and ships for transportation. Environmental and Social Report 2011 Role of This Report Contents Fe a ture / S pe cia l Fe a ture This Environmental and Social Report introduces the company’s approach to CSR and the environment, and our latest initiatives, to all stakeholders connected with the 2 MOL Group Businesses MOL Group. In producing this report, we used illustrations, tables and graphs and reflected the voices of our frontline staff where possible. We believe that by reading 4 Top Message this report you will gain a greater understanding of how we view our social responsibility 6 Feature 1  as a company, what measures we are taking to reduce environmental impact and ensure safe operation in our business activities, how we are contributing to local For Acceleration communities, and what kind of efforts we are making to meet the expectations of of Business Development shareholders and other investors and customers, as well as how we are considering in Growing Markets land-based staff and seafarers. MOL also produces the following publications as a means of promoting com8 Feature 2 munication with stakeholders: Enhancing Safe Operation Annual Report*: A detailed explanation of investor relations information such as management strategy, business environment, operating results and financial data. 10 Feature 3  Primarily for shareholders and other investors. Environmental Strategy M a n a ge me n t MOL Investor Guidebook*: Easy-to-understand analysis using tables and charts of the MOL Group’s management plans, key financial indicators, business activities, 12 Special Feature  market position and operating environment in each business. Primarily for shareholders Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake and other investors. Corporate Brochure: Easy-to-understand discussion of the company’s business activities. Mainly for customers, business partners, local communities, and job-hunting university students and professionals, as well as the general public. Management * The latest versions of all reports can be found on our website. Web http://www.mol.co.jp/ir-e/index.html 14 MOL’s Approach to CSR 16 CSR Program Targets and Results The Environment 20 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability 22 Safe Operation CSR Glossary Accountability Refers to the responsibility of explaining a company’s business and operations to The external stakeholders. Environment Corporate Governance Refers to frameworks and systems for ensuring highly transparent and sound management of a company. 24 Environmental Management Policy Compliance 26 Environmental Targets and Results The observance of laws and regulations, as well as internal rules. 30 Environmental Burden of the MOL Group Societ y Stakeholders Refers generally to shareholders, customers, business partners, employees, local 31 Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and communities, etc. Preventing Air Pollution Midterm Management Plan A company’s business plan, typically of three to five years. The company’s current 34 Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and the midterm management plan is called “GEAR UP! MOL” and covers the period from Marine Environment fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012. 36 Group Companies’ Initiatives Portfolio Refers to the composition of businesses taking into consideration risk and profitability. Business Intelligence Strategic information for supporting management decision-making. The comSociety pany defines it as information for improving decision-making results, information for general managers and other persons in positions of responsibility to use for decision-making and action, and information for generating earnings in the MOL Group. 38 Caring for Land-based Staff BCP (Business Continuity Plan) 40 Caring for Seafarers A plan designed to facilitate continuation or quick restoration of core businesses in an emergency such as a natural disaster or terrorist incident. 43 Social Contribution Activities CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Refer to page 14 for details. 45 Third-Party Opinion PDCA A concept for realizing continuous improvement through a cycle of plan (P), do (D), 46 Q&A With Readers check (C) and act (A) to implement countermeasures and improvements. 47 Corporate Profile Environmental and Social Report 2011 1 MOL Group Businesses The MOL Group, with a core business of ocean shipping, engages in the transport of a broad range of cargoes, including natural resources, energy, raw materials, and manufactured products, that contribute to industrial growth and better lives for people around the world. We run and develop our businesses, taking into consideration environmental and social issues as a player in an industry that is indispensable to the sustainable development of the world economy. Bulkships Dry Bulkers Tankers Transporting the World’s Natural Resources With One of the Experts in Energy Transport World’s Biggest Fleets Dry bulkers transport massive quantities of dry cargo that is not individually Safe, efficient transport is crucial for ensuring stable supplies of crude oil, packaged. Dry bulkers include very large iron ore carriers (VLOCs); specialone of the world’s main energy sources. The MOL Group has a varied fleet ized coal carriers matched to the size of loading/discharging ports; wood of oil tankers from VLCCs (tankers of more than 200,000 DWT) to small chip carriers, which transport wood chips; and bulkers that transport general and medium-sized vessels called Suezmax and Aframax. With this varied cargo including grain. The cargoes transported by dry bulkers are used as fleet, MOL contributes to the stable supply of oil for the world. various raw materials and fuel as well as food and animal feed. In addition, MOL also has product tankers that carry refined petroleum products, MOL’s fleet includes heavy lifters, which transport heavy, large cargoes that including naphtha and gasoline; chemical tankers for transporting liquefied cannot be carried by conventional cargo ships, such as large machinery chemical products; and LPG tankers for transporting liquefied petroleum and plants vital for industrial growth. gas. MOL supports the world’s lifelines with one of the world’s largest fleets for energy transport, and its extensive transportation expertise. A 300,000 DWT-class VLOC at 340 meters long is higher than the Tokyo 300,000-DWT oil tankers (VLCCs) can transport 340,000 kiloliters of crude Tower (333 meters high) when laid on its side. The holds of these ships oil at a time. This represents half of Japan’s daily fuel consumption. The cargo Trivia measure about 200,000 cubic meters. That’s equivalent to the water from Trivia of approximately 3.6 VLCCs would be enough to fill the Tokyo Dome. about 80 Olympic-sized 50-meter swimming pools. LNG Carriers Car Carriers Aiming to Stably Transport Clean Energy Transporting Cars in a Safe, Reliable and Eco-Friendly Manner Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is attracting considerable attention as an The auto industry is one of the cornerstones of Japan’s growth. MOL was environmentally-friendly clean energy resource and demand for this fuel the first shipping company in Japan to launch a car carrier service in 1965. is rising around the world. Since then, as the pioneer of car transportation, MOL has worked to provide The transportation of LNG, which is used as a feedstock for city gas safe and reliable transport services to meet the needs of automakers, who and gas-fired thermal power plants, supports our daily lives and the growth are increasingly producing vehicles around the world. of businesses. Since participating in its first LNG transportation project in MOL has established a solid position among the world’s car carrier fleets 1983, MOL has amassed a wealth of expertise and experience in LNG not only through quality car transport services and fleet size, but also transportation. As one of the world’s leading LNG ocean transport comenvironmental consciousness. Our new environmental technologies include panies, MOL will continue meeting world LNG demand by upgrading and vessels with lower wind and water pressure resistance. expanding its fleet and rigorously practicing safe operation based on its By transporting cargo that can be driven on and off vessels, from passenger advanced technologies and expertise. cars to construction machinery, MOL supports comfortable lives for all. When natural gas is transported by sea, it is cooled to minus 162°C, at which point Measuring 45.5 meters in height, large car carriers have 12 to 14 floors, it liquefies and becomes one-six-hundredth of the volume of its gaseous state at making them like large parking buildings. Expert drivers load around 120 Trivia normal temperature, facilitating the transport of large quantities. One large LNG Trivia vehicles in 1 hour without damage. Their driving technique and powers of carrier transports enough LNG for 200,000 Japanese households for 1 year. concentration make them quintessential professionals. 2 Environmental and Social Report 2011 MOL Group Businesses Containerships Worldwide Seaborne Trade Volume Worldwide seaborne trade volume (Billion tons)/ World population (Billion people) Per capita trade volume (Tons) A Balanced Network That Covers the Entire Globe 16 1.6 14 1.4 12 1.2 10 1.0 8 0.8 6 0.6 4 0.4 2 0.2 The containership business transports electrical products, auto parts, household furniture, food products and other products in containers. These transportation 0 0 services efficiently carry products from optimal production sites around the 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 world to consumers, supporting global logistics. Worldwide trade volume (To 2010) (left scale) Worldwide trade volume forecast (From 2011) (left scale) MOL’s containership business provides a balanced network that covers Per capita trade volume (Tons) (right scale) World population (left scale) the entire globe, from the key east-west routes linking Asia to North America Source: MOL internal calculations based on data from Feanleys, Clarkson, the WTO, the United Nations, etc. and Asia to Europe, to the north-south or Intra-Asia routes. Furthermore, with our worldwide network and an integrated state-of-the-art IT system, we are also working to raise customer satisfaction. One recent initiative has seen us begin disclosing time arrival performance results. Fiscal 2010 Consolidated Revenues Fleet (As of March 31, 2011) by Segment If you laid all the containers on MOL’s largest containership end to end they would stretch for approximately 50 km. Containerships efficiently transport Others 1% Dry bulkers 374 Trivia Associated Businesses large volumes of cargo in a single voyage, acting like a “conveyor belt” Bulkships connecting the world. 7% 51% Tankers 206 Ferry & Domestic LNG carriers 72 Transport Consolidated 3% revenue Ferry & Domestic Transport Business Car carriers 114 ¥1,543.7 billion Containerships 104 One of Japan’s Largest The MOL Group offers one of Japan’s Ferries and Networks Supporting largest ferry and domestic transport service 42 Containerships domestic carriers the Flow of People lineups. Domestic carriers transport food, 38% Dry bulkers 25% Cruise ships and and Goods daily necessities, oil and other cargo, while 5 Tankers 11% others ferries offer various amenities for an enjoyLNG carriers 3% able voyage such as restaurants, spas and Car carriers 12% Total 917 entertainment. As a key part of Japan’s modal shift, ferries and domestic carriers help reduce CO2 emissions. World Major Carriers’ Fleets (As of March 2011) (Million DWT) 0 20 40 60 80 MOL (Japan) NYK (Japan) Associated Businesses COSCO (China) K Line (Japan) Various Peripheral Businesses MOL conducts a host of associated busiAP Moller-Maersk (Denmark) Support Comprehensive nesses. These include marine-related busiZodiac (UK) Capabilities Centered on nesses such as the cruise business that Frontline (Norway) Marine Transport operates the Nippon Maru, tugboats, land China Shipping (China) transportation, warehousing, and marine Teekay Shipping (Canada) consulting. MOL also conducts travel, civil BW Group (Singapore) engineering, real estate management, finance, 0 250 500 750 1,000 trading, insurance, information systems and Million DWT Ships (Ships) communications, temporary staffing, national Source: Companies’ published data, etc. oil stockpiling support and other businesses. Environmental and Social Report 2011 3 Top Message An Excellent and Resilient Organization That Grows Continuously and Synergistically With Society Fiscal 2011 is now upon us, the second year of MOL’s three-year midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” which was drawn up while the global economy was still reeling from the financial crisis. The plan incorporates policies for achieving sustainable growth alongside society into our core strategies. MOL Group Midterm Management Plan (FY2010–FY2012) GEAR UP! MOL Long-term vision: To make the MOL Group an excellent and resilient organization that leads the world shipping industry Main theme: Challenge to Create New Growth Strategy 1 Strategy 2 Strategy 3 Recovery From the Economic Crisis Enhancing Safe Operation Environmental Strategy and Acceleration of Business Safe operation has always been a cornerstone of MOL’s By offering transport solutions with a lower Development in Growing Markets strategy. Safety is not only essential to foster business environmental burden, the MOL Group is growth; but also it helps to earn the public’s trust and evolving to meet today’s demands. Tailored responses to customers’ needs in an expandappreciation. Under “GEAR UP! MOL,” we are aiming MOL is reinforcing and emphasizing the advantages ing global market (Enhance business activities globally, to improve operating safety to the highest level in the that ocean transport offers as an environmentally etc.) (see page 6) industry. (see page 8) efficient mode of transportation in various ways, including development of the Senpaku ISHIN project. Enhancing infrastructure to accomplish strategies The MOL Group thus contributes to sustained global Business intelligence, risk management, ongoing economic growth by offering transportation services improvement in financial condition, recruitment that can respond to customers’ needs while protecting and development of employees the global environment. (see page 10) Recovering From the Economic Crisis and At present, chances for growth lie in the global markets, parAccelerating Business Development in ticularly in emerging countries. Whether we can build systems for Growing Markets anticipating changes and accommodating these markets to seize The future holds uncertainty but also opportunities for growth. For such opportunities will be a major factor in determining the look of MOL to reap the future’s potential rewards, we must accurately the MOL Group 10 years down the road. It is critical that we recruit interpret signs of change, make quick, sound decisions and take and develop diverse, talented people at the centers of business action accordingly. and trade and facilitate their performance as a part of our global With the emphasis on both aggressive and protective workforce. And, no matter where in the world we do business, we approaches, our system of corporate governance facilitates such must always comply with ethical norms in areas like human rights, action. The “GEAR UP! MOL” plan calls for us to further reinforce labor and anti-corruption. It is therefore necessary to work to ensure business intelligence, another key to achieving this end. Our rigorous compliance by the MOL Group in every activity in every ultimate goal, which stands as one of our corporate principles as corner of the world. We also have a responsibility to support the well, is to meet and respond to our customers’ needs and to this long-term growth of other countries and regions through activities new era. For MOL to maintain a strong financial position and that address a range of societal challenges, including eradicating achieve further growth, we must quickly and accurately read signs hunger, improving education and medical care, and assisting of change in promising markets and the business climate to seize recovery from natural disasters. This will be a cornerstone of MOL’s major business opportunities or utilize the information in risk sustainable growth. management. This means collecting a broad range of information from as many sources as possible, efficiently sharing that informaEnhancing Safe Operation: A Shipping tion within the organization, and intelligently processing it so that Company’s Responsibility to Society and the it helps management make the right decisions. Taking action on Basis of Its Competitiveness the basis of decisions made in this way is how to effectively meet Safe operation must be given the highest priority both for the safe the needs of customers and contribute to the further development and secure transport of customer cargo and for the protection of of the global economy and global community. It also makes it the marine environment, the stage on which we do business. possible for MOL to overcome intense competition and achieve Establishing a system for safe operation was the cornerstone of sustainable growth. our previous midterm management plan. Under the “GEAR UP! 4 Environmental and Social Report 2011 MOL” plan, which got underway in fiscal 2010, we aim to become the shipping company of choice, objectively recognized by customers and other stakeholders for having safe operation by making the system clearly visible to all. Just after embarking on the new midterm plan, in May 2010, the iron ore carrier Bright Century collided with another vessel and sank. All crew members, including the crew of the other ship, were safely rescued, but the accident is deeply regrettable. To prevent a recurrence, we have already taken a variety of measures, including creating a training video based on an investigation into the causes of the accident. The video is being used at Safety Conferences held for MOL seafarers in Japan, the Philippines, India and Europe. What is most important though is that we learn from every incident— from major accidents to near-misses—and use those lessons to prevent a repeat of the same incident from happening again, that we oversee improvements using well-defined evaluative indicators, and that we disseminate all related information within the company and disclose it to the public as well. Operational safety workshops for office staff held on a regular basis since fiscal 2010 represent one such initiative. We intend to achieve a record of safe operation recognized as world class by continuing to make internal control processes for ensuring safe operation more visible and attaining the “four zeroes”—an unblemished record in terms of serious marine incidents, oil pollution, fatal accidents, and cargo damage—and other numerical targets. Environmental Strategy for Helping Sustain Global Economic Growth The Senpaku ISHIN project announced from September 2009 to April 2010 puts forth the concept of low-environmental impact car This report is being issued while areas in Japan devastated by carriers, ferries and iron ore carriers capable of substantially lowerthe Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 struggle with an ing greenhouse gas emissions. We are happy to report that the extremely challenging and prolonged recovery and reconstruction project has garnered a great deal of interest from customers, process. The earthquake and tsunami affected many people living shipbuilders and many other stakeholders. in the region and many industries, which include some of MOL’s The aim of the project is not to create some dream ship in the customers. The impact of the disaster still reverberates in producfar-off future, but to show the type of ship that is technically postion, power, trade and distribution. The MOL Group transported sible in the near future. Immediately after making the announceemergency vehicles and relief supplies from Japan and overseas ment, MOL drew up a roadmap with development, testing and and dispatched a cruise ship to help people impacted by the disaster. introduction schedules for each component technology involved We also solicited donations within the group and received many in reducing the environmental impact of the concept ships, and offers to provide help from within Japan and from employees, crew we are now installing the technologies on actual vessels while members and partners overseas. conducting regular reviews that include cost-benefit analysis. The earthquake has reaffirmed the societal mission of the shipping Efforts are also being made to reduce the environmental impact industry. It has made us acutely aware that our growth as a shipping in regular day-to-day vessel operations by accumulating expertise company is inextricably linked to the ongoing development of society in highly environmentally-efficient operating techniques and proand that we are indelibly dependent on our customers, shareholders, actively implementing slow steaming while taking steps to ensure business partners, employees, crew members and all our other safety and meeting customer requirements. stakeholders all over the world. The MOL Group renews its comGlobal warming and other environmental issues are, in a sense, mitment to growing sustainably and harmoniously with society. strongly at odds with global economic growth, especially in emerging countries, and the shipping industry in general, which seeks to accommodate increases in shipping demand associated with this growth. But MOL believes shipping companies must work to solve these issues by improving the environmental efficiency of their vessels, which will be the key to becoming the company of choice Koichi Muto among stakeholders. President Environmental and Social Report 2011 5 Feature 1: For Acceleration of Business Emerging countries are playing an increasingly important role in the global economy. The ocean transport industry is involved in the import and export of resources, energy sources and products, which are indispensible to the nation-building process and industrial development in emerging countries as well as to improving the overall quality of life of citizens. By providing optimal services to these ends the MOL Group will also be able to achieve further growth. Acceleration of business development in growing markets is one of the overall strategies of our midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” which covers the period from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012. This feature section profiles some of the initiatives we are implementing based on this strategy and how we will extend them to help create sustainable and synergistic growth of both emerging countries and the MOL Group. India and Pakistan Thailand China Revamp of container transport service Pakistan Transport of medical-use Signed LNG transportation (May 2011) Relief efforts in masks, etc. (October 2010) project agreement with an flood-stricken areas oil major (March 2010) (October 2010) China Provided support to Qinghai Province following a massive earthquake (April 2010) (Opening ceremony for the new Delhi office) Burkina Faso Philippines Transport of school desks and chairs (April 2011) Kenya Enhanced seafarer educaTransport of Cambodia tion program (June 2011) children’s shoes Transport of ambulances, South Africa medical equipment, etc. (January 2011) Transport of mobile library vehicles (October 2010) (November 2010) Vietnam Opened selfSri Lanka operated container Transport of sports terminal (January Tanzania and Zambia equipment 2011), launched Transport of household furniture, (April 2011) tugboat business school supplies, children’s clothing (August 2010) and shoes, etc. (September 2010) Enhancing Business Activities Globally Meeting Growing Demand in Emerging Countries Rising Share of Overseas Revenue The demands of emerging countries are varied, ranging from Japan 35% importing and exporting resources and energy to exporting China 12% Japan 49% China 18% products and building distribution infrastructure. By quickly ascertaining demand by strengthening business intelligence systems FY2012 revenue FY2009 revenue and other measures, MOL is accommodating that demand through ¥1,348.0 billion ¥1,800.0 billion (Target) timely investments and service expansion. Moreover, we have stationed more employees overseas to deal with this on the front Overseas 65% line. Developing diverse and talented people in emerging countries Overseas 51% and other centers of distribution and trade and facilitating their performance on the job will be critical to MOL’s sustainable growth and will also provide additional employment opportunities in the Number of Employees Stationed Overseas respective countries. 200 Strengthening Business Intelligence China +88% We are working to strengthen business intelligence systems Emerging countries +20% by holding in-house seminars and enhancing information, both 100 Overseas (Overall) +10% quantitatively and qualitatively, via a shared portal site that can be accessed by MOL Group staff in Japan and overseas. These initiatives are designed 0 to allow the group as a 2009 2011 whole to more quickly * MOL (Non-consolidated) employees meet demand in growth * 2009 base year of 100 for number of employees stationed overseas * Emerging countries are countries in Asia, Africa, South America and the Middle East markets. An in-house seminar 6 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Feature 1: For Acceleration of Business Development in Growing Markets Development in Growing Markets Fe a ture With MOL accelerating business development in growing markets, Brazil we believe it is necessary for the entire MOL Group to rigorously Signed a long-term contract for transporting comply with laws and social norms at the global level. Based on this iron ore to China using VLOCs (300,000 DWT-class) with a major mining company. commitment, we administered a survey in January 2011 to 58 Group (November 2010) companies overseas on awareness and practice of the Global Compact. The survey looked into the initiatives of these companies in the four areas covered by the Global Compact. The survey found that, in addition to complying with national laws and regulations, the companies have formulated their own rules of conduct, are fully respecting human rights and rigorously managing occupational safety and health, have established their own compliance rules, and have set up internal advisory service desks for consulting on and reporting human rights abuses. We found that adequate CSR-related Chile and Peru practices are in place even in emerging countries like Brazil, India Transport of wheelchairs (February 2011) and the Philippines. The results of this survey will be shared with MOL Group companies in Japan and overseas, in the hope that this will lead to even greater awareness and improved measures relating to CSR across the entire group. Paraguay Transport of children’s wheelchairs (February 2011) ● Major business activities in emerging countries ● Transport of aid supplies, etc. to emerging countries The Global Compact Helping Achieve the United Nation’s ­Millennium emblem Development Goals Contributing to Economic and Social Development in Emerging Countries For a country to really take off as an emerging nation, education and medical care must first be widely available. Even in countries Voices from the Forefront with burgeoning growth, the society there does not always reap Masaru Satose the benefits and often remains mired in an array of problems. Managing Director, MOL (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. One of the principles of MOL’s social contribution activities is The guidebook issued to our staff covers employment, complicontributing to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals ance with antitrust law, rules of conduct, valuing diversity and (see pages 43 and 44). Acting on the basis of this principle is the dignity at work, occupational safety, business continuity planning, responsibility of a company that grows in step with global economic confidentiality, conflicts of interest, staff counseling, disciplinary and social development. And, over the long term, development actions, responding to discontent and other policies related to of the regions and countries we support will underpin our growth protecting human rights. (far right) as well. Increasing and Ensuring Awareness of the Global Compact Rigorously Ensuring Compliance at the Global Level With operations that span the globe, MOL participates in the Global Compact, promoted by the United Nations since March 2005, as a global corporate citizen. We work to support and practice the compact’s 10 principles, which cover four areas: human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Environmental and Social Report 2011 7 Feature 2: Enhancing Safe Operation Safe operation is a social mission for MOL as an ocean transport company, not to mention a theme of the utmost importance to become the company of choice among customers and other stakeholders. Our previous midterm management plan saw us put priority on refining our safe operation system. Under our current plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” we are building from this base with the aim of making our safe operation processes more visible, and becoming the world leader in safe operation. Making Processes for Realizing Safe ­Operation Our performance in these areas in fiscal 2010 was as follows. Visible 1. D id not achieve. An iron ore carrier collided and sank in waters MOL is currently working to increase the visibility of safe operation to the east of China’s Shandong Peninsula in May 2010. Also, processes in order to become a company that customers are there were two fatal work-related accidents on charter vessels. confident in and to safely transport the cargo entrusted to us. 2–4: Achieved as follows: Specifically, we have introduced objective numerical indicators for measuring safety levels and have set numerical targets based on Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) them. Efforts are currently underway to achieve the targets. 1.8 1. Four zeroes (an unblemished record 1.2 in terms of serious marine incidents, 2009 average for all industries: 1.62 MOL target: 0.25 oil pollution, fatal ­accidents, and 0.6 cargo damage) 0.393 0.415 0.241 2. LTIF*1 (Lost Time Injury ­Frequency): 0 2008 2009 2010 under 0.25 3. O perational stoppage time* 2 : 24 hours/ship or below 4. O perational stoppage accident Operational Stoppage Accidents Average Time and Frequency rate*3: 1.0/ship or below (Time/ship) (Number of accidents/ship) 48 Operational stoppage 2.0 average time target: *1. Number of work-related accidents per hour per one million people. Average for all industries 36 24.00 hours/ship or less 1.5 (2009) was 1.62; for marine shipping industry, 1.38; for shipbuilding and repair, 1.27. 35.35 (Source: 2009 Survey on Industrial Accidents issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) 24 1.04 22.59 22.96 1.0 *2. Expresses the amount of ship operational stoppage time due to an accident per ship per 0.83 year. 12 0.5 Operational stoppage accident *3. Expresses the number of accidents that result in ship operational stoppage per ship per 0.64 rate target: 1.00 or less year. 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Average operational stoppage time (time/ship) (left scale) Operational stoppage accident rate (accidents/ship) (right scale) 8 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Feature 2: Enhancing Safe Operation —Aiming to Become the World Leader in Safe Operation— —Aiming to Become the World Leader in Safe Operation— Breaking the Chain of Errors* Fe a ture offshore of Somalia, all the way to the Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean, We continue to make improvements related to both seafarer training so the risk of an attack continues to increase. and ship facilities to break the chain of errors in which minor factors MOL is working to strengthen ship security against the threats of combine and ultimately lead to major maritime accidents. piracy and terrorism and to improve risk management functions on In terms of seafarer training, we are working to improve the ability land. The best solution is avoiding navigating through dangerous of seafarers to predict risk in order to break the chain of errors. waters to the fullest extent possible. But in pirate-infested waters To this end, we are reinforcing our OJT Instructor System, under we increased the number of people on watch for 24-hour visual which on-the-job training is provided by seasoned captains and monitoring and also strengthened radar-based monitoring activities. chief engineers with ample experience in MOL ship operations. We strive to avoid crises by detecting and discovering piracy at an The instructors travel onboard each ship for a certain period of time early stage, making accurate predictions and assessments, initiating to provide onsite safety training and technical instruction. We are avoidance maneuvers quickly, and issuing rescue calls to MOL’s also enhancing land-based education and training curriculums and Safety Operation Supporting Center and other related institutions. However, in March 2011, an MOL-operated oil tanker was attacked programs. Further, we are working to raise safety awareness among by pirates in the Indian Ocean, although the ship was not hijacked. seafarers by collecting information on close calls (risky incidents In response, we are reinforcing our crisis management systems with that came very close to causing a more serious accident) from each facilities-related measures that include equipment and communicaship in operation and distributing that information to ships along tion devices for preventing pirate boardings and additional education with easy-to-understand photos and illustrations. and training for seafarers. In terms of ship facilities, we are working to equip ships with Under the “GEAR UP! MOL” plan, we are also actively involved error-resistant equipment. This involves promoting the fail-safe in environmental protection measures through safe ship operation design concept (systems are designed to constantly operate safely and in acquiring and training even when trouble occurs due to operator error) by providing human resources to foster feedback to shipyards and equipment manufacturers on areas of the kind of sensibility and non-conformance and areas in need of improvement while concapability needed to break struction is still in progress and after delivery is taken. the chain of errors (see page * Various factors lead to accidents like links in a chain. 23 for details). Development of IT for Ship Management New Initiative We will continue to promote greater use of information technology Responding to Serious Marine Incidents at ship management companies and on board ships and work to In response to recent serious marine incidents, we have created a integrate ship management systems within the MOL Group. These training video based on investigations of the causes and distributed efforts are geared to raising the efficiency of safe operation it to the relevant departments and implemented measures to prevent management processes between ships and ship management recurrence, including crewmember training at Safety Conferences companies and to effectively sharing information on safe operation (see page 23 for details) and other venues. within the group. In addition, operational safety workshops for office staff were initiated at the head office in November 2010 to widely disseminate Enhancing Countermeasures Against Piracy information within the company on measures for reinforcing safe and Terrorism operations, case studies of incidents and measures based on them. Pirates are not just a cinematic phenomenon. In 2010 alone there were The sessions will be held every quarter on an ongoing basis. 219 incidents of piracy and 48 ship hijackings in the Gulf of Aden—the In June 2011, we produced a video entitled “Forging Ahead to entrance of an important shipping lane that connects the Indian Ocean Become The World Leader in Safe Operation” that introduces MOL with the Mediterranean Sea through the Red Sea and Suez Canal—and measures to reinforce safe operation. The video is being distributed the surrounding waters off the coast of Somalia. Two Japanese navy not only to company departments and MOL-operated ships but escort vessels, patrol planes also to customers and other relevant outside parties in an effort to and other measures initiated raise awareness within the company and promote greater visibility in March 2009 to protect the for safe operation measures. shipping lane in the Gulf of Aden have reduced the number of incidents in the area by nearly half. However, pirates using merchant ships and fishing vessels that they have hijacked are becoming Operational safety workshops for office staff more active in a wide area Regions with piracy incidents (red box on left is DVD “Forging Ahead to Become The the Gulf of Aden and waters off Somalia; red dots World Leader in Safe Operation” are regular ships) Environmental and Social Report 2011 9 Feature 3: Environmental Strategy Our environmental strategy is one of the overall strategies laid out in the midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL.” It calls for evolving into a corporate group that meets today’s demands by offering transport solutions with a lower environmental burden. A major pillar in achieving this goal is the Senpaku ISHIN project, our concept for next-generation vessels that will employ feasible technologies to reduce CO2 emissions and other environmental loads. This report profiles developmental progress on core component technologies for the three series of Senpaku ISHIN concept vessels. Hybrid Car Carrier Slated for Delivery in 2012 Computer rendering of solar panels (approx. 160 kilowatts) on an existing ship I S H I N -Ⅰ I S H I N -Ⅱ Hybrid Car Carrier that Uses Ferry that Uses LNG as Fuel Renewable Energy Features Features • Use of LNG as fuel: By using liquefied • Zero emissions while in port and during natural gas (LNG) as fuel, the vessel has loading and unloading cleaner exhaust gases and greatly • 50% less CO2 emitted while at sea reduces CO2 emissions. • Use of shore power supply system: While in port and at berth, the ship uses electricity supplied from shore and rechargeable batteries to achieve zero emissions • Emphasis on comfort • CO2 reduction: 50% Achieving Zero Emissions While in Port Realizing the Use of LNG as Fuel As a part of efforts to develop CO2-reduction technologies, MOL Compared to the fuel oils presently used by ships, liquefied natural is teaming with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and SANYO gas (LNG) reduces CO2 emissions by approximately 20% and Electric Co., Ltd. to conduct R&D on hybrid car carriers that use lowers emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx), solar power generation systems. Solar power generation systems considered to be causes of acid rain and atmospheric pollution, by were installed on Euphony Ace, delivered in November 2005, and 70% to 90% or more. LNG is therefore known as a clean energy. Swift Ace, delivered in May 2008, but before the end of fiscal 2011, It follows that switching the fuel used by ships from fuel oil to LNG we will complete development of a hybrid power supply system will make them more environmentally friendly. The technology has that combines a scaled-up solar power generation system with already been established, but in Japan, ship and port regulations lithium-ion batteries. The system will be installed on a car carrier are not yet in place, so there have been no practical applications slated for delivery in June 2012. Zero emissions will be achieved to date. In order to resolve all of the issues involved, MOL proactively by charging the lithium-ion batteries with electricity generated by attends committee meetings with the government, shipping comthe solar power system while at sea and consuming the electricity panies, shipbuilders, gas utilities and others, as it works to make while in port, which will allow the diesel power generators to be practical use of LNG fuel a reality as soon as possible. shut off. 10 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Feature 3: Environmental Strategy Fe a ture The Road to ISHIN Voices from the Forefront Development Roadmap ISHIN-I, -II, and -III employ many technologies other than the comTakahiro Hayakawa ponent technologies introduced here. We have created a roadmap Ship Design Group, Technical Division for research, development and testing on all component technoloExecuting a project that organically combines two disparate gies and regularly monitor progress toward early implementation on industrial sectors—a large oceangoing vessel and lithium-ion actual ships. The roadmap spells out the costs and benefits of combatteries—is a major challenge. Establishing safety measures was particularly difficult. But thanks to effective teamwork, we ponent technologies that have reached the stage of practical appliare now projecting delivery of a hybrid car carrier in June 2012. cation and encourages their adoption by divisions in charge of each It is our hope that expertise gained from the project will help type of ship. lower the environmental impact of ships in the future. (Photo: Fourth person from left) Development Roadmap for ISHIN Series Component Technologies (excerpt) Component Technologies FY2010 2H FY2011 1H FY2011 2H Deploy on ships Fuel additives Optimal trim Verify navigation data Consider expanding ship types operation Run field tests Begin installing Develop Hybrid car with small-scale hybrid systems on hybrid system carrier* hybrid system actual ships Technology for Install test engine at Acquire basic data Acquire basic data Team Senpaku ISHIN reducing NOx, MOL’s Technology via trial operation via trial operation SOx and PM in Research Center with diesel oil with heavy fuel oil exhaust gases Implemented Implementation scheduled I S H I N -Ⅲ * Research and development on hybrid car carriers has been selected to receive assistance from the Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and receives support as a joint research theme with Nippon Kaiji Kyokai. Very Large Ore Carrier With ­High-Efficiency Waste Heat Energy Recovery System Examples of Other Component Technologies Features • Waste heat energy recovery to assist Development of Fuel Additives propulsion “TAICRUSH HD,” a fuel additive developed jointly by MOL’s Technology • Employs technologies to reduce CO2 emissions even at low speeds, as well as Research Center and TaihoKohzai Co., Ltd., is a key technology of during normal operation the Senpaku ISHIN project. This additive helps to improve ignition • CO2 reduction: 30% performance and combustion efficiency, which are expected to reduce fuel consumption by as much as 1.5%. MOL is successively introducing Pursuing Energy Efficiency on a Larger Scale the additive on its fleet of ships, allowing the company to also reduce The diesel-type engines used on ships offer the best environmental CO2 emissions. performance of any engine. However, for a ship’s engine to turn the propellers and move the ship forward, roughly one-quarter of the thermal energy inputted as fuel is wasted as exhaust gas. In recent years, progress has been made on technology for effectively utilizing the thermal energy contained in exhaust gas that is wasted. MOL itself continues to test technology for converting thermal Details of the component technologies can be found on the energy in exhaust gas to electricity and technology for using Senpaku ISHIN section of MOL’s website electricity obtained from exhaust gas to help power the propellers. Web http://www.mol.co.jp/ishin/en/index.html We are working with shipbuilders and engine manufacturers with the goal of installing waste heat recovery technology that builds on conventional advantages on an actual ship in two to three years. Environmental and Social Report 2011 11 Special Feature Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake We would like to express our heartfelt sympathies to those who lost loved ones in the Great East Japan Earthquake, and extend our best wishes to other affected people. In this section we introduce crisis management measures implemented by MOL in the wake of the earthquake of March 11, 2011, support activities conducted for the disaster region, and our plans to contribute through our main business activities. Swift Response Based on Business Verifying the Safety of Employees Continuity Plan We immediately verified the safety and well-being of all employees The company has formulated a business continuity plan (BCP*) of MOL, their families and all employees of Group companies. documenting specific procedures to enable it to continue providing its core marine transport services without interruption, or quickly Earthquake Response Manual restore operations to pre-disaster levels in preparation for an MOL has an established disaster and earthquake response manual unexpected event. In the event of an earthquake or other natural and had been prepared for an emergency. At the head office building, disaster, or outbreak of an infectious disease, MOL’s highest priority we temporarily shut down the elevators and confirmed safety. is ensuring the safety of MOL-operated vessels and company On the day of the earthquake, most of the trains in the Tokyo personnel. MOL took the following rapid actions based on this plan metropolitan area stopped running, so in the aftermath of the recent disaster. many employees stayed the night at * Business Continuity Plan: A plan that establishes response measures necessary for ensuring our offices. Bedding, blankets and the continuity of operations when a disaster occurs. food supplies had been prepared in advance for this possibility. Earthquake Task Force and Support Headquarters The day after the earthquake occurred, we established the TohokuPacific Ocean Earthquake (Great East Japan Earthquake) Task Force and Support Headquarters, chaired by the president. In response to the massive damage done by the earthquake, we ensured business continuity by minimizing the damage to the MOL Group, while simultaneously establishing a system for providing March 11 Blankets handed out to employees unable to get home and rapid support for the disaster region. forced to stay overnight at the office Confirming Safety of Operated Vessels Group-level Support for Disaster Region Immediately following the earthquake, all relevant personnel were The MOL Group is conducting activities to help support the victims assembled at MOL’s Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC). and to assist in the recovery of the disaster-stricken region. Our The center, which is normally engaged in year-round, 24-hour monitormain activities are as follows: ing of the position and movement of operated vessels and in providing information on abnormal weather, piracy and terrorism to individual Transporting JSDF Vehicles and Troops by Ferry vessels and other related parties, quickly went about confirming the Group company MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. transported some 3,700 safety of operated vessels and providing tsunami information. Vessels ­Japanese Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) troops and 1,260 emeroperated by MOL were not involved in any serious marine incidents gency vehicles for providing relief to the disaster-stricken region. resulting from the earthquake or the subsequent tsunami. 4 ferries made a total of 10 trips from the port of Tomakomai to the port of Aomori from March 13 to March 22. March 11 SOSC confirmed the damage status of each vessel immediately March 17 Sunflower Sapporo loading JSDF vehicles at the port of Tomakomai after the earthquake 12 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Free Emergency Support for Relief Supplies Cruise Ship Fuji Maru Supports Relief Efforts Immediately after the earthquake, there were severe shortages of From April 11 to April 17, MOL arranged for the ocean-going cruise food and daily necessities in the disaster region. Drawing on our ship Fuji Maru to call in at several ports in Iwate Prefecture that S pe cia l Fe a ture group network and transport capabilities, MOL procured relief were severely damaged by the tsunami: Ofunato, Kamaishi and supplies and delivered them free of charge to customers and Miyako. The Fuji Maru provided nutritionally-balanced meals for municipalities in areas affected by the disaster. As of April 8, we victims, a large public bath and private space in the form of cabins had procured and delivered 19 10-ton truck loads of supplies to free of charge. A total of 4,451 people used these amenities. the stricken areas. March 31 Loading relief supplies at the Ohi Logistics Center April 11 The Fuji Maru arrives at the port of Ofunato Free Transport of Relief Supplies from Abroad Providing an extensive variety of meals Responding to requests for transport of relief supplies from overseas, MOL provided free transport services for supplies sent from other countries. We have transported the equivalent of 32 20-foot containers filled with drinking water, bedding, masks and other supplies to the disaster region (as of June 30, 2011) free of charge, as well as large quantities of building materials for temporary housing at special rates. Donations for Disaster Relief 1. MOL donated a total of ¥50 million for immediate disaster relief to Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture and the Japanese Red Cross Society. 2. Donations were solicited from executives, employees and seafarers in the MOL Group, and a total of approximately ¥63 million was April 17 Being seen off at the raised and donated for relief and recovery efforts to the Japanese port of Miyako by the local Red Cross Society and the Central Community Chest of Japan. people Ongoing Initiatives Through Our Main Business The Great East Japan Earthquake has had a major impact on business activities and daily living in the form of energy shortages, causing increasing demand for petroleum products and alternative energy sources like liquefied natural gas (LNG) and coal. Moreover, drinking water, housing materials and other supplies are being imported in large quantities. As one of the largest shipping companies in the world with a diverse fleet of LNG carriers, crude oil and petrochemical product tankers, dry bulkers, containerships and more, MOL has worked since the earthquake to meet this transport demand. We will continue contributing to recovery and new growth through our main business—transporting resources, energy sources and products for Japan and other countries around the world. Environmental and Social Report 2011 13 Management MOL’s Approach to CSR MOL’s basic approach to corporate social responsibility is expressed in the MOL Group Corporate Principles. To put these principles into practice, the MOL Group meets the global transport demand through daily business activities and has also created a framework for CSR initiatives and strengthened those initiatives by setting annual targets. Under our midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” we will strive to make CSR initiatives even more progressive. MOL Group Corporate Principles 1. As a multi-modal transport group, we will actively seize opportunities that contribute to global economic growth and development by meeting and responding to our customers’ needs and to this new era. 2. We will strive to maximize corporate value by always being creative, continually pursuing higher operating efficiency, and promoting an open and visible management style that is guided by the highest ethical and social standards. 3. We will promote and protect our environment by maintaining strict, safe operation and navigation standards. CSR Initiatives The CSR and Environment Committee is chaired by the executive In our view, CSR means conducting business management that vice president and works to promote CSR throughout the MOL adequately takes into account laws and regulations, social norms, Group by setting and reviewing annual targets for initiatives related safety and environmental issues, human rights and other considerto compliance, corporate governance, accountability, risk manageations, and developing together with society in a mutual and sustainment, safe operation, human rights, care for employees and seafarable manner while earning the support and trust of stakeholders, ers, social contributions and the environment. The CSR and including shareholders, customers, business partners, employees Environment Office in the Corporate Planning Division administers and local communities. the committee and promotes CSR. In fiscal 2010, the committee was convened three times and Relationships with MOL Group Stakeholders deliberated on progress with CSR targets and environmental targets Increase corporate value by strengthenIncrease satisfaction by providing highing profitability, timely and appropriate quality, reliable services and products and set in the “GEAR UP! MOL” midterm management plan, as well as disclosure through proactive IR activities so on. and so on. the status of environmental management, initiatives to reduce Shareholders Customers environmental impact, accommodation of environmental laws and regulations, and other matters. Participating in the UN Global Compact Business MOL Communities MOL has participated in the United Nations Global Compact since Partners Group Enhance understanding of March 2005. The Global Compact was first proposed by then UN Build good relationships and the MOL Group, build good share business opportunities relationships, ensure safe Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1999 and formally initiated the through fair trade and so on. operation and environment protection, contribute to following year. Member companies are required to support and society, and so on. practice 10 principles in four areas: human rights, labor, the environPublic Employees Organizations ment and anti-corruption. Sharing the same values as our Rules of Pay tax, comply with laws and regulaIncrease employee satisfaction and recruit Conduct, which was established as a set of guidelines for executives tions, help promote industry and so on. excellent personnel by providing and maintaining employment opportunities, respecting and employees, MOL’s participation in the Global Compact signals human rights, and offering occupational safety and health, education and training, and a internally and publicly our commitment to these principles. The MOL workplace where employees can feel satisfaction and pride. Group, which does business internationally, intends to work to raise awareness of CSR among employees in Japan and abroad by In order to fulfill these responsibilities, MOL deliberates on making the Global Compact widely known and ensuring that it is CSR-related policies and measures, primarily through the three rigorously practiced. (Please refer to page 7 for details.) committees under the Executive Committee. Organizational Framework for CSR Initiatives CSR and Environment Committee Chief Executive Officer Executive Operational Safety Committee (President) Committee The Global Compact emblem Compliance Committee 14 Environmental and Social Report 2011 MOL’s Approach to CSR CSR Activities Policy During the Midterm Management Plan, “GEAR UP! MOL” 1. Stepping up “CSR that protects MOL” and “CSR that fulfills MOL’s responsibility” 2. Pursuing “CSR activities that benefit both the company and society” 3. Expanding CSR activities worldwide and throughout the MOL Group In the past, many companies, particularly in Japan, have adopted The midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” includes a an approach towards CSR that has focused on measures such as number of CSR-related goals. For example, by enhancing safe good governance and careful adherence to regulations to protect operation, the company aims to become the world leader in safe them from accidents and impropriety. Based on this, they have operation and make safety measures visible. In addition, we have proceeded to practice CSR that fulfills their responsibilities. Namely, adopted a new environmental strategy with the goal of answering to advance CSR, companies, as members of society, have tried to the demands of the times by offering transport solutions with a strike an effective balance in allocating the profits and utilizing the lower environmental burden. These safe operation and environassets they generate, by protecting the environment, contributing mental protection policies will help persuade customers to select M a n a ge me n t to the local community, and paying a reasonable return to stakeholdMOL, and thus are a component of the company’s efforts to achieve ers. These two categories represent the foundation level of CSR. sustainable growth. In that sense, CSR policies are closely related In MOL’s case, CSR activities are founded first and foremost on to the company’s business strategies. By establishing a CSR policy the establishment of good corporate governance and compliance, that is clearly understood and embraced by customers, employees, the creation of Rules of Conduct and measures to eliminate mariseafarers, and society as a whole, and also is recognized and time accidents, development of environmental management sysevaluated favorably by shareholders and investors, MOL will be the tems and so on. The company also strives to use its resources company of choice. This in turn will allow the company to make effectively to make a contribution to society. In this way, MOL has even greater contributions to society, generating a positive cycle addressed the immediate tasks of effective CSR. that builds synergy, supports sustainable growth and benefits both In the years ahead, MOL has decided to take the next step forward the company and society. in CSR by instilling an even stronger awareness of and pursuing One other strategic goal of “GEAR UP! MOL” is to accelerate “CSR activities that benefit both the company and society,” while business development in growing global markets. Therefore, we identifying and supplementing any areas where the fundamental are striving to ensure that CSR activities and policies are dissemilevel of CSR has been inadequate. nated throughout the MOL Group and are a feature of operations both in Japan and overseas. Current CSR Activities in the MOL Group Activities in Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2010 was the inaugural year of our current three-year midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” which adopts “enhance safe operation” and “environmental strategy” as overall strategic goals of MOL under the main theme of “Challenge to create new growth.” This plan marks the first time that MOL has set medium-term policies and targets for CSR. In fiscal 2010, the company worked to achieve its single-year targets based on these mediumterm policies and targets. As a result of these efforts, we achieved all of our targets across a broad range of fields, from compliance and accountability to employee health and social contribution activities. We also achieved much in terms of safe operation, including tough numerical targets that we set in accordance with our policy of making our performance visible. That said, in May 2010, there was a marine accident involving an MOL-owned iron ore carrier. Because of this accident, we unfortunately did not achieve the “four zeroes”—an unblemished record in terms of serious marine incidents, oil pollution, fatal accidents, and cargo damage. We acted immediately to design and implement countermeasures, however. In the area of environmental preservation, we boiled our environmental strategy down into specific targets. And we produced results. For instance, we created and implemented a roadmap for our Senpaku ISHIN project, thoroughly practiced ECO SAILING, enhanced initiatives by MOL Group companies, and raised awareness among employees with regard to biodiversity. Among our accomplishments in fiscal 2010, we reduced CO2 emissions per ton-mile (on a non-consolidated basis) by 9.9% versus our goal of a 1% reduction compared with fiscal 2009. One reason for this much larger reduction was a rebound in trade volume in step with economic recovery. But I also put it down to initiatives implemented to date such as the aforementioned Senpaku ISHIN project, greater use of slow steaming and the introduction of larger vessels. In June 2011, MOL became the first company in the ocean shipping industry to acquire the “DBJ Environmental Ratings” from the Development Bank of Japan Inc. (DBJ). MOL received the highest rating from DBJ, which cited MOL’s “particularly forward-looking approaches to environmental consciousness.” Activities Planned for Fiscal 2011 Having achieved our goals in fiscal 2010, we have set new goals for fiscal 2011. In addition to refining environmental activities, we are determined to achieve the “four zeroes” in terms of safe operation. Furthermore, using the results of a questionnaire sent to overseas offices concerning the UN Global Compact, we will also work to embed CSR in our organization worldwide. By repeating the PDCA cycle as we have been doing, we aim to achieve our medium-term targets and earn recognition from our stakeholders. We are convinced that this will enable us to continuously grow with society. Toshitaka Shishido, Chairman of the CSR and Environment Committee Representative Director, Executive Vice President Environmental and Social Report 2011 15 Management CSR Program Targets and Results In order to put our CSR Activities Policy during the midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL” into practice, we have established midterm CSR program targets (FY2010–12) as well as targets for each fiscal year, and are currently working to achieve them. New targets were established for fiscal 2011 based on relative achievement of fiscal 2010 targets. The MOL Group is striving to grow with society in a sustainable and synergistic manner through achievement of these midterm CSR program targets. Objectives of Midterm Management Plan (FY2010–12) FY2010 Targets 1. Stepping up “CSR that protects MOL” and “CSR that fulfills MOL’s responsibility” Overall Strategy 2. Pursuing “CSR activities that benefit both the company and society” 3. Expanding CSR activities worldwide and throughout the MOL Group 1) Run e-learning and other programs in 3 high-compliance risk fields (antitrust law, insider trading and taxation) 2) Hold legal insurance courses at the head office at least once a year Ensure strict compliance world wide/Group-wide and strengthen 3) Administer legal courses for MOL Group companies in Japan (2 times) and overseas systems that support this 4) Raise awareness of best practices, with a focus on MOL Group companies Compliance 5) Begin enhancing a worldwide legal risk management network Strengthen systems for early detection and rectification of 6) Communicate Rules of Conduct at new employee training non-compliance 7) Share specific case studies with related divisions 1) Hold discussions on strategies and long-term vision at board meetings with attenEffectively administer MOL’s distinctive system of corporate dance of outside directors 10 times a year, in principle governance 2) Establish and institute new investment standards, business exit rules, and methods Strengthen systems for risk management and business for clarifying maximum risk levels Corporate intelligence (BI) that support sustainable growth 3) Establish position of chief intelligence officer, build an intelligence network, etc. Governance, Risk Management 4) Create BCP for earthquakes and communicable diseases Establish and enhance business continuity planning (BCP) 5) Hold BCP drills Develop balanced relations with stakeholders 6) Devise measures for strengthening engagement with suppliers and transparency in relationships with them Continually practice accurate, timely disclosure for shareholders 1) Strive to eliminate corrections to disclosures and investors 2) Hold briefings for investors in the first six months after announcement of the midterm management plan Promote stakeholder understanding of the midterm management 3) Increase the number of IR events for emerging markets in Asia experiencing rapid growth plan, which is focused on growth, safe operation and the 4) Conduct effective publicity for initiatives in the midterm management plan environment Accountability 5) Further improve disclosure and transparency related to distinctive ocean shipping portfolio management Develop the trust of shareholders and investors regarding the sustainability of our business performance 6) Conduct IR activities that proactively respond to changing conditions (International Financial Reporting Standards, business environment, etc.) Strengthen world wide/Group-wide responsiveness regarding 7) Conduct media handling drills during emergencies once in Japan (run by Public disclosure in emergencies Relations Office) and at least twice overseas Establish a reputation as the leading company in the shipping 8) Increase exposure in mass media as well as business journals industry among business professionals in Japan and overseas 1) Of the four zeros, achieve zero serious marine incidents, zero oil pollution, and zero serious cargo damage 2) Achieve target operational down time per vessel of 24 hours/year or less 3) Achieve targets for Phase III (started October 2009) of Safe Operation Management Structure through the following measures –Measures to raise seafarer skill levels to break links in any potential error chain, incl. continuously updating BRM drills*2 and expanding them overseas Safe Operation, Realize world’s best level of safe operation and transport quality Service Quality –Measures to improve ship facilities rooted in the fail-safe concept, based on feedback from vessels in operation –Measures to improve ship management to raise safety levels through more advanced IT, well-established PDCA cycles and other initiatives –Measures to improve frontline capabilities for safe operation and cargo handling by enhancing SOSC*3, vessel inspections and the Port To Port Boarding Audit Support System 16 Environmental and Social Report 2011 CSR Program Targets and Results Legend: ◎ Achieved ○ Generally achieved △ Partially achieved ● Did not achieve (target period/content changes) FY2010 Results FY2011 Targets Conducted e-learning programs on antitrust law and insider trading. A program 1) Run e-learning programs in high compliance risk fields (antitrust law and insider trading) ○ on taxation was not conducted after reconsideration M a n a ge me n t ◎ Conducted legal insurance courses 2) Hold legal insurance courses at the head office at least once a year Held legal courses in Japan twice (in Tokyo and Osaka). Instructional video posted on 3) Administer legal courses for MOL Group companies in Japan (2 times) and overseas ◎ the MIP*1 for Group companies overseas Held a Group Executive Committee meeting in September to inform and share the 4) Raise awareness of best practices, with a focus on MOL Group companies ◎ Best Practice Ran e-learning program on antitrust law for officers and employees of overseas affiliates 5) Revise Compliance Rules and strengthen recurrence prevention system ◎ through the MIP*1. Program taken by 3,451 people at 43 companies (March–April 2011) Communicated at new employee training in April (land-based employees) and ­October 6) Communicate Rules of Conduct at new employee training ◎ (seagoing employees) ● Specific case studies not shared due to lack of appropriate cases 7) Establish external compliance report desk and raise awareness of it 5 times (not achieved due to priority being given to urgent agenda items) 1) Hold discussions on strategies and long-term vision at board meetings with attendance of outside ● directors 9 times a year, in principle 2) Enhance advance briefings on board meeting agenda items for outside officers to further enhance deliberations by the board Only established new investment standards; the rest not conducted 3) Enhance and rigorously implement fleet data management and foreign currency flow management ○ Launched BI system using the MIP*1. Revamped intelligence officer position and cre4) Foster a corporate culture that works to acquire beneficial information (hold BI training sessions twice, ○ ated business intelligence managers in each division hold theme-based seminars 3 times, extend the MIP*1 platform to mobile devices, and establish new BI page on the MIP) ◎ Created (Completed March 2011) 5) Implement backup measures for the BCP (develop information systems, etc.) BCP drills were not conducted because the BCP wasn’t completed until the end of 6) Conduct drills using satellite offices ● the fiscal year Conducted a questionnaire on the Global Compact to overseas sites and obtained 7) Begin considerations for supplier CSR guidelines △ views There was 1 correction in a total of 39 disclosure documents (revision disclosed 1) Strive to eliminate corrections to disclosures ● immediately after it was found) Held roundtable meetings with the president on the midterm plan immediately after 2) Hold president roundtables and seminars. Plan and hold tours of the SOSC*3 and other MOL facilities ◎ announcement of the plan Held an IR event in Singapore for Asian investors (1 time) 3) Increase the number of IR events for Asian investors to appeal to investors in the emerging markets in ◎ Asia that are experiencing rapid growth 3 Held tour of SOSC* for sell-side investors (1 time) and worked to promote under4) Make revisions to fleet expansion plans, etc. during midterm plan period depending on changes in ○ standing of safe operation initiatives business environment and progress levels, and disclose revisions to the public 5) Include features on growing markets and safe operation—pillars of the midterm plan—in annual report based on progress levels Continued to promote the characteristics of MOL’s fleet portfolio through meetings 6) Qualitatively improve disclosure of information promoting the growth potential of ocean transport and ◎ with investors (Utilized meetings to emphasize MOL’s positive figures for fiscal 2009 MOL’s distinctive ocean transport portfolio management when competitors were in the red) 7) Dispel concerns of investors through disclosures in line with changes in business trends and the business climate (including information related to IFRS and other accounting standards) Discussion session held with investors on IFRS; specifically, problems and points of 8) Conduct IR activities in Japan and overseas based on the above and increase the number of events ○ debate surrounding the impact of moving time charters onto the balance sheet Achieved in Japan; carried forward to next fiscal year for overseas 9) Hold drills at least twice a year on handling the media in emergencies (run by Public Relations Office) △ Achieved 1.16 times more postings than the previous year 10) Increase exposure in mass media as well as business journals by 5% from the previous fiscal year ◎ There was an incident involving an iron ore carrier in the waters to the east of 1) Of the four zeros, achieve zero serious marine incidents, zero oil pollution, and zero serious cargo China’s Shandong Peninsula (May 2010). In response, we created a DVD based on damage ● investigations of causes and distributed it to relevant departments to prevent recurrence, and conducted crewmember training at Safety Conferences. Held operational safety workshops for office staff twice at the head office Operational down time per vessel of 22.96 hours; achieved target 2) Achieve target operational down time per vessel of 24 hours/year or less while aiming for further ◎ reduction 3) Achieve targets for Phase IV (started October 2010) of Safe Operation Management Structure through the following measures: Continually updated BRM drills*2 and extended the drills overseas, launched risk –Hold Safety Conferences 4 times worldwide. Hold operational safety workshops for office staff 4 times prediction and sensitivity training as a new form of training, gave presentations on ◎ accident case studies at Safety Conferences, and communicated accident prevention measures in a timely manner based on near-miss statistics Started getting feedback from vessels on ways to improve vessel equipment based –Visit at least 300 vessels for operational safety campaigns (280 in FY2010), and have corporate ○ on fail-safe concept officers visit at least 50 vessels (37 in FY2010) Selected a system (October 2010), and IT Project Team began considering –Conduct BRM drills*2 and SHS drills*4 based on established drill scenarios and new simulator ○ specifications Established new Dry Cargo Ship Group in the Marine Safety Division (June 2010) –Prevent accident recurrence through timely reporting and dissemination of information on near◎ and strengthened system for vessel inspections. Further enhanced OJT Instructor misses and accidents System*5 in place of the Port To Port Boarding Audit Support System –Formulate policies for improving vessel equipment based on the fail-safe concept –Accelerate and promote increased efficiency of vessel-land operations through introduction of an advanced IT system and share information better –Implement FMS*6 at the SOSC*3 for domestic carrier and ferry movements (Continued on next page) Environmental and Social Report 2011 17 CSR Program Targets and Results Objectives of Midterm Management Plan (FY2010–12) FY2010 Targets 1) Enhance human rights training embedded in employee training programs and Raise human rights awareness in Japan and overseas, and ensure establish a new E-Learning course on human rights human rights are protected 2) Conduct a questionnaire for overseas sites on the Global Compact Enhance the personnel system to further motivate employees 3) Review the personnel system and enable them to demonstrate their abilities 4) Reduce overtime work by 10% compared to FY2009 5) Consider mechanisms for incorporating overtime hours management into performance reviews of managers 6) Use of at least 10 days of annual leave (7.6 days used on average in FY2009) 7) Use of all 7 special summer vacation days (5.2 days used on average in FY2009) Reduce overtime work and develop workplace conditions that instill peace of mind in employees in line with an individual’s 8) Institute program for working shorter hours stage of life Care for Human 9) Enhance system for preventing physical/mental health issues Rights, Employees 10) Establish procedures manual for dealing with new flu viruses in line with virulence and Seafarers levels and rates of infection Enhance the employees’ health management system and risk management system 11) Review overseas safety management manual 12) Track Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), including at Group companies 13) Achieve zero fatal worker accidents, one of the four zeroes Improve occupational safety and health and welfare programs for 14) Achieve Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) of 0.25 or less seafarers 15) Prepare for early adoption of the Maritime Labour Convention, which stipulates shorter on-board working hours 16) Install fleet broadband (high-speed Internet access on ships) Foster our own multinational seafarers and employ them as core 17) Enhance scholarship programs, internships and drill facilities (seafarer training sites, the training ship) seafarers 18) Fully establish program for recognizing outstanding seafarers Provide employees and seafarers with a sense of pride and joy 19) Effectively utilize Japanese/English company newsletter and intranet, etc. from working at the company Environmental Evolve into a corporate group that meets today’s demands by (See pages 26 to 29 for “Environmental Targets and Results”) Measures offering transport solutions with a lower environmental burden 1) Re-develop and expand activities in line with the UN Millennium Development Goals Implement principled social contribution activities (tackle social 2) Increase activities that help protect biodiversity issues around the world) 3) Increase activities that contribute to local communities Enhance social contribution activities drawing on the company’s 4) Establish budgets and criteria for transporting aid supplies and expand on Social Contribution resources this basis Activities 5) Expand activities in the world’s emerging countries Conduct social contribution activities integrated with business activities 6) Consider taking part in fair trade, etc. 7) Establish new system for proposals on the MOL Group’s social contribution activities Expand social contribution activities participated in by employees 8) Increase participation by employees, seafarers and cadets (training ship) and seafarers in Japan and overseas Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake *1 MOL Group Information Portal (MIP). A portal site accessible by MOL Group employees worldwide. *2 Bridge Resource Management (BRM) drills. These drills involve recreating past incidents with a simulator and learning how to respond. *3 Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC). *4 Ship Handling Simulator (SHS) drills. These drills are conducted with a life-like simulator that recreates an actual ship using a large screen. *5 On-the-job Training (OJT) Instructor System. Under this system, highly experienced captains are deployed to vessels to conduct inspections and training. *6 Fleet Management System (FMS). The system supports safe vessel operations by continually displaying the movement of all operated ships on monitors along with information on weather conditions, ocean conditions and various types of safety information. 18 Environmental and Social Report 2011 CSR Program Targets and Results Legend: ◎ Achieved ○ Generally achieved △ Partially achieved ● Did not achieve (target period/content changes) FY2010 Results FY2011 Targets Conducted human rights training. Revised implementation policy for e-learning after 1) Continue and strengthen activities for fostering human rights awareness (conduct training for all levels in ○ consideration the company and promote seminar opportunities for personnel who are not human rights specialists) Conducted February 2011 2) Identify issues based on the results of the questionnaire for overseas sites on the Global Compact and ◎ implement measures Provided longer child-care leave than required by law, etc. 3) Review the personnel system to further motivate employees and enable them to demonstrate their ◎ abilities ● FY2010 result: 42 hours (1% increase year on year) 4) Introduce new measures to reduce overtime work by 10% from the previous fiscal year Introduced from FY2011 ◎ ● FY2010 result: 7.1 days used 5) Use of at least 10 days of annual leave (7.1 days used on average in FY2010) ● FY2010 result: 5.3 days used 6) Use of all 7 special summer vacation days (5.3 days used on average in FY2010) Introduced in June 2010 7) Revise and execute program for complying with Act for Measures to Support the Development of the ◎ Next Generation 8) Further strengthen response to globalization (conduct training to develop core personnel at overseas Group companies and other measures) 9) Strengthen career development program to support job performance by women managers 10) Provide support for job performance by people with disabilities 11) Provide support for job performance by seniors Established Health Care Management Unit position. Provided mental healthcare for 12) Strengthen and enhance health management systems for prevention and early response ◎ M a n a ge me n t new seagoing employees and mental health seminars Completed draft version. However, final formulation and approval of the BCP was 13) Enhance interview-based instruction, consultation and health education to promote health △ delayed (as mentioned above), so not formulated and established (approved internally) yet ◎ Completed revising content (plan to print and distribute in FY2011) 14) Support health management for overseas workers ◎ Calculated LTIF for MOL’s land-based operations and domestic Group companies 15) Establish and distribute communicable diseases manual 16) Strengthen safety management systems and conduct drills 17) Continue calculating LTIF, including for Group companies 2 incidents occurred involving charter vessels (as response measures, we will 18) Achieve zero fatal worker accidents, one of the “four zeroes” ● strengthen accident prevention measures, including actively conducting vessel visits and instructional activities with an emphasis on preventing human injury) ◎ Achieved target with LTIF of 0.241 19) Maintain LTIF of 0.25 or less Launched task force, identified issues and formulated response measures 20) Continue preparing for adoption of the Maritime Labour Convention, which stipulates shorter on-board ○ working hours Installed on a total of 96 vessels, including tankers, dry bulkers and LNG carriers 21) Continue installing fleet broadband, and consider a next-generation communication system that ◎ includes health and welfare and test on actual ships Partially revised scholarship programs and enhanced drill curriculums at drill facilities 22) Partner with universities in the Philippines with maritime science departments and train select third-year ◎ (seafarer training sites and the training ship) students at MOL’s training centers ◎ 8 people were selected and 5 were honored in 2010 23) Fully establish and utilize program for recognizing outstanding seafarers Created new English-language company newsletter posted on ship wall-hung bulletin 24) Make effective use of the company intranet, Japanese/English company newsletters and DVDs ◎ boards in order to make it more readily available to seafarers on ships Expanded transport of relief provisions in line with UN Millennium Development 1) Continue and deepen existing activities in line with Millennium Development Goals, including transport ◎ Goals. Selected additional projects from among proposals solicited under the proposal of relief provisions, and consider and implement new activity proposals selected in FY2010 system Strengthened partnerships with beach cleanup NGOs. Selected projects from among 2) Expand activities worldwide to contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection of the natural ○ proposals solicited under the proposal system environment Conducted support activities for disaster regions, including areas affected by the 3) Consider and implement new activity proposals selected in FY2010 ◎ Great East Japan Earthquake. Selected projects from among proposals solicited under the proposal system CSR and Environment Committee established policies and budget in May 2010 4) Continue and deepen existing activities, and consider and implement new activities, including a field trip ◎ program that utilizes marine shipping facilities Expanded region (emerging countries) targeted for transport of relief provisions, etc. 5) Consider and implement new activity proposals in emerging countries selected in FY2010 ◎ Selected projects from among proposals solicited under the proposal system ○ Selected projects from among proposals solicited under the proposal system Conducted in October 2010 6) Provide feedback on social contribution activity proposals of Group companies ◎ Conducted major fundraising project throughout the MOL Group to support people 7) Increase participation in existing activities, including beach cleanups ◎ affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Also increased participants in the UN World Food Programme in Japan and environmental protection activities in Thailand 8) Consider beach cleanup around the port of Kashima Fulfill social responsibilities related to restoration and recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake –Contribute through business activities, including early resumption of port calls to disaster-hit ports and transport of recovery supplies –Conduct social contribution activities that help people affected by the disaster and help in the restoration and recovery of the disaster-stricken region –Ensure safety of seafarers, etc. in connection with nuclear damage, conduct initiatives to dispel rumors, eliminate anxieties among seafarers, etc., and help maintain distribution –Actively participate in electricity conservation efforts Environmental and Social Report 2011 19 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability Management MOL has implemented a series of management reforms, established its Rules of Conduct and taken other steps to put in place a corporate governance structure and compliance system that is optimal for realizing the ideas set forth in the MOL Group Corporate Principles. Moreover, by vigorously fulfilling our accountability obligations, we are working to cultivate a sense of trust in MOL’s sustainable growth. Corporate Governance As a result, MOL has submitted an internal control report containing Basic Concept of Corporate Governance management’s assessment that internal controls over financial MOL puts emphasis on frameworks for improving the transparency reporting at MOL are effective to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau of corporate management from the shareholders’ viewpoint and in Japan every year since June 2009. Details of these internal control maximizing stakeholders’ benefits through optimum allocation of reports were confirmed to be appropriate in the internal control audit management resources. In the MOL Group Corporate Principles, this report by the external auditors. concept is stated as “We will strive to maximize corporate value by always being creative, continually pursuing higher operating effiBusiness Continuity Plan Formulation ciency, and promoting an open and transparent management style In the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, or outbreak that is guided by the highest ethical and social standards.” We have of an infectious disease, MOL’s highest priority is ensuring the safety put in place various systems accordingly. of MOL-operated vessels and company personnel. The company has formulated a business continuity plan documenting specific proceClarifying Each Governance Function dures to enable it to continue providing its core ocean transport The Board of Directors comprises seven internal and three outside services and quickly restore operations in the unlikely event that they (independent) directors (as of July 2011). Outside directors receive are suspended. This business continuity plan establishes organizareports on important issues every time, providing a framework that tions and delegates authority for duties relating to maintaining the allows the supervisory functions of outside directors to work safe operation of vessels, performance of transportation contracts effectively. and charter agreements, financial assistance, securing required The company has adopted the corporate auditor system, and two personnel and other matters. Furthermore, for some years MOL has of the four auditors are appointed from the outside (independent been conducting regular disaster-preparedness drills based on the corporate auditors). In May 2006, to increase the independence of scenario of an earthquake directly under the Tokyo metropolitan area. the auditors, we established the Corporate Auditor Office as an By addressing issues arising from these drills, MOL believes that it organization directly controlled by the corporate auditors and Board has a high state of readiness. of Auditors, thus enhancing a system that allows for more practical and efficient corporate auditing. Future Measures The Financial Instruments and Exchange Act came into force in A feature of the Board of Directors is deliberation on corporate fiscal 2008 and requires an assessment and report of the internal strategy and vision. At each meeting, the board focuses on a particular control system for ensuring the effectiveness of financial reporting. topic such as management strategies and MOL’s long-term vision. MOL conducts such assessments led by the Internal Audit Office. These discussions provide an opportunity for lively and meaningful Corporate Governance Structure (As of July 2011) Statement of Principles for Compliance Shareholders’ Meeting Elect and (Compliance Rules Article 3) Elect and appoint/dismiss appoint/dismiss Elect and appoint/dismiss Business audit Accounting Board of Directors audit Corporate Auditors Independent Public 1. Strive to follow the MOL Corporate Outside Directors (3), Internal Directors (7) Corporate Auditors (4) (2 from outside) Accountant Principles and make them a reality. Total number of Directors: 10 Elect and Submit basic management Accounting Corporate Auditor Office 2. Always recognize the public mission appoint/ policies and other issues for audit supervise discussion and social responsibilities of the Executive Committee company’s business, and maintain the Internal Directors and Executive Officers (9) trust of the company’s stakeholders. Submit to Executive Committee after preliminary deliberations Audit plan 3. Strictly comply with laws, regulations, Provide direction Committees under the Executive Committee Audit report on important GEAR UP Committee, Budget Committee, Investment and Provide Communicate and and the like, and conduct fair and business issues direction coordinate with corporate Finance Committee, Operational Safety Committee, CSR and Environment Committee, Compliance Committee auditors and independent public accountant transparent corporate activities in the Submit for discussion and/or report on Internal Audit Office context of social norms and corpoimportant business and other issues rate ethics. Executive Officers Directors and Executive Officers (7) Executive Officers (22) Total number of Executive Officers: 29 Business audit 4. Never yield to antisocial influence, and Accounting audit Divisions/Offices/Branches/Vessels/Group companies never be a party to antisocial acts. 20 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability debates at board meetings that include the outside directors and explain the company. We hold various meetings, including the Annual corporate auditors. Moving forward, we will work so that our estabGeneral Meeting of Shareholders, avoiding the dates most Japanese lished governance systems, which include these deliberations, companies hold their annual meetings, and quarterly results presentafunction effectively. We are also strengthening our risk management tions, as well as briefing sessions for individual investors. IR tools and business intelligence systems that support sustainable growth and information related to financial results are prepared in both to achieve the goals of our midterm management plan. In fiscal 2010, Japanese and English and posted on our website as part of our we bolstered survey activities for use in making management decicommitment to global fair disclosure. Fiscal 2011 is the second year sions, and launched an internal portal site for sharing information. of the midterm management plan, the key themes of which are growth, safe operation and the environment. In fiscal 2011, we will Compliance disclose information in an easily understood manner about specific Approach to Compliance measures and progress with the plan. Amid tumultuous change in MOL believes compliance means more than just strictly complying the operating environment, we are determined to continue conducting with legislation and internal rules (including voluntary Rules of vigorous IR activities to cultivate trust in the sustainable growth of M a n a ge me n t Conduct). It also covers observing the Rules of Conduct in corporate our business performance. activities and daily operations, including respecting human rights and External Recognition refusing to permit discrimination and harassment, in accordance with social norms and corporate ethics. In order to instill a compliance • MOL’s IR activities were recognized with the IR Prime Business Award Grand Prix in 2005 by mindset and strengthen the systems supporting this, MOL is conductthe Japan Investor Relations Association. We ing various activities worldwide. These include an e-learning program were once again recognized with the IR Prime Business Award in 2008 after being ineligible as well as legal affairs seminars for the MOL Head Office and Group for the award for two years as a past winner, companies, including those overseas. MOL will continue to strengthen under the award regulations. IR Prime Business Award • MOL’s annual report won the fiscal 2004 best its compliance systems with a view to Global Group management. award in the Nikkei Award sponsored by Nikkei Inc. This was followed by excellence awards in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. We have also won prizes in this annual competition on five other occasions. Organizations Responsible for Compliance • MOL was selected as one of the recipients of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE)’s Compliance Committee FY2009 Disclosure Award. The TSE recognized the fullness of MOL’s disclosure. • In 2011, MOL was included for the first time among the “Global 100 Most The Company formed the Compliance Committee as a subordinate Sustainable Corporations in the World,” a listing of sustainable companies organization of the Executive Committee, with the Executive Vice announced by Canadian publishing company Corporate Knights Inc. • MOL continues to be selected as a component of socially responsible Chairman as chairman. The membership comprises Executive Officers investment indexes such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and the responsible for the Internal Audit Office, the Corporate Planning Division, FTSE4Good Index. the Human Resources Division, and the General Affairs Division. Compliance Officers The responsibility to provide information is not limited to manageGeneral managers of divisions, offices, and branches are appointed ment and financial issues. When four major marine accidents involving as compliance officers. They take a thorough approach to compliance MOL-operated vessels occurred in fiscal 2006, MOL disclosed the as the person responsible, and are also required to report to the situation directly after each incident. MOL believes that it has a Compliance Committee Secretariat Office and take necessary corresponsibility to society to disclose such situations to everyone who rective actions. is directly and indirectly affected. Since these accidents, while working Compliance Advisory Service Desk to prevent a recurrence, we have maintained a policy of disclosing MOL has a Compliance Advisory Service Desk. The General Manager information quickly, even if it is negative. We hold regular media of the Internal Audit Office, independent from divisions, offices, and response drills at bases in Japan and overseas so we are able to branches, is responsible for the desk. The person reporting an issue quickly and properly disclose information. receives feedback on how the issue was resolved. In addition, those reporting an issue and those who cooperate in the investigation are MOL’s Communication Tools protected from any retribution or unfair treatment. Accountability MOL aims to build sound relationships with shareholders and other investors. In this regard, MOL fulfills its accountability for information disclosure based on three key principles of being “timely,” “accurate,” Annual Report MOL Investor Corporate Profile and “fair.” At the same time, MOL works hard to execute highly Guidebook transparent management with the president himself taking the initiative and responsibility for investor relations (IR). MOL uses various IR tools such as its annual report and Investor Guidebook to convey details of its business environment and management strategy from a mediumto long-term perspective in a straightforward manner. Results presentation for investors Furthermore, we are mindful of creating even more opportunities to Environmental and Social Report 2011 21 Management Safe Operation Marine incidents can have a serious effect on the environment and local communities as well as the trust placed in transportation services. In this sense, safe operation is a cornerstone theme for management of a shipping company from the standpoints of risk management and service quality. In the feature section, we introduced our initiatives under our current midterm management plan. Here, we explain the framework supporting safe operation at MOL and the ongoing, distinctive measures we are taking to enhance safe operation. Safe Operation Management Structure created an action plan and established deadlines for the achievement Since April 2007, MOL has been overhauling its vessel management of measures. The committee continues to make improvements by organization. At present, safe operation is managed under the regularly confirming progress and revising measures as necessary. structure shown in the diagram below. The slogan for the safe operation reinforcement measures is The Operational Safety Committee is chaired by the president of “Never Forget 2006.” As outlined below, we are now in Phase 4 of MOL and reports directly to the Executive Committee. This committee this improvement program, and have already achieved more than half discusses and determines basic policies and measures for ensuring of our 200 or so targets. safe operation of vessels through rigorous attention to every detail. Phase 1: January 2007 to September 2008 The Safety Operations Headquarters, meanwhile, is responsible for Phase 2: October 2008 to September 2009 implementing specific measures, with progress overseen by the Phase 3: October 2009 to September 2010 Operational Safety Specialist Committee. The Ship Standard SpeciPhase 4: October 2010 to March 2012 fication Committee discusses MOL Safety Standards and owned ship maintenance standards from a fail-safe perspective. Phase 4 sets forth the following slogans, which are also targets of the midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL.” We are now working Organizational Structure Supporting Safe Operation to achieve these targets. (See pages 8 and 9 for details.) • Aiming to Become the World Leader in Safe Operation Executive Committee • Making Processes for Realizing Safe Operation Visible • Breaking the Chain of Errors to Realize the Four Zeroes Operational Safety Committee Details of Measures to Reinforce Safe Operation Operational Safety Ship Standard Specialist Committee Specification Committee Safety Operation Supporting Center In February 2007, the company established the Safety Operation Safety Operations Headquarters Supporting Center (SOSC) in its head office. SOSC monitors ship positions and movements, and promptly • MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. conveys information on abnormal weather conditions, tsunamis, pirate • Tanker Safety Management Office • MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. threats and terrorist incidents to relevant parties on ships and on • Dry Bulk Carrier Supervising Office land, thereby supporting decision-making by ship captains to ensure • Car Carrier Division, Marine Technical Group safety. It is staffed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by 7 seasoned • Containership Supervising Group MOL captains and other personnel who ensure that captains at sea • Marine Safety Division never feel alone. Since the establishment of SOSC, there has been a clear decline in the number of navigation-related incidents, including those involvMeasures for Reinforcing Safe Operation ing adverse weather or emergency entry* of MOL-operated ships. and Their Implementation 2007 2008 2009 2010 Following four major marine accidents involving MOL-operated vessels Navigation-related incidents, including those in 2006, MOL established the Emergency Committee for Enhance12 9 9 3 involving adverse weather or emergency entry* ment of Operational Safety in October that year. This committee looked *R efers to a sudden departure from a charted course to avoid a typhoon or other adverse weather conditions. This does not include instances where a vessel plots a course so as closely at the causes and events that led up to the accidents, analyzing to avoid a forecast typhoon or bad weather. them from multiple angles. Based on this thorough investigation, the committee formulated measures for reinforcing safe operation as an action plan for eradicating these causes. The measures for reinforcing safe operation are broadly split into two groups: measures concerning seafarers, ship management and the safety culture, and measures concerning ship facilities. The committee has appointed divisions responsible for individual areas, 22 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Safe Operation Drills Simulating Serious Marine Incidents BRM Drills MOL conducts accident response drills twice a year that simulate a In order to maintain safe operation and high-quality transport services, large-scale marine incident. it is necessary to continually provide seafarers with technical guidance The drill conducted in May 2011 simulated an MOL-operated and safety education based on MOL quality standards. A variety of bulker collision in the Seto Inland Sea. Around 60 people, including drills are conducted to this end at training locations, including bridge the president and the concerned executive officers, as well as people resource management (BRM) drills, which are unique to MOL and from related divisions and involve recreating past incidents on a bridge simulator and practicing ship management compahow to respond. Drill programs are revised as needed and used to nies, took part in this drill, strengthen safe operation. which practiced required and improvised responses. M a n a ge me n t Safety Campaign In addition to ship visits as part of normal duties, the president, other executive officers and employees are encouraged to visit vessels twice a year as part of campaigns lasting one to two months in order to prevent marine incidents and workplace injuries. Seafarers and landbased personnel share views on specific measures based on recently occurring incidents, and visitors take home their proposals for measures to reinforce safe operation for further consideration. These proposals are either reflected in the next phase of the safety improvement program or immediately applied to operating vessels to further strengthen safe operation. Safety Conference The company holds Safety Conferences once a year in countries with many seafarers that crew MOL-operated vessels (The ­Philippines, India, Croatia, etc.). MOL’s president, other executive officers and relevant divisional personnel attend these conPresident Koichi Muto on a vessel ferences at which participants visit during one of the safety camengage in lively exchanges of paigns. (Second from left) opinion about measures to ensure safe operation. Securing and Training Employees Safety Conference (India) Spirit of MOL MOL launched the training ship Spirit of MOL in July 2007 to further Preventing Work-related Accidents strengthen basic on-board training for cadets. Cadets first receive MOL is implementing measures to achieve concrete numerical intensive safety education and basic training on the ship over a period targets in order to reduce work-related accidents as much as of around three months. They learn specialist navigation and marine possible (See page 8). Even so, as a company operating more engineering skills and how to conduct themselves as a crew member. than 900 vessels, completely eliminating accidents is a major Moreover, young people of various nationalities share the experience challenge. If trivial incidents are included, accidents cannot be of training on the same ship, which provides them with an understandentirely eliminated. ing of other cultures and instills pride and a sense of solidarity as Therefore, MOL analyzes the factors and causes behind incidents MOL seafarers. involving vessels operated by the company as well as other companies, and uses the results as the basis for developing highly effective countermeasures to prevent incidents from recurring or even happening in the first place. Spirit of MOL training ship Environmental and Social Report 2011 23 Environmental Management Policy The Environment The MOL Group is well aware of the environmental burden created by its business activities as it meets world demand for shipping and always seeks to offer more environment-friendly services through various protection measures. These measures include developing and adopting environmental technologies, operating vessels with minimum environmental impact, taking various steps to tackle global warming, implementing approaches to preserve the atmosphere and the marine environment, reducing waste, and recycling resources. MOL Group Environmental Policy Statement Philosophy As one of the world’s leading multi-modal transport groups, the MOL Group is committed to protecting the health of our marine/global environment and therefore promotes and supports the following policies. Policies 1. Protect all aspects of the marine/global environment and 5. Purchase and use environmentally safe goods and foster safe operation; materials; 2. Comply with all environmental legislation and regulations 6. Promote the development and use of environmentally that we are required to by law, and all relevant standards safe technology; and other requirements that we subscribe to. And, whenever possible, further reduce the burden on the 7. Educate and encourage group employees to increase environment by setting and achieving even tougher voltheir focus on protection of the environment through untary standards; enhanced publicity efforts, and communicate our Environmental Policy to group employees; 3. Periodically review and revise our environmental protection measures on the basis of our framework for setting 8. Publish our Environmental Policy Statement and disclose and reviewing environmental objectives and targets; our environmental information on a regular basis; 4. Conserve energy and materials through recycling and 9. Always strive to ensure that our business activities conwaste reduction programs; tribute to and adequately support worthy environmental protection activities. Group Environmental Audits ISO14001 Certification MOL Group Companies with Green Management Certification (Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation) Acquired Company name Certifying institution Company name Acquired month Company name Acquired month month January Det Norske Veritas AS International Container Utoc Logistics Corporation February 2007 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. October 2005 2003 (DNV) Transport Co., Ltd. Kusakabe Maritime May The Diamond Ferry Co., Ltd. November 2005 Kobe Towing Co., Ltd. March 2007 CI Japan Limited Engineering Co., Ltd. 2004 Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. December 2005 Utoc Corporation June 2007 MOL Logistics (Japan) April Nippon Kaiji Kentei Co., Ltd. 2006 Quality Assurance Ltd. Diamond Line K.K. February 2006 Green Shipping, Ltd. July 2007 July The British Standards Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd. March 2006 Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. October 2007 Mitsui O.S.K. Kosan Co., Ltd. 2006 Institution Kansai Kisen Kaisha May 2006 Ube Port Service Co., Ltd. November 2007 Tanker Safety Management September DNV Office of MOL* 2006 Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd. August 2006 Kitanihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd. June 2008 December Japan Express Packing & MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. Nippon Kaiji Kyokai November 2006 MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. March 2010 2006 Transport Co., Ltd. * MOL’s Tanker Safety Management Office. This division has obtained certification separately from MOL for management and charter safety management EcoAction 21 (Institute for Global Environmental Strategies) at related vessel management companies. Acquired Company name month MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. July 2007 24 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Environmental Management Policy System to Promote Environmental Management System Environmental Management MOL EMS21 At MOL, under the president, who has the ultimate decision-making We introduced our environmental management system—MOL authority, the CSR and Environment Committee, a subcommittee of the EMS21—in April 2001. In January 2003, we expanded its scope to Executive Committee, discusses basic policies on environmental issues all of our operated vessels (except charter vessels on contracts of and other matters, and works to promote business activities in line with one year or less), and acquired internationally recognized ISO14001 the MOL Group Environmental Policy Statement. The committee’s certification. In the MOL EMS21 system, the director responsible for deliberations helped MOL to formulate its environmental strategy under environmental management (chairman of the CSR and Environment the midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL.” This strategy forms Committee) confirms and assesses how effectively the system part of the MOL Group’s overall strategies. The CSR and Environment functions, based on internal audits held at least once a year. The Committee operates two unique environmental management internal audits are conducted by the CSR and Environment Office, ­systems—MOL EMS21 and the MOL Group Environmental Target Corporate Planning Division, targeting all divisions in the Tokyo Head System—as it promotes the MOL Group’s environmental activities. Office, and the Marine Safety Division implements environmental inspections on our vessels. Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV), an Midterm Management Plan, “GEAR UP! MOL” ISO14001 external certification body, holds an annual audit and a Environmental Strategy renewal assessment every three years. Evolve into a corporate group that meets today’s ISO14001 Certification demands by offering transport solutions with a lower Scope Ship operation activities at sites and Head Office associenvironmental burden ated with multi-modal logistics/ocean services (except MOL is reinforcing and emphasizing the advantages that marine charter vessels on contracts of one year or less) transport offers, as an environmentally efficient mode of Certifying institution Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) transportation, in various ways, including development of the ISO14001 Accreditation Senpaku ISHIN project. The MOL Group thus contributes to Certification The Environment Read Voor Accrediate (RVA) in the Netherlands sustained global economic growth by offering transportation services that can respond to customers’ needs while protecting the global environment. The MOL Group Environmental Target System • Place safe operation as the top priority The MOL Group implements the MOL Group Environmental Target • Improve efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of System covering main Group companies in Japan and overseas. ships Regarding the environmental burden due to each company’s business – Progress of the Senpaku ISHIN Project activities, every fiscal year, based on general guidelines, each com– A commitment to ECO SAILING – Reduced CO2 emissions per ton-mile pany sets its own environmental targets in line with the midterm • Offer low environmental impact solutions as a whole group environmental targets, and sets out an action plan to achieve those • Invest ¥28.0 billion over three years to develop and implement targets. Data from each company regarding its environmental burden environmental technologies (consumption of fuel, electricity, paper, and generated waste), are • Advocate policies and measures aimed at contributing to actual reductions in environmental impact collected and the Group-wide environmental burden is tabulated. • Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection of the Currently, the program covers 76 companies, including 58 Group natural environment companies in Japan and 18 overseas affiliates and subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2011). FY2010 Environmental Accounting Environmental Protection Costs (Unit: ¥ million) Aggregation Method Reference guidelines Category Items Investment Cost Japan’s Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Accounting Measures to reduce exhaust gas Guideline (FY2005)” 5,287 1,098 (1) C  osts in business areas from vessels Cost does not include depreciation and amortization expenses. (Global environmental Measures on vessels to preserve 250 0 protection) the marine environment Tabulation period Office related 31 0 FY2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) (2) Costs for management activity Environmental management activities 0 92 Scope of tabulation (3) Costs for R&D R&D 0 681 Head Office and operated vessels of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, (4) Social activity costs Social contribution activities 0 0 Ltd. (non-consolidated) and ocean-going vessels and ferries Total 5,568 1,871 operated by MOL Group companies in Japan. Changes in aggregation method Environmental Protection Effects • From FY2010, ocean-going vessels and ferries operated by MOL Group companies in Japan are included in the scope of Category Details of effects Index (g/ton • mile) FY2010 FY2009 Effects tabulation. (However, the SOx benefit in environmental protection benefits is for MOL on a non-consolidated basis.) (1) Effects related to resources Total energy Fuel 2.11 2.33 –0.23 • The method for calculating indicators of environmental protecinvested in business activities volume input tion benefits has changed. Accordingly, FY2009 figures to the CO2 6.570 7.271 –0.701 left are different from figures contained in Environmental and (2) E  nvironmental burden of GHG, etc. Social Report 2010. Previous figures were 1.55 for fuel, 4.715 NOx 0.177 0.196 –0.019 business activities emissions for CO2, 0.130 for NOx, and 0.083 for SOx. SOx 0.109 0.122 –0.013 Environmental and Social Report 2011 25 Environmental Targets and Results The Environment In accordance with the environmental strategy in the midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” the MOL Group has set midterm environmental targets for the period from fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012, as well as targets for each fiscal year and is working to achieve them. New targets were established for fiscal 2011 based on the relative achievement of fiscal 2010 targets. MOL is taking initiatives to evolve into a corporate group that can meet today’s demands by offering transport solutions with a lower environmental burden, as targeted under “GEAR UP! MOL.” FY2010–12 Midterm Environmental Targets FY2010 Environmental Targets 1 Ensure Safe Eliminate Pollution of the Marine Environment Caused by Shipping Accidents Operation Eliminate shipping accidents that lead to ocean pollution from oil outflows Prevent oil spills caused by oil outflows Actively adopt vessel specifications that minimize environmental damage Use double-hull fuel tanks on new vessels 2 Improve Efficiency Promote Senpaku ISHIN Project and Reduce the Constantly refine next-generation vessel concepts Environmental Impact Design ISHIN ships Commence design of ISHIN-I (next-generation car carrier) of Ships and Actively Invest to Develop and Implement Environmental Technologies Run experiments on existing vessels for major component ISHIN ship technologies Promote experimental research on solar power generation and storage (hybrid car carrier) technology Commence research on new type of low-friction paint Propose new concept vessel to follow ISHIN ships Promote research on improving Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCFs) Actively participate in “Wind Challenger Project” for wind-propelled ships Prepare and implement a roadmap for introducing the component ISHIN ship technologies Begin formulating roadmap for introducing component ISHIN ship technologies Reinforce functions/activities of the MOL Technology Research Center Develop technologies for reducing emissions of CO2, NOx, SOx and PM Apply heat-insulating paint and thermal glass barrier technologies to vessels (particulate matter) Install test engines and research technology on reducing NOx, SOx and PM in exhaust gas Develop technology for raising the combustibility of ship fuel Research and promote technology for improved combustibility of diesel engines with devices that visualize spray and combustion Research technology on improving ignition of low-flammable fuel Fully Practice ECO SAILING and Pursue Efficient Operations Promote optimal utilization of reduced navigating speeds Establish optimal operating methods at reduced navigating speeds and prevent accidents at reduced speeds Promote utilization of WNI Ocean Routing (an information service Utilize WNI Ocean Routing on weather, ocean conditions, optimal routes, etc., provided by Weathernews Inc.) Utilize FMS Safety-Bridge System (on-board system that plans optimal Promote utilization of FMS Safety-Bridge System—Increase access by 10% routes based on the latest data on weather and ocean conditions) over FY2009 Substantially expand use of fuel additives Improve convenience of fuel additives and then ramp up use on vessels Promote installation of PBCFs and other devices to improve Install PBCFs and other devices to improve propeller efficiency on all newly built propeller efficiency on MOL vessels MOL vessels Promote installation of energy-saving LO lubricators on MOL vessels Install energy-saving LO lubricators on all newly built MOL vessels Promote installation of electronically-controlled engines Promote installation of electronically-controlled engines (approx. 10 vessels) (approx. 20 vessels) Install onshore power supply systems (approx. 14 vessels) Install onshore power supply systems (approx. 14 vessels) Reduce CO2 Emissions per Ton-mile (oceangoing vessels operated by MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries) Reduce by 10% by FY2015 compared to FY2009 Reduce by 1% compared to FY2009 Initiatives for Preventing Atmospheric Pollution Reduce NOx and SOx emissions per ton-mile (oceangoing vessels operated by MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries) Reduce by 10% by FY2015 compared to FY2009 Reduce by 1% compared to FY2009 Make MOL’s unique technologies for reducing PM Conduct experiments to verify MOL’s unique technologies for reducing PM (particulate matter) feasible for practical application 26 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Environmental Targets and Results Legend: ◎ Achieved ○ Generally achieved △ Partially achieved ● Did not achieve (target period/content changes) Achievement Against FY2010 Environmental Targets FY2011 Environmental Targets There was an incident involving an iron ore carrier in the waters to the east of China’s Prevent oil spills caused by oil outflows ● Shandong Peninsula (May 2010) As part of marine incident prevention, MOL analyzed the accident to find the cause and took measures to prevent a recurrence. Furthermore, the company conducted accident response drills All vessels delivered from August 2010 are double-hulled (or have equivalent Prevent oil spills by changing the stern tube sealing arrangement for new vessels—the method for prevent◎ measures) ing seawater ingress through the gap between the propeller shaft and the vessel hull—from an oil bath type to an air seal type Initiated basic plan in cooperation with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd.; decided • Consider applying design of ISHIN-I (next-generation car carrier) to a larger vessel with wide beam for ◎ on basic specifications to-be-expanded Panama Canal • Begin designing an LNG-fueled vessel as core component technologies of ISHIN-II (next-generation ferry) • Begin refining main engine waste heat energy recovery system and designing it for a large vessel, as core component technologies of ISHIN-III (next-generation iron ore carrier) Conducted research on solar power generation and storage (hybrid car carrier) Complete hybrid system development and determine specifications. Begin building hybrid car carrier ◎ Push ahead with applied research of main engine waste heat energy recovery system, as core component The Environment technologies of ISHIN-III (next-generation iron ore carrier), on actual vessels Adopted low-friction paint from several manufacturers on a total of 33 vessels, and Continue evaluating the performance of low-friction paint from each manufacturer. Apply newly developed ◎ evaluated performance next-generation low-friction paint to two car carriers and evaluate its performance ◎ Fitted to two new car carriers and verified performance Improve design method to create more optimal PBCFs for each propeller type Developed large-scale solid sail, came up with conceptual design for a wind-­propelled Continue developing large-scale solid sail in the “Wind Challenger Project” for wind-propelled ships, come ◎ vessel with a sail, and developed navigation method for wind-propelled vessels up with conceptual design for a wind-propelled vessel with a sail, and develop navigation method for windpropelled vessels Launch meetings that connect business needs with new developments, and identify issues Established roadmap for component technologies, updated monthly and reported to Utilize roadmap for instituting component ISHIN ship technologies to create actual vessels fitted with ISHIN ◎ CSR and Environment Committee component technologies Used heat-shielding paint on 24 vessels after confirming performance. Conducted Continue to apply heat-shielding paint to vessels, and scrutinize performance of thermal glass barrier technologies ◎ field testing of thermal glass barrier technologies △ Finished installing test engines. Targeting completion of all facilities in FY2011 Develop NOxand PM-reducing technologies using fuel additives and prototype fuel nozzles in the test engine Conducted comparative evaluation of various types of fuel-injection nozzles. Created Verify improvement in combustion efficiency from using prototype fuel nozzle in the test engine ◎ effective prototype nozzle for raising combustion efficiency Began using proprietary fuel additive “TAICRUSH HD” on MOL-operated vessels Verify technology for raising the combustibility of ship fuel applying micro-nano bubble technology in the ◎ test engine Increased awareness of main engine operating methods when containerships are Help vessel types other than containerships to establish optimal operating methods at reduced navigating ◎ navigating at reduced speeds, collected and examined slow steaming data, offered speeds and prevent accidents at reduced speeds technical support for vessels Continued using in all vessel operating divisions Continue utilizing WNI Ocean Routing ◎ Access increased by 27%. Installed access system on more vessels and provided Promote utilization of FMS Safety-Bridge System—Increase access by 10% over FY2010 ◎ access log to all ship management companies, leading to increased access Provided technical advice for enhancing the usability of agitation needed to use the Promote use of fuel additive ◎ fuel additive “TAICRUSH HD” Installed propeller efficiency-improving devices on all 35 delivered vessels (PBCFs on Install PBCFs and other devices to improve propeller efficiency on all newly built MOL vessels ◎ 25 vessels, and other devices to improve propeller efficiency on 10 vessels) ◎ Installed energy-saving LO lubricators on all 35 delivered vessels Install energy-saving LO lubricators on all newly built MOL vessels Installed electronically-controlled engines on 9 vessels (8 containerships and 1 Promote installation of electronically-controlled engines (approx. 3 vessels) ○ ­Capesize bulker; 1 fewer than planned due to rescheduled vessel delivery) Installed onshore power supply system on 10 containerships. Less than planned due Install onshore power supply system (1 vessel) ○ to a decrease in vessels used for services requiring onshore electricity Reduced by 9.9% at MOL, reduced by 1.4% at domestic consolidated subsidiaries Reduce by 1% compared to FY2010 ◎ compared to FY2009 NOx: reduced by 9.9% and 1.4% at MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries, Reduce by 1% compared to FY2010. Calculate SOx at domestic consolidated subsidiaries ◎ respectively SOx: reduced by 10.5% at MOL. A calculation method hasn’t been determined for ○ domestic consolidated subsidiaries Decided to install PM-reduction technology (diesel particulate filter (DPF)) on MOL Install DPF system on actual vessels, conduct durability experiments (continuously through FY2012) ○ Group vessels delivered in FY2011 (Continued on next page) Environmental and Social Report 2011 27 Environmental Targets and Results FY2010–12 Midterm Environmental Targets FY2010 Environmental Targets Comply with Environmental Regulations Comply with current regulations and prepare to comply in the future when regulations are tightened and their scope is expanded geographically Prepare to comply with Tier-II NOx regulations (which includes accommodating their geographic expansion) Prepare to comply with low sulfur fuel oil regulations and prepare to accommodate their geographic expansion Prepare to comply with ship recycling regulations 3 Offer Low Further Accommodate Modal Shift Environmental Impact Reduce customer CO2 emissions using Japan’s largest ferry network Reduce customer CO2 emissions by approx. 600,000 tons annually using Solutions as a Whole Japan’s largest ferry network Group Promote environmental advantages of domestic carriers and ferries Continue PR via Group company and industry group websites and other channels Conduct research and develop technologies toward practical Start research on domestic regulations for ISHIN-II viability of ISHIN-II (ferry that uses LNG as fuel) Actively Develop Existing Low-Environmental-Impact Solutions Provide tugboat services with reduced environmental impact due to Continue operating tugboats at reduced navigation speeds reduced navigation speeds Achieve cumulative PBCF installations of 2,000 units Promote PBCFs sales through MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. Actively Consider New Low-Environmental-Impact Solutions Participate in experiments to demonstrate the “eco tug” concept Begin considerations on “eco tug” demonstration experiments (tugboats with reduced environmental impact) Contribute to recycling through environment-related businesses of Continue environment-related businesses of Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Introduce environmental materials for ships Introduce low-environmental-impact amenities on cruise ships Promote reduced environmental impact at existing buildings Install low-environmental-impact air conditioning systems and lighting in refurmanaged by Daibiru Corporation bished buildings Promote adoption of rainwater reuse, rooftop gardens, natural ventilation, high thermal barrier/heat-shielding glass Popularize use of improved PBCFs through MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. Take part in R&D on improved PBCF Maintain and Enhance MOL Group Environmental Award Program Increase number of entries for MOL Group Environmental Award 4 Advocate Policies Take Part in Policymaking and Actively Make Recommendations so that Environmental Policy Promotes Utilization and Reinforcement of and Measures Aimed Impact Reduction and Sustainable Economic Growth at Contributing to Measures for greenhouse gases emitted by oceangoing vessels: Work to shape policy in line with IMO’s nine basic principles Actual Reductions in Contribute to debate at the 61st session of the IMO’s Marine Environment Environmental Impact ­Protection Committee Measures for greenhouse gases emitted by domestic carriers and ferries: Work to shape policy to promote modal shift Lobby and build consensus on programs for promoting modal shift, eco-ships, etc. 5 Contribute to Raise Awareness of Employees Regarding Biodiversity Protection and Nature Conservation and Promote Activities, Technological Conservation of Continue existing activities and conduct new activities that contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection of the natural environment Biodiversity and Eliminate pollution of the marine environment caused by shipping accidents Prevent ocean pollution caused by shipping accidents Protection of the Natural Environment Develop and install ballast water treatment systems Develop ballast water treatment system Expand social contribution activities that help in biodiversity protection and Increase participation in existing activities nature conservation Raise employee awareness of biodiversity protection and nature conservation Establish e-learning course for all employees Provide information via the intranet Continue utilizing renewable energy at domestic sites and consider new installations Continue utilizing solar power generation at the Tokyo International Container Terminal Begin considering installation of new solar power systems at domestic sites Reduce environmental impact associated with domestic business activities (MOL and domestic Group companies) Reduce unit energy consumption at domestic business sites by 3% compared Reduce unit energy consumption at domestic business sites by 1% compared to FY2009 to FY2009 Reduce unit energy consumption by domestic transport modes by 3% comReduce unit energy consumption by domestic transport modes by 1% compared pared to FY2009 to FY2009 Reduce office paper usage (per employee) by 3% compared to FY2009 Reduce office paper usage (per employee) by 1% compared to FY2009 Recycle as much as possible and reduce non-recyclable waste Recycle as much as possible and set targets for non-recyclable waste reduction Comply with domestic environmental regulations Comply with the Energy Conservation Law Comply with the the Tokyo Metropolitan Enviromental Security Ordinace 28 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Environmental Targets and Results Legend: ◎ Achieved ○ Generally achieved △ Partially achieved ● Did not achieve (target period/content changes) Achievement Against FY2010 Environmental Targets FY2011 Environmental Targets Held training sessions for understanding electronically controlled engines, and raised Successively implement responses in accordance with Tier-II NOx regulations ◎ awareness of measures In addition to internal announcements, held workshops and meetings Prepare to comply with stricter regulations in North America and other regions, and prepare to accom◎ modate their geographic expansion ◎ Launched an in-house study group, held workshops and raised awareness Survey situation in each country for determining timing of treaty enforcement Formulated and initiated use of SEEMP: Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan on Introduce SEEMP on dry bulkers and LNG carriers (Continue using on tankers) – tankers ahead of treaty enforcement Reduced by 560,000 tons. (Actively promoted modal shift, but fell slightly short of Reduce customer CO2 emissions by approx. 600,000 tons annually using Japan’s largest ferry services network ○ target due to business environment, etc.) ◎ Continued PR on websites Continue PR via Group company and industry group websites and other channels Carried out surveys and research in GHG-reduction Infrastructure Study Committee Conduct research on domestic regulations for ISHIN-II, offer suggestions for establishment of ◎ and LNG Carrier Requirement Study Committee of Japan Ship Technology Research i­nternational regulations Association. Created prototype design for ISHIN-II with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Continued operating tugboats at reduced navigation speeds Continue operating tugboats at reduced navigation speeds ○ Cumulative PBCF sales reached approximately 1,900 units (Sold approx. 200 units Achieve cumulative PBCF installations of 2,000 units ● in FY2010) Conduct energy-saving operations in controlled-temperature warehouses at the Ohi Logistics Center Began considering “eco tug” demonstration experiments Determine method of introducing “eco tugs” and other aspects; secure partners for promoting these tugs ◎ Consider full-scale energy-saving measures, including the use of natural energy at the Ohi Logistics Center Continued operating empty can recycling plant Continue environment-related businesses of Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. ◎ ◎ Introduced low-environmental-impact amenities on cruise ships Continue introducing low-environmental-impact amenities on cruise ships Installed motion sensors for lighting, replaced emergency lighting with LED lights, Install low-environmental-impact air conditioning systems and lighting in refurbished buildings ◎ adjusted secondary cold water pump controls for air conditioning systems, etc. Planned to introduce in the under-construction Daibiru-Honkan building Promote adoption of rainwater reuse, rooftop gardens, natural ventilation, high thermal barrier/heat-shielding The Environment ◎ glass Continued developing with Akishima Laboratory Inc. (Mitsui Engineering & ­Shipbuilding Take part in R&D on improved PBCFs ◎ Co., Ltd.) toward early commercialization ◎ Received 9 entries in FY2010 (compared with 6 in FY2009) Increase number of entries for MOL Group Environmental Award, and improve the entries content the High Environmental Efficiency of Shipping and Contributes to Environmental Contributed to the creation of a treaty amendment proposal for encouraging equitable Lobbied through industry groups on discussions in the IMO toward introducing regulations in the interna◎ and actual GHG reduction in the ocean transport sector and promoted greater undertional ocean shipping sector that will contribute to the equitable and actual reduction of GHGs, without standing through industry groups hampering international trade or growth Lobbied through industry groups on the expressway toll issue, Traffic Safety Policy Lobbied through industry groups for promoting modal shift (and preventing backward steps) ◎ Basic Act, environmental tax, retention of vessel special depreciation rule requiring environmental facilities, etc. Development and Social Contributions to this End There was an incident involving an iron ore carrier in the waters to the east of China’s Prevent ocean pollution caused by shipping accidents ● Shandong Peninsula (May 2010) Obtained final approval from IMO. Awaiting official approval from Ministry of Land, Make preparations for installing ballast water treatment system ◎ Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Increased beach cleanup participants. Introduced social contribution proposal system Expand existing activities and consider new activities based on system for proposals on the MOL Group’s ◎ for soliciting ideas on new activities from within the MOL Group social contribution activities ◎ Launched environmental education e-learning program in February 2011 Use the company newsletter to disseminate articles that raise awareness about biodiversity Continued using the intranet-based in-house newsletter “Monthly Environment” to ◎ disseminate information Continued utilizing. The system generated approx. 232,000 kWh of power in FY2010 Continue utilizing solar power generation at the Tokyo International Container Terminal and the MOL ◎ (which covered about 50% of the power needs for the control building) ­Technology Research Center Began consideration. Began operating solar power generation at MOL Technology Advance studies of business sites to install solar power and its facility ◎ Research Center in April 2010. Conducted survey with a view to expanding use further Decreased 0.6% in the group as a whole (Increased 0.5% at MOL) Reduce unit energy consumption at domestic business sites by 2% compared to FY2009 ● Increased 0.8% Reduce unit energy consumption by domestic transport modes by 2% compared to FY2009 ● ● Increased 5.9% in the group as a whole (Decreased 4.6% at MOL) Reduce office paper usage (per employee) by 2% compared to FY2009 ◎ Established targets for and set about separating, recycling and reducing waste at each company Recycle as much as possible and reduce non-recyclable waste Submitted statutory reports. Conducted survey of energy conservation at subject busiDevelop and implement specific reduction measures ◎ ness sites and identified issues for consideration Submitted statutory reports. Continued utilizing solar power generation and hybrid Develop and implement specific reduction measures ◎ transfer cranes at the Tokyo International Container Terminal Environmental and Social Report 2011 29 Environmental Burden of the MOL Group The Environment The MOL Group conducts a range of business activities on land and at sea, including international shipping. In the course of those activities, we place a burden on the environment mainly associated with fuel consumption. The following is a summary of MOL’s and the MOL Group’s consumed resources and environmental impacts during fiscal 2010. The MOL Group is working to reduce these environmental impacts. Environmental Burden of the MOL Group (FY2010) Activities at Sea (Vessels) Activities on Land INPUT OUTPUT INPUT OUTPUT MOL Fuel oil (C oil*1) 5,559 CO2 17,545 MOL Fuel 97 kl CO2 7,366 tons (nonconsolidated) (nonconsolidated)  thousand tons  thousand tons Electricity 19,945 NOx 6 tons Diesel oil (A oil*2) 72 NOx 473  thousand kWh Waste 120 tons  thousand tons  thousand tons Municipal gas 154 thousand m3 SOx 302 LPG 3 tons  thousand tons Heat 1,884 GJ INPUT OUTPUT Water 6,859 m3 Group Fuel oil (C oil* )1 242 CO2 798 companies Office paper 7,306 (domestic  thousand tons  thousand tons  thousand sheets*7 shipping)*3 Diesel oil (A oil*2) 16 NOx 22 INPUT OUTPUT  thousand tons  thousand tons SOx —*5 Group Fuel 6,274 kl CO2 66,128 tons companies*7 Electricity 78,337 NOx 23 tons  thousand kWh INPUT OUTPUT Waste 2,347 tons Municipal gas1,603 thousand m3 Group Fuel oil (C oil* )1 522 CO2 1,710 LPG 46 tons companies  thousand tons  thousand tons (international Heat 42,194 GJ shipping)*4 Diesel oil (A oil*2) 26 NOx 46  thousand tons  thousand tons Water 643,131 m3 SOx —*5 Office paper 44,194  thousand sheets*7 *1 C oil (Marine fuel oil): Mainly for vessel main engines *2 A oil (Marine diesel oil): Mainly for onboard generators *3 MOL Ferry Co., Ltd., Ferry Sunflower Limited, Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd., MOL Naikou, Ltd., Ube Port Service Co., Ltd., Kitanihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd., Green Shipping, Ltd., Kobe Towing Co., Ltd., Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., and MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. (11 companies in total) *4 Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd., Tokyo Marine Co., Ltd., Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. and Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger Line, Ltd. (4 companies in total). *5 Data on SOx emissions of Group companies is not available. *6 All consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. and Nippon Charter Cruise, Ltd. which are both affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method. However, results exclude some companies whose environmental burden is negligible. *7 Converted to A4 size. Measures at Offices The MOL Group strives to reduce the environmental impact generated by Electricity Use in Office Paper Use in Head Office Building Head Office Building office operations (office paper, (Thousand kWh) (%) (Thousand sheets) (%) electricity, waste) as well as in land 2,500 125 15,000 150 108 106 130 and sea transportation activities. The 118 2,000 102 100 12,000 MOL Head Office Building has won 100 100 106 100 120 95 recognition for its vigorous paper 1,500 75 9,000 90 waste reduction and paper recycling, winning an award in fiscal 2010 from 1,000 50 6,000 60 Minato Ward, Tokyo, for its outstanding waste-reduction efforts. In terms 500 25 3,000 30 of electricity use, motion sensors for lighting and other systems have 0 06 07 08 09 10 （年度） (FY) 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 （年度） (FY) 0 MOL Head Office Building produced results. In the wake of the Lights Office equipment Other (Left scale) Office paper use (Left scale) Great East Japan Earthquake, MOL E  lectricity use per unit area (vs. FY2009*) Office paper use per person (vs. FY2009*) has also taken rigorous steps to save (Right scale) (Right scale) * Benchmark year for reduction target * Benchmark year for reduction target power, including turning lights out at lunchtime and removing lighting. Excluding the 15th floor which is mainly used as a MOL (nonconsolidated) only staff cafeteria 30 Environmental and Social Report 2011 The Approaches to Tackling Global Warming Environment and Preventing Air Pollution Although shipping is a more energy efficient mode of transport than other modes of transport, vessels burn fossil fuels and inevitably emit carbon dioxide (CO2), which is a cause of global warming, as well as nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx), soot and other emissions, which are linked to acid rain and atmospheric pollution. The MOL Group is fully aware of the effects on air quality associated with its business activities and thus proactively works to reduce the impact on an ongoing basis. Approaches to Tackling Global Warming Environmental Technologies Approaches of the Ocean Shipping Industry The MOL Group is engaged in developing various environmental The international ocean shipping business operates all over the world. technologies for ships. In Feature 3 (on pages 10 and 11 of this Furthermore, because this is a single international market, it makes report), we look at core component technologies of the Senpaku sense that, in principle, all environment-related measures must apply ISHIN project. In this section, we showcase other main initiatives. the same standard to all sea areas and vessels. For this reason, under Use of renewable energy: Besides solar power generation showthe Kyoto Protocol, the approach to reduction of GHG emissions from cased in Feature 3, the company is taking part in the “Wind Challenger vessels engaged in international shipping is delegated to the InternaProject” led by The University of Tokyo. This project is researching tional Maritime Organization (IMO), a specialist agency of the United wind-propelled ships, which involves using sails as the main driving Nations. The Conference of Parties, the 17th session, UNFCCC power, with a propulsion system in an auxiliary role. In addition to (COP17) will discuss a framework for combating global warming to MOL, two other ocean shipping companies, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, succeed the Kyoto Protocol in December 2011. MOL will continue to shipbuilders and other parties are participating in the project. contribute to initiatives of industry groups and governments to create Launched in September 2009, the project is now developing largea framework, through the IMO, that leads to substantial reductions in scale solid sail structures using composite materials, as well as The Environment GHGs from international shipping. Based on the nine fundamental examining particulars for vessel designs to develop, and developing principles of the IMO, the framework should be “binding and equally fluid analysis techniques and weather routing methods. applicable to all flag states in order to avoid evasion” and “based on sustainable environmental development without penalizing global trade and growth,” among other conditions. MOL’s Approaches One of the environmental strategies in our midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” is to reduce CO2 emissions per unit load PBCFs boost vessels’ propulsion power: Propeller Boss Cap Fins (ton-mile) by 10% in fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2009. This (PBCFs), jointly developed by MOL and other parties, improve propeltarget applies to ocean-going vessels operated by MOL and domestic ler efficiency. PBCFs produce a 4% to 5% improvement in fuel consolidated subsidiaries. In order to achieve the targeted reduction, efficiency at the same speed, along with commensurate reductions we are developing and adopting new environmental technologies, in CO2 emissions. These fins have been widely installed on MOLpracticing ECO SAILING, and introducing larger vessels. In fiscal operated vessels, as well as other vessels around the world. As of 2010, the company and consolidated subsidiaries achieved reducMarch 31, 2011, PBCFs had been introduced to more than 1,900 tions of 9.9% and 1.4%, respectively, in part due to improved operatvessels worldwide, including vessels scheduled to be built. MOL is ing efficiency resulting from better market conditions. currently developing new PBCFs with Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui Zosen) Inc., which target a further improvement in fuel efficiency of MOL CO2 Emissions another 1 to 2 percentage points. An additional patent was filed for them in April 2009. We aim to make these new fins commercially (Unit=1,000 tons) (%) 20,000 120 available as early as possible. 100 99 100 15,000 100 95 90 10,000 80 5,000 60 0 06 07 08 09 10 (FY) 40 Total emissions (Left scale) Emissions per unit load (ton-mile) (compared to FY2009*) (Right scale) * Benchmark year for reduction target PBCF Environmental and Social Report 2011 31 Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and Preventing Air Pollution R&D on high-performance antifouling ship bottom paints that 3) select optimum routes, 4) reduce vessels’ wetted surfaces, 5) improve vessels’ fuel efficiency: Ships consume most of their optimize operation and maintenance of main engines, auxiliary equipfuel in overcoming the resistance when navigating. Reducing this ment and other machinery, 6) develop energy-efficient ship designs, resistance contributes directly to lower fuel consumption and and 7) equip vessels with Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCFs). reduced CO2 emissions. The drag of seawater over a vessel’s wetted Slow steaming: In fiscal 2010, MOL-operated containerships cut surface accounts for 50% to 80% of all resistance, including wind CO2 emissions by approximately 700,000 tons by reducing speeds and wave resistance. by an average of roughly 6% year on year. MOL is also implementing MOL has teamed up with Nippon Paint Co., Ltd. and Nippon Paint slow steaming in other vessel classes, according to navigation Marine Coatings Co., Ltd. to develop a super-slick antifouling ship conditions. bottom paint with high performance friction-reducing properties. The Optimum trim system: MOL has developed an optimum trim system paint will dramatically reduce fuel consumption by reducing seawater for vessels along with Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui Zosen) Inc. The drag. This research and development is part of our commitment to optimum trim system quantitatively assesses MOL captains’ extensive realizing Senpaku ISHIN, and is expected to lower CO2 emissions practical knowledge of vessel running attitudes through tank testing by 8% to 12% compared to conventional antifouling paints. and actual ship testing. This data is translated into graphs that make Wind resistance-reducing design: The unique shape of car carriers it easy for seafarers to use. A pilot test of the system on a car carrier means that there is a large surface area exposed to wind pressure, using an optimally trimmed bow showed an increase of up to 4% in and the impact of this resistance is considerable. In 2003, MOL took fuel efficiency compared to the conventional approach of trimming delivery of Courageous Ace, which was the first vessel to adopt a the stern of a vessel. MOL expects that it won’t be long before all beveled, rounded superstructure at the bow. Since then, MOL has vessels will navigate with optimum trim. deepened research on vessel shapes to lower wind resistance. Under Conventional Optimum trim the Senpaku ISHIN project, the company is aiming to make further improvements to the shape of ships’ bows. In December 2010, the MOL Group’s reduced wind resistance car carrier fleet was joined by City of St. Petersburg, which is operated by Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. Built by Kyokuyo Shipyard Trim by stern Trim by bow Corporation, this vessel can carry up to 2,000 cars. A sleek, semispherical bow design reduces wind resistance by up to 50% comIntroduction of Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan pared to Nissan Motor Car Carrier’s existing vessels. Assigned to (SEEMP): This system enables vessels to self-monitor CO2 emissions transport finished vehicles within the European region, this car carrier per unit load while suggesting the most efficient vessel operation is expected to reap the full benefits of its new design in the North method for achieving targeted CO2 emissions (slow steaming, optimum Sea, where winds are notoriroute selection taking into consideration ocean currents and weather, ously strong. This unique appropriate maintenance, and so on). The IMO has held discussions bow design has received with a view of making this system mandatory. However, MOL has high marks, with the vessel preempted this by installing SEEMP on its tankers in ­January 2011, selected as the “Ship of the with plans to install it on all other vessels in the future. Year 2010” by the Japan Society of Naval Architects Increasing Transportation Efficiency with Larger Ships and Ocean Engineers in May MOL believes that the introduction of larger vessels and improvement 2011. City of St. Petersburg car carrier of propulsion are effective measures to fulfill the social responsibility of the shipping industry to meet burgeoning international demand A Commitment to ECO SAILING for ocean shipping and, at the same time, to prevent global warming. To save fuel and reduce environmental impact, we monitor energy In December 2007, MOL took delivery of the Brasil Maru (approx. flow in our vessels and do our utmost to eliminate energy losses in 320,000 DWT), one of the world’s largest iron ore carriers. The Brasil our operations. We call this approach ECO SAILING. We rigorously Maru boasts her very large size with excellent propulsion and an apply the principles of ECO SAILING whenever we operate vessels. energy-saving design such as propellers specially designed to Specifically, we 1) properly reduce navigation speeds, 2) take advanimprove propulsion efficiency. These qualities earned the Brasil Maru tage of weather and sea condition forecasts and the optimum trim, ECO SAILING Pamphlet Brasil Maru iron ore carrier 32 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and Preventing Air Pollution selection as the “Ship of the Year 2007” by the Japan Society of Reducing Soot/Smoke and Dust Naval Architects and Ocean Engineers. Successful Onboard Field Trials of World’s First Marine-use Maintenance-free DPF Approaches to Preventing Air Pollution In March 2010, we joined with Akasaka Diesels Limited in developing NOx (Nitrogen Oxide) a diesel particulate filter (DPF) for diesel engines on vessels that use NOx is generated when nitrogen contained in fuel oil and air binds marine heavy fuel oil. The maintenance-free device employs an internal with oxygen in the air at high temperatures when fuel burns in the heating system to automatically burn off particulate matter accumuengine. NOx emissions can be reduced to some degree by controlling lated in the filters, which are made of silicon carbide ceramic fibers, the combustion temperature in the engine. MOL is promoting the allowing the filters to be used continuously. In a test installation on the adoption of electronically controlled engines that reduce NOx, soot, main engine of an MOL Group-operated coastal ferry, the Sunflower and smoke by more effectively controlling the intake and exhaust Kogane, the device was shown to have removed more than 80% of valves. We have launched 27 vessels featuring electronically consoot and smoke from diesel emissions. This test marked the world’s trolled engines beginning with the containership MOL Creation, which first successful use of a self-regenerating DPF on a large vessel using was delivered in June 2007. We plan to finish construction of another marine heavy fuel oil. MOL and Akasaka Diesels will further upgrade 30 vessels equipped with electronically controlled engines by the the DPF and confirm its durability for use on ocean-going vessels. end of March 2013 (as of March 31, 2011). Exhaust Gas Purification System SOx (Sulfur Oxide) Smoke duct SOx is generated by burning fuel oil containing sulfur. In order to Filter unit reduce the volume of SOx emissions, MOL has set a standard for the sulfur content in the fuel it procures that is stricter than the international treaty governing sulfur content in fuel oil, which was a maximum of 4.5% for general sea areas through 2011 and will be The Environment 3.5% from 2012. Smoke duct Exhaust gas Exhaust gas control valve Regenerating filter unit Average Sulfur Content (%) in Marine Heavy Fuel Used by MOL FY2005 2.82% Using Onshore Power Supplies Emissions of NOx, SOx, soot and smoke and other pollutants can be FY2006 2.75% significantly reduced while at berth by reducing the use of conventional FY2007 2.62% diesel power generators and receiving electric power supply from FY2008 2.59% onshore instead. FY2009 2.59% FY2010 2.58% MARPOL Treaty (general sea areas) 4.50% MOL NOx and SOx Emissions (Thousand tons) (%) 600 120 105 100 96 99 100 450 100 95 90 The containership MOL Pace pictured using an onshore power supply system. 300 80 150 60 Tugboat companies in the MOL Group have been installing electric power supply systems connected to the local electricity 0 06 07 08 09 10 (FY) 40 grid to power tugboats at berth. This not only reduces the workload (NOx) for crew members due to reduced use of generators, but also Total emissions (Left scale) Emissions per unit load (ton-mile) (Compared to FY2009*) (Right scale) reduces emissions of NOx, SOx, soot and others. In some ports, (SOx) the shore power supply system is even used to power domestic Total emissions (Left scale) Emissions per unit load (ton-mile) (Compared to FY2009*) (Right scale) carriers while at berth. * Benchmark year for reduction target Environmental and Social Report 2011 33 The Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and Environment the Marine Environment The MOL Group is working to prevent marine pollution caused by marine accidents by rigorously ensuring safe operation. At the same time, MOL is actively pushing ahead with measures to protect the seas and oceans, which are not only our place of business but also the shared heritage of everyone on Earth, in order to protect biodiversity. Approaches to Marine Environmental and crew members. Food waste and other biodegradable trash are Protection ground into small particles and disposed of in specified areas of the Double-Hull Tankers open sea, and plastic waste is disposed of appropriately on land. We have adopted double-hull vessels in our tanker fleet in order to prevent spills of crude oil, petroleum products, and chemicals Proper Processing of Waste Oil caused by a grounding or collision of vessels. Our fleet of tankers is Fuel oil for vessels contains many impurities. Water and other con100% double-hulled. taminants are extracted by pre-treatment before the fuel is used in engines and other equipment. Waste oil containing water and impuriSingle hull Double hull ties from pre-treatment is heated in a special tank to remove water, and then incinerated in conformity with environmental regulations. Crude oil Crude oil Processing Bilge Water In a vessel’s engine room, bilge water (waste water containing oil) is Outer plate Inner plate generated by leakage from seawater pipes and equipment and during maintenance work. We have introduced a bilge source separation Double-Hull Fuel Tanks system that categorizes bilge water in three stages according to the All vessels carry fuel for their voyages. Therefore, in the same way presence of oil, and collects and disposes of it properly. as with tankers, we have pushed the adoption of double-hull fuel tanks in order to reduce the risk of oil leaking into the ocean in the Discharge water from vessel event of an accident. All vessels delivered since August 2010 have Oil-free water double-hull fuel tanks (or equivalent measures). Water Car carrier Separate water and oil Bilge using a bilge Water that separator may contain oil Oil Incinerate on-board Oil-water mixture as waste oil Conventional fuel tank New fuel tank Containership Caring for the Environment When Scrapping Vessels Bulkhead fuel tank Containers Aging vessels must often be scrapped in the interest of safe operation Isolating fuel tank with baland protection of the marine environment. However, measures for last space, etc. workers’ safety and the environment have been insufficient when Container hold scrapping ships in some countries. When selling a ship on the assumption that it will be scrapped, we check that the scrapping yard ■ Ballast tanks ■ Fuel tanks takes environmental measures in conformity with ISO14001 (or the environmental management equivalent), and uses scrapping methods Onboard Waste Disposal and procedures that are sufficiently safe for the environment and On a vessel, which is also a home for seafarers, the same type of personnel. In the international community, in May 2009, the IMO garbage as a household is generated. On our operated vessels, based adopted the Hong Kong International Convention for the Safe and on the MARPOL Treaty, we draw up on-board waste management Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, 2009, and is proceeding plans requiring separation, collection, storage and disposal of onwith ratification toward its enforcement. This treaty prohibits and board waste. Waste management officers supervise this process, restricts the fitting and use of treaty-specified hazardous materials. and work to build thorough awareness of the plan among officers At the same time, it requires vessels to prepare and update inventory 34 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and the Marine Environment lists showing the quantity and location of hazardous materials on Organisms in Ballast Water and on Vessels ships over a ship’s lifetime. These lists must be handed over to Ballast water is discharged when cargo is loaded. It can have an recycling facilities when the ship is finally scrapped. MOL was quick impact on local ecosystems by introducing foreign marine organisms to initiate measures to prepare such lists. Furthermore, in 2010, the from another location as well as the preservation and sustainable company established a task force made up of related divisions in the use of biodiversity. This potential cross-border transportation of company, which is working to ensure that the treaty is understood foreign marine organisms in ballast water has been highlighted as throughout the group, and to share information, including the results an international issue since the late 1980s. As a result, a treaty on of site surveys of scrapping facilities. ballast water management was adopted by the IMO in February 2004, and work is proceeding on ratification ahead of enforcement. Measures to Protect Biodiversity After 2017, all vessels will be required to treat ballast water to reduce The MOL Group’s activities could have an impact on biodiversity in the content of marine organisms to a specified level rendering it the following ways: harmless. We have developed a ballast water purification system and 1. Cross-border transportation of alien species via ship ballast conducted on-board demonstrations in cooperation with manufacturwater, and organisms attached to vessels and containers ers and other concerned parties. We obtained the necessary approval 2. Impact on eco-system of antifouling ship bottom paints for putting the system into use at the Marine Environment Protection 3. Impact on eco-system of buildings and structures on coasts Committee 61 (MEPC 61) meeting held in October 2010. In addition, 4. Impact on eco-system of paper, stationery, etc. used in MOL Group company Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd. installed a ballast offices water purification system on three vessels delivered in fiscal 2010, MOL works to develop and adopt technologies to minimize the well before the enforcement of the IMO treaty. This is just one impact of vessels on biodiversity. Furthermore, when constructing example of Group-wide efforts to render ballast water harmless as buildings on shores or the coast, MOL conducts impact assessquickly as possible. ments with project partners. Moreover, MOL conducts green proMarine organisms attaching to the bottom of vessels due to the curement and recycling in offices. To raise the awareness of fouling of ship bottom paint and crossing borders is also an issue in The Environment employees regarding protection of biodiversity and the natural the industry. The IMO is discussing guidelines to prevent this. MOL environment, MOL makes use of in-house communications tools is expressing its views on and participates in activities that protect the natural environment. practicality and other (See page 44 for details.) aspects through industry groups to contribute to the Participation in “Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of process of creating inter­Biodiversity” as a Promotion Partner national guidelines. MOL supports and adheres to the Declaration of Biodiversity by the Japan Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren), and participates as a Ballast water purification experimental system “Promotion Partner” to clarify this commitment internally and publicly. Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity Ship Bottom Paints (Summary) In the past, paint containing tributyltin (TBT), which has a high antifoul1. Appreciate nature’s gifts and aim for corporate activities in harmony ing property, was used for coating ship bottoms. However, after the with the natural environment harmful effect of TBT on ecosystems was widely confirmed, the IMO 2. Act from a global perspective on the biodiversity crisis adopted an international convention that imposed regulations on the 3. Act voluntarily and steadily to contribute to biodiversity 4. Promote corporate management for sustainable resource use use of ship bottom paints, including TBT paints. The international 5. Create an industry, lifestyle and culture that will learn from biodiversity convention came into force in 2008. MOL began switching to tin-free 6. Collaborate with relevant international and national organizations (TF) paint earlier than this, and as a result, we completed the switch 7. Spearhead activities to build a society that will nurture biodiversity on all of our managed vessels in fiscal 2005. Environmental Education MOL is working to raise employee awareness of protecting biodiversity and preserving nature as well as combating global warming through the following initiatives. Our aim is to synergistically raise both awareness and knowledge concerning the environment and ensure this is applied in day-to-day activities. From this perspective, we intend to continuously enhance and increase environmental education in the company. In-house Newsletter “Monthly Environment” We distribute a newsletter containing the latest news concerning global environmental protection via the MOL Group’s intranet site. Environmental E-Learning In February 2011, we launched an environmental E-Learning program using our intranet for MOL employees. The program is designed to test employees’ general knowledge about environmental protection and their understanding of MOL’s environmental strategy and specific environmental protection initiatives. Environmental and Social Report 2011 35 Group Companies’ Initiatives The Environment As part of the midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” the MOL Group has adopted an environmental strategy aimed at offering business services and solutions that reduce the environmental impact of operations, including promoting a modal shift with ferry transport. Below are examples of achievements by individual MOL Group companies putting the strategy into practice. The 5th MOL Group Environmental Award • Excellence Award: Reduction of CO 2 Emissions Using In order to arouse interest in environmental protection activities among Multi-functional Container Chassis MOL Group corporate officers and employees, and to create incentives Utoc Logistics Corporation for Group companies to rigorously practice environmental manageUtoc Logistics Corporation has introduced 45 multi-functional chassis ment, we introduced the MOL Group Environmental Award in fiscal that can be used with both 20-foot and 40-foot containers since April 2005. Every year, this award recognizes meritorious activities aimed 2007. This means that chassis do not have to be changed for different at developing and introducing environmental technology and other container sizes, and sending chassis back to the van pool empty can environmental activities in the group. Awards are presented at the be avoided. By replacing two chassis with one chassis of this type for Group Executive Committee meeting of Group company presidents. transportation between Honmoku Pier and Oi Container Terminal, Utoc Logistics has reduced CO2 emissions by 38 tons, or 45%, a year. • Most Outstanding Performance Award: Senpaku ISHIN Project and Technology Research Center Initiatives Technical Division, Technology Research Center, MOL (See pages 10 and 11 for details.) • Outstanding Performance Award: Environmentallyfriendly Tugboat Services 20-foot container being transported 40-foot container being transported Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd. As a company providing tugboat services, Nihon Tug-Boat has been • Excellence Award: Promotion of Green IT actively setting up active service bases (tugboat jetties) where MOL Information Systems, Ltd. tugboats can moor away from their home port since 2005. At the As part of efforts to promote the adoption of green IT same time, this company continues to think of ways to station tug(­environmentally-friendly IT), MOL Information Systems has been boats as close as possible to where they are called into service. actively replacing rented PCs at MOL Group companies with These efforts have resulted in a reduction in the number of return power-saving models. Furthermore, by reducing the number of trips to home port, enabling a reduction in navigation distance. This physical servers through server virtualization, this company has in turn led to a 374-ton reduction in CO2 emissions in fiscal 2009. helped reduce the environmental load at MOL Group offices. The implementation of slow steaming, introduction of fuel additives and LED lighting, application of an Automatic Identification System and other initiatives are leading to improved fuel efficiency. In terms Modal Shift Promotion of slow steaming benefits, we saw a large reduction in CO2 emissions Modal shift refers to switching the mode for transporting cargo from of 1,336 tons in fiscal 2009. We have also installed garbage treatment trucks and other land transport to domestics carriers, ferries and systems on individual vessels to reduce and manage waste generated other vessels, as well as rail, which can transport large volumes of onboard. In addition to this environmental protection activity, we hold freight with a comparatively small environmental burden. As one of joint research meetings with Group tugboat operators, as a forum for sharing and building on knowledge of these activities. Per-Unit-Load CO2 Emissions by Mode of Transport— Comparison of CO2 emissions carrying 1-ton cargo for 1 km Commercial truck transport 174 Small commercial truck transport 830 Air 1,480 Rail 21 Coastal vessels 38 MOL Ocean Shipping 3.4 (actual results)* 0 500 1,000 1,500 (g-CO2 per ton-kilometer) Note: S  elected from information for joint sessions of relevant councils related to domestic measures to The tugboat Falcon address global warming (FY2001) * Emissions from all MOL vessels operated in FY2010 36 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Group Companies’ Initiatives the largest ferry and domestic shipping services firms in Japan, the gate building, where trailer trucks enter and exit the terminal, and the MOL Group is working to promote modal shifts in various ways. vehicle wash building. In fiscal 2010, this system generated approxiThese include publicizing CO2 reduction benefits on its website and mately 232,000 kWh of power, which covered about 50% of the the ISHIN-II project for creating a next-generation ferry (See page power needs for the control building. In addition, Utoc ­Corporation 10 for details). and Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. have also introduced hybrid transfer cranes at MOL Group Domestic Ferry Service Network their container terminals in Tokyo and Kobe, respectively. These cranes Kobe Osaka consume approximately 40% less fuel Kokura Tomakomai than conventional ones. Tokyo International Container Terminal Shodoshima Shin-moji Matsuyama Sales of PBCFs and Other Products With Beppu Oita Environmental Benefits MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. In addition to selling products that offer environmental benefits*, MOL Techno-Trade places top priority on environmental protection, in Oarai activities such as fuel oil supply to ships. In fiscal 2010, cumulative Tokyo Osaka Oppama sales units of Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCFs) reached 1,900 Uno Tokuyama Iwakuni Omaezaki (See page 31 for details). Hakata Kanda Oita * Products with environmental benefits Shibushi Examples of products used by the MOL Group which benefit the environment include: PBCFs, MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. (Kagoshima) IZ energy-saving lighting, Adgreencoat and ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective coating that controls Ferry Sunflower Limited temperature rises in cabins, “SANWA Aerators,” which efficiently dispose of waste water, Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. and “BY • FAR Z,” a relatively environment-friendly detergent to disperse oil. The Environment Solar Power Generation Systems and Onshore Power Efforts to Reduce the Environmental Impact of Cruise Ships Supply Systems Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger Line, Ltd. (MOPAS) Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. This company has made an effort to reduce the environmental In fiscal 2009, with the goal of reducing CO2 and other exhaust impact of its cruise ship—the Nippon Maru—not only in navigation, gases, this company fitted Ferry Fukuoka 2 with one of the world’s but also in the aspects unique to passenger ships. The company largest solar power generation systems and the first commercial-use uses eco-friendly toilet paper, lunch boxes, and copy paper, onshore power supply system in Japan. The solar power generation exchanges towels in passenger system generates 50 kW of electricity, equivalent to the amount of quarters when requested, takes power consumed by 16 ordinary households, from 280 solar panels steps to reduce paper bags and placed on the vessel’s upper-most deck. The onshore power supply packaging for all items in the gift system brings in 6,600 volts of high-voltage electricity from the shore shop, and seeks to enlist the coopwhen the vessel is docked, thereby achieving the equivalent of engine eration of passengers to reduce The cruise ship Nippon Maru (renovated in March 2010) idling-stop for vessels. Meimon Taiyo Ferry’s initiatives have won environmental impact. external recognition, including an outstanding achiever for environmental protection award in fiscal 2010 from the director-general of the Kinki Transport Bureau. Developing a Beverage Can Recycling Business to Promote a “Recycling-oriented Society” Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. This company has engaged in resource recycling since 2004 at can recycling plant “Tri-R-Kobe.” The plant turns collected empty beverage cans into pellets, and sells them as deoxidizing agents for use in steelmaking. By using natural gas, which has relatively low CO2 emissions, as fuel for the plant, and generating recycling gas inside its Solar power generation system Onshore power supply system furnaces, the plant is designed to avoid harming the environment. Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load at Container Terminals Utoc Corporation Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. Pressed cans Commercially-recycled MOL and MOL Group company Utoc Corporation installed one of ­aluminum pellets the largest solar power generation systems in Tokyo at the Tokyo International Container Terminal. The system generates 200 kW of power. In 2007, 1,200 solar panels were installed on the roofs of the Environmental and Social Report 2011 37 Society Caring for Land-based Staff The MOL Group is enhancing recruitment activities, training programs and various other systems with the aims of securing and developing employees who can create new value and ensuring the growth of both the MOL Group and individual employees. The Group also endeavors to enhance employee health and develop workplaces that instill peace of mind in employees in line with an individual’s stage in life. Under the midterm management plan, we have set a number of numerical targets, and are working to achieve those during the term of the plan. Recruitment and HR System and Evaluation System Human Resources Development We have adopted a system for personnel management and remuIn recruiting employees, MOL conducts fair recruitment activities in neration that encourages employees to take the initiative in their accordance with profiles of the types of people the company is looking work and more appropriately reflects responsibility and results. Aiming for. Regarding human resource development, MOL regards an to ensure a fair and highly transparent evaluation, managers conduct employee’s first 10 years in the company as a cultivation period. Training interviews with their subordinates every quarter. falls into two broad categories: on-the-job training (OJT) and off-thejob training (OFF-JT). The OJT system develops employees by Consideration for Health Care and Work exposing them to jobs in various workplaces. Meanwhile, OFF-JT Environments includes position-specific training and on-board training to gain experiIn addition to complying with laws and regulations, we have introduced ence on the frontlines of our business. Furthermore, in order to develop the following systems and structures for managing employee health global human resources who can act independently and create new and enhancing working environments so that employees can work value in the expanding global marketplace, we run overseas practical energetically, and in good health, both physically and mentally. training and foreign language training courses for younger employees, as well as management skill-enhancement training for mid-level Health Management employees. In addition, we run MOL Group Management Schools to ■ Appointed a person responsible for promoting health management in develop future leaders of the MOL Group, and MOL Group Executive the Human Resources Division Seminars targeted at executives of Group companies. ■ Implement yearly medical check-ups and follow-up ■ Hold monthly Health Management Meetings (Consultations with Required Attributes industrial physician, labor union and Human Resources Division for promoting safety and good health) ■ Provide daily medical services at the company clinic in the head office •O  penness to Initiative Toughness • Vitality ■ Implement medical exams before, during and after overseas postings new challenges • Endurance •S  pirit of self-improvement • Stability for employees working overseas •S  ense of responsibility ■ Subsidize breast cancer and cervical cancer screening fees for Self-reliant, female employees Self-responsible ■ Implement regular mental health consultations at key worksites Human Resources in Japan ■ Implement online mental health self-evaluation ■ Conduct yearly organizational mental health review •P erception Communication Leadership • Initiative ■ Conduct mental health seminars for managers and other employees •M ulticultural Skills • Ability to take understanding action ■ Formulate countermeasures against new influenza strains •O pen-mindedness • Consideration for others ■ Implement measures to reduce overtime work (implement no-overtime days, strengthen processes for approval of overtime work) ■ Implement medical check-ups and recovery leave for employees spending an extended period of time at worksites ■ Open massage room (inside the Head Office building) Care for Working Environments ■ Accept various consultations in the Counseling and Aid Center in the Training before the first assignment Human Resources Division, in the head office on-board (the training vessel Fukae Maru) (The Counseling and Aid Center receives various requests for consultation from seaand land-based staff, past employees and family members, and maintains strict confidentially. Matters consulted on include workplace human relations, work-related worries and harassOn-board training ment, as well as personal problems.) (Containership MOL Matrix) ■ Implement Casual Days (every Friday, casual every day between June The POWER program in the containership division is an intensive practical training and September) program for young management candi■ Introduce safety confirmation system to confirm safety in a disaster dates of overseas affiliates and subsidiaries 38 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Caring for Land-based Staff Instill an Awareness of Human Rights ■ Nursing care leave: Employees may take up to 2 years’ nursing The aforementioned Counseling and Aid Center in the Human care leave. ■ Re-employment system for mandatory retirees: MOL has introduced Resources Division is also responsible for human rights education. The harassment help desk serves an important function in protecting an active senior program in response to a law in Japan enacted to human rights. We also conduct human rights training at all levels encourage stable employment of workers who have reached the from the time a person joins the company so that all corporate officers mandatory retirement age. and employees learn to respect and understand other individuals whether in the workplace, at home or in the community. Furthermore, Meeting the Needs of Expatriate Staff and the company reports information to employees regarding human Locally-hired Employees rights, including announcements concerning Human Rights Week, The company appoints a person to support various aspects of the on the intranet. In addition, before Human Rights Week, we solicit lives of expatriate employees and their families, including medical human rights slogans and give awards to the best entries, as part care, children’s education, and safety, in the nations where they work. of human rights awareness-raising efforts. And we have hired about 3,000 national staff at local subsidiaries all over the world, contributing to the growth of local economies. Systems that Support Diverse Human Resources and Work Styles MOL operates various systems with the aim of utilizing diverse human resources and offering employees a variety of work formats, so that employees are motivated and can concentrate on work. ■ Maternity leave, morning sickness leave, childbirth leave, and child-care leave: employees can take up to 2 years for child-care. (Since the MOL（ Europe ）B.V. Rotterdam office PT MOL Auto Carrier Indonesia introduction of this leave system in fiscal 1992, around 80 employees have taken this leave.) Relationships with Labor Unions ■ Shorter hours and exclusion from overtime for employees with young Land-based employees belong to the Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Labor Union, children: This system was introduced in fiscal 2010. and seafarers are members of the All Japan Seamen’s Union. Both ■ “Refresh” leave: Employees are allocated extra holidays after 15 years unions enjoy good and sound relations with MOL management. and 25 years of continuous service. Average Number of Annual Leave Days Taken (Including Summer Vacation) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Land-based Employees by Gender and Position 12.1 12.8 12.4 March 31, 2009 March 31, 2010 March 31, 2011 Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of Working Mothers (Mothers with Children Under the Age of 15) Group leaders and above 239 2 235 4 215 6 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Managers 165 12 165 10 187 8 29 33 33 Below manager level 298 191 290 196 282 195 702 205 690 210 684 209 Total Number of Employees Using Child-care Leave System (Excluding Land-based Contract Employees) 907 900 893 Society FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 11 8 7 Number of Industrial Accidents (Land-based; Excludes Commuting Accidents) Ratio of Female Employees Taking Child-care Leave FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 0 1 0 100% 100% 100% Number of Employees Taking Maternity Leave (Preand Post-Childbirth) Number of Leave Days Due to Industrial Accidents (Excluding Land-based Contract Employees) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 0 0 0 3 2 4 (MOL non-consolidated data) Voices from the Forefront Working Hard Every Day With the Understanding and Cooperation of the Company and My Family I returned to work in May last year after taking child-care leave. At present, I am responsible for land-based staff in Japan in the Human Resources Division. Something I didn’t realize before, but do now after having actually used the system, is that the company has designed easy-to-use systems for employees from many perspectives. I have come to appreciate the importance of these systems. Based on this newfound appreciation, I go about my duties thinking of how I can support employees so that they can work with peace of mind, while being true to the essence of the company. My child is still young, so I need to take a lot of unplanned time off. However, my workmates cover for me Masumi Hida and understand my situation. I really appreciate their thoughtfulness and understanding. Human Resources Planning Group, The support I receive from my family and colleagues motivates me to work hard day in and day out. Human Resources Division (Joined MOL in 2002. Senior Assistant.) Environmental and Social Report 2011 39 Society Caring for Seafarers Operating an ocean transport company is impossible without seafarers. Seafarers ensure safe operation and manage vessel operations, the very basis of our business. In this section, we look at our basic policy, care for seafarers and their families, before taking a look at the lives of seafarers at sea. MOL’s Basic Policy Meanwhile, MOL employs around 20 Japanese seafarers (seagoThe safe operation of MOL-operated vessels is underpinned by ing employees) in a typical year, and since fiscal 2005, has employed skilled seafarers. They are therefore an invaluable “asset” for the female seafarers. Furthermore, we offer opportunities to university company. MOL works to develop skilled seafarers during their work graduates other than from cadet training schools to acquire seafarer at sea as well as through training and education programs on land. qualifications after they join the company. In fiscal 2011, female A key policy in MOL’s current midterm management plan, which employees who graduated from regular universities are aiming to covers the period from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012, is to “secure also become qualified seafarers. skilled seafarers and keep them well trained.” Through various initiatives, we aim to develop people who support safe operations. Education and Training for Seafarers These measures are not limited to Japanese nationals. Some Developing and securing a stable workforce of excellent seafarers 6,000 MOL seafarers crew approximately 300 vessels, and the who meet MOL’s skill standards is a crucial point in maintaining safe large majority of these seafarers are foreign nationals from more vessel operations. MOL has crew training centers in eight locations than 20 countries; Japanese seafarers account for only around in six countries, including the Philippines, India, Russia, Indonesia and 4% of all MOL seafarers. MOL therefore employs and promotes Montenegro, as well as Japan. At these MOL training centers, seafarskilled individuals from around the world, irrespective of nationality. ers undertake education and training programs before taking up a MOL also pays due consideration to this diverse, multinational position on a vessel. The centers offer a variety of training based on workforce in terms of the working environment on-board and on MOL’s unique and uniform curriculum. Each training center provides shore as well as remuneration and benefits. At the same time, we a variety of training according to the type of vessel to which a seafarer run high-level development and training programs to produce is assigned, ranging from classroom lectures on theory to practice outstanding seafarers who are highly motivated and possess on vessel piloting and loading/unloading simulators and real engines. excellent skills and knowledge. This training enables seafarers to operate the latest on-board equipment and machinery and comply with new laws and regulations. MOL MOL Seafarers by Nationality sets its own skill and knowledge requirements for every seafarer as a technical expert at the front-line according to his/her rank in n Philippines 67% addition to the standards set by the various international maritime n India 14% n Europe 5% treaties. In addition, experienced captains and chief engineers are n Russia 3% appointed as on-board OJT training instructors. By pointing out and n Indonesia 3% 6,000 n Japan 4% giving instruction for correction of unsafe actions, these experienced seafarers n Others 4% seafarers not only improve seafarer skill, but also foster stronger awareness of safety. (As of March 31, 2011) Employing Diverse Human Resources We have established bases for recruiting, training and developing MOL’s Training Center in the Philippines A trainee undertakes a drill seafarers around the world. We have also set up a scholarship system at a training center at overseas maritime academies to support aspiring seafarers. In countries lacking the necessary qualification systems within academic The Role Expected of MOL Seafarers curriculums, we have introduced an internship system so that stuAfter employment, MOL seafarers engage not only in ship operation dents can gain the necessary experience for earning qualifications. but also in land-based vessel and seafarer management, providing Promising young seafarers from various countries who have received required technical support for loading and unloading cargo, and other such support will be employed as personnel who have the potential duties that support operations. Such land-based positions are open to be key MOL members for safe operation in the future. broadly to all the seafarers, and seafarers of many different nationalities 40 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Caring for Seafarers support the company’s safe operations in various locations that are not than planned in fiscal 2010 (See page 8 for details). In the second their home countries, such as Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and the half of 2012, a maritime labor convention imposing strict requireU.K. In the case of Japanese seafarers, for the first 10 or so years of ments to manage on-vessel work is expected to come into force. their careers, they concentrate on serving aboard ships and accumulate MOL is making preparations to implement changes before this competence as future captains and chief engineers. These employees convention becomes effective. are posted to land-based positions for a certain period of time where In terms of welfare, MOL conducts regular health checks and they utilize their experience, or they follow their own career paths by mental health consultations for seafarers. At the same time, MOL serving aboard various types of vessels. Thus, MOL seafarers are cares for seafarers and their families, who must spend considerable required to serve as all-around players to lead the whole MOL Group. time apart. MOL has established consulting offices for seafarers and their families in the Human Resources Division at the head office as Training Ship Utilization well as in locations overseas, and offers services that are closely One initiative unique to MOL is the ownership and operation tailored to particular countries and regions. For instance, we hold of the Spirit of MOL training ship as an important training gatherings for seafarers and their families around the world that facility for educating new seafarers and ensuring safe operaare attended by Head Office executive officers. These family tion. New mariners, who represent the future of the company, gatherings include briefings to explain the current status of the learn specialist maritime knowledge and skills through safety company, question-and-answer sessions, and social meetings. In and practical training, and by living together with other interns these and other ways, MOL is working to strengthen the support of various nationalities, they develop pride and a sense of framework for families at belonging as members of the MOL Group. home. Moreover, MOL is introducing high-speed Internet connections aboard vessels to make it more convenient for seafarers to exchange e-mail with family A gathering for seafarers and their families in and friends during voyages. the Philippines In addition to the above, seafarers who have demonstrated leadership and made notable achievements in terms of safety or efficiency of vessel operation are recognized each year, and invited along with Training aboard the training ship “Spirit of MOL” their families to the head office in Tokyo to receive commendations directly from the president of MOL. Each year at the ceremony, the A Good Working Environment for MOL faces of the commended seafarers reflect the pride and joy they feel Employees and Care for Employees’ Families at doing their utmost to contribute to safe vessel operation. These As part of measures to create a good working environment for seafarinitiatives for seafarers are reported to all seagoing employees and ers, MOL aims to reduce LTIF* (Lost Time Injury Frequency). As a their families through our English-language newsletter, and serve to Society result of running safety training programs and improving working strengthen the bonds among the seafarers of the MOL Group. environments, MOL achieved a better performance in this regard * Number of work-related accidents per hour per one million people. Voices from the Forefront MOL’s safety culture is fostered through teamwork and communication. Teamwork requires all-around participation and at the same time transparency. True, transparent, two-way communication and feedback are of immense importance in building teamwork among the various participants. This encourages new ideas to come to the fore, providing quicker and better solutions to problems. This continuous practice of analyzing and implementing solutions builds a sense of confidence as well. In the process, this culture provides an environment conducive to cleaner, safer, and healthier growth. I think our team worked well together, which is very important. Mr. Ghosh and his wife (fifth and sixth from the right) at the 2010 award I have promised myself that I will work with even greater effort and energy ceremony for outstanding seafarers. to improve my performance. I am so happy to receive this award, and that MOL invited us. This shows how MOL values the families of its people and is conSantanu Ghosh cerned about them. Chief Engineer Mrs. Purba Ghosh Containership MOL CELEBRATION Recipient of 2010 Outstanding Seafarer Award Environmental and Social Report 2011 41 Caring for Seafarers A Day Seafarers are broadly divided into three departments: the Deck Department, which is responsible for keeping watch and navigation; the Engine Department, which in the Life operates and maintains vessel engines and other equipment and machinery; and the General Affairs Department, which prepares meals and undertakes other general of a Seafarer duties. Let’s look at a typical day in each department. Deck Department The main duties of the Deck Department Watch Schedule on Vessel’s are as follows: Bridge A Typical Day for a Second Officer n Lookout and steering/navigation of Third Officer Second Officer the vessel n Safe cargo transport, loading and 0:00 discharging operations when docked 20:00 4:00 0:00 n Hull maintenance Chief Officer Chief Officer 4:00 19:00 5:00 (Removing rust from decks and other 18:00 16:00 8:00 areas, applying paint) 16:00 12:00 As depicted in the diagram to the 12:00 11:00 right, lookout on the ship’s bridge is a Second Officer Third Officer 24-hour system, involving 6 shifts of 4 hours. Each shift is staffed by an officer and a helmsman. A Typical Day for the Deck Department (Hull Maintenance Team) The captain and officers plan a ship’s voyage. The captain and a Second Officer 0:00 keep watch 19:00 18:00 7:00 17:00 8:00 9:00 13:00 12:00 The day in the maintenance team starts with a work plan Crew paint and repair the meeting at 7:00 a.m. and continues in principle until cargo hold. A morning work plan meeting 5:00 p.m. Engine Department General Affairs Department This department is responsible for all electrical, plumbing and machinThis department takes responsibility ery repairs and maintenance. for preparing meals for the seafarers It is responsible for keeping engines in the best operational condiand purchasing and managing foodtion at all times. Operating data for every piece of equipment and stuffs, cleaning, and health and machinery is logged every day, to aid in the early detection of sanitation. abnormalities. Their working hours are from early The day in the engine room starts with a work plan meeting at 7:00 morning to night because they must The crew enjoy a meal. Special a.m., and continues in principle until 5:00 p.m. prepare breakfast, lunch, and dinner. meals are prepared to celebrate A rotating engineer is on call in case of engine trouble during the They take their meals and breaks the New Year and other occasions. night, when it is in “M zero” (unattended) operation. during slow times. A Typical Day for the Engine Department A Typical Day for the General Affairs Department 0:00 0:00 21:00 19:00 20:00 19:00 6:00 18:00 7:00 17:00 8:00 9:00 15:00 9:00 13:00 12:00 14:00 10:00 11:00 A team member inspects the Engine Department members engine room carrying out repair work 42 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Society Social Contribution Activities MOL aims to be a company that builds synergy, supports sustainable growth and benefits both the company and society. We therefore carefully consider social issues to tackle, and work to help solve them based on the following three principles. Guided by these principles, we proactively undertake social contribution activities that only an ocean transport company with a global network can. Principles of MOL’s Social Contribution Activities MOL engages in social contribution activities on the basis of the following principles. I. Contribute to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals as a company growing in step with the global economy and social development. II. Contribute to protecting biodiversity and preserving nature as a company that impacts the environment to an extent and as a company that does business on the ocean, a rich repository of living organisms. III. Contribute to local communities as a good corporate citizen. Below, we introduce some of the main activities based on the above principles. In 2010, MOL established a new system for proposals on social contribution activities, whereby it widely solicits ideas from MOL Group employees worldwide to enhance its activities. The latest information and details of these activities can be found on our website. Web http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/society/index.html Contribution to UN Millennium engines, medical equipment and other items in Japan, and sends Development Goals them mainly to Cambodia. In Cambodia, SBSI is working to build a Transporting Shoes for Children in Africa first-aid system, and support emergency hospitals as well as pregnant In 2010, MOL began helping in the transport of shoes donated to women, mothers and children in remote areas with little access to children in Zambia in support of a project by the Japanese Organization healthcare services. for International Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP), an interIn fiscal 2010, MOL helped ship five 40-foot containers of medical national NGO. Under this project, JOICFP donates second-hand vehicles and equipment. shoes to children in Zambia, where it works closely to safeguard maternal and child health. The shoes Transporting Wheelchairs for Children in Paraguay are handed out to residents who come In December 2010, MOL cooperated with the Volunteers Group in for prenatal and infant checkups. to Send Wheelchairs to Overseas Children, a certified NPO, to Besides motivating residents to come transport two 40-foot containers of wheelchairs to the landlocked Societ y in for health checks, this program South American country of Paraguay. In Japan, children’s wheelserves as a useful health education chairs tend to be replaced every two to three years as children measure that helps to prevent parasitic outgrow them. The situation is different in developing countries, diseases, tetanus and other ailments. where the high price of these chairs makes them largely unattainAlong with the provision of containable to those in need. As a result, many physically disabled children ers for shipment from Japan free of are unable to venture outside. The wheelchairs transported by MOL charge, MOL cooperates in ocean were donated to FUNDACIÓN TELETON, a government-certified transport to the South African port of Photo provided by JOICFP NPO in Paraguay. Durban, which also serves as the gateway port to Zambia. (Similar In May 2011, His Excellency of the Embassy of the Republic of cooperation is provided to shipments bound for Ghana and Tanzania.) Paraguay in Japan visited MOL to express his appreciation for the In fiscal 2010, MOL helped ship nine 20-foot containers. company’s cooperation. Transporting Medical V ­ ehicles to Cambodia MOL is helping transport medical vehicles and other cargo to Phnom Penh in support of the certified NPO Side by Side International (SBSI). SBSI receives donations of Ceremony to gift wheelchairs for children used ambulances, fire Environmental and Social Report 2011 43 Social Contribution Activities Supporting UN World Food Programme and Participating in Contributing to Local Communities Related Events Private-sector Company Training for Teachers MOL participates in the Japan Association for the UN World Food Since 1994, MOL has Programme, an organization that coordinates private-sector support accepted participants in an for the program, and provides internship program to support for it in the form of donainstruct teachers about tions and the like. Employees private-sector companies also volunteer and participate sponsored by the Keizai continuously in a charity event, Koho Center-Japan Insti“End Hunger: Walk the World,” tute for Social and EcoParticipants tour the SOSC organized by the program and nomic Affairs. In fiscal the association to help prevent 2010, MOL hosted 8 teachers from elementary schools in Tokyo for children around the world from internship sessions and onsite observation that took place over 3 going hungry. days during summer vacation in August. In addition to topics such as ocean shipping and an overview of MOL businesses, the internship Contributing to Protection of Biodiversity sessions highlighted MOL’s approach to CSR activities, and particiand Preserving Nature pants toured the Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC). As Beach Cleanup an opportunity to see MOL’s operations up-close, they also visited Since 2000, we have MOL’s container terminal and distribution center in Ohi, Tokyo and conducted beach cleanthe MOL Technology Research Center, and experienced firsthand ups at two locations on the bridge simulator. an ongoing basis, Odaiba Seaside Park in Tokyo Disaster Relief Activities and Yuigahama Beach Over the past year, there have unfortunately been a string of calamiin Kamakura. tous natural disasters that have severely affected people’s lives. In response to the disasters listed below, MOL made financial donations Tree Planting in Thailand to help with local relief efforts, and transported relief supplies. Celebrating its 40th anniversary in 2008, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines April 2010 Major earthquake in Qinghai Province (China) (­Thailand) Co., Ltd. established the CSR Committee to raise employee August 2010 Major flooding in Pakistan awareness of social contribution and instill pride in the company. The March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake (See P.12–13 for employee-led committee decided to conduct a tree-planting camfurther information) paign and beach cleanup in fiscal 2010, the third year of the committee. Some 230 officers and employees helped plant a total of Donation of Daily Commodities to Welfare Facilities 500 seedlings. (Vietnam) Employees of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. visited facilities caring for orphans and elderly homeless people in Hanoi, and made donations of daily commodities and medical fees. Assisting in Marine and Hydrographic Research Courses on International Customs Clearance and Trading For many years, MOL has observed marine weather and reported Rules (Kenya) its observations to the Japan Meteorological Agency and other MOL Group company Japan Express Co., Ltd. dispatched an execuweather organizations around the world. The contribution of these tive to a project conducted by Japan International Cooperation activities to advances in meteorological services was recognized in Agency (JICA) to lecture on compliance and rules in international 2010 on the occasion of trade to customs agents in five east African nations. the 135th “weather day” in Japan with a commendation awarded to the LNG carrier Senshu Maru by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. LNG carrier Senshu Maru 44 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Third-Party Opinion iron ore carrier in May 2010, and multiple, ongoing attacks by pirates in Middle Eastern waters. In particular, the pirate attack that took place off of Oman in March 2011 resulted in the pirates being transported to Japan and prosecuted in court. It was the first such case in Japan and drew considerable public attention. Since 2006, MOL has consistently made efforts to disclose the details of these incidents when they have occurred and information on measures taken in response. At the same time, there are many aspects of such acts of terrorism and piracy that go beyond Masaatsu Doi the capabilities of private-sector companies. As a leader in Associate Professor, Faculty of Regional Policy, Japan’s shipping industry, it will likely be necessary to also quickly Takasaki City University of Economics develop a framework for cooperation with the government and related institutions. This year’s Environmental and Social Report issued by Mitsui O.S.K. This year’s report reveals the continuing progress of individual Lines is organized based on performance and issues for the initial measures related to CSR, but on the relationship between the fiscal year of the company’s three-year midterm management plan, midterm management plan and CSR activities policy, there is still “GEAR UP! MOL,” which was launched in fiscal 2010. The plan room for improvement. For example, strategic goals of “CSR that broadly incorporates three strategies, and two of the strategies, fulfills MOL’s responsibility” and “CSR activities that benefit both “Enhancing Safe Operation” and “Environmental Strategy,” are the company and society” seem fairly abstract, and there is a directly related to MOL’s social responsibilities as a corporation. chance that the intended specifics of such goals will not be readily With regard to enhancing safe operation in particular, steady apparent to stakeholders. It will likely be necessary to create an progress is being made. Since establishment of the Safety Operaoverall strategy for CSR that orients each specific issue and is tion Supporting Center (SOSC) at the head office in 2007, there clearly related to the midterm management plan. has been a steady decline in navigation-related incidents (see Finally, the Great East Japan Earthquake caused no major page 22). In addition, in fiscal 2011, MOL created a new video damage at the level of MOL’s main business because the company’s entitled “Forging Ahead to Become the World Leader in Safe business continuity plan functioned effectively. At the level of social Operation” to promote greater awareness of MOL’s operational contribution activities, various support systems were rapidly put in safety initiatives among stakeholders. The video clearly informs place through MOL’s main business, including aid contributions, people inside and outside the company of the concrete safety free emergency aid supply and free day-use service of a cruise systems in place on ships. Other MOL policies for safe operation, ship. This response was predicated on day-to-day business activiincluding utilization of a training vessel, are a step ahead of the ties, starting with crisis management, and drew on MOL’s traditions industry standard. These initiatives convey MOL’s strong commitand experiences to date. ment to safety and clearly show that “Never Forget 2006” was MOL’s initiatives aimed at “becoming the world leader in safe not just a slogan. operation” are just getting started. I hope to see MOL lead the Behind MOL’s initiatives for safe operation are four major marine industry in advancing CSR management by putting “GEAR UP! incidents that occurred in 2006, the collision and sinking of an MOL” into practice. Addressing the Challenge Professor Doi commented that MOL is a step ahead of the industry in safe operation measures, that our business continuity plan functioned in the Great East Japan Earthquake and support systems were quickly put in place, and that this was the result of MOL’s traditions and experience. The invaluable views of Professor Doi, who researches the practice of CSR through primary business operations, have reinforced our commitment to further bolstering all of our CSR initiatives, including measures to ensure safe operation. On the relationship between the midterm management plan and CSR activities policy, which was brought up by Professor Doi, we strove to incorporate both aspects into CSR targets and provide explanations in the special reports and other sections. We will make additional efforts to make the relationship more readily apparent to stakeholders and show clearly what we have achieved in working toward the goals. We believe that this will help contribute to the kind of harmonious development between companies and society that is the main subject of Professor Doi’s research. Kenji Yokota Managing Executive Officer, Vice Chairman of the CSR and Environment Committee Environmental and Social Report 2011 45 Q&A With Readers MOL administers a questionnaire that broadly solicits feedback from people outside the company in order to help improve CSR activities and future Environmental and Social Reports. We received 532 responses (514 valid responses) to the questionnaire we conducted on Environmental and Social Report 2010 issued last year. Here we introduce several typical questions and our responses. Q1: Ships are able to transport a lot of cargo at once, so I think they will be an important mode of transport in the future as well. I think that ships will be an important key for both China, which is experiencing rapid economic growth, and Japan, which is connected to China by the ocean. However, to be honest, people are not very familiar with shipping, and I think it is fair to say people have very little knowledge of the actual situation. I learned a lot about your activities through this questionnaire, but even though you are doing wonderful things, I still think they are not very well known. (Female / teenage / student) A1: Thank you for your comments. I think you are exactly right in saying ships will be an important key. China and other developing countries are achieving rapid growth by importing large amounts of raw materials and energy sources like crude oil and iron ore and exporting products made in their own countries, and almost all of these goods are transported by ship. Ships that can transport large quantities are also an efficient, environmentally-friendly mode of transport. Marine shipping supports global growth while maintaining safe operation and helping protect the environment, so in order to make it better understood by everyone, we plan to further enhance our website and public relations activities as well as publishing the Environmental and Social Report. Q2: I had no knowledge of the MOL Group until now, so reading the report was extremely interesting. I got a sense for the importance of initiatives to ensure safety and address environmental issues. I also thought that hearing more from employees working in various places would deepen understanding of the MOL Group from a human interest standpoint. (Female / 20s / other) A2: Thank you for your helpful comments. Just as you point out, we think it is very important to hear from frontline employees in order to increase people’s familiarity with our initiatives. In this year’s report, we tried to provide more information on the daily lives of seafarers and include more accounts from employees in the field. The “Voices from the Forefront” section of our CSR/Environment site, which was overhauled in February 2011, contains a wealth of commentary from engineers, sales reps, foreign seafarers and other company members. We encourage you to take a look. (http://www. mol.co.jp/csr-e/index.html) Q3: Please provide more specific information in the “Ensuring Safe Operation” section. I want to see a list of the kind of accidents that are anticipated and how they are addressed. (Male / 50s / customer) A3: Thank you for your suggestions. Ensuring safe operation is an absolute imperative, and this year’s report includes a two-page section that will be a permanent addition and another new page in the “Caring for Seafarers” section, in addition to the special report section, which has been a regular feature. We have worked to provide more specific information on our initiatives and the daily lives of seafarers while including illustrations and other data. We intend to continue trying various methods for successfully conveying our initiatives to people outside the company. Report Content “Interesting Content That Left an Impression,” (Multiple responses), “Particularly Commendable Initiatives,” “Particularly Important Activities for a Marine Transport Company” (Up to 5 responses) (%) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 MOL Group Businesses President’s Message New Midterm Management Plan “GEAR UP! MOL” Senpaku ISHIN Ensuring Safe Operation MOL’s Approach to CSR ■ Easy to understand 44% ■ Average difficulty 52% Midterm CSR Program Targets and FY2010 Targets ■ Difficult to understand 4% Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability Environmental Management Policy Evaluation of Environmental and Midterm Environmental Targets and FY2010 Targets CSR Activities Environmental Burden of the MOL Group (FY2009) Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and Preventing Air Pollution Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and the Marine Environment Group Companies’ Initiatives Caring for Land-based Employees Caring for Seafarers Social Contribution Activities Third-party Opinion Corporate Profile ■ Highly commendable 35% ■ Commendable 63% ■ Not commendable 2% n “Interesting Content That Left an Impression” n “Particularly Commendable Initiatives” n “Particularly Important Activities for a Marine Transport Company” 46 Environmental and Social Report 2011 Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2011) Name: Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. President: Koichi Muto Number of Group companies: 380 (The parent company Shareholders’ equity: ¥660.7 billion and consolidated subsidiaries) Number of shares issued: 1,206,286,115 Group fleet: 917 vessels, 65,920 thousand DWT Number of shareholders: 111,465 Head Office: 1-1 Toranomon 2-chome, Share listings: Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688, Fukuoka stock exchanges Japan Business: Multi-modal transport mainly by Branches and offices in Japan: Nagoya, Kansai (Osaka), ocean-going vessels Kyushu (Fukuoka), Hiroshima Number of MOL Group employees: 9,438 (The parent company and URL: http://www.mol.co.jp consolidated subsidiaries) Consolidated Subsidiaries in Japan (62 companies)* 1. Bulkships (5) 4. Associated Businesses (23) MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd., Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd., Chugoku Shipping Ube Port Service Co., Ltd., MOL Career Support, Ltd., M.O. Tourist Co., Ltd., Agencies Ltd., Tokyo Marine Co., Ltd., Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. Daibiru Facility Management Ltd., Kosan Kanri Service West Corporation, Kitanihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd., 2. Containerships (8) Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd., Green Shipping, Ltd., Kobe Towing Co., Ltd., Japan Utoc Corporation, Utoc Logistics Corporation, Utoc Stevedoring CorporaExpress Co., Ltd. (Yokohama), Japan Express Co., Ltd. (Kobe), Japan Express tion, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Japan), Ltd., MOL Logistics (Japan) Co., Ltd., Packing & Transport Co., Ltd., MOL Kaiji Co., Ltd., Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger International Container Transport Co., Ltd., Shosen Koun Co., Ltd., Chiba Line, Ltd., Mitsui O.S.K. Kosan Co., Ltd., MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd., Daibiru Utoc Corporation Corporation, Ikuta & Marine Co., Ltd., Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., Japan Hydrographic Charts & Publications Co., Ltd., Kosan Kanri Service Co., Ltd., 3. Ferry and Domestic Transport (15): Hokuso Kohatsu K.K. Kansai Kisen Kaisha, MOL Ferry Co., Ltd., The Diamond Ferry Co., Ltd., Diamond Line K.K., MOL Naikou, Ltd., Blue Sea Network Co., Ltd., Blue 5. Others (11) Highway Express Kyushu Co., Ltd., Blue Highway Service K.K., Ferry MOL Adjustment, Ltd., MOL Cableship Ltd., MOL Ship Tech Inc., MOL Sunflower Limited, Kanki Unyu Co., Ltd., Kanki Express Co., Ltd., Bantan Ship Management Co., Ltd., MOL Marine Consulting, Ltd., MOL AccountRenraku Kisen Co., Ltd., Beppu Port Service Co., Ltd., Meigan Kaikyou Ferry ing Co., Ltd., MOL Engineering Co., Ltd., Orange P.R. Ltd., MOL Ocean Co., Ltd., Sunflower Marine Service Expert Co., Ltd., MOL Information Systems, Ltd., Mitsui Kinkai Kisen Co., Ltd. * As of June 30, 2011 Overseas Network (39 nations and regions) Europe Asia U.K., Germany, Italy, Austria, China, South Korea, Taiwan, The Philippines, Vietnam, The Netherlands, Belgium, France, Cambodia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Poland India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka North America Middle East U.S.A Lebanon, U.A.E., Qatar, Oman Central and South America Mexico, Panama, Brazil, Chile Africa Ghana, Nigeria, South Africa, Cote d’Ivoire Oceania Australia, New Zealand Environmental and Social Report 2011 47 http://www.mol.co.jp [For inquiries] Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. CSR and Environment Office, Corporate Planning Division 1-1, Toranomon 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688 Japan Tel: +81-3-3587-7063 Fax: +81-3-3587-7702 E-mail: plemo@mail.mol.co.jp This report is printed with a waterless process using vegetable oil ink. Printed in Japan
