2 / 26 Communication on Progress 2011 NKT and THE COMMUNITY Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Contents CEO STATEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . THE NKT GROUP IN BRIEF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . REPORTING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . FOCAL AREAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NILFISK-ADVANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Memebership Membership date: 27 March 2009 Number of employees: 9,800 Sector: Electricity Reporting date and PERIOD 13 October 2011 The report covers the period 1 July 2010 30 June 2011 contact Helle Gudiksen Communications Consultant, NKT Holding Email: helle.gudiksen@nkt.dk Cover photos: With courtesy of NKT companies. un gLOBAL cOMPACT NKT wishes to protect the environment, protect human and labor rights and work against corruption. 2 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk CEO Statement In NKT we believe that a global mindset is a prerequisite for success. Therefore we think and act globally in order to positively influence all stakeholders in our value chains to strive for sustainable businesses. Only by worldwide interaction and commitment can we succeed in developing a sustainable future Accountability has been a part of NKT’s values throughout our two years before being settled. However, this almost 120-year history. We work with respect for our employees, challenge does not change our strong emphasis shareholders, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. We care on fair and equal business conditions for all for the environment, not only by constantly seeking to reduce companies. environmental impacts from our own production facilities, but also by taking the customers’ use of our products into serious account. Although we are well on the way to deploying This is another aspect of having a global mindset. the UN Global Compact into our CSR profile, businesses and value chain, we cannot guarantee NKT takes responsibility there will be no setbacks. What we can promise is The pressure on the world’s scarce resources will most probably that the NKT Board of Management will tackle increase further. As a result, the urgency to develop a sustainable the work with complete dedication and future is evident. We are present all over the world, so the remain fully focused on our challenge of achieving sustainable solutions for the benefit of Corporate Social everyone is also ours. In NKT, we have already taken action to Responsibility. carry our share of the global efforts to achieve a sustainable world by setting striving goals internally, and also by influencing We see the work with our entire value chain to be ambitious in this matter. This is why CSR as a long, continuous NKT strongly supports the UN Global Compact; adhering to journey and we hope that these principles constitutes an important part of our Corporate the efforts may be a Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. And meanwhile we strongly source of inspiration just urge our suppliers to do the same. In fact, this is one of our main as the efforts of others goals within the Human and Employee Rights area. have inspired us. NKT sets ambitious goals The 10 UN Global Compact principles are well on the way to being integrated into NKT’s CSR efforts. Two years ago we applied for membership and we have already reached the first goals in each of the four focus areas. We now have an extensive database on reported parameters and the overview will help us to define more specific and focused goals in the future, whilst further establishing our expectations towards both our internal and external value chain. This is our third Communication on Progress Report. Our aim is continuously to provide a fair picture of our achievements, providing factual information and being straightforward about our successes as well as our challenges. In this reporting period we have seen decreasing Group CO2 emissions and although encouraging, it will be a challenge to meet the goal of 12% emission reduction relative to output by the end of 2011. Brøndby, Denmark After the closing of this reporting period, NKT received a 13 October 2011 Statement of Objection from the European Commission in Thomas Hofman-Bang connection with an investigation of the cable market, and NKT is President and CEO providing its observations. The investigation could take one or NKT Holding A/S 3 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk The NKT Group in brief The NKT Group comprises four business areas: Revenue (LTM) mDKK NKT Cables 10,000 NKT Cables develops, manufactures and markets a wide 9,354 selection of cables. From low voltage cables for domestic lighting, 8,000 to catenary wires that supply power for high-speed trains 6,000 travelling between China’s major cities, to submarine cables that 6,000 4,000 connect together offshore wind turbines, to cables for cars. The products are sold worldwide. 2,000 191 1,452 0 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT Nilfisk-Advance Cables Advance Group Flexibles Nilfisk-Advance supplies indoor and outdoor cleaning equipment to a global, professional clientele as well as vacuum cleaners for private use. Individual service agreements and spare parts sales are also provided, giving customers availability at all times. The EBITDA (LTM) products are sold worldwide. mDKK NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group NKT Flexibles 800 Photonics Group 700 600 Photonics Group consists of three companies all active in the 500 631 EBITDA (LTM) field of advanced fiber technology. Products are based on the 400 unique light-conducting properties of optical fibers. The 300 200 260 products comprises crystal fibers, fiber lasers and systems used 225 100 in material processing, sensing and life science industry, 0 -9 temperature measuring equipment for applications such as -100 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT tunnel fire detection as well as equipment for splicing, joining Cables Advance Group Flexibles and forming optical fibers. The products are sold worldwide. NKT Flexibles Number of employees, 30 June 2011 NKT Flexibles supplies flexible pipe systems for offshore oil and gas production. The company is one of only three in the world 181NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group NKT Flexibles manufacturing pipes that can withstand internal pressures as high 636 as 600 bar and temperatures of up to 130oC. The pipes are used to link the well with the production rig, and the flexibility of the NKT Cables pipes enables them to absorb both wave action and platform 3,609 Nilfisk-Advance movements. The products are sold worldwide. NKT Flexibles is a Photonics Group joint venture in which NKT Holding holds 51% ownership. 5,378 NKT Flexibles NKT Commitments NKT has adopted a number of voluntary projects and principles with emphasis on Corporate Responsibility: Organization or project Year of adoption Production sites Carbon Disclosure Project 2009 UN Global Compact 2009 The NKT Group also participates in relevant trade, industry and standardization associations around the world. NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance According to internal policies, NKT does not engage in political Photonics Group activities nor contribute to or support political parties, NKT Flexibles candidates or committees. 4 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk REPORTING The NKT sustainability model is based on the innovation and commitment of our entire value chain. Our report builds on international protocols, which allows comparability among our business areas and with other companies NKT signed the UN Global Compact on 27 March 2009 and this l A special reporting scheme where the four business units is our third Communication on Progress (COP) Report, annually report on matters such as diversity in management, covering the period 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011. efforts within R&D to support the UN Global Compact, etc. Both the reporting system and the Statement of Reporting structure Given that the Group’s four business areas are diverse, so are Representation include almost 100 units worldwide. the challenges related to CSR. Therefore, we report separately GRI on each of the four business areas. Our COP reports address NKT has been inspired by the parameters of the Global the UN Global Compact's 10 principles divided into three parts: Reporting Initiative (GRI). We have carried out an assessment of Human & Employee Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. materiality of the GRI indicators based on the methodology proposed by the GRI. The methodology remains unchanged Group guidelines and policies The first efforts on a corporate level were to relate the 10 from 2010, and we have chosen to report on a total of 16 principles of the UN Global Compact to our company indicators. standards, leading to a definition of ethical guidelines for the Group. These guidelines have been supplemented by Group In cooperation with the business areas, the Group has policies and have been communicated throughout the Group. formulated a comprehensive set of parameters, reporting Some of the business areas have taken the guidelines a step procedures and related instructions which form the basis for this further and enhanced them with Codes of Conduct. reporting system. Reporting system Data reliability To improve benchmarks and ensure continuous progress we Although the implementation of the consolidated reporting have established a comprehensive reporting system within the system is complete, some elements are not yet fully operating in Group. The reporting system provides data and information all areas. Procedures and instructions related to data quality, data from the individual units within the Group and now delivers traceability and control measures are still under development. most of the necessary data and information on which our CSR Therefore, the uncertainties of the primary input data, which still works and future reporting will be based. The four business areas exist as a result of this ongoing work, have to be taken into are responsible for data collection and the quality of the Key account when considering the conclusions of this report. Performance Indicators (KPIs). However, the employment of data has become more consistent as the employees gain more experience in reporting. The reporting system is composed of four elements: Auditing l A whistleblower system where all Group employees can The NKT Communication on Progress 2011 Report on the report serious concerns about a number of behaviours, Group's CSR efforts is not audited by an independent auditor. events or circumstances that seem incorrect. Reporting can be made anonymously. It is the intention to conduct test audits in selected companies l A data collection system where we can continuously register within the NKT Group in the coming reporting period. The test various KPIs, such as work accidents, type and amount of fuel audits will focus on data collection procedures, data quality and and energy consumption, CO2 emission from travel and business procedures in general. transport, raw material consumption, undesirable events such as environmental spills and fines. l A Statement of Representation on Corporate Social Responsibility signed off by local management in the Group companies once a year to ensure that they are familiar with and work to advance the UN Global Compact principles. 5 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk FOCAL AREAS NKT primarily centres on the environmental and anti-corruption areas of the UN Global Compact. However, targeted efforts within Human & Employee Rights have also been made. The first goals have been achieved, promising results are in the pipeline, and new challenges are appearing When adhering to the UN Global Compact in 2009 we assessed Codes of ethics which action areas would have the most impact on a relative All business areas have goals for manager information and short-term basis to assure buy-in throughout the organization. acceptance of the UN Global Compact. Some business areas Our assessment was and is continuously based on: have elaborated on the NKT Ethics Statement with the aim to make their own version known, understood and accepted by all l The UN Global Compact 10 principles white collar employees. More initiatives will follow in the next l Our business situation reporting period. l Our business culture Based on a thorough business analysis we identified the largest Value chain adherence to UN Global Compact One of our goals is to integrate Human and Employee Rights in potential for positive impact in the areas of Environment and our value chains. We therefore require that our suppliers also Anti-corruption. We deemed it relevant, however, to initiate comply with the UN Global Compact. Our objective is that by actions and targets within all of the main areas and report on the end of 2011 at least 80% of the Group’s suppliers (annual these. Furthermore, NKT intends to widen the initiatives and purchase value above 50,000 EUR) shall be contractually report within other societal areas in the future. committed to the 10 principles, see the figure below. To ensure that the principles are propagated and complied with throughout the Group, all NKT unit general managers must annually report on the situation in their units via our Statement of Representation. In this statement they report on facts and declare their adherence to the UN Global Compact principles as managers and on behalf of their units. HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Being a global company it is also our obligation to assure these rights in areas of the world where they are not necessarily prioritized. This is especially important when NKT acquires While suppliers in EMEA/APAC countries show great willingness companies in such areas. For NKT, consideration of these issues to adhere to the UN Global Compact, suppliers in other is now an integral part of M&A procedures. In addition, NKT also geographic areas remain reluctant. However, NKT continues to has a set of policies related to Human and Employee Rights. push this issue when negotiating new contracts. They are available on our corporate website: www.nkt.dk/uk/Menu/About+NKT/Policies. 6 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Work accidents scrap, and in contributing to develop entirely new products or The health and safety of our employees is a key NKT product applications that can reduce the environmental load in management concern. Absence caused by occupational injuries the overall supply chain. is reported in all our business units, and high targets for improvement are set. Although well on the way, status shows In Nilfisk-Advance we believe that the greatest environmental that in some business areas even more attention is needed in challenges and improvement measures lie within the areas of this area in order to be among the best. More business areas reduction of environmental load from products in use. This is a have set a zero occupational injury goal. focual point in the product development. ANTI-CORRUPTION We buy large volumes, operate with large projects and we are active in sectors where there have been incidences of cartels and corruption. Furthermore, we are a global company with presence in parts of the world where corruption has been and still is more widespread. Internal compliance concept NKT is a strong advocate for fair competition. We consider it to be an important asset to our customers that we are not party It's all about people to unlawful, anti-competitive practices. We want to ensure that Attracting and retaining the right employees with unique our policies on this issue are in focus and complied with. competencies is alpha and omega for a specialized group such Therefore, an anti-corruption review is part of the as NKT. Many business areas have special talent development aforementioned Statement of Representation signed by all NKT programmes while others e.g. offer English courses to ensure unit managers once a year. The document is affirming, among that the employees can work across borders in a continuously other things, that management action has been taken to ensure growing global company. that employees with extensive interface with suppliers or customers are aware of NKT’s anti-corruption policy and the consequences of non-compliance. In addition, we register and ENVIRONMENT will report all filed incidences of corruption, cartels and money We track energy consumption for all our business units. laundering. During this reporting period we have not registered Improvement targets, indexed to levels of activity, are cases of corruptive behaviour or money laundering. established for business segments as well as for the Group as a whole. NKT reports its annual CO2 emission to the Carbon Statement of Objection Disclosure Project organisation. After the closing of this reporting period NKT Cables and NKT Holding received a Statement of Objection from the European Ambitious CO2 target challenged Commission in connection with an investigation of the In 2009 we declared our objective to reduce overall CO2 submarine and underground high voltage cable markets in the emission by 12%, relative to output for the period 2009-2011. period 1999-2008. NKT is now providing its observations to the Although 2010 showed a decrease of approximately 2% European Commission. The investigation could take one or two compared to the previous year, it is proving to be somewhat years before being settled. challenging to reach the target which is based on 2008 expectations. The target was set before the financial crisis and Facilitation payments was therefore based on significantly higher growth rates than Until now we have reluctantly accepted that facilitation payment actually realized, and on a product mix that is slightly different may to some extent be necessary to ensure that agreed from actual market demands. It remains to be seen if the goal will services can be offered or supplied, or that the reasonable safety be realized by year-end 2011. or rights of employees can be provided. A system to record and track facilitation payments has been established and has been Data reliability very helpful in creating awareness of the proportion of this Our data collection system implemented in 2010 revealed a matter. A few cases have been recorded in this reporting period. significant deviation between previous and present reported CO2 data. Reporting period data are currently found to be The increased awareness has led many of our businesses to reliable and consistent when it comes to Scope 1 and 2 work with setting up internal awareness campaigns and/or emissions. Scope 3 data are still less accurate and imcomplete. introducing codes of conduct to support the approach of a This is primarily due to varrying calculation methods used by revised standpoint of non-acceptance of facilitation payments. transportation companies, and that many NKT business units have just started collecting data and to report on this parameter. Moving forward we intend to focus also on people out of our own ranks, including agents. We will start by taking measures to Product environmental footprint ensure that our business partners are contractually obliged to The products of NKT Cables and NKT Flexibles are to a large act in accordance with our policies. extent environmentally friendly in usage. Therefore, our greatest contribution is to continuously reducing the level of production 7 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Whistleblower system A whistleblower system is in place to improve our ability of discovering irrigularities. It allows employees to report serious concerns about a number of irrigularities or inappropriate behaviour. Reports can be made anonymously in any chosen language, and in writing or orally. Two of the registered reports for 2010-2011 have lead to material adjustments in business procedures. None of these were of a corruptive nature. 8 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk NILFISK-ADVANCE Nilfisk-Advance is introducing “Green meets clean”, sustainable cleaning, as the headline of our work with Corporate Responsibility in the coming years We are proud to be one of the world’s leading producers of professional cleaning equipment. Our products are manufactured on three continents and used worldwide. We offer our customers cleaning solutions that are both efficient and improve the sustainability of the industry. We constantly work to improve our products. New products shall provide equal or enhanced cleaning efficiency while using less energy, less water or less detergent. We, as well as our customers, see great potential in developing cleaning solutions with a better environmental performance. We want to take a leading position in this development, and we call it “Green meets clean”. Being a participant of the UN Global Compact we are also dedicated in ensuring that Nilfisk-Advance is a good company to work for, for all our people regardless of location. We focus on the environment when conducting our business and we wish to ensure that our principles on business integrity are well-known and live within our organisation. We are certain that our commitment to the UN Global Compact and Corporate Responsibility will help us to develop our business in a new and positive direction. It will also enable us to meet the growing demand from customers for sustainable and more efficient products and processes. Brøndby, Denmark, 13 October 2011 Jørgen Jensen CEO, Nilfisk-Advance A/S JØRGEN JENSEN CEO Nilfisk-Advance A/S We offer our customers cleaning solutions that are both efficient and improve the sustainability of the industry. 9 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS As a global company we operate in parts of the world that Our products are attracting professional, responsible customers. They have a long tradition of respect for individual rights, and too want to ensure that the products they use have been produced also in parts of the world where these rights are not responsibly. We know that wherever we operate, the responsibility for necessarily prioritised. We consider it important that all compliance lies with ourselves, and not only with the local authorities. our employees are assured good and fair conditions and We are therefore committed to ensure that not only we, but also our we are committed to setting an example in the countries suppliers conform to our standards and observe the UN Global where we operate. Compact principles. To reach our business goals it is crucial to have a dedicated As an important part of our efforts within this field we have drafted workforce, an inspiring working environment and to be the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and communicated this able to continuously foster new talents. throughout the entire organization. A wide range of initiatives help establish the commitment We have also established a whistleblower system where any violations of Nilfisk-Advance with our people. We have both global or breaches can be anonymously reported by anyone in Nilfiskand local initiatives to ensure that we act as a corporate Advance. citizen and are an employer of choice for our employees. GOALS: HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Management Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Status All local management teams are informed of our policies, have issued their comments and have endorsed the policy Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 All local management teams are Local management teams are to sign a informed of our policies, have Statement of Representation on the UNGC The activity is ongoing issued their comments, and have principles at least once a year. endorsed the policy Human and employee rights are part of the standard agenda at local business board meetings at least once a year Goal: 30.03.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Zero tolerance for acts of To establish a registration system for A registration system for reporting cases of discrimination of any kind and reporting cases of discrimination discrimination has been established. consequently no cases to be One incident was reported in the COP 2011 reported period. The activity is ongoing 100 YEARS UNION ANNIVERSARY An important part of how we comply with human rights is to ensure freedom of association in our company. An illustrative example is from Denmark where we had the pleasure of celebrating an impressive 100-year anniversary for workers’ union group “Klub 32 Metal” of the Danish Metalworkers' union in Nilfisk-Advance. 10 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 We will foster skilled employees The People Review Programme will be Activities to develop a strong culture and so that they have the opportunity extended from Top60 to include Top200 excellent leadership skills have been initiated to to achieve their full potential leaders in our company support this goal. The acitivity is ongoing Procurement Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 80% of the procurement (value The principles of the UNGC are part of the EMEA*/APAC** countries have continued above 50,000 EUR) is to be text in new supplier contracts. When their positive development on this target: 76% supplied by partners who have contractual agreements are in place, we plan of direct spend (in value) is now with suppliers agreed to abide by the principles to carry out control visits based on a risk who have agreed to comply with the principles of the UNGC assessment at some suppliers of the UNGC. The result on global scale is somewhat lower at 36%. It is an improvement, but we also realize that we still have a long way to go to reach our target. We will continue our efforts in this area. The activity is ongoing Work accidents Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Regular reporting on the number We measure and define progress goals, take A registration system has been established and of occupational injuries followed preventive initiatives and follow up on all regular reporting on occupational injuries is by definition of target for incidents conducted. reduction of injuries (leading to Investigation is ongoing as to the nature of absence) occupational injuries to ensure best practice in local follow-up and preventive measures. The activity is ongoing Labour Rights New goal: 30.06.12 and Actions onwards Based on non-conformity findings we ensure Code of Ethics is an integrated that employees from newly acquired part of the M&A due diligence companies are treated equal and fair process, and non-conformity findings are reported Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished * EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa * APAC: Asia-Pacific 11 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ENVIRONMENT We see environmental sustainability as an element of sound Our cleaning machines naturally consume energy, water and in business practice. If we as a company can reduce our certain product areas also detergents. Designing equipment consumption of resources it will benefit the environment, not which can clean to the same high standard but using fewer to mention the economic benefits for ourselves and our resources is, therefore, our greatest challenge. Thus this is the customers. area where we can make the maximum possible impact in our environmental efforts. “Green meets clean” is how Nilfisk-Advance works with environmental consciousness in developing new products for Our own internal consumption of resources is also an area of our customers.. environmental focus. In our manufacturing entities we continuously strive to minimize environmental impact. And in our sales entities, offices and in our daily behaviour, we encourage environmentally sound choices through initiatives and environmentally justefiable policies. GOALS: ENVIRONMENT Product development Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 All new products contain sustainability The sustainability of products is an Our platform for technology development, improvements within at least one and important part of the decision in the 'Customer Focused Technology preferably more of the following four product development process Development' has taken the areas: energy consumption, water environmental impact of future products as consumption, use of detergents and a high priority parameter in activities. disposal Worldwide, 60% of new products launched by Nilfisk-Advance last year contained an environmental improvement within at least one of the four environmental focus areas. The acitivity is ongoing 50% SAVINGS ON ELECTRICITY We collect suggestions from our employees on potential solutions for energy saving. One result from the extensive initiatives on electricity, is segregating the lighting system into small areas in one of our production units in China so that only the active parts of production halls are lit. And replacing the electrical heating system with a solar heating system which has reduced electricity from 110KW to 8KW. By taking these measures, the production unit successfully reduced their use of electricity by 50%. 12 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk CO2 emission Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 12% reduction in 2011 on reported Monitor and report on the emission at all It is not possible to conclude on reported emission relative to output (revenue) as locations. Based on this we ensure local emission data from 2008 due to problems compared to 2008 focus on energy reduction in our with data quality. processes The data collection process has significantly improved towards COP 2011. Adjusted target is 10% reduction in COP 2014 relative to output as compared to COP 2011. The goal is redefined Products’ environmental footprint Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Product footprints from highest selling We will identify and reduce the full We have established a methodology to products are to be identified environmental impact from our highest identify the environmental footprint of our selling products within energy and water top products, and the first pilot project has consumption, use of detergents and been conducted. disposal The goal is ongoing Goal: 31.12.15 Action Status as of 30.06.11 Set target for reduction of highest selling Finalize environmental footprint pilot Worldwide, 60% of new products launched products’ environmental footprint projects and evaluate results. Use by Nilfisk-Advance last year contained an outcome to set target for reduction of environmental improvement within at least highest selling products’ environmental one of the four environmental focus areas footprint in product development: water, detergents, energy and disposal. The goal is ongoing New goal 31.06.12 Action Actively participate in industry-related Ensure Nilfisk-Advance representation in activities, boards and committees to push relevant bodies of influence for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 13 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ANTI-CORRUPTION We consider corruption a major challenge for the global In order to support the work on business integrity we have community. We are committed to working against the negative drafted and communicated the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics effect that corruption has on fair competition and towards the in which our position on business ethics is stated. development of a stable society. Furthermore, a global whistleblower system has been established in Nilfisk-Advance enabling employees to Corruption undermines healthy competition, and money ends anonymously report anti-corruption as well as other unlawful up in the wrong hands. As corruption is particularly widespread incidents. in poor communities, this makes the effect even worse. We have also established procedures in Nilfisk-Advance to ensure all our people, both at management and employee levels, are duly informed and conscious of company policies on business integrity. GOALS: ANTI-CORRUPTION Management Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Local unit general managers are informed Local management teams are to sign a of our policies, have issued their Statement of Representation on the The activity is ongoing comments and have endorsed our UNGC principles at least once a year. policies Human and employee rights are part of the standard agenda at local business board meetings at least once a year Corruption Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Report the number of filed corruption and cartel cases, if any. None were reported New goal: 30.02.12 Actions Ensure employees are knowledgeable on Implement Code of Conduct with how to act according to Nilfisk-Advance behavioural guidelines for all employees expectations on business integrity issues New goal: 30.06.12 Actions Apply risk management in growth markets Identify high risk areas of possible violation on Business Integrity issues of Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics. Implement Code of Conduct and initiate targeted training programme COMMUNICATION OF CODE OF ETHICS We have Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and it is included in all employee handbooks, is presented to all new employees and posters are present in our offices and manufacturing facilities. We require and expect that anyone who acts on behalf of NilfiskAdvance complies with these guidelines. The Code of Ethics is also raised at Business Board Meetings with all our companies, and we encourage all our suppliers to undertake their business in accordance with the principles of the UNGC. 14 / 14 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Facilitation payments Goal: 31.12.10 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Submit a report on the first full year, To define what the concept of ‘facilitation We have adopted the OECD definition of perform assessment and define payment’ means in our company facilitation payments. subsequent goals A registration system has been established that requires local management to report cases of facilitation payments. As per 31.12.10 there have been no reported cases. As of 01.01.11 this goal makes up a part of the other anti-corruption goals Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 15 / 26 Fremskridtsrapport 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk NKT Holding A/S Vibeholms Allé 25 DK-2605 Brøndby Tel. +45 4348 2000 nkt.holding@nkt.dk www.nkt.dk NKT’s UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 is published by: NKT Holding A/S, Vibeholms Allé 25, DK-2605 Brøndby, Denmark. CVR no. 62 72 52 14. Text and graphic production: NKT Holding A/S. Photos with courtesy of NKT companies. Copyright: NKT, October 2011
