Responsible Growth AAK Sustainability Report 2010/2011 About this report Welcome to AAK’s Sustainability Report 2010/2011 With this, our second sustainability report, we aim to provide a transparent presentation of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) objectives, initiatives and activities of the AAK Group. All data is from 2010 and is based on the core indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Food Sector Supplements, adjusted for our business. Principles for reporting are described in the section “Reporting criteria” on page 40. The report covers our entire organisation, including production plants, administrative offices, sales offices and sourcing operations. The environmental data is restricted to the production plants. Data from our mid2011 acquisition of Golden Foods/Golden Brands in Louisville, Kentucky, USA, is not included in the report. Wherever relevant, we have compared the figures with those from 2009. We also comment on the trends and developments we see and include our outlook for the years ahead. The trends, however, should be inThroughout the report, AAK colleagues Head office terpreted with prudence since they only share stories about some of our many CSR AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) cover a two-year period. initiatives. Top managers also share their Jungmansgatan 12 To make the report easier to read, we thoughts and insights in relation to their SE-211 19 Malmö have divided it into five major sections that specific areas of responsibility. Altogether, Sweden reflect the way we structure data collection this report should provide a clear picture of +46 40 627 83 00 and reporting within the AAK organisation: how we at AAK work with sustainability – our info@aak.com drive towards responsible growth. Registered office: Malmö Marketplace This report is available in Swedish and Reg. No. 556669-2850 Supply chain English as a PDF file on www.aak.com Environment and as a printed report. To obtain a copy, Workplace please contact Corporate Communications Community at comm@aak.com. Contents page About this report........................................... 2 Global CEO Statement............................................ 3 Reporting AAK in 60 seconds....................................... 4 Our business................................................ 5 Initiative CSR Objectives............................................ 7 (GRI) Marketplace.................................................. 8 Supply chain............................................... 14 GRI is a network-based organiEnvironment............................................... 20 sation that pioneers the world’s Energy.................................................... 21 most widely used sustainabilAir........................................................... 23 ity reporting framework involving Water...................................................... 24 more than 30,000 companies in Waste..................................................... 25 70 countries. Workplace................................................... 26 The reporting framework measCommunity................................................. 32 ures and reports economic, enviCSR approach............................................ 36 ronmental, and social performance and also addresses the UN Reporting criteria........................................ 40 Global Compact principles. GRI Index................................................... 41 About this report 2 CEO Statement by Arne Frank Arne Frank CEO and President, AAK As the world’s leading supplier of specialgood. New objectives have been set for the lationships help us deity vegetable oils and fats, at AAK we are coming years, which will steer our efforts in liver in this respect. keenly aware of our responsibility to source, this important area. There are more details Another important challenge is preparing handle, produce and deliver our products in on subsequent pages. for and adapting to the various international the most efficient and sustainable manner and national climate change mitigation initias we strive to meet our strategic goals. Proactive initiatives atives. While this primarily involves reducing Through our close relations with stakeTwo sustainability issues, which are high our carbon footprint, we are also constantly holders, be they customers, investors, emon our agenda, relate to the sourcing of oils working to optimise the use of resources ployees, suppliers or the local communities from tropical climates, in particular shea and and striving to minimise any form of waste. where we operate, we are committed to intepalm oil. The shift from conventional palm oil to grating sustainability in all our activities, with One example of where we can and do certified sustainable palm oil is yet another a balanced and holistic approach. In this remake a real difference is our strong local challenge. We meet this with a deep underspect, as an integral part of our business we presence in rural West Africa, where we standing of both the supply and demand endeavour to initiate and participate in winsource shea. Here, our invaluable knowlchains and their needs and wants, and aim win projects that benefit our surroundings. edge of and close links with our suppliers to unite these by continuing to drive sustain– the women of the villages – has enabled ability in the supply chain, and encouraging 2010 milestones us to create opportunities to enhance their the uptake of certified sustainable palm oil The ten principles of the UN Global Comliving and working conditions. by customers. pact are the foundation of all our sustainAnother major initiative is the Roundtaability work. Based on these, in 2010, we ble on Sustainable Palm Oil, of which AAK Driving responsible growth adopted a Code of Conduct, applicable to is a founder member and Executive Board The AAK Group has grown to be an imporall our employees, serving as a guideline for member. Our involvement in the leadership tant player in the food industry and the leadhow we conduct business responsibly. of this multi-national, multi-stakeholder oring supplier of speciality vegetable oils and Last year’s publication of our first sustainganisation is helping to move the palm infats solutions. Our performance – both in ability report was also an important miledustry towards the production of sustainable terms of financial results and our progress stone in our sustainability efforts. By syspalm oil as the rule rather than the exception in the area of sustainability – is a testimony tematic reporting of our objectives, activities in the years ahead. to this growth. As the CEO of AAK I can see and data, we provide a thorough overview We can be proud of our contributions in real progress and I am optimistic that AAK of our progress and areas where we need both of these areas. is on the right path to further improvements. to improve. This transparency, which conWe must never rest, and will continue to tinues with this our second report, is central Meeting the challenges drive responsible growth in all of AAK. to our stakeholder communications and an One of the most important challenges for AAK With sustainability on top of our agenda, important criterion for remaining the firstis how to support our customers in achievwe are convinced that even better years lie choice supplier in our industry. ing their CSR objectives. The safeguarding ahead of us. Our responsible approach is Nine of our objectives for our sustainabilof our customers’ brands is a fundamental building strong capabilities for sustainable ity efforts for 2010 were presented in last requirement, and to remain the first choice, growth into new markets, countries and year’s sustainability report. In general, our we must partner with our customers to reach cultures. progress against these objectives has been their goals. Our long and close customer reGlobal Compact The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for the effective abolition of child labour; businesses that are committed to aligning their operaand tions and strategies with ten universally accepted princithe elimination of discrimination in ples in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and respect of employment and occupation. anti-corruption. With more than 8,500 signatories in over 135 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest volunEnvironment tary corporate sustainability initiative. The principles are: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Human Rights undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Businesses should support and respect the protection of responsibility; and internationally proclaimed human rights; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmenmake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. tally friendly technologies. Labour Anti-Corruption Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; including extortion and bribery. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; CEO Statement 3 AAK in 60 seconds AAK’s vision is to be the first choice in New products are developed in close AAK is organised in three business value-added vegetable oil solutions. partnership with our customers, drawareas: Food Ingredients, Chocolate ing on our oils and fats expertise and & Confectionery Fats and Technical AAK has more than a century of unriknowledge of market trends. Close relaProducts & Feed. valled experience with vegetable oils for tions enable us to create strong, lasting a broad spectrum of applications. Our solutions that meet customer needs, Our eleven production plants are located customers are primarily from the food, expectations and high standards. in Denmark, the Netherlands, Mexico, confectionery and cosmetics industries. Sweden, the UK, Uruguay and the US. We also supply the feed and technical AAK’s raw materials are derived from reWe also have sourcing operations and industries. newable plant sources primarily sourced sales offices in several key locations in Northern Europe (rapeseed), West around the world. Most of our products are used as ingreAfrica (shea) and Southeast Asia (palm). dients. Examples include alternatives to The parent company, AarhusKarlshamn dairy fat and cocoa butter, trans-free soAAK is one of the founders of the AB, is a Swedish-registered joint-stock lutions, nutritious fats for infant formula, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil company. The company’s shares are environmentally-friendly lubricants, and (RSPO). We also founded and operate listed on NASDAQ OMX, Stockholm, healthy skin care ingredients. A growing GreenPalm, which trades in certificates in the Mid Cap segment, Consumer number of our products are sold as ownfor sustainable palm oil. Through these Commodities sector. brand products to consumers. initiatives, AAK continuously contributes to the production of sustainable palm oil. Key financial figures, 2010 Operational key ratios (SEK million unless otherwise stated) 2010 Net sales 14,808 Gross contribution 3,625 Gross contribution per kilo, SEK 2.51 Operating profit 824 Operating profit per kilo, SEK 0.57 Earnings per share, SEK* 14.15 Return on operating capital, % 13.1 Investments 335 Net debt 2,634 Equity/assets ratio, % 34 * Earnings per share have been calculated using a weighted average of the number of outstanding shares during 2010. Deﬁnitions, see page 55 of the Annual Report. AAK in 60 seconds 4 Our business Sales offices Production plants Customisation plants Sourcing operations Our reason for being A vital ingredient All our customers have one interest in AAK’s core business is the production of Fat is essential to human life. We need it in common: applying value-added vegetable vegetable oils and fats from natural, renewour diet for energy, to absorb vitamins, to oils and fats in their products. As a result, able raw materials. Produced in our eleven produce hormones and to provide us with vegetable oils and fats from AAK are present plants in Europe and the Americas, our essential fatty acids that our bodies are unin many of the products we all use and conproducts reach global markets through our able to synthesise. However, following the sume on a daily basis. sales offices in key locations throughout the rise of obesity and obesity-related diseases, world and our close network of agents and fat is often seen as harmful and something Responsible growth distributors. to be avoided. At AAK, sustainable development is fundaWe use plant-derived raw materials, such At AAK, we work continuously to develop mental to our business. Hand in hand with as rapeseed, soya beans, shea kernels, sunhealthy types of oils and fats that meet the social and environmental responsibility, fiflower seed and palm oil, primarily sourced requirements of customers and consumers. nancial growth is key to our continued dein Northern Europe, West Africa and Southvelopment and future success. This is what east Asia. Some raw materials – seeds and Part of daily life we mean by “responsible growth”. kernels – are crushed and extracted at our Close customer cooperation is central to our We believe that leading sustainability in production plants, while others are bought work, whether identifying the right solution our everyday activities helps us reach our vias crude oils or semi-refined oils, which we for an application or developing new prodsion of being the first choice in value-added then process and refine further. ucts. As a supplier to a wide range of manvegetable oil solutions. Drawing on our extensive knowledge and ufacturers of branded goods in the food, experience, we utilise and add value to the cosmetics, feed and technical industries, we natural properties of vegetable oils and fats interact with very different customers char– our speciality for more than a century. acterised by very different needs. Our business 5 6 CSR Objectives This page lists our overall CSR objectives for 2010 and future objectives. Achievements regarding the 2010 objectives are outlined. The future objectives are also presented separately and at greater length in the five sections to which they apply, namely Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace and Community. 2010 objectives What we achieved Implementation of AAK Code of Conduct AAK Code of Conduct was implemented with 35% of employees Implementation of AAK Supplier Code of Conduct 7 production plants and the sourcing operations in West Africa have started implementing the Supplier Code of Conduct Enhance AAK website with more extensive and dynamic CSR A new CSR structure on www.aak.com was implemented in the information fourth quarter of 2010 Increase number of AAK production plants obtaining RSPO supply 2009: 2 sites were certified chain certification 2010: 7 sites were certified Cover all AAK private label products with GreenPalm certificates The major sites that produce AAK private label consumer products covered the amount of palm oil used with GreenPalm certificates Improve sustainability reporting in dialogue with external Feedback was gathered from investors, customers and employees stakeholders with various responsibilities Assess internal value of GRI indicators within the AAK organisation Feedback was gathered from all sites during local meetings Increase number of AAK sites sharing their CSR data with 2009: 5 sites were members of Sedex customers at Sedex 2010: 7 sites were members of Sedex Launch global assessment of AAK Climate Change Risks and A global assessment was not initiated due to other priorities Opportunities New objectives Code of Conduct 2011: 100% implementation Marketplace Sedex 2011: 6 sites SMETA certified (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) Supplier Code of Conduct Supply chain 2011: Minimum 90% implementation for direct raw material suppliers (excl. West Africa) 2011: Minimum 60% implementation for direct raw material suppliers in West Africa Energy 2012: Investigate opportunities to exploit renewable energy technology Environment Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5% of waste disposed as reused, recycled or recovered Lost Time Injury rate 2011: Each site to perform better than the national industry average Workplace Performance & Development Plan 2011: Implemented with all employees globally Local engagement Community 2011: Participation in local projects and activities CSR Objectives 7 Marketplace In this section, Marketplace, we cover all the areas where we meet our customers, Objective on Sedex including our products, product developIn 2010, seven of our production plants were members of Sedex, the largest colment, food safety, product information laborative platform for the sharing of ethical supply chain data. This means they and market communication. now share information on labour and business practices and health, safety and environment data with customers who are also Sedex members. Our interaction with customers is based on The information registered in the database in 2010 was based on a self-assesssound business ethics and a deep underment scheme. standing of our responsibility for safeguardIn 2011, we will take the next step and obtain ethical audit certification at six of the ing customer brands. As a supplier of ingreproduction plants by Sedex-approved auditors. The audit framework “Sedex Members dients for some of the world’s best-known Ethical Trade Audit” (SMETA) is specially developed to support the Sedex system and brands, we recognise our role and our custhe overall philosophy of sharing the audit report with customer Sedex members. tomers’ expectations. AAK is organised in three business areas: Food Ingredients – catering for customObjective on Code of Conduct ers within the food service, bakery, infant In 2009/2010, we prepared and adopted a Code of Conduct that defines how nutrition and dairy segments, and food we interact with internal and external stakeholders. The Code is based on the UN manufacturing Convention on Human Rights, International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, Chocolate & Confectionery Fats, includOECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact principles. The Code applies globally ing Lipids for Care – with customers in – to all AAK staff, in all markets and at all times. the chocolate and confectionery industry, During 2010, the Code was implemented with 35 percent of AAK staff. Our individual and the cosmetics industry sites and business areas determine the best means of implementing the Code, deTechnical Products & Feed – supplying pending on local legislation, culture, tradition and level of knowledge. the feed industry as well as technical By the end of 2011, we expect the Code to be fully implemented. and mechanical industries. Value-creating product development Customers require a prompt response to Following our pioneering development their needs for new and improved funcof highly functional products without tionalities or for healthier products with retrans fatty acids meeting the requireduced environmental impact. This is why ment for healthier products, we see our product development functions are an increasing demand for products decentralised within our individual busiwithout saturated fatty acids. New ness areas. product variants include Akomix for ice Our product development work revolves cream, Akocream for bakery fillings around our broad technical knowledge and Cebes for coatings, the latter and access to raw materials and statejoining our Chocofill LS and EsSence of-the-art technology. Within this setup, ranges our product development staff are able to New Lipex products with Lipids for conduct fast and targeted development of Care to provide the cosmetics industry new raw material bases, technologies and with further opportunities to substitute products. Assessing and documenting the mineral oils with renewable vegetable environmental, health and safety aspects raw materials. of each project is an integrated part of our product development process. We expect the current health trends to continue. At AAK, we intend to maintain New products and concepts our leading edge as a supplier of soluIn 2010, we launched a number of new tions to market needs. products and product concepts within our strategic focus areas, including: Akopastry products for pastry margaIllexao and other complex products rines and Akocake products for cake based on segregated, sustainable palm margarines with a more natural profile oil, meeting the growing customer interdue to their reduced additive content est in this area Karsten Nielsen Chief Technology Officer Marketplace 8 Sedex Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) is a not-for-profit membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains. It is based in London and was formed in 2001 by a group of large retailers and their suppliers. The reason for forming the organisation was the enormous burden of suppliers being audited time and time again against various customer standards. Therefore, the group of retailers and suppliers agreed to stop developing own standards and instead create one, common standard. The Sedex core product is a secure, online database that In late 2010, AAK Mexico formed a team with the objective to gather the informaallows members to store, share and report information on tion required for the Sedex registration. From the left: Pedro Gomez, HSE Trainee; four key areas: Ada Silva, Environment Trainee; Alejandro Bucio, Hydrogenation Operator; and Pablo Cazarin, HSE Manager. Labour Standards Health & Safety The Environment It was designed in response to member demand for an ethical audit Business Practices report format that could more easily be shared. The Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) was Today, Sedex has more than 450 ”buyer” members and more than also developed to reduce duplication of ethical trade au21,000 ”supplier” members and is the largest collaborative platform diting, benefitting all players in the supply chain. for sharing ethical supply chain data. Long-lasting customer Meeting customer demands in the relationships confectionery and cosmetics markets Over the years, we have established long-lasting relationships with our cusConfectionery customers show increasing intomers, building on mutual respect and terest in sustainable palm oil products. Sevdetailed understanding of customer eral customers in Western Europe are now needs. Knowing our customers means committed to employing only certified sustainknowing our markets, and that gives us able palm oil in their products by 2015. a good head start when responding to We expect the trend towards sustainable market trends. From time to time, we chocolate and confectionery fats will spread to even set new trends through the develemerging markets, most likely led by our gloopment of leading-edge products. bal accounts. Due to our strategy of following Oils and fats from AAK perform valuthe customer, we have a growing presence able functions in customer products. in these regions. We are always ready to reThey may ensure the right meltdown spond to demands for speciality products, no property, carry flavour, supply essential matter where our customers are located. fatty acids, provide texture and much Sustainability is equally important within more. In each case, our understanding the beauty and personal care industry. Here, of the customer’s requirements is key our Lipids for Care business area is playing a to developing the right solution. This proactive role in the development of sustainis why close cooperation is so very able solutions with no compromise in funcing 2010, many of our production plants also important. Together with customer reptionality. Our shea butter range is one examregistered with Sedex to facilitate the sharing resentatives, our product experts test ple of this. By making the wild shea trees a of ethical data with customers. In 2011, we applications, develop solutions and exgood source of income for the women in West expect to take the next step and obtain Sedex plore new production methods. Africa who collect the shea kernels, we are certification for those plants. instrumental in making this business sustainable. In response to customer demand, we have Torben Friis Lange developed and commenced the global rollout President Chocolate & of an extensive AAK Code of Conduct. DurConfectionery Fats and Lipids for Care Marketplace 9 Sharing knowledge Global Magazine for Our commitment to transparency involves our customers AAK Magazine | June 2010 sharing various types of data. In our interaction with customers, knowledge sharing is AAK’s Global Magazine is a customer magaequally important. We have established an zine published twice a year. It is an important AAK Magazine | December 2010 dedicated setup for product development tool for creating and maintaining awareness ion in Saturated fat reducttionery food and confec sibility Supply chain respon projects, where customer cooperation is in among our customers. Among the topics are: focus. For example, we often run customer The launch of new products, highlights of prodapplication trials in our pilot plants and offer uct benefits, raw materials, interesting research advice on optimising customer processes as development and AAK ACADEMY. The magaAAK Magazine | No 1, 2011 well as products. zine also presents events where AAK will particGreenPalm hits Comfort ingre a million dient for page 7 The AAK ACADEMY offers customer premium infan ipate and lists when AAK ACADEMY courses will t formula Visit AAK at FIE in Paris 29 Nov-1 Dec 2011 Hall 1 – booth number 1F27 Filling fats for page 8 chocolate lover s cour­ses where our experts share their know­ page 10-11 take place. The magazine is highly appreciated ledge on topics such as lipid technology and by our customers, and even investors see this as healthy solutions. In our customer magaa good way of receiving information about AAK. zine, Global Magazine, we also commuThe Global Magazine is available both in a InFat – closer to mother’s milk nicate the latest results of our product and printed version and as a PDF file for download Chocofill – for chocolate page 5 and confectionery fillings Health checks: How page 6 Bakery Solutions is on call to customers process development, increasing customer from www.aak.com. It is distributed to all AAK sites page 9 awareness of our expertise. Our participaand business areas around the globe for the local tion in working groups with other companies teams to send to their customers. The magazine and educational institutions is yet another also serves as a marketing tool at exhibitions, conway in which we share knowledge and work ferences and in customer contacts. It is printed on specific joint projects. on environmentally-friendly paper, and we use ink Lena Ingvarsson based on vegetable fat. Marketing Director Dairy Solutions AAK ACADEMY – the knowledge centre for lipid technology AAK ACADEMY is exclusively for our customers. The idea behind this advanced training concept is basically very simple: a good understanding of lipid chemistry helps to guide the customer in search for the best solution for a given end-product. It also facilitates the dialogue between customer and supplier and helps us create better solutions together. AAK ACADEMY offers a wide range of courses, from basic lipid chemistry to segment-specific and tailor-made courses. A few examples of the content of the courses: We present the production plants in An AAK ACADEMY course held in Karlshamn, Sweden, in May 2010 with 31 participants from the cosmetics which we transform vegetable raw industry worldwide. materials into highly specialised, sustainable and safe ingredients for In 2010 we held eight two-day academies at Since the beginning, we have educated food, chocolate and beauty care. various AAK sites for about 200 customers thousands of customers in lipid know­how. The important role of lipids in our diet from all over the world. For those customers Our goal is to continuously expand AAK or for healthy skin. who do not have the possibility to come to ACADEMY and make it possible for even Our soft processing methods and us, we go to them. more customers to be educated in lipid their effects to enhance quality and AAK ACADEMY started in Sweden in technology. functionality, described together with 1991 for the Scandinavian customers in the safety issues and practical advice on food industry. Later, we expanded into other handling. segments like chocolate & confectionery and Rita Leissner the beauty care market all over the world. Marketing Manager Lipids for Care Marketplace 10 Food Ingredients Continental Food Ingredients USA – driving growth Europe – a fast response and new initiatives to new requirements AAK USA’s Food Ingredients business is responsible for most of AAK’s growth in North America. It is therefore of paramount importance to AAK USA to emFood Ingredients is our largest business area. bed all aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility into our Food Ingredients A prime strength is our ability to develop cusbusiness. tomised solutions at speed in response The growth of the US Food Ingredients business remains strongly corto changing food industry requirerelated to the rate of substitution of partially hydrogenated soybean oil. ments. By applying this proactive AAK’s ability to create processed blends containing multiple oils that approach to changing health fulfil our customers’ needs is our strong suit. It is relatively easy to trends, we have gained a see the link of our success with the delivery of healthier options leading position in many combining the required functionalities with the healthiest posof the business segments sible nutritional profile. where we operate. Additionally, AAK USA firmly believes in “doing well by doToday, we continue to ing good” for all of our stakeholders and the environment. We strengthen our position as attempt to live by this principle every day taking an environthe natural choice for vege­ ment-friendly approach. Examples of this include: a significant table oils for a broad cusreduction in energy usage per pound produced; significant intomer base that operates in a creases in water usage efficiency; and installation of state-of-thevolatile and extremely competart wastewater treatment equipment. itive market. We do this through In 2010, AAK USA’s Food Ingredient’s business was the first in our knowledge, capabilities and the US to import Certified Sustainable Palm Oil from Malaysia. This way of working. Our value-added soevent was widely covered in the trade press and effectively started a trend lutions combine with a strong sustainability in the US with volumes increasing tenfold in very short amounts of time – and focus in all manufacturing steps – driven by our continuing to grow. belief that growth can only continue with a solid Having briefly mentioned our CSR efforts to help our customers make their sustainability programme in hand. products healthier and to provide options for our customers to have ingredients We identify new improvement areas in close as environmentally friendly as possible, we also need to cover our personnel cooperation with customers. To this end, several efforts. In 2010, we implemented a performance management system for all projects are in place and are continuously upemployees, from the president down, and this has allowed all employees to dated to ensure a fast response to new industry get clear feedback on their performance and opportunities for improvement. In requirements. Our extensive food processing partnership with the state of New Jersey, AAK provided 2,600 hours of funcknow-how, strong supplier links and constant tional and leadership skills training. Parts of this training allowed four employdevelopment work are a great help in this reees to acquire the skills that qualified them for promotions and others to begin gard. the formal legal certification process for boiler and refrigeration personnel. Continuous improvement is key The growth of the Food Ingredients area also allows AAK to our success story. to provide employee wellness benefits that financially contribute to employees’ and their families’ fitness and wellness activities. Renald Mackintosh President Food Ingredients Jean-Marc Rotsaert Continental Europe President AAK USA R&D Director going back to school In May 2010, Dr. Jeff Fine, Director of R&D for offering one of the most comprehensive About being a professor for a day, Dr. for AAK USA, joined the distinguished courses available. Jeff Fine says, ”It is a privilege to share faculty of Texas A&M University to teach The four-day intensive course consisted knowledge of the advantages of palm oil a segment of “The Practical Short Course of both lecture and pilot plant instruction. with academia and our industry. It ultion Trends in Margarine and Shortening Dr. Jeff Fine taught the segment on “The mately benefits not only the students but Manufacture, Non-trans Products”. Texas Advantages of Palm Oil in Margarine and our customers, the food A&M University’s Department of NutriShortening Formulations”. The course was industry as a whole, tion and Food Science has a reputation very well attended by professionals from a and consumers.” wide variety of food companies. Dr. Jeff Fine R&D Director AAK USA Marketplace 11 A matter of trust Trust is just as important as our products Third party certification of AAK when it comes to meeting customer needs production plants and expectations. Our customers must be able to rely on AAK as a safe supplier, par80% are certified to one or more internationally recognised food safety ticularly our commitment to working in an standards (ISO 22000 / BRC / HACCP / AIB) ethically sound manner. To ensure transpar60% have Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Supply Chain Certification ency in everything we do, we are a member (segregated / mass balance) of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) 40% are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001 (see factbox on page 9). This allows our 40% are quality management certified according to ISO 9001 customers to look over our shoulder and as20% are energy certified according to national standards sess our ethical performance. Our Code of Conduct, which applies to In addition, various production plants are also certified according to other standards all AAK staff, regulates how we interact with such as organic production, Halal production and Kosher production. both customers and suppliers. The Code is based on the same standards as the supplier codes that our customers expect us to follow, including ILO conventions, human rights, OECD guidelines and the UN Global legislation, our production plants are certiOur vision is to be our customers’ first Compact. The AAK Code of Conduct is our fied in accordance with recognised standchoice in value-added vegetable oil soluguarantee to customers that we act responards and subject to regular audit by third tions. To achieve that, it is important for us sibly, right across our organisation. parties. AAK’s Quality Control functions ento show our customers that AAK is a responFood safety is another area of customer sure and document that each and every desible, trustworthy supplier that would never concern. To satisfy the requirements of cuslivery lives up to specifications and all food compromise their brands. tomers as well as national and international safety requirements. Environmental awareness in Technical Products & Feed Our Technical Products & Feed business area is an excellent example of the role that vegetable oils play with respect to the environment and health. Biodegradable, vegetable oils for lubricating logging machinery minimise the problem of discharge into the environment. Feed for dairy cattle is vegetable-based and guaranteed salmonella-free. Renewable fatty acids for candles have lower greenhouse gas emissions than paraffin candles. These are just some of the products that we supply. AAK develops, produces and markets environmentally-friendly technical oils, such as metal processing fluids and lubricating oils for the metalworking industry and hydraulic and chainsaw oils for the forestry and contracting industries. These are marketed under the brand names Binol and BioSafe. Increased environmental awareness has had a positive impact on sales. Within the metalworking industry, the replaceBinol products are not only environmenment of mineral oil with Binol products tally friendly in their function; they are also brings many benefits, including improved based on renewable raw materials. Even lubrication performance, reduced overall though the total market for lubricants is cost and, not least, a significantly better shrinking, our bio-alternatives are gaining Bo Svensson working environment. increasing market share. President Technical Products & Feed Marketplace 12 Substantial product information The minimum requirement for product inProduct Information Sheet / Product For the majority of products, a Certificate formation is in general stipulated by legSpecification specifies physical and of Analysis will accompany each delivery. islation and requirements from standard chemical properties of the products and The certificate is produced by the relevant contracts used in our business. will often be part of a contract. AAK laboratory and confirms compliance Requirements for further information Material Safety Data Sheet relates to with agreed product specifications. very much depend on the type of delivery, safety issues especially in relation to Other examples of information supplied i.e. different requirements exist for standtransportation. It is a legal requirement together with the products are production ard and highly refined products, and for for chemicals, but not for food. It is, howdate or product expiry date. ingredients or final consumer products. ever, a general demand from customers. AAK’s product information sheets can Quality & Product Safety Sheet has addihave different names in different countional information related to the product tries, but in general, three types of inforsuch as allergens, GMOs, contaminants, mation are available: country of origin, raw materials and additives, typical fatty acid composition, etc. Marketplace 13 Supply Chain This section, Supply Chain, covers activiRaw materials from all over the world ties related to the sourcing of raw materials that we use in our production plants. In our production plants we process many Sustainable sourcing of raw materials is different types of raw material. Some are the backbone of our business at AAK. purchased as crude or semi-refined oils, The combination of the right raw materiwhile others are purchased as kernels (shea) or seeds (rape) that are crushed at als and value-adding functionality is key our plants. to the wide range of products we offer. Our raw materials originate from all over the Just as it is vital for us to obtain the right world. The most important ones are: raw materials, we place equal emphasis on sustainable growing and procurement. For Rapeseed – Northern Europe and North example, we cannot accept violations of America basic human rights or organised child labour Shea – West Africa in our supply chain. This is why we are imPalm and palm kernel – South East Asia plementing a Supplier Code of Conduct that and Americas In 2010, our production plants processed as a minimum applies to AAK’s direct raw Sunflower – Europe and Americas a total of 1,650,000 MT of raw materials. material suppliers worldwide. Soya bean – Americas Compared to 2009, this is a decrease of 1.3 Coconut – South East Asia and North percent, which is in line with our strategic America decision to supply more high value-added Corn – Europe and North America products and less commodity products. RSPO – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil In 2002, WWF together with a small group of companies including AAK took the initiative to establish and promote a standard 2% 2% for the production of sustainable palm oil. As a result, in 2003 the multi-stakeholder 6% organisation The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) was formally estabInvestors lished. Today, it has more than 500 ordi32% Consumer goods manufactures nary members. Environment NGOs Members of RSPO must abide by the 39% Oil palm grovers RSPO Code of Conduct and submit an Processors and traders annual RSPO progress report which is Retailers publicly available at the RSPO website. 17% Social NGOs RSPO has developed a certification 2% system for the entire supply chain. Plantations have to comply with Principles and Criteria developed by RSPO to obtain growers certification. Vision Players down-stream in the supply chain RSPO will transform markets to make susTo engage and commit all stakeevery step to the final consumer product tainable palm oil the norm. holders throughout the supply must be supply chain-certified to be able chain, including governments and to claim the use of Certified Sustainable Mission consumers. Palm Oil. These requirements primarily To advance the production, procurement, focus on traceability and cover three diffinance and use of sustainable palm oil The supply chain includes ecosysferent supply chain certification systems: products; tems, communities, growers, traders, Identity Preserved, Segregated and Mass To develop, implement, verify, assure processors, consumer goods manuBalance (see factbox on the RSPO Supand periodically review credible global facturers, retailers, financial instituply Chain Certification Systems). A fourth standards for the entire supply chain of tions, civil society. delivery option is the Book and Claim syssustainable palm oil; tem (GreenPalm), which does not require To monitor and evaluate the economic, More information on the RSPO can supply chain certification (see page 16). environmental and social impacts of the be found at www.rspo.org or Certifications are carried out by indeuptake of sustainable palm oil in the www.rspo.eu. pendent, accredited and RSPO-approved market; certifying bodies. Supply Chain 14 Progress within RSPO Objective on Supplier Code of Conduct Over the past year, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) has developed rapidly, with now more than 500 ordinary members, and certified In late 2009, we adopted a Supplier Code of plantations comprising around 10 percent of global Conduct. The Code stipulates our requirements production at 5 million tonnes. Those are promising in relation to the following topics: and still growing numbers for a still young organisation, but the ambition of the RSPO for sustainable palm oil to be the norm, rather than a niche, is not Human rights Freedom of association yet reached. Demand for RSPO-certified sustainaChild labour Young workers ble palm oil in its fully segregated and mass balance forms has been limited to around one million tonnes Working hours Remuneration over two years. GreenPalm, the exclusive provider of certificate trading to the RSPO, has been a real Working environment Housing success with over 2.5 million certificates traded by Environment Corruption September 2011, but even here the recent low market price is indicative of the excess of supply over Forced labour Notification demand. Discrimination Workplace violence AAK was a founder member of the RSPO in 2003 and has been at the forefront of the organisation ever since, continuing as an Executive Board member, Treasurer and the provider of the GreenPalm During 2010, most AAK sites began implementing the Code, addresstrading platform. AAK continues to wholeheartedly ing already approved suppliers and making it an integral part of the support the RSPO, which faces regular challenges general approval system for new suppliers. The primary focus is direct but continues to progress. It is to be hoped that the raw material suppliers, who are required to approve and sign the Code legally mandated Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil or, in some other way, demonstrate that they comply with the Code. and the recently announced Malaysian equivalent By the end of 2011, our objective is that 90 percent of our direct raw will complement the globally recognised RSPO material suppliers outside West Africa will have confirmed their complistandard; that smallholder involvement will be sigance with the Code. nificantly extended; that demand can be extended Implementing the Code in West Africa presents various linguistic beyond the current hotspots (particularly Europe); and cultural obstacles. Furthermore, ethical requirements in business that certified production continues to grow and that relations are not a widespread tradition in the region. More talks, RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil will indeed meetings and explanations are required to achieve the necessary become the norm. AAK is working understanding. hard to make that happen. For this reason, we have decided to implement the Code in a different way in West Africa and with a separate objective. We Tim Stephenson expect minimum 60 percent implementation among direct raw Finance and Global Trading Director material suppliers in West Africa by the end of 2011. RSPO Executive Board Member and Treasurer RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems Palm oil can be traded through The Segregated (SG) supply chain model model provides tradable certificates for one of the four supply chain modassures that RSPO-certified palm oil and its RSPO-certified palm oil to the palm oil els that are approved by RSPO to derivatives delivered to the end user come supply base. The supply base may then be able to make claims relating to only from RSPO-certified sources. It permits offer these certificates on a web-based sustainable production: the mixing of RSPO-certified palm oil from a transaction system to end users who The Identity Preserved (IP) supply variety of sources. choose to support specific volumes of chain model assures that the RSPOThe Mass Balance (MB) supply chain RSPO-certified palm oil and/or their decertified palm oil and its derivatives model administratively monitors the trade rivatives. delivered to the end user are uniquely of RSPO-certified palm oil and its derivaBook and Claim was an AAK idea, deidentifiable to the mill and its suptives throughout the entire supply chain, as vised, sponsored and promoted by AAK. ply base and are kept physically isoa driver for mainstream trade in sustainable Now, AAK’s GreenPalm is the exclusive lated from all other oil palm sources palm oil. RSPO-endorsed web-based platform for throughout the supply chain. The Book and Claim (B&C) supply chain certificate trading (see page 16). Supply Chain 15 RSPO, GreenPalm and AAK GreenPalm certificates for Globally, palm oil is the most produced and sustainable palm oil consumed of the vegetable oils, accounting The GreenPalm Programme provides an exclusive, RSPO-enfor 32 percent of the world’s vegetable oil dorsed, web-based platform for trade in certificates for sustainable production. Soya bean oil, at 28 percent, palm oil and thus supports the production of sustainable palm prodholds second place. At the same time, the ucts in accordance with the Principles and Criteria of the Roundtable oil palm has the highest yield of all oil crops on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). at an average of 3.7 tonnes of oil per hecGreenPalm provides an infrastructure for end-users to make direct tare – soya bean yield being around 10 payments to producers of RSPO-certified sustainable palm products. times lower. While this makes palm oil plantations By selling certificates through GreenPalm, palm oil producers can earn highly efficient, palm oil production has more for their crop through sustainable farming. raised serious concerns, including fear of By buying a product that bears the GreenPalm logo, consumers can deforestation and elimination of orang-utan make a positive contribution to the production of certified sustainable habitats to name a few. palm oil and palm kernel oil. In 2002, WWF initiated the Roundtable By making or selling products that are covered by the GreenPalm on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) along with Programme, food manufacturers and retailers can reward palm AAK, Golden Hope Plantations, Migros, producers for working in a sustainable and responsible way, and tell Malaysian Palm Oil Association, Sainstheir customers that they have done so. bury’s and Unilever. The organisation has now worked for almost a decade to proGreenPalm is operated by GreenPalm Ltd. – an AAK subsidiary – and is mote the growth and use of sustainable exclusively endorsed by RSPO. palm oil worldwide. As a founder member, AAK continues to be highly involved at all levels from the Executive Board to working groups. Our commitment to sustainable palm oil is also underlined by our subsidiary, GreenGreenPalm – trading in sustainable Palm, which we founded in 2008 to establish a web-based platform to allow the trade palm oil certificates in certificates for RSPO-certified sustainable As we move into our fourth year of tradcare industry to support sustainable propalm oil. ing, GreenPalm has evolved into far more duction and have since welcomed supThe GreenPalm initiative and our committhan a certificate trading programme. We port from Avon, Johnson & Johnson, ment to RSPO are our promise to stakeholdhave become a credible campaigner for Beiersdorf, Oriflame and others. This ers that we care about responsible growth in sustainability in the palm oil industry and sector relies heavily on palm kernel oil, the palm oil supply chain. the questions we receive from people blends and derivatives, making GreenDue to our position in the palm oil supply around the globe suggest GreenPalm is Palm the best currently available option chain, we are fully dependent on the availtrusted as a source of information. for sourcing sustainable material. So we ability of supply of physical, segregated susAs an option for sourcing sustainable are thrilled to have the industry’s leaders, tainable palm oil. Customer requirements palm oil, GreenPalm is now the most both in Europe and the USA, on board. define the kind of palm oil we deliver. We widely used, with recent RSPO figures That is the encouraging story behind the see increasing demands for sustainable revealing that GreenPalm accounts for numbers. As for the figures themselves: in palm oil. In preparation for the demand we 70 percent of certified palm oil purchases. 2010 we traded 925,000 certificates. By anticipate will come, seven of our producWhile this indicates that a segregated mid-October in 2011, we have already tion plants have obtained RSPO Supply supply may still be complex or costly for surpassed 1.5 million. Our target is to Chain Certification and are ready to promany businesses, it also demonstrates a trade over 1.8 million by the end of 2011 duce sustainable palm oil as required. Our willingness to support sustainable produc– and to continue building awareness of overall aim, as stated in the annual report to tion via the most readily available means. the palm oil issue and earning support for the RSPO, is for all palm oil used in AAK’s More than USD 18 million has been paid sustainability around the production plants to be RSPO-certified susto producers through the GreenPalm world. tainable palm oil by the end of 2015, subject scheme. to supply. Towards the end of 2010, we camBob Norman paigned for the cosmetics and personal General Manager GreenPalm Supply Chain 16 Shea UNDP Partnership – a strategic raw material In 2003, AAK entered into a partnership with United Nations Shea kernels from West Africa are a very Development Program (UNDP) to install simple machinery in important and unique raw material at AAK. rural villages in Burkina Faso. The objective was – and continues Over more than 60 years, we have gained to be – to reduce the women’s daily workload while at the same extensive knowledge and experience of the time increasing their opportunities for generating an income. These raw material and the local communities in women collect the shea kernels that are an important raw material which we operate. for AAK. Our continued presence in West Africa is The machinery is a simple diesel engine that provides energy for various tools and essential to us. We monitor selected shea generates electricity – a so-called Multifunctional Platform. trees to assess the size of the next harvest, Installation of the platforms has been very successful, and the platform project has and we handle a number of processes to enbeen expanded to a national project headed by the government and comprising all sure an unbroken supply chain from the colof Burkina Faso. lection of shea kernels, to their early treatIn 2010, 554 platforms had been installed. AAK is still a partner in the project. ment and transportation to the harbours, to their warehousing and shipment to Northern Europe. Shea trees grow in some of the world’s poorest countries. Here, we work directly with the women who collect the shea kernels, building capacity in local communities. Our work in these areas includes the formation of women’s groups in the villages and teaching the women about how to maintain the quality of the kernels. In Burkina Faso, we also run projects with the United Nations Development Program. This includes sponsoring tools so the women can spend less time on household chores and more on collecting shea, which improves their income and standard of living. Combined with our involvement in the Global Shea Alliance, of which we are a founder member, these activities demonstrate our commitment to the sustainable sourcing of shea in West Africa. We are proud of our achievements and are committed to continue our work. Social responsibility in the shea supply chain As the world-leading consumer of shea kernels, AAK is very ambiImproving kernel quality. Through our extensive work in rural tious when it comes to social responsibility in the shea supply chain. areas, best practice regarding quality preservation should be This unique supply chain begins in the rural districts of most West shared throughout our network in West Africa. African countries, where we have made it a priority to be present, Efficient. Necessary financial and logistical means should be visible and engaged in the local communities. provided. We have declared ambitions to promote a supply chain that is: In addition to these four focus areas, we are launching a programme Transparent. Participants should know which prices are being to improve knowledge about basic human rights. This will ensure paid at the various steps. participants in the supply chain are aware of the requirements in the Fair. Those individuals who add value should be paid, while AAK Supplier Code of Conduct. speculation should be avoided. Quality improvements should With an overall goal to ensure a sufficient, sustainable supply of be pursued through education and, when achieved, should be shea kernels in the future, AAK is keenly engaging recognised. Capacity building in rural areas is essential to imwith governmental and non-governmental organiprove commercial capabilities and abilities to partner with AAK. sations that share our ambitions. Knud Larsson Sourcing & Trading Director Supply Chain 17 Rapeseed – sourcing close to home Rapeseed is another important raw material to AAK. In view of the ongoing health trend, rapeseed oil holds potential as the vegetable oil with the lowest content of saturated fatty acids and a relatively high content of essential fatty acids, such as omega-3 and omega-6. Most of the rapeseed we process is sourced in Sweden, where it is processed at our Karlshamn plant. The shorter transportation means less impact on the environment. Apart from its use as traditional rapeseed oil, we also offer a range of special rapeseed oils with added value. The rapeseed meal that remains after oil extraction is used for animal feed. Empowering women in West Africa In order to make the supply chain of shea AAK wins through a more transparent, as short, transparent and efficient as postraceable and efficient supply chain. The sible, AAK has been organising women’s quality of shea kernels received from the groups in West Africa for several years. women’s groups is higher than when we The project is a win-win project where buy from conventional suppliers. AAK the women who collect shea obtain direct works directly with several thousand market access to the industrial consumer women, and we work on increasing that of shea kernels and they get a higher number from season to season. price than if they sold to middlemen. The price is even higher if the quality of the shea delivery is good. Mads Jules Feer Sustainability and Shea Manager AAK West Africa Child labour in shea? AAK has been sourcing shea for more holidays. Further, shea collection starts than 60 years in West Africa. Collecting early in the morning, and the women are shea is an important income-generating often back in the village at 8 a.m. to cook activity for the women in the shea belt. breakfast for the family. In 2010, AAK conducted a questionIn recent years, much focus has been naire in 60 villages of Burkina Faso to on the use of child labour in cocoa plantafind out to what degree children were intions in West Africa. When comparing the volved in collecting shea. 60 percent of collection of shea with the work in cocoa the women stated that they collect shea plantations, the most important difference together with family members, often their is that shea trees are wild and do not grow daughters. However, 100 percent of the in plantations where the work is organwomen stated that their daughters did not ised, often with help of outside workers. miss school due to shea collection, beShea collection remains a family activity, cause most of the shea is collected during run by women. Supply Chain 18 The Global Shea Alliance Strategic partnerships in The Global Shea Alliance is an international, developing countries non-profit association of industry stakeholders In October 2010, AAK was invited to present and discuss strategic whose mission is to represent and further the partnerships with an international group of representatives from shared interests of the shea sector. The Global employers’ associations, trade unions, ministries and private comShea Alliance promotes shea worldwide, estabpanies. The event was part of the three-week Danida Fellowship lishes industry standards for quality and sustainable Course in Social Partnership for Business Development. Danida sourcing and facilitates information exchange. AAK is (Danish International Development Assistance) is the section of the a founder member together with other stakeholders. Danish Ministry for Foreign Affairs that manages the funds donated by the Danish state to fight poverty in developing countries. Vision: A sustainable and competitive shea industry. Over the years, AAK partnerships that are founded on business development have become very popular and very much in Mission: To enhance economically viable, environmenline with the strategy for Denmark’s development policy. This was tally and socially responsible shea nuts and shea product the second time that Danida invited us to participate in the course. businesses. Participants came from Bangladesh, Bhutan, Kenya, Ghana and Nepal, and due to the diversity in culture, age, exMore information about the Global perience and background among the participants, Shea Alliance can be found at the course generated a lot of fruitful discussions www.globalshea.com. from which everybody could benefit. Jesper Korning Global CSR Manager The shea value chain The idea of a Global Shea Alliance was about shea within the cosmetic, confecinitially introduced to the stakeholders in tionery and general food sector. The inthe shea value chain a couple of years creasing demand for shea shall contribute ago by USAID (United States Agency for to improve living conditions throughout International Development) and finally rural West Africa. The Global Shea Alliformed in April 2011. ance shall have a presence in most shea The vision is a sustainable and comproducing countries and with one voice petitive shea industry and the mission is spread the knowledge about quality which to enhance economically viable, environshall improve the value of shea. Other armentally and socially responsible shea eas to focus on in order to improve transkernel and shea product businesses. AAK parency and quality could be an introducis one of the founding members of the Altion of yearly market opening dates in the liance. We are the leading buyer of shea various countries togethand we strongly believe in a transparent er with unified packaging market for all participants in the value and weighing standards. chain. The Global Shea Alliance shall have Monika Hjorth the means to improve the knowledge Shea Sourcing Manager Supplier Code of Conduct In addition to palm oil, shea and rape, we safety, environmental and ethical requirewith sustainability aspects. In this context, process a range of other raw materials. ments. The first stage of implementation we have decided to work within our sphere While our engagement in palm oil and shea involves designing a common format for of influence, i.e. to focus on those whom we is evident, our work to enhance sustainabilethical requirements. Once this is in place, have the best chance of influencing – our ity aspects covers all the raw materials in we will focus on the other elements of our direct suppliers. Still, by urging our suppliour supply chain. common system. ers to positively influence their suppliers, we Until now, AAK has operated two differThe Supplier Code of Conduct is our best aim to broaden our sphere of influence and ent supplier approval systems. Today we tool for assessing our suppliers and monitorinspire other players in the supply chain to are working towards integrating them in one ing their performance, both in terms of their act responsibly. common system, based on quality, food compliance with relevant legislation and Supply Chain 19 Environment The section on Environment covers AAK’s Our UK plant has set a goal to reduce impact on the environment in terms of steam consumption by 10 percent consumption at and emissions from our and carbon emissions beyond national targets production plants. To ease the reading of Our Netherlands plant has installed a this section, it is divided into sub-sections wastewater management process that on Energy, Air, Water and Waste. returns clean water directly to the local waterway AAK’s production plants differ in size, caOur US plant in New Jersey has reduced pacity and the types of processes used. energy consumption, effluent and waste Processing vegetable oils is both complex significantly and is currently installing and energy intensive. new energy-efficient plants to reduce At AAK, we are very much aware of the energy costs per tonne of product footprint our production plants leave on the produced even further environment. This is why we constantly Our Mexican plant has made significant strive to reduce our consumption of energy progress within energy reduction, waste and water and reduce waste and emissions. management and steam consumpOur ongoing aim is to become more envition through many small improvement ronmentally-friendly tomorrow than we are projects. today. To achieve this, we implement environAs a matter of course, we take environmenmental projects, monitor consumption and tal laws and regulations very seriously and emissions, and identify best practices by are proud to report that, in 2010, we recordbenchmarking our production plants against ed no incidents of non-compliance. Two mieach other and other players in the indusnor spills were registered: try. A handful of our various environmental projects are described in this section, pre10 kg ammonia released from a comsented by the employees involved in reachpressor, giving an employee minor burns ing the results. but having no environmental effect 100 litres of vegetable oil released into Some of our objectives and initiatives are ila harbour with very low environmental lustrated by the following projects: impact. Our Danish plant aims to reduce water consumption by 10 percent Our Swedish plant targets a 6 percent reduction in energy consumed Taking best practice throughout the value chain Excellence in manufacturing operations business partners who supply plant, equipFor 2011, we have two main goals. The is a fundamental requirement for success ment and general services. The main focus first is to develop learning and best pracwithin AAK. In ensuring this, we see imof this meeting was to review best available tice across our production plants, and the provements in Operational Eco-Efficiency technology (BAT) for waste reduction in second is to benchmark performance and as essential, helping us to reduce costs, utilities, materials conversion, transportation develop local improvement programmes. protect the environment and make more and conservation. This team will now meet In addition, we will embark on the next effective use of raw materials and natural three times a year to share best practice, level of improvements: identifying BAT for resources. We are very much aware that review performance and develop a comall new investment projects and manufacOperational Eco-Efficiency improvements mon understanding and approach across all turing technologies. This will drive further, are not dependent on a handful of large our manufacturing sites. Our aim is to build more ambitious reductions in terms of enprojects, but on many smaller initiatives at upon our manufacturing capability and skills vironmental footprint. our production plants. and accelerate cross-functional and crossDuring the year, we brought our global country learning to achieve high levels of operations directors together with our key improvement. David Smith Director European Supply Chain Environment 20 Objective on energy Energy is indispensable within our business. Constantly increasing energy efficiency to reduce the impact on the environment is a natural part of the way we manage our operations. Complementing or substituting fossil fuels with renewable alternatives is one way of reducing the impact. We want to employ more renewable sources of energy and new green technologies. To this end, we have decided to investigate the opportunities to exploit renewable energy technology before the end of 2012. Energy More energy from form of steam and electricity externally. To percent. Calculated per tonne produced, renewable sources account for this, the total energy consumpenergy consumption has increased by 1.8 Rising energy costs and the link between tion given in this report refers to energy percent. This is what could be expected energy consumption and impact on the clipurchased plus energy generated minus following the strategic decision to increase mate have sparked an increasing focus on energy sold. production of highly refined products, which energy issues. Responsible growth is only In 2010, our production plans had a require more energy to process. Another possible if energy consumption and costs combined direct energy consumption of factor that could contribute to the increased are kept as low as possible. 3,350,000 Gj, an increase of 1.1 percent energy consumption is the record-low temDue to our relatively high energy concompared to 2009. From 2009 to 2010, diperatures experienced in Europe during Desumption, efforts to increase energy effirect energy consumption from renewable recember 2010. ciency and, where possible, move towards sources increased by 2 percentage points, The increasing proportion of energy from renewable energy sources are important. reaching 31 percent. renewable sources is in line with our energy The type of energy used at our producDuring the same period, electricity purconsumption objective: we want to utilise retion plants varies considerably. In Montevichases (indirect energy consumption) denewable sources of energy and new green deo, Uruguay, all direct energy consumed is creased by 2.6 percent to 667,000 Gj, while technologies to an even greater extent. derived from biomass, while in Karlshamn, the proportion of renewable resources inFor an overview of energy consumption Sweden, 92 percent comes from biomass creased by 4 percentage points. and sources, please refer to the charts. and biofuel. Some production plants have Overall, then, total energy consumption their own power plant and sell energy in the reached 4,014,000 Gj, an increase of 0.4 Direct energy consumption by energy Purchased electricity by energy, 2010 2009 2010 18% 21% Fuel oil Renewable 41% 39% Gas 41% 11% 59% 10% Non renewable Biofuel 30% 30% Biomass Environment 21 More logic in logistics Piping insulation saving – new requirements for our 6.4 million kWh per year transport service providers As part of an energy reduction project at Site Hull, UK, a survey was done to identify savings that could be made from improving the thermal insulaTaking responsibility throughout the value tion on site, including repairs/replacement of existing damaged insulation, chain includes optimising the transport of our insulation of process pipework, heating jackets, valves and fittings. The products. Throughout AAK, we are working to improvements identified and implemented in the Refinery tank farms were simplify our logistics structures and develop estimated to save 4.8 million kWh of energy. efficient, environmentally compatible logistics Similar improvements in the Bakery fats production area were impleconcepts. In most cases, our logistics planning mented, leading to a further 1.6 mio kWh savings. On this project, the payis tailored to the final products that are to be back time was approximately six months. Future actions to maintain these transported. Now, we are looking to consolidate savings will include regular site inspections, and ensuring that insulation is our European logistics to optimise outbound replaced after repairs. and inbound road transport and, in that way, reduce our driven miles by 15 percent a year. John Officer Operations Worldwide, all product transportation, from AAK UK the production plant to the warehouse and on to the customer, is carried out and managed by external logistics companies. It is, therefore, important for us to consider efficiency and environmental performance when we select our transport partners. Reduction of steam pressure We are now defining new criteria for assessfrom 10.5 bar to 8 bar ing providers of logistical services by means of “invitation to tender” processes. The criAt our production plant in Hull, UK, we decided to examine in detail the teria include defining energy-saving targets, operation of the steam ejectors on the deodoriser vacuum systems. It measures for modernising vehicle fleets, and was identified that there was potential for reducing steam consumption investments in programmes for optimising by using a lower pressure and flow rate, while still maintaining acceptable routes and determining emissions. Requesting vacuum levels. such information from companies emphasises The steam pressure to the ejector on the deodoriser was reduced from our expectations regarding environmentally 10.5 to 8 bar with no detriment to the products processed. The correspondresponsible transport concepts. We will take ing reduction in steam flow was 430 kg/h. This was repeated for two more these concepts into account when we place deodorisers. new logistics orders. Total energy savings from the reduction in steam pressure was 4 million kWh and a reduction of 740 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. Later, a steam meter was fitted that will be connected to a new Monitoring and Targeting System so that weekly steam figures can be checked David Smith Director against the production volume to ensure that savings are maintained. The European Supply Chain payback time of this project was less than six months. Supporting the government’s energy programme For several years, our production plant The contract also consist of three more the energy usage throughout the producin Aarhus, Denmark, has supported the specialised investigations with the aim of tion plant. Approximately 120 companies Danish Government’s energy reduction looking at new technologies that can bring in Denmark have this type of agreement program. The program consists of a conthe company further in the usage of alterwith the Ministry of Energy. For supporttract with the Ministry of Energy through native fuels, alternative production methods ing the initiative from the government, the which the company commits itself over and challenge the existing energy supply production plant receives a grant that is a period of three years to conduct an inset-up. Everything is gathered in an Energy related to the energy usage. The grant ternal survey of energy usage throughManagement System where all informacovers the different fees out the plant. Based on the survey, the tion regarding energy consumption, project for maintaining the ISO company presents an energy reduction progress, etc. is controlled. 16001 Energy Reduction project that must be fulfilled in the three The Energy Management System is also Scheme. year time span. used as a tool for management to focus on Peter Luke Process Technology Systems AAK Denmark Environment 22 Air Rising average temperatures, more extreme AAK USA using “green” electricity weather and changes in rainfall patterns are AAK USA purchases Renewable Energy nity to power our plant and offices with all symptoms of the climate change we are Certificates from HESS Energy Marketing green energy. Renewable energy furthers experiencing. Today, legislation and markets to obtain electricity from renewable enour goal of a green production cycle, from aim to mitigate these changes by reducing ergy sources. In 2009, 10 percent of AAK receiving sustainably produced oil from the greenhouse gas emissions believed to USA’s Port Newark facility was supplied Malaysia to production at our Port Newark be the driver of global climate change. At from green renewable energy sources; in plant. AAK we are ready to play our part. 2010 100 percent of our electrical energy In 2010, we generated 206,000 MT of needs were covered by Renewable Encarbon dioxide at our production plants, 3.7 ergy Certificates. percent more than in 2009. However, 45 We are delighted to have the opportuTom Winter percent of direct carbon dioxide emissions Operations Director stemmed from renewable resources, which AAK USA is an increase of 5 percentage points compared to 2009. Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel per tonne processed total 69 kg. This is 1.4 percent less than in 2009. stances (ODS), which are generally used for Due to our use of fuels, our production The ozone layer protects life on earth by cooling. Currently, seven of our production plants emit 267 MT NOx (nitrogen oxide) filtering out some of the sun’s harmful UV plants do not have ODS-based cooling, and and 350 MT SOx (sulphur oxide). 205 MT radiation. For that reason, any thinning of total emissions have fallen 90 percent from VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) are also the ozone layer is hazardous. At AAK, we 2009 to 2010. Policies are in place to phase emitted from plants that run extraction and are working actively towards eliminating all out all remaining equipment that uses ODS solvent fractionation processes. We conequipment that uses ozone-depleting subat the remaining plants. stantly monitor progress across our production plants. Direct CO2 emission, 2009 Rethinking tank cleaning In recent years, the food industry has shown a clear tendency towards the reduction of packing material. This has Non renewable 40% resulted in a higher number of bulk de60% liveries to customers, but also from raw Renewable material suppliers. In between unloading and loading, the trucks must be cleaned. Previously, this had to be done at a very busy external tank cleaning facility, some 10 km away from the production plant in Zaandijk, The Netherlands. The production plant is situated in an urban area, and Direct CO2 emission, 2010 the trips to the external facility generated extra traffic. Optimal use of energy, since the facilIn 2010, we invested in our own tank ity uses residual heat from the refining cleaning facility at the production site, process. only for trucks unloading and loading at Logistical advantages through lower AAK. The number of vehicle movements costs and fewer waiting hours. Non renewable has been drastically reduced, resulting in Better control over 45% 55% a clear win-win situation: quality and food Renewable safety. The neighbours are happy and carbon dioxide emission is reduced. Piet de Bakker Logistics and Sourcing & Trading Manager AAK Netherlands Environment 23 Water Wastewater In addition to being energy intensive, vegeproduced, consumption has increased by table oil processing requires large amounts 12 percent. An investigation is underway to of water, mainly for cooling and steam profind the cause of this increase and reduce Improving wastewater duction. Most of our products do not contain consumption. quality water on leaving the plants. When water is discharged, its quality is Combined, our production plants use measured by two methods, as required by Two online instruments that measure 47,400,000 m3 of surface water. This water, the local authorities: BOD5 (biochemical Total Organic Carbon were installed which is used for cooling, has no contact oxygen demand) and COD (chemical oxyat the wastewater treatment plant in with products or pollutants and is returned gen demand). This determines the degree 2009-2010 at our production plant to the source without any change in qualof pollution. The BOD5 and COD figures for in Karlshamn, Sweden. Prior to the ity. The discharged water may, however, be water discharged from our plants are within project there was a lack of immediate slightly warmer than when entering our systhe stipulated limit values. BOD5, at 8 MT, data on wastewater for purification tem. Surface water consumption decreased has decreased by 61 percent from 2009 to due to a lengthy analysis. Variations by 1.2 percent from 2009 to 2010. 2010, while COD, at 718 MT, has increased in wastewater from the process lines Ground water and municipal water used by 6 percent. All wastewater is treated at our were thus unknown. Today, the operain processing totalled 1,900,000 m3, an inown or municipal treatment plants. tors can see the load and adjust the crease of 10.7 percent compared to 2009. purifying process accordingly. Calculated as processing water per tonne During 2009-2010, nitrogen exhaustion decreased by 88 percent, compared to before the online instruments were installed. During 2010, the project moved on to decreasing particles exReducing water consumption by 42,000 m³ haustion. In the last quarter of 2010 the decrease was 78 percent compared to At our production plant in Hull, UK, wawater per year. Additional savings were earlier the same year. The main sucter used in the processing of oils goes available from reducing the salt usage of cess factor in this pioneering installathrough a Reverse Osmosis unit, allowing the water softener by 10 percent. tion project has been the engagement reuse of some of the water for processing. The reduction of water consumption, and close cooperation between procThe rest was used as washwater for site salt savings, installation and running ess engineering, production, electrical, cleaning, but still, large amounts of water costs combined gave this project a paylaboratory and environment departwent directly to drain. back time of less than a year. ments. Potential savings were available from installing a second Reverse Osmosis unit to further recover water for processing. With this, we achieved a saving of 42,000 m3 Mike Stewart Jessica Everman Technical and HSE Manager Process Engineering AAK UK AAK Sweden Environment 24 Waste Waste disposal, 2010 2% 0% Disposal of waste A large proportion of our waste is shea During 2010, our production plants genermeal, which is the residual product when oil ated 80,100 MT of waste, a 14 percent inis extracted from shea kernels. Shea meal 10% Reuse crease compared to 2009. 98 percent of the has no nutritional value and is used as biototal amount of waste was non-hazardous. mass in power plants. Recycle In waste disposal, there is a clear, very posiThe majority of our finished products are tive tendency towards reduced use of landdelivered in bulk, defined as more than 0.9 Recover fill. Only 1,900 MT were disposed to landfill, MT per delivery unit, thus including pallet which is 24 percent less than in 2009. This tanks. Bulk delivery means a reduction in 88% Landfill is in line with our objective to minimise the packaging material. 64 percent of our prodamount of waste going to landfill. ucts are bulk deliveries, while 36 percent are packed goods. Objectives on waste ‘Recycling Champions’ reducing waste During the last decade, the solid waste way: landfill. Sending handling industry has increased dramatiwaste to landfill means With ever-increasing pressure being cally, specialising in the recovery of matenot utilising any of the poplaced on the world’s resources we rial value by reuse, recovery of recyclable tential value that may still be decided it was time to look for ways to materials and establishment of waste-topresent. Further, in many counminimise our environmental footprint. energy facilities. This has created more tries, a landfill tax has been inIn 2009, AAK in Runcorn was sendpossibilities for disposing of our waste troduced to reduce the amount of ing the majority of its 600 tonnes of material responsibly and more cheaply by waste disposed in this way. waste to landfill. Following discussions implementing widespread waste sorting We want to take a further step towith various recycling companies, we systems. wards minimising landfill. Our objecselected a partner for the project. In 2010, 97.6 percent of our waste mative is that, by the end of 2015, miniFor the project to be a success terial went for reuse, recycling or recovmum 98.5 percent of our waste will go it was essential to change thought ery. Only 2.4 percent, equal to 1900 MT, to reuse, recycling or recovery. processes about waste and help our was disposed of in the least favourable employees identify various waste streams. This was led by appointed Least favourable Most favourable ‘Recycling Champions’ who commuLandfill Recover Recycle Reuse Reduce nicated and promoted the benefits of ‘going green’ to the workforce. Colourcoded bins were introduced for each The development that we want our waste disposal to follow: going from waste to type of waste, and posters were dislandfill, over recovery, recycling and reuse, to reduction. played to raise awareness. With the perseverance and commitment from our employees, we are now recycling metal, glass, cardboard, paper, plastic, and currently trialling food Towards more environment-friendly packaging waste. Our waste to energy and recycling stands at 97.25 percent and we AAK South America is working to reduce the cardboard of the boxes used for solid can happily say we packaging material by 5 percent. By proproducts. Ink has been eliminated from are well on our way moting bulk deliveries in road tankers to the cardboard and our boxes turned from to zero landfill. our customers our goal is to not only opwhite to the natural colour of the paper fitimise transportation and achieve a susbre. By doing so, we consider the whole Vicki Potter tainable competitive advantage, but also Management Accountant packaging lifecycle and increase the AAK UK, Runcorn eliminate the need for large quantities of chances of recovering the disposable packaging material – and the material with less landfill associated waste and costs for disposal. impact. This environmental-friendly logistics Andrea González strategy is accompanied by changes in Regional Logistics Manager AAK South America Environment 25 Workplace This section, Workplace, is about working life at AAK, how we stay an attractive AAK Code of Conduct workplace to our employees and make During 2010, we developed and imIn addition to the Code, a sure that everybody is healthy and safe. plemented the AAK Code of Conseries of policies are estabOur employees are our most important reduct (the Code). Combined with our lished to give more detailed source. With 2,426 employees (equiva­lent values, our policies and our rules guidance to specific topics: to 2,101 full-time employees, as stated in for corporate governance, the Code our 2010 Annual Report), and many difprovides a strong framework for our AAK Supplier Code of Conduct* ferent locations across the globe – in probusiness and a way to maintain the External Disclosure Policy trust of our stakeholders, which is AAK Group Compliance duction plants, sales offices and sourcing essential for the success of our busiProgramme – Guidelines operations – AAK is a diverse company ness. AAK Legal Policy with many different job functions. AAK Insider Policy The Code is applicable to all employAAK Intellectual Property Rights Policy Common to every employee are our values ees at all sites and in all business arAAK Group Policy: Corporate Social and Code of Conduct, which govern the way eas, in all markets, at all times. It deResponsibility* in which we conduct our business and inscribes the following overall topics: AAK Group Environmental Policy* teract with each other and our stakeholders. Combined with the UN Global Compact and Deployment A short version of the AAK Code of Conduct our CSR Policy (see page 28), they provide Information and communication and policies marked with * can be found on the framework for AAK as a workplace. Business ethics our website, www.aak.com, under the secHuman and labour rights tion Documentation. Health, safety and environment Implementing our Code of Conduct The AAK Code of Conduct serves to guide our employees so their actions are consistent with AAK values. Further, it helps us do the right thing and play by the rules. Due to the importance of the Code, we thought carefully about how to implement it in the best way. The first step was to develop our Code of Conduct manual in simple terms for our employees – a code easy to read. The second step was involving our Internal Auditor into this process to help us with the procedures, and we decided that the best way of implementing would be through cascading. Managers and Facilitators were responsible for explaining the Code and having each employee sign the document. Right now, all personnel have signed the Code of Conduct, and our responsibility as the Human Resources department is that all our personnel understand the importance of the Code. We are very happy to have completed this process successfully. Karla Román Personnel Manager AAK Mexico Workplace 26 2010 – improvements and challenges for the global workforce Changes in the organisation Developing and mobilising our people Guidelines for change based on comTo strengthen and ensure our competiIn 2010, we initiated our new AAK Accelerapany values tiveness, in 2010 we restructured our ortion Programme, focusing on three priority The company values have been reviewed ganisation in Denmark and Sweden. This areas: Growth, Efficiency and People. HR and now form the guidelines for leading resulted in a number of employees being leads the People project ‘Mobilising Ourthe AAK Acceleration Programme through made redundant. Great efforts have been selves’, focusing on the performance and Initiative, Improvement, Innovation, made to ensure fair and respectful treatdevelopment of all employees globally and Change and Teamwork – with a Sense ment of these employees. on increasing the mobility of human reof urgency. The focus for 2011 is to meet sources and knowledge across AAK. the CSR objectives within the workforce Improvements in the workforce During the year, approximately 30 percent area and execute the People projects. Our dedicated efforts to improve the of employees were invited to a personal Persafety of our employees resulted in a 4.8 formance & Development Plan (PDP) meetpercent reduction in our Lost Day rate. In ing. The aim for 2011 is that more than 40 addition, due to our reinforced emphasis percent of employees will have had a PDP on development activities, training hours by the end of the first quarter, and 100 perper employee increased 33.3 percent. cent by the end of the year. Anne Mette Olesen Vice President HR, Communications and CSR Working life Objective on Performance and While our Code of Conduct provides the fundamentals for each employee’s working Development Plans life, Performance and Development Plans It is crucial to our business that everyone understands our overall goals and (PDPs) guide our everyday activities. Each clearly understands what is expected. For that reason, we have introduced Peremployee shall have at least one annual formance and Development Plans (PDP) – formal, annual meetings between indimeeting with his or her manager to discuss vidual employees and their immediate manager. both their performance and development The PDP meeting is a dialogue where individual objectives are discussed and with the objective that both parties gain a performance is assessed. Mutual expectations are also shared, including an evaluclear picture of what to focus on and what ation of competencies and development needs. to work towards. In addition, AAK offers relOur objective for the end of 2011 is 100 percent implementation – in other words, evant onor off-the-job training to allow emthat all employees have participated in a personal PDP during the year. ployees to develop in their job function. Kaizen training leading to lasting improvements At AAK’s production plant in Aarhus, Denmark, we are workarea used for melting oil stored in drums. Seven employing with the well-known Lean principles as the basis for conees made up the cross-organisational team that did a very tinuous improvement. Several employees have completed thorough clean-up and tidying-up of the area, increasing courses on Lean and also training in Kaizen activities. safety and introducing a new system for melting oils. A Kaizen is a focused process where a handful of employThe Kaizen activity was a very suitable method to ees define and analyse a problem, plan how to solve it, imidentify the potential improvement, and conditions were plement the solution and evaluate the result – all within a greatly improved in a short period of time. Sustaining relatively short period of time and with existing resources. and improving the new standard is the Through this focused effort, everyday continuous improvechallenge now. Continuous improvement is accelerated, and standards are raised significantly. ment never ends. An example of a Kaizen activity that had a very practical Martin Alsted scope and offered a great improvement is the clean-up of an HR Consultant AAK Denmark Workplace 27 Internal communication Labour rights In the AAK Acceleration programme, one of Labour rights issues are governed by our Policy: “We give fair notice to employees of the projects under the People priority area CSR Policy, which applies to all our sites. significant changes that could substantially is Internal Communication. Its objective is to Among other things, the policy states our affect them.” significantly improve the internal communiview on child labour and young workers, on Giving staff equal and fair treatment is cation globally in AAK, enabling all employforced labour, and on freedom of associaanother focus area of our CSR Policy. Durees to understand both the direction and the tion and the right to collective bargaining. ing 2010, AAK USA was charged with age performance of the company. 45 percent of our employees are covered and ethnicity discrimination. However, the One of the key internal communication by collective bargaining – a figure unchanged US Equal Employment Opportunity Comchannels is the AAK Intranet, which targets from 2009. At our production plant in Montemission dismissed the charge without any every AAK employee. In practice, though, video, Uruguay, a dispute over salary and sanctions against AAK. not everybody uses a computer on a daily working condition negotiations resulted in a We do not report ratio of basic salary, men basis. This is why we also share information strike that caused the loss of 14 production to women, since interpretation of the data via bulletin boards, electronic boards, infordays. Until the matter was resolved, other would not give a true picture. On average, mation leaflets and regular “town hall meetAAK sites covered deliveries, so customers AAK pays more in salary to male employees ings” for all staff. The most efficient means experienced only minor delays. than to female employees, not because the of communication very much depends on We do not have a Group policy that stipubasic salary for male employees is higher, local tradition and culture, which is why the lates a common, cross-group notice period but because male employees generally local management teams are responsible for significant operational changes. Instead, have jobs with a higher salary. For the same for timely internal communication, shared we abide by national legislation and local job, the salary for male and female employin the right way. To monitor satisfaction with agreements based on collective bargaining, ees is the same. internal communication, we run regular emcombined with what is outlined in the CSR ployee surveys. AAK Group Policy: Corporate Social Respon sibility AAK supports in its actions the ten principles of United human and labour rights, enviro Nations Global Compact in nment and anti-corruption, the areas of Remuneration powerful platform for our activit and we perceive the princip ies within sustainability. les as a We comply at least with local and AAK will integrate social and benefits including compensatio international legal minimum standards concerning wages environmental concerns into n for overtime. The size of and interaction with our stakeh our business operations and needs. wages enables workers to olders. We will use our resou in our meet basic assessment and sphere of rces in order of priority based influence. on risk Notification Human rights We give fair notice to emplo yees of significant changes We support and respect the that could substantially affect protection of internationally them. supervise within our spher proclaimed human rights and Working environment e of influence that we are constantly not complicit in human rights abuse. We strive to offer a safe workin g environment for all emplo Freedom of association procedures are implemented yees. Adequate health and . As a minimum, we compl safety We respect the freedom of safety legislation in the countr y with all local and national association and the right to ies in which we operate. health and collective bargaining. Forced labour Workplace violence We do not accept any form We protect employees in the of forced labour such as bonde working place against physic human trafficking or retent d harassment, abuse or threat al, verbal, sexual or psych ion of important personal docum labour, prison labour, slavery, s. ological ents of employees. Child labour and young work Environment ers We strive to minimise the enviro We cannot accept the emplo nmental impact of our activit yment of children. The minim management, widespread ies through responsible less than the age of compl um age of employment shall environmental awareness etion of compulsory schoo not be environmental impact. We and the use of technologies (14 years in some developing ling and in any case not less recognise that prevention with low countries). than 15 years approach to avoid environment rather than cure is a more al damage. cost-effective Where national law permit s it, children between the age of light work per day. The of 12 and 15 may perform Corruption work must not interfere with a few hours the children’s education. Our businesses should work For young workers below the against corruption in all its age of 18 special precautions forms, including extortion and accidents and damage to are taken to protec bribery. their health. t them against Discrimination Yours faithfully We will not engage in or suppo AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) rt any form of discrimination Employment related decisi in hiring and employment ons shall be based on releva practices. nt and objective criteria. Working hours We comply with all applicable Arne Frank, President and local and national standards CEO on working hours and overtim June 2010 e. AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) Phone +46 454 820 00 A company in the AAK Group Jungmansgatan 12 Registered office: Malmö SE-211 19 Malmö info@aak.com www.aak.com Company no. 556669-2850 Sweden SE556669285001 2 Workplace 28 Our workforce in numbers As per 31 December 2010, AAK had a to20 percent of our employees are female. temporarily employed. The remaining 17 tal of 2,426 employees (equivalent to 2,101 This is a lower percentage than in many othpercent comprise trainees, agency staff and full-time employees, as stated in our 2010 er businesses, but it is due to the fact that a at-will employees. The latter is a doctrine of Annual Report), 22 employees less than in job in our production plants typically attracts American law that refers to an employment 2009. Among permanent employees 168, more men than women. At managerial level, relationship which can be broken by either corresponding to 8 percent, left the com17 percent are female. party with no liability. 4 percent of our empany – the same level as last year. 73 percent of our employees are perployees work part-time. manently employed, while 10 percent are Employment by contract type Permanent employees by age Permanent employees turnover by age Permanent 17% 16% <30 years 20% <30 years Temporary 30% 34% 30-40 years 30-40 years 10% Other 26% 28% 40-50 years 40-50 years 73% 28% 18% >50 years >50 years Permanent employees by age Permanent employees by gender % % 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 >50 years 70 60 60 Female 40-50 years 50 50 Male 40 30-40 years 40 30 30 20 <30 years 20 10 10 0 0 Americas Europe West Africa Americas Europe West Africa Employee category by age Employee category by gender % % 100 100 90 90 80 80 >50 years 70 70 60 60 40-50 years Female 50 50 40 30-40 years 40 Male 30 30 <30 years 20 20 10 10 0 0 Management White collar Blue collar Management White collar Blue collar Workplace 29 Working in a safe environment Objective on Lost Time Injury rate Safety in the workplace is a top priority with During 2010, we decided to align the our definition for measuring injuries across AAK, and we are committed to ensuring our the AAK Group. Consequently, we are now aligned to measuring Lost Time Injuemployees stay safe and healthy when perries, defined as work injuries that result in one or more days/shifts of sick leave. forming their daily work for the company. Our objective for the end of 2011 is that each site performs better than the national Our production plants work continuously industry average in the country where it is located. to improve the Lost Time Injury rate, defined as the number of injuries where one or more days/shifts were lost per 200,000 working hours. In 2010, the rate dropped to 1.5 from 2.3 in 2009 – a 35 percent improvement. step in the right direction in terms of ensurof 13 percent compared to 2009. We are The Lost Day rate, calculated per 200,000 ing that AAK is a safe workplace, and our currently investigating the reasons for this working hours and a measurement of injury efforts will focus on continuing this developincrease. severity, showed an improvement of 4.8 perment. No fatalities occurred during 2010, and we cent to a rate of 37.7. Absentee days amounted to 2.7 percent registered 4 cases of occupational disease. These improved figures are definitely a of total workforce days, which is an increase Safety – a top priority We expect all our personnel, whether at the process of implementing these recomesses. Ultimately, we will develop a comour production plants or at our offices, to mendations and assessing progress. mon internal safety audit programme that take measures to keep themselves and Each month, we benchmark performance will apply to all production plants. This will those around them safe. across all our production plants using the complement the risk review and will be diWe employ an external consultancy KPIs as a common platform. To improve the rected by our local operations directors, to provide independent, expert risk and management of our safe working environwho will meet and review performance safety reports, a summary of which is prement, each site holds monthly review meetand progress three times a year. sented to the AAK Board of Directors. The ings, reporting on performance to their local Through working with our consultants consultancy assesses local culture, sysboard. and bringing our global resources togethtems and processes and provides a genOur goal for 2012 is to develop a global er, we aim to reduce risk eral status report and recommendations safety strategy. We aim to bring representaand improve our safety for each production site, along with key tives together from each production plant to performance. performance indicators (KPIs). We are in share best practice, techniques and procDavid Smith Director European Supply Chain Workplace 30 Staying healthy Mosquito nets for employees Safety in the workplace is also about maintaining health. We are present in many Malaria is a disease transmitted by mosis during the rainy season, which starts in countries with very different cultures, varyquito bites that causes death or severe May and lasts until October. We therefore ing degrees of health awareness and diflong-lasting health problems among the decided to distribute mosquito nets – the ferent health initiatives by local or national people in West Africa. No vaccination is front line defense against malaria – to all authorities. available against malaria, and in general our employees in the different countries in For these reasons, we do not have a compeople do not have the means to protect West Africa, prior to the rainy season. The mon approach to maintaining health, but themselves from mosquito bites. nets have a double effect: they protect build our activities on local decision-making The most difficult time for people to proagainst malaria, and the mosquito popubased on a needs assessment. Most initiatect themselves against the mosquitoes lation drops due to insecticide in the nets. tives focus on our employees, for example: First aid training Safety training Protective equipment like helmets, safety glasses, computer glasses Health checks Sports facilities Vaccination against flu offered each year For our employees in West Africa, we offer free mosquito nets, annual information on risk control, vaccination against yellow fever, meningitis and cholera, and health insurance – again based on a local needs assessment. AAK Mexico offers health facilities and consultation for employees’ family members and the local community in general. Monika Hjorth Shea Sourcing Manager Workplace 31 Community In this section, Community, we present the activities that we initiate and engage Proud sponsor of Buddy Ball in, be they local, regional, national or inAAK USA is a proud sponsor of Buddy In the Buddy Ball teams, each player ternational, in order to play our part and Ball, an athletic program that gives young has a position on the team but also a act responsibly in society. Contributing to athletes with special needs a chance to “buddy” to assist with logistics. The budand being part of the community where participate in a variety of sports. Dependdies are typically teenage volunteers who we operate is essential to maintaining ing on the season, the program offers enthusiastically help their special needs a positive relationship with neighbours, baseball, track and field, basketball, and partners play. politicians and authorities. Through our bowling. Everyone at AAK USA is rooting for the Buddy Ball not only provides athletic Buddy Ball teams and wishing them the commitment to community causes, we recreation; it also gives the players imbest possible luck! are also instrumental in creating a workportant social interactions and life lessons place with highly motivated employees in the ballpark. It provides a common exwho take pride in working for a company perience with all youth playing America’s Tony Talalai favourite sports. Maintenance Mechanic that makes a visible difference. AAK USA Buddy Ball Programme Manager Objective on community We have a long tradition of being an active member of the communities where we operate, by sponSummer Courses in the local community soring or by actively participating AAK in Morelia, Mexico, drives a commuThe programme lasts for four weeks in projects. In 2010, we engaged in nity programme where health, culture and in July-August. There are children from more than 35 local activities. We will fun are integrated in physical, artistic and four to thirteen years old and adults up to continue to be an integrated part of recreational activities: “Summer Course”. eighty years old. our local communities by engaging The programme has a capacity for At the end of the courses, all participatin such activities. around 500 people, offering different ing groups show what they have learned, kinds of workshops like Yoga, Jazz, Arainviting all family members to enjoy this bic dance, Ballroom dancing, Karate, special event. Ballet, Soccer and Handcrafts for adults and children. Summer camps for Chernobyl children For a number of years, AAK in Dalby, Sweden, has supported a camp for children from Chernobyl, Ukraine. The children come to Sweden for three weeks during the summer. Some of the children are orphans and some are poor or come from difficult family circumstances. At the camp, the children eat properly, get to go on trips, visit a dentist, and some of them try out new prostheses. When they go home, each child gets a package with clothes, shoes and toys. The leader of this activity is the painter Natasja Andersson who finances the camp through sponsorships and by selling her own paintings. Annelie Abrahamsson Ramiro Corona Quality Manager HR Manager AAK Sweden, Dalby AAK Mexico Community 32 Hosting Science Cup Both in 2009 and 2010, AAK in Aarhus, Denmark, acted as host to AAK – evaluated the projects, particularly focusing on the projects’ the annual Science Cup – an inventors’ competition within the natupotential in terms of being realisable. A project on traffic safety won ral sciences, supported by the Danish Ministry of Education and the the regional final. The group worked on developing a system that can Confederation of Danish Industry. The intention with the Cup is to detect if a car driver is about to fall asleep behind the steering wheel, promote innovation, entrepreneurship and education in the natural and then alert the driver that it is time for a break. sciences. As a host for the Science Cup, AAK supports and strengthens stuParticipants are project groups at grammar school-level who dents’ interest in natural sciences. We take responsibility in drawidentify a need or a problem related to biology, chemistry, physics ing attention to this important area by urging students to bring their or geography, and develop an innovative solution that is relevant to creative and innovative ideas to life. Further, the Science Cup is a consumers or companies. great recruitment opportunity for us: the students’ 420 students in 106 groups from all over the country competed, awareness of AAK increases and they get to know and AAK hosted one of the regional finals where 10 groups prethe company through an exciting event. sented their projects and ideas. Three judges – including one from Marianne Dysted HR Manager AAK Denmark Local community involvement Our many community-related activities bring We are very much aware of the impact participating in local events, giving presenus into contact with neighbours, authorities, that AAK has on the community when we tations and taking interviews. Media monieducational and cultural institutions, and enter, operate in or leave an area. During toring also provides us with a picture of local sports clubs. We also work with and spon2010, we did not establish or terminate any sentiments towards AAK. sor projects that support children, youth operations that required a special commuOverall, our community involvement helps and minority groups. In line with our Code nity impact assessment. The impact of exgive us the “license to operate” that is esof Conduct, virtually all AAK sites involve isting operations is monitored continuously sential to us as a company and as a player themselves in community, environmental by means of dialogue, for example at “open in local business life. and health-related activities at local level. house” events and when receiving visitors, Teaching the world of business to the next generation In March 2010, a crew of volunteers from AAK UK participated in an event named “Our World” for Young Enterprise – the UK’s largest business and enterprise education charity that helps young people learn about business. “Our World” was about imports, exports and the global economy with subjects such as “The World Around Us”, “The Long Distance Meal” and “International Marketing Challenge”. Five AAK colleagues presented the manufacturing process, the wide variety of AAK products and the importance of environmental sustainability and social responsibility to 70 local schoolchildren. The children were very excited to be out of the classroom and relating to the adult world while learning about business life. As an example, for “The Long Distance Meal”, the children measured distances on a world map, calculating how far various foods such as biscuits, soups, coffee, rice and tomatoes travel before they end on our plates. Another educational experience was “The Trading Game”, which allowed the children to gain an understanding of how supply and demand affect the value of goods and services. In addition to supporting an important initiative, our participation in “Our World” also gave us valuable staff development training – Les Bales HR Manager making presentations and facilitating skills. AAK UK Community 33 Safe and sound water activities AAK in Karlshamn, Sweden, supports the Sea Scouts of Karlshamn – an active scout troop with great focus on water activities, especially sailing. In addition to this, the scouts are trained to take care of themselves, both on land as well as at sea. All training is done according to the “Learning By Doing” principle, in the spirit of the founder of scouting, Lord Baden-Powell of Gilwell. The troop consists of approximately eighty scouts from seven to eighteen years old, both boys and girls. The troop has more than thirty boats, from canoes for the young scouts, over dinghies, to deckhouse boats for the older scouts. – The financial support from AAK Sweden is of great importance for us to be able to run a well-functioning troop and to keep our fleet safe and sound, says Ulf Wilhelmsson, chairman of the Sea Scouts in Karlshamn. It is also an acknowledgement that we are working with our troop in an appreciated way, he continues. Anders Söderström Site and Customer Quality Manager AAK Sweden Children Day for the local community Since 2001, AAK in Morelia, Mexico, has arranged “Children Day”. Thanks to the effort of many people, we manage to gather around 600 children to enjoy this special day for them, with the company of clowns, puppets, souvenirs, food and beverages. We also have a special area where the kids can paint their faces with flowers, butterflies, stars and super heroes motifs like Spiderman. “A roof for my country” For this party we invite not only the community of the “Colonia Indus– fighting poverty trial” where AAK is located, but also other surrounding neighborhoods. All of our guests enjoy this celebration that lasts about five hours, and Again this year, AAK volunteers from Montevideo, the kids have fun and play in this big party just for them. The event is Uruguay, participated in the project “Constructing free, and it takes place every year around 30 April. with Companies” with the non-governmental organisation (NGO) “Un techo para mi País” (“A roof for my country”). This Latin American non-profit organisation mobilises youth volunteers to eradicate the extreme poverty that affects more than eighty million people in the region. The organisation works together with Latin America’s most marginalised populations, constructing transitional homes and implementing social inclusion programs to empower slum residents with the tools to improve their quality of life. AAK, together with ten other companies, took part during the construction of transitional houses for thirtyfive families in four irregular settlements (poor urban neighborhoods without access to basic services) in Montevideo. Andrea González Karla Román Regional Logistics Manager Personnel Manager AAK South America AAK Mexico Community 34 Reaching out to improve health Our neighboring community generally ernment medical institutions, private labs, lacks nearby medical services, which is and medical and dental students. why AAK Mexico decided to provide daily The Health Fair is usually held in the medical consultation free of charge. Our neighborhood church square. The Fair company doctor has provided this service offers a variety of services on all aspects for eight years now, two hours per day. of health: wellness, fitness and lifestyle Additionally, in the month of October improvements. Other services include we take part in the community Health cancer detection, vaccination for infants, Fair, which is a one-day event designed the elderly and pregnant for outreach to provide basic preventive women, and chronic illmedicine and medical screening to people ness control. in the community. There are several parAna Bertha Gil Islas ticipants in the Health Fair such as govCompany Doctor AAK Mexico AAK as a global citizen The impact of our business goes beyond lofocus on considering employees and other requirements and/or the AAK Code of Concal communities. At a global level, we do our individuals and communities affected by duct. Information received will be treated best to involve ourselves in areas where we palm oil growers and mills. confidentially, anonymity will be respected can make a difference – our sphere of influDue to the global nature of our business, and the sender shall not fear reprisals from ence. As we see it, that means influencing considering issues such as corruption and anyone. our suppliers and – through our involvement bribery is a necessity. The section on bribAAK is naturally also a member of various in various interest groups – the industry in ery in our Code of Conduct is aimed at ennational and international organisations that which we operate. suring alignment across the AAK organisasafeguard the interests of the vegetable oils Being a founder member of Roundtable tion: “Employees will not accept or offer any and fats industry. Through these organisaon Sustainable Palm Oil, RSPO, we have form of bribes, whatever the form, method tions, we aim to influence the legislation that played an active role in defining the RSPO or purpose.” Each employee can contact governs our activities. Principles and Criteria for Sustainable Palm our Code of Conduct compliance function Oil Production. Principle 6 has a particular to report material violations of laws, legal Examples of memberships that safeguard the interest of our industry National associations Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds Trade / NOFOTA Association of Dutch Oil Processing Industries / Vernof Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils / MVO Confederation of Danish Industry / DI The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed Processors / ADOP Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites y Mantecas Comestibles / ANIAME Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana / COPARMEX Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán / AIEMAC The Swedish Food Federation / LI The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation / P&K Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association / SCOPA International associations Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers / ABIM The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry / FEDIOL Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce / SACC Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association / FOSFA The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils / ISEO FoodDrinkEurope American Fats and Oils Association / AFOA European Oleochemicals and Allied Products / APAG National Confectioners Association / NCA National Institute of Oilseed Products / NIOP Uruguayan Chamber of Industries / CIU Community 35 CSR approach We believe in the importance of anchoring our CSR efforts in the organisation and incorporating a sustainability mindset in our everyday working life. To that end, we have set up a CSR organisation responsible for CSR-related initiatives, progress, communication and reporting. This section describes our structured, operational approach to CSR, always building on our values, policies and the AAK Code of Conduct. Global CSR organisation with local roots In October 2010, Anne Mette Olesen joined AAK’s Executive Committee as Vice President of HR, Communications & CSR, strengthening the ties between these three Internal CSR Award fields. Global CSR reporting is among Anne Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a strategic issue that we give Mette Olesen’s key responsibilities. The priority. To make CSR even more visible within our organisation, each year Global CSR Manager reports to her. we present our Internal CSR Award to the AAK site or business area that At Board level, the Audit Committee is rehas demonstrated outstanding CSR performance. sponsible for monitoring the follow-up and reporting of CSR topics, activities and data. Previous winners: Since the global CSR organisation was 2010: AAK UK for their enthusiasm and dedication to GreenPalm (see page 16), established in early 2007, the principal obthe innovative and highly successful RSPO sustainable palm oil certificate trading jective has been to ensure broadness and platform. diversity in the local teams, which are central to our CSR work. The teams cover com2011: AAK USA for outstanding improvements within Environment (including a petences within Human Resources, Health, remarkable reduction in carbon dioxide emissions and waste going to landfill), Safety & Environment, Finance, Sourcing, Workforce (only one injury in 2010, no lost time, and significant increase in training for staff), and Community (several activities to increase interaction with the local community). The role of CSR Team Leader in the UK I have been working for AAK as Technical and there are now a number of common of other activities, which have more indiand Health, Safety & Environment Manstandards. This allows the individual sites rect benefits, for example working with ager for about five years, during which to share best practice and also to compare local schools to support the curriculum time I have become involved with the themselves against a set of KPIs (Key Peron vegetable oil refining. Several of our company’s CSR programme. The CSR formance Indicators). staff have delivered direct classroom lesactivities fit well with my other job roles, Referring to the UK specifically I can see sons to teenagers, and I can tell you from and also with HR Management. Essenthat a significant proportion of our projects personal experience that can be a chaltially I coordinate activities for the site. deliver environmental benefits as well as lenge. My impression is that all AAK sites bottom line cost savings. A number of our For the future I would like to see AAK around the world have been involved customers conduct ethical audits of the gradually strengthening its position in this in CSR to a greater or lesser extent for business and those projects also stand us field and I consider that it is important to many years, but there were obvious difin good stead. Another key feature of these stick to good, verifiable scientific concepts ferences. By implementing a Group strataudits is human rights and working condisuch that we can confidently state our poegy and putting in place a Global CSR tions. Most UK companies that comply with sition. Manager, who reports directly into an national legislation should easily satisfy their Executive Committee member there has requirements and AAK UK is no exception. been a much higher level of cooperation In the UK we have also conducted a number Mike Stewart Technical and HSE Manager AAK UK CSR approach 36 CSR organisation Management CEO and Executive Committee Production Sourcing Global CSR Manager CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team Montevideo CSR team CSR team CSR team Aarhus Morelia Zaandijk New Jersey South SE UK West Africa DK MX NL USA America Karlshamn Runcorn Benin Dalby Oldham Ghana Hull Burkina Faso Mali Ivory Coast Operations and Sales. At our seven major To promote continued sharing of informaThe adoption and global implementation production sites, the teams consist of five to tion, best practice and progress on a more of our AAK Code of Conduct is another demten people led by a CSR Team Leader. The regular basis, we have introduced monthly onstration of how CSR is integrated in our teams at our smaller production plants and virtual conferences with the participation business. Site and business area managethe sourcing operations in West Africa have of all CSR team leaders. This initiative has ment teams are responsible for introducing a different setup and may draw on compebeen very well received and is creating valthe Code to employees, discussing it with tences from the major sites. There were only ue for those involved. them and obtaining each person’s signature a few changes in the local CSR teams durof acceptance. ing 2010. Increasing CSR awareness The introduction of dashboards is sharpGlobal team effort Keeping momentum ening attention on progress made. These The annual production and release of our An important aspect of our CSR work is to comprise a one-page presentation of data GRI Report for internal use is a global team maintain global momentum. To ensure this, and graphics showing GRI indicators with effort involving staff from various functions the Global CSR Manager visited all ten prohigh priority or in significant development. at all sites. duction plants during 2010 and again in earA global dashboard has been created for In line with this, we have decided that this ly 2011. These visits had multiple objectives. AAK’s Executive Committee to follow global Sustainability Report should, to a greater During workshops with the local teams, CSR developments, while local dashboards illusextent than the previous one, be a global SWOT analyses were completed, feedback trate developments at individual production team achievement that includes statements, was given on the 2009 GRI Report and Susplants. initiatives, projects and views from the entire tainability Report, and the ambition level To make CSR even more visible to the organisation. Our goal is to illustrate – to our and objectives were discussed. Finally, loAAK organisation, we have instituted an stakeholders and ourselves – that CSR is cally reported GRI data was scrutinised with Internal CSR Award, presented each year firmly anchored within our organisation. each member of the local team to clarify amto the AAK site or business area that has biguities and align definitions. shown outstanding CSR performance. CSR approach 37 AAK CSR Teams CSR Team DK CSR Team SE Jan Astrup* Site Manager Anders Söderström* Site and Customer Quality Marianne Dysted HR Manager Manager Anders Dahl Sourcing and Trading Gunilla Bergqvist Sourcing & Trading Team Manager Martin Antonsson Purchasing Tom B. Christiansen HSE Manager Christine Åkesson-Stenbeck Regional Sales Director Lars Kronborg Quality Technician Joakim Karlsson Sourcing & Trading Peter Laurits Luke Process Technology Jim Broberg HSE Manager Systems Engineer Johan Bodin Technical Products & Feed, John Barner Koustrup Controller Binol Anna-Karin Nilsson HR Monica Hjorth Sourcing & Trading CSR Team South America Rita Leissner Marketing Manager, Andrea González* Regional Logistics Manager Lipids for Care Maria Soledad Cardozo Regional Manager for AppliAnnelie Abrahamsson* Dalby, Quality Manager cations and Product Quality María Fernanda Fernández Controller Martin Gil Production & Operations CSR Team UK Director Mike Stewart* Technical and HSE Manager Peter Scarbrough Procurement Manager Ernesto Reynolds Zamudio Gomez Trading Manager CSR Team MX Judith Murdoch Marketing Manager Ramiro Corona* HR Manager Les Bales HR Manager Pablo Cazarin HSE Manager Steve Harrison Health & Safety Officer Maria de Lourdes Prado Zamudio QS Manager Liz Skern Financial Accountant Ezequiel Perez Calderon Project Manager Vicki Potter* Runcorn, Gabriela Méndez Zamora Costing Assistant Management Accountant Laura Alejandra Calderón Rocha Applications and Nigel Standeven* Oldham, Finance Director Devel­opment Manager Daisy Ramirez Castro Communications Consultant CSR Team US Tom Winter* Vice President, Operations CSR Team NL JoAnne Martinez Human Resource Director Piet de Bakker* Logistics and Sourcing & Kurt Faudel Supply Chain Director Trading Manager Scott Welsh HSE Manager Mieke Doll QA Manager Peter Maulbeck Vice President Finance Marcus Bense Technical Director Site Manager Rene Huisman Controller CSR Team West Africa Hiske Keller Area Sales Manager Monika Hjorth* Shea Sourcing Manager Piet Mul Maintenance Manager Mads Jules Feer Sustainability and Shea Tineke Brinkkemper HR Manager Manager Christer Yxell Sourcing & Trading, Mali, Burkina Faso Alexander Andersson Sourcing & Trading, Benin Pär Torstensson Sourcing & Trading, Ghana Martin Ingemansson Sourcing & Trading, Burkina Faso *) Team leader CSR approach 38 Investor relations Shareholders days, road shows and local meetings with channel for providing information about AAK endeavours to generate an attractive the Swedish Shareholders’ Association. our practices. For this reason, we aim to return on investment for all shareholders, Within the AAK Group, we strive to facilianswer the most common questions in almost 80 percent of which are in Swetate current and potential shareholders’ asthis report. However, we value construcden. More information about the compasessment of our performance through the tive dialogue on risks, opportunities and ny’s ownership structure is available on transparent communication of our work to strategies related to CSR and sustainour website, www.aak.com. enhance environmental and social sustainability. ability. During the year, shareholder-related Dialogue with shareholders dialogues were held with a number of soFinancial performance Dialogue with shareholders is primarily cially responsible investment analysts. and financial risks conducted via the Board of Directors, at Every year, we receive several questionAAK’s financial performance and financial the Annual General Meeting and, also, naires from investors and analysts, and we risks are presented in the Annual Report through a well-developed Investor Relado our best to meet their requests for infor2010. tions function. Examples of Investor Remation. We believe that our sustainability lations activities include capital market report is the most appropriate and efficient Fredrik Nilsson Group Financial Manager Head of Investor Relations Ongoing dialogue with external stakeholders We value the ongoing input from and dialogue with our stakeholders in respect of our CSR approach, including their assessments of our efforts. Through this dialogue, we can ensure that AAK continues to be their first choice, also when it comes to CSR. From customers and investors, we regularly receive questionnaires, supplier codes of conducts and similar, which we respond to in accordance with our policies. This type of input serves as a useful guide to the priorities on our stakeholders’ agenda – supporting our continuous, proactive efforts to maintain an up-to-date perception of what will be expected of us in the future. Contacts Anne Mette Olesen Vice President HR, Communications & CSR Jesper Korning Global CSR Manager Email: jesper.korning@aak.com or sustainability@aak.com CSR approach 39 Reporting criteria Scope and materiality Environmental data (GRI abbreviation: The majority of data in the Sustainability This Sustainability Report is AAK’s second. EN) relates to the ten production plants that Report is drawn from measurements. Air The first report was published in October we operated in 2010 and our toll production emissions data is based on direct measure2010, covering our activities during 2009. partner Cousa in Montevideo, Uruguay, in ments, calculations based on specific data Our aim is to continue reporting on an anrespect of the production of AAK products. and calculations based on default values. nual basis. Other core data relates to all of AAK, includInformation concerning purchased electricOur reporting is based on the Global Reing production plants, purchasing sites and ity from renewable resources is based on porting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Sustainability sales offices. national grid information. Information about Reporting Guidelines. As this is the most employees, including numbers, gender, widely used reporting framework, we chose composition etc., is calculated per 31 Deit when starting structured recember 2010 and is based porting in 2008. We believe on payroll information. many readers will already be Some minor data erfamiliar with its principles and rors in the 2009 reportfind them a help when searching have been identified ing for information. We have and corrected. Further, a focused on GRI Core Performfew definitions have been ance Indicators and a few addiadjusted and globally tions from GRI’s Food Processaligned. For example, ing Sector Supplement. work-related injuries are Because GRI is an all-ennow globally aligned to a compassing format, it is not definition of Lost Time Inrelevant for us to report on all jury, which refers to workcriteria. In 2010, we initiated an related injuries that result internal process to identify the in sick leave of one day/ issues relevant to our business shift or more. and our stakeholders. This inFrom our experience volved discussions with staff of the reporting process, at all sites and feedback from we expect corrections will other stakeholder groups. be necessary in future The Sustainability Report is reports as well. Neverthea supplement to the 2010 Anless, we believe that the nual Report and, therefore, trends and overall picture contains only a summary of figiven are a true reflection nancial performance figures. of our activities. In general, data in this report covers our Data and calculations The data included comprises data reportactivities from 1 January to 31 December We release the GRI Report internally in the ed to the authorities and information gener2010. Updated information regarding some first quarter of every year. This is based on inated specifically for this report. The report 2011 events is included since they are conformation received from all sites and contains has not been reviewed by external auditors. sidered of material importance to our stakeboth local and compiled global data. A section We trust that the requirements of authoriholders. Data from our mid-2011 acquisition showing trends from the previous year is also ties along with their effective scrutiny of the of Golden Foods/Golden Brands in Louisincluded. Data and information from the GRI company are sufficient guarantee of the acville, Kentucky, USA, is not included in the Report forms the basis for our Sustainability curacy of the data reported. report. Report, which is published externally. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI is a network-based organisation GRI’s reporting framework is developed organisations can use to that pioneers the world’s most widely through a multi-stakeholder process. Particimeasure and report their used sustainability reporting framework. pants are drawn from global business, civil economic, environmental, and Established in 1997, GRI has grown society, labour, academic and professional social performance. into an international network of more institutions. The current third version of the The framework also addresses than 30,000 companies in 70 countries, reporting guidelines – the G3 Guidelines -– the United Nations Global Comreflecting the development of reporting, was published in 2006. pact principles and the OECD’s from an extraordinary exercise by a few The reporting framework sets out the Guidelines for Multinational Enterpioneering organisations to an essential principles and performance indicators that prises. management and communications tool for many businesses. Reporting criteria 40 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO p. 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Annual Report: pp. 25-29 2 Organisation profile 2.1 Name of the organisation p. 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and services pp. 8-13 2.3 Operational structure Annual Report: p. 48 pp. 37-38 2.4 Location of headquarters p. 2 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates p. 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report: pp. 56-57 2.7 Markets served pp. 8-13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual Report: pp. 8-17 p. 4, 29 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report: pp. 4-5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period No reporting 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 01.01.2010 – 31.12.2010 3.2 Date of most recent prior report 01.01.2009 – 31.12.2009 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 39 3.5 Process for defining report content p. 40 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 40 3.7 Specific limitations of the scope or the boundary of the report p. 40 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period or No significant changes between geographical locations 3.9 Description of data measurements techniques and the basis of calculations p. 40 3.10 Explanation of any restatement of information given in earlier reports p. 40 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures p. 41-43 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report p. 40 4 Governance, commitments and engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Annual Report: pp. 47-53 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive members of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board or company Annual Report: p. 47 management 4.5 Connection between compensation and the organisation’s performance Annual Report: p. 50 4.6 Procedures in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Annual Report: pp. 50-51 4.7 Procedures for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.8 Mission, values, codes and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance p. 4, 26, 28 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation’s management of economic, environmental Annual Report: p. 49 and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and No reporting social performance Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 41 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed p. 8, 26 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental or social initiatives to which the organisation p. 3, 14, 17, 19 subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships of associations p. 35 4.14 The organisations stakeholders pp. 33, 39 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage No reporting 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement pp. 33, 39 4.17 Key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and the organisation’s respond No reporting EC Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Employee benefits: SEK 10,630,000 Community donations: SEK 760,000 EC2 Financial risks and opportunities due to climate change No reporting EC3 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report: p. 34 EC4 Financial assistance received from government SEK 17,000,000 EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers No reporting EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community No reporting EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public pp. 32-35 benefit EN Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Material used by weight or volume p. 14 25,000 MT processing aids 26,000 MT packaging materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material Less than 0.001% EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p. 21 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 21 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 24 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Hull,UK and Newark,US sites high biodiversity adjacent to protected areas. No significant impact on production EN12 Description of significant impact on biodiversity No significant impact identified EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 23 EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Insignificant in relation to emissions from production EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 23 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 23 EN21 Total water discharge p. 24 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 25 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills p. 20 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products and services, and extend of impact mitigation pp. 20-25 EN27 Percentage of products and packaging material reclaimed p. 25 Main initiative to reduce packaging material is to convert to bulk deliveries where relevant EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with environmental laws and regulations Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 42 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported LA Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region p. 29 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region p. 29 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 28 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes p. 28 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of fatalities by region p. 30 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place regarding serious p. 31 diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category White collar: 21 hours Blue collar: 13 hours LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category p. 29 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category p. 28 HR Human Rights Performance Indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses No significant investment or that have undergone human rights screening agreements in 2010 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights p. 15 and action taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken p. 28 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining No risks identified may be at significant risk, and actions taken HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken p. 18 No risks identified HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and No risks identified measures taken SO Society Performance Indicators SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities AAK Code of Conduct p. 33 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption p. 15, 26 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 8, 26 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption No incidents occurred SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying p. 35 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with laws and regulations PR Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such p. 8 procedures PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant p. 13 products and services subject to such information requirements PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing No reporting communications PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the No non-compliance incidents provision and use of products and services FP Food Processing Sector Supplement FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and lockouts p. 28 FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party p. 12 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 43 The first choice for value-added vegetable oil solutions Published by AarhusKarlshamn AB, Sweden. Produced by AAK Corporate Communication and AAK Corporate Social Responsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: www.benfoto.se, AAK, Futureimagebank. Print: AlfaPrint.
