ASE – Aero Services Egypt 2nd Corporate Social Responsibility Report and COP Index ASE Group Executive Chairman Letter of Commitment 1. Group’s Profile 1.1 ASE Group History and Locations 1.2 ASE Group Team Members 1.3 ASE’s Organizational Structure 2. ASE Group Services 3. ASE Group Partner Airlines 4. ASE Group Certificates 5. ASE Group Memberships 6. ASE Group Policies 6.1 ASE Group Quality Policy 6.2 ASE Group Safety, Health & Security Policy 6.3 ASE Group Reporting Policy 6.4 ASE Group Training Policy 7. ASE Group Employees Code of Conduct and Ethics. 7.1 Compliance with Laws and Ethical Standards 7.2 Performance of Duties by ASE Group Employees 7.3 Breach of the Code 7.4 Reporting Breaches of the Code 7.5 Compliance with the Code – ASE Group Representatives 7.6 “Open Door” Policy 7.7 Discrimination or Harassment 7.8 Statement of Compliance 7.9 Political Contribution 7.10 Unacceptable Payments 7.11 Giving or Receiving Gifts 7.12 Environmental Laws 8. ASE Group commitment to the Environment. 8.1 ASE Group Environmental Policy. 8.2 ASE Group and The Energy and Environment Research Center. 9. ASE – Aero Services Egypt’s Headquarters New Premises 10. ASE – Aero Services Egypt Awards 2011 10.1The Majestic Five Continents Award for Quality and Excellence 10.2 ISAGO Registration Renewal for Luxor Airport. 11. ASE – Aero Services Egypt and the UN Global Compact. 12. ASE – Aero Services Egypt membership in The Association of Women in Corporate Aviation. 13. ASE Group supports the Human Rights. 1. Group’s Profile ASE Group is a designated Ground Services Provider and Representative Company in Egypt, Morocco and UAE. Performing full Airline representation before the Civil Aviation Authorities and all other Local Authorities, Passenger Handling, Flight Support Services, Ramp Supervision and Airport Ticketing Services. We comply with the latest international standards for Safety, Security and Quality Management Systems. We are a registered ISAGO Ground Services Provider. ASE Vision To sustain being the branded partner of choice by providing the highest competitive quality of aviation services in Africa and the Middle East. ASE Mission To provide Safety, Security and Quality. ASE Objectives Customer Satisfaction, Standardization, Maintain and develop staff, Increasing market share, and provide Environmental and Social Awareness. 1.1 ASE Group History and Locations ASE – Aero Services Egypt established in 1989 Member of the IATA Ground Handling Council since 1991 Locations: 13 Stations. ASE – Airline Supervisors Experts established in 1998, a member of The IATA Ground Handling Council since 1998 Locations: 15 Stations ASE – Associated Services Experts established in 2008, a member of The IATA Ground Handling Council since 2008 Location: 4 Stations ASE World of Travel Agency was officially licensed by the Ministry of Tourism as a General Sales Agent in 2009 ASE – Aviation Services Education, The only regional training center located in Morocco launched in 2011 1.2 ASE Group Team Members ASE Group mission is to provide safety, security, and quality to our partner airlines, that’s why we provide our Team with the latest training facilities and they are all Qualified Star Alliance and IATA Trained. As we are serving the aviation business our operations and stations team is dedicated and available 24/7 to provide and arrange for all the support needed to ensure a smooth operation for commercial and executive flights when ever where ever we are needed. ASE Group follows the international standards for quality, Safety and security using the company policies in partnership with its employees to conduct its business in a manner that ensures the health and safety of its employees, customers, the general public, its contractors, agents, subsidiaries, and associated companies while meeting its obligations under all applicable regulations. Total number of Team Members at ASE – Aero Services Egypt from 2006 up to August 2011 Team Members 300 200 243 270 100 120 67 76 86 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1.5 ASE – Aero Services Egypt Organizational Structure 1. ASE Group Services ASE Group Services for Airlines: Airline Representation. Flight Support Services. Overflying and Landing Permits. Airport & ATC Slot Coordination. Passenger Handling (in Egypt only). Full Handling Arrangements. Ramp or Full Handling Supervision. Fuelling Arrangement and Payment. Catering Arrangement and Payment. Hotel Accommodation. Transportation Arrangement. Crew Administration & Transportation. Third Party Payments. ASE Group Services for General Aviation: Flight Support Services. Overflying and Landing Permits. Airport & ATC Slot Coordination. Full Handling Arrangements. VIP Services. Fuelling Arrangement and Payment. Catering Arrangement and Payment. Hotel Accommodation. Transportation Arrangement. Limousine Services. Crew Administration & Transportation. Third Party Payments. 3. ASE Group Partner Airlines 4. ASE Group Certificates ASE Group holds certificates from International Organizations to apply the efficiency and quality standards in its daily operations. ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified by TÜV Rheinland. ISO 9001: 2008 for Quality Management System. ISO 14001: 2004 for Environmental Management System. OHSAS 18001: 2007 for Occupational Health & Safety. ASE – Aero Services Egypt one of the pioneers who helped in developing the standards and protocols of ISAGO program. ASE Group registered ISAGO Ground Services Provider in the following stations: 5. ASE Group Memberships 6. ASE Group Policies Safety and Security are ASE fundamental priority Comply with all requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, IATA AHM804 “System for performance measurement of service delivery standards requirements” and ISAGO “IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations” Standards and continually improve the effectiveness of these management and performance systems. Provide high quality and safe services that meet customers’ satisfaction on time, all the time. Improve the quality of training and facilities. Continuous training for all employees to reach the highest levels of efficiency in processes and activities. Working as a team in all fields to achieve customer satisfaction and ASE goals. Quality is how our customers perceive our performance. It is our ability to satisfy their expectations for safe, reliable, efficient and comfortable flight turnaround. Quality is everybody’s concern in ASE and compliance with procedures, standards and regulations are the responsibility of all our employees. ASE is engaged in a spirit of continuous improvement, focused on customer service. In order to achieve this, the highest level is pursued daily regarding Safety, Security, and Punctuality service. 6.1 ASE Group Quality Policy: 1. All flights shall be handled in accordance with established procedures, which shall comply with authority rules and regulations, IATA recommendations, customer airline requirements, work instructions and safe operational practice, including human factors principles. 2. Safety is the foremost quality parameter. ASE staff shall ensure risk awareness during daily work at all levels of the organization; an accident free ground operations environment, thereby ensuring the safety of airline passengers and aircrafts and ASE staff. 3. All airport related ground services processes are performed by adequately trained staff. 4. All activities shall be planned, monitored and evaluated, and shall be corrected or changed as necessary required, with the objective of continuous quality, operational safety and security improvement 5. Clear and measurable standards are established for important activities and services. ASE standards shall be established at a level that stimulates high performance and enables ASE to be an excellent ground handling company with regard to safety and competitiveness. 6. All ASE employees shall be encouraged to report deviations from standards and procedures and to contribute to improvement of ASE. 7. Using ASE GOM as a basic requirement and guide The following order of priorities shall always be applied: 1. Safety 2. Punctuality 3. All other services Note: Safety in this context also includes Security against illegal interference in Aviation ASE Quality Assurance department in coordination with ASE Training department issues a weekly bulletin to all ASE units and concerned departments. Bulletins cover topics related to ground handling operations, safety, quality and security. ASE Quality Assurance department promotes for the awareness of ASE Quality System and disseminate on-going information to maintain compliance with standard practices and highlights deviations which might a negative impact on operations, on safety, security or quality. Bulletins include also an up-to-date status of operational performance against stated performance measures. Punctuality and On-Time performance is a Basic Quality standard, while taking into accounts the demands for a safe and economical operation. To guarantee an On-Time performance, each unit shall establish deadlines (AHM804) for acceptance of Traffic Load, depending on the local conditions. Safety shall be taken into account in all ASE ground operations and their support functions. ASE is committed to continuously improve the safety and integrity of its operations. Communication and promotion of the safety policies, principles practices and processes are the commitments and responsibilities of senior and unit management, as well as all staff. ASE adheres to or exceeds the requirements set by competent authorities, customer airlines, as well as ASE itself. All ground operations are undertaken with the guarantee that safety is a constant. This means that the safety regulations during ground operations shall be executed. The main requirement is the application of the safety regulations specified in the IATA AHM, in customer ground operations/ handling manuals and ASE GOM. 6.2 ASE Group Safety, Health & Security Policy: ASE will accomplish this through a Safety Management System, which ensures: 1. Never compromise on Safety. 2. Safe and secure operations are essential to ASE success. Therefore applicable safety and security regulations shall be complied with everywhere and every time. 3. Safety can be managed. ASE safety efforts are aimed at minimizing incidents and at zero accidents. This is achieved by active involvement of management and employees and by setting company safety goals and that everyone shall believe in it. 4. Management is accountable for safe and secure operational practices. Thereto, relevant safety goals shall be derived for every operational discipline and sufficient resources shall be allocated to safety management activities. 5. Every ASE employee (every division, department and unit in the company) is responsible for contributing to safety and security their respective workplace by complying with applicable laws, regulations and procedures; by working safely and securely; by actively participating in training; and by identifying and alerting each other and the company to potential hazards and threats observed. It is for their own protection and for the protection of all others working with them. 6. ASE will take into account human factors principles when establishing and performing operational processes. Every employee in the operational processes is responsible for being physically and mentally fit when performing their tasks. 7. Safety and security performance is measured and evaluated periodically by ASE management to assess the results of ASE effort and the Safety Performance System shall provide timely feedback to all employees. Audits are performed to confirm the effectiveness in achieving desired results, but also to identify, evaluate and control risks associated with our processes, activities and work environment. Every employee is responsible for cooperating with quality auditors, internal and external. 8. Each employee’s personal work environment shall be maintained at safe exposure level. Deficiencies resulting from audits and inspections shall be corrected within the specified timeframes. Whenever a safety deficiency is found either by an audit, an investigation, in the normal course of work or by means of voluntary reporting – prompt action shall be taken. This shall be achieved through modifying facilities, changing procedures, improving training (appropriate training and education programs) or counseling constructively and consistently. 9. Continuous research and development of effective safety practices 10. Open communications is the key to uncovering hazards and unsafe practices for improvement. Everyone is encouraged to report any hazard or incident that has compromised or has the potential to compromise safety at work, and to make suggestions to remove such hazards or to prevent a recurrence. 11. ASE will not take disciplinary or administrative action against the reporter of a safety occurrence or the persons involved in the occurrence, unless gross negligence, criminal activity or intent is established. 12. It is essential to investigate. Once reported, all accidents, hazards, unsafe practices and incidents with injury potential, as well as all injuries incurred, shall be investigated. Primary and secondary causes shall be identified, and solutions proposed and communicated broadly throughout the organization while bearing in mind the need for confidentiality. 13. ASE will work together with other organizations involved in the operation to identify safety risks and to improve the safety of organizational and process interfaces. The objective of ASE safety policy is: 1. To maintain and improve the level of operational safety and minimize safetyendangering risks. 2. Orientation of all management levels on operational safety 3. Improvement of the safety management system 4. To make ASE staff aware and understand the priority that ASE places on safety 5. Clear requirements to duties and responsibility of the personnel 6. Availability of relevant means of providing safety information 7. Involving each employee in the safety process 8. Arrangement of relevant training and maintaining staff competence and skills In operational decision-making, safety has always higher priority than other factors influencing the decisions. Safety is founded on a high-standard safety culture, and maintained with continuous and long-term work. Operational safety is a built-in mechanism and mode of working. Unconditional ensuring safety is the main task of ASE VP Business Development; he is responsible for development and control of performance of the Safety Program. He is responsible for compilation of the Program, establishment of the internal reporting system relating to safety matters, investigations and safety requirements. Safety and Quality Policy is defined within the company so that ASE shall not have or cause any accidents or serious incidents, or injuries to a person. Neither shall the company cause threat to our customers due to our operation or acts of unlawful interference. It is the duty of every staff to take personal responsibility for doing everything possible to prevent injury to himself/herself and to his/her colleagues. Prevention of accidents is a joint effort. We will work as a team to make our Company the safest and best. 6.3 ASE Group Reporting Policy: Safety is ASE’s most important commitment. To ensure this commitment, it is imperative that there is uninhibited reporting of hazards and occurrences that may compromise the health, safety and property of ASE, its employees and customers. Each employee shall accept the responsibility to communicate, through the appropriate means, any information that may affect the integrity of our safety. To promote this commitment, ASE assures: Confidentiality; the identity, or information revealing the identity, of any employee who reports a hazard or an occurrence to a Safety or Senior manager, will not be disclosed unless agreed to by the employee, or required by law. No company disciplinary action, or reprisal, will be taken against any employee who reports a hazard or occurrence that affects safety. This policy does not apply to unlawful acts, gross negligence or willful infractions. 6.5 ASE Group Training Policy Aero Services Egypt recognizes that its most important resource is its employees. It is committed to the training and development of its entire workforce so that they will gain the necessary skills to reach their full potential. This will assist in enabling A S E to achieve its aims and objectives that are to provide specialized, high quality care, professional services and delivering highest levels of efficiency in processes and activities through a well trained and supported working team. The Training department will provide the appropriate training courses to all ASE staff and qualify them according to their duties. By increasing the skills and knowledge of its staff, A S E will produce confident, highly qualified staff working as an effective and efficient team. The individual training and development needs will be identified through: Training Needs Assessments Annual Performance Appraisal Requests from employees OJT Report for new employees within first 3 month. The training and development needs identified will be met through a variety of activities depending on the nature and extent of the requirements deemed necessary after assessment. All internal training provided by A S E and External courses for professional qualifications may be fully or partly refunded depending on the nature of the training and employee's period of service. Employees are responsible for their own development and as such may inform A S E of their development needs and take part in prescribed development activities. Employees are responsible for adaptation of knowledge provided by A S E, both internally/ externally for the company benefit and sharing of knowledge with entire team. As part of A S E continues commitment to training and development, employees are asked to provide feedback on the value and effectiveness of the training and development they undertake. This information will be used to assess and improve the training process. This policy respects Equal opportunities and applies to all employees. 7. ASE Group Employees Code of Conduct and Ethics “The following standards are extracted from ASE – Code of Conduct and Ethics”. The ASE Group’s Code of Conduct and Ethics is the ASE Group’s principal corporate governance policy. The Code governs the conduct of the ASE Group and its managers, employees, consultants and all other people when they represent the ASE Group. ASE Group Employees are encouraged to discuss any questions or concerns relating to these guidelines and report any unethical or illegal behavior they notice. General Principles 7.1 Compliance with Laws and Ethical Standards: ASE Group, its subsidiaries and associated entities (ASE Group), President, Vice Presidents, Managers, employees, consultants and all other people when they directly or indirectly represent the ASE Group shall comply, at all times, with all laws governing its operations. ASE Group as a handling company further represents that the personnel shall not consider themselves as employed or hired by the Carrier, and that such Personnel shall have no binding relation or rights against the Carrier. ASE – Aero Services Egypt is a Member and supporter of the United Nations Global Compact and fully committed to implement the CSR Corporate Social Responsibility System and in process for certifying SA8000 – Social Accountability system. 7.2 Performance of Duties by ASE Group Employees: All Executive Committee Members, Managers and employees of ASE Group, its subsidiaries and associated entities (ASE Group Employees) must conduct the business of the ASE Group with the highest level of ethics and integrity. This obligation applies particularly to dealings with shareholders, customers, suppliers, competitors, governments, regulators, other ASE Group Employees and all others stakeholders. 7.3 Breach of the Code: Any breach of applicable laws, prevailing business ethics or other aspects of this code will result in a disciplinary action, which could reach a dismissal. Similar disciplinary action will be taken against any supervisor or manager who directly approves (and/or condones) such a breach or has knowledge of the breach and does not take appropriate remedial action. Breach of applicable laws or regulations may also result in prosecution by appropriate authorities. ASE Group will not pay, directly or indirectly, any penalties imposed on an ASE Group employee as a result of a breach of law or regulation. ASE Group will also not pay the legal costs of an ASE Group employee convicted of breaching such law or regulation. 7.4 Reporting Breaches of the Code: All ASE Group Employees must report immediately any circumstances which may involve deviation from this Code to their Manager, Vice President Finance, Vice President Business Development, Vice President Operations, the CEO’s Personal Assistant, or the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Any ASE Group Employee concerned about possible repercussions should make their report under the ASE Group reporting system. The internal auditors of ASE Group are responsible for reviewing the operations and administration of ASE Group. This review will be reported to the Vice President Business Development with any breaches of this Code. 7.5 Compliance with the Code – ASE Group Representatives: Any ASE Group employee who deals with agents, contractors or consultants who represent the ASE Group must make them aware of this Code and that ASE Group expects them to conduct their business in accordance with this Code. All new or replacement contracts with agents, contractors or consultants must include an acknowledgment to be signed for receiving the “Code of Conduct and Ethics”. 7.6 “Open Door” Policy: The basic ground of the efforts being spent for achieving compliance with the policies is the transparent, accessible and open discussion environment within the Company. Most of the issues can be solved before they become problematic for the Company personnel and for the public domain. “Open Door” policy encourages the Company personnel to express their own ideas and views, to state their complaints and to ask questions especially with regard to their views about legal and ethical matters as well as the quality of the work. All executives are responsible to support this policy by keeping their doors open to their subordinates and to other personnel trying to reach them. 7.7 Discrimination or Harassment: Employees who engage in acts of harassment and discrimination are subject to various corrective actions that may include termination of the employee as well as the penalties anticipated by the laws. Managers are responsible for establishing and maintaining business environments that are free of harassment and discrimination. The Company promotes open communication throughout the Company to resolve questions, concerns, problems, or complaints involving discrimination or harassment. In such circumstances, our duty is to communicate with our supervisors or other superiors. 7.8 Statement of Compliance Certificate of Compliance: Incorporated in the Half Yearly and Yearly appraisal is a Statement of Compliance with the ASE Group’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. Senior Management will be required to certify compliance personally and in their area of responsibility. Reference to Compliance in the ASE Group’s Annual Report: The Board will include reference to compliance with this Code in the ASE Group’s Annual Report. 7.9 Political Contributions Board Approval of Political Contributions: Political contributions (to any government official, political party, political party official, election committee or political candidate) must not be made directly or indirectly on behalf of ASE Group without the prior approval of the Board. 7.10 Unacceptable Payments Prohibited Payments: Bribes, kickbacks, inducements or similar payments must not be made to or for the benefit of any government official (of any country), customer, supplier or any other party in connection with obtaining orders or favourable treatment such as gaining improper advantage in ASE Group’s business or operation; or to induce a government official to do something illegal or improper on behalf of or for the benefit of ASE Group; or for any other purpose. This prohibition extends not only to direct payments but also to indirect payments made in any form through distributors, representatives, consultants, agents or other third parties. ASE Group Employees’ Responsibilities: ASE Group Employees must not seek or accept any type of compensation, fee, salaries, rebates, rewards, gratuity, or commissions from a third party in connection with the operations of the ASE Group. 7.11 Giving or Receiving Gifts Circumstances where receiving gift is prohibited: ASE Group Employees are prohibited to give, receive, seek or accept any gifts, loans, services, hospitality, entertainment or any other type of gifts from government officials (of any country), customers, supplier, or any other party in connection with ASE’s operations. In addition ASE Group employees are not to make any personal favors which go beyond the common courtesies associated with accepted ethical Ground Service Provider and general commercial practice. Interpretation: For avoidance of doubt, any gift received by a ASE Group Employee (or series of gifts from one party) which might, as a matter of judgment, must be reported to the responsible Vice President with full details of the background of the gift. 7.12 Environmental Laws: ASE Group Employees shall ensure that the provision of goods or services to ASE Group or activities related there are performed in compliance with applicable environmental laws. Abuse of Drug and Alcohol Policy: ASE Management has the right that at any time and without prior notice to make Drug / Alcohol test through a medical check to any of the employees on all levels. Positive results or refusal of this test will lead to immediate dismissal from work. Also if any employee is under influence of chemical substance, the company has the right to dismiss him/her immediately from work and without any notice. No Gossip Policy: Any ASE employee who talks badly about a colleague, manager or VP is liable to a penalty that can reach terminating his contract (determined on a case by case basis). Non – Smoking: All ASE Group Headquarters are non-smoking areas. 8. ASE Group commitment to the Environment 8.1 ASE Group Environmental Policy: ASE Management and staff are committed to the prevention of pollution, to continual improvement in environmental performance in all locations where ground operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements and will take appropriate measures to address key areas of environmental concern. ASE is respecting the applicable environmental laws and the airport regulations. It also ensures that third parties contracted by customer airlines are respecting same law and regulations. All activities and services that might have potential to significantly impact the environment are identified. Performance targets and objectives are set for pollution prevention, such as eliminating FOD or preventing fuel leakage, stock material disposal to ensure environmental compliance and continual improvement. Performance targets and objectives are achieved through awareness and the implementation of work instructions and practices. Environment Control procedures are reviewed by ASE management to ensure ongoing effectiveness. ASE shall: 1. Communicate this policy to all staff and provide training where applicable to ensure that every employee is capable of fulfilling his or her environmental responsibility 2. Be open about our environmental affairs and will provide appropriate information as requested by interested parties. 3. Monitor changes in environmental legislation, audit our compliance and cooperate fully with environmental regulatory authorities. 4. Establish an environmental action programme to achieve the Company’s objectives in the management of environmental issues relating to the use of water and energy, emission to atmosphere, effluent discharges, waste management… 5. Report and encourage our staff to report non-compliance associated with hazards, any kind of spillage or waste disposal which could affect environment. The used materials from the offices such as printer cartridges are collected and return to the supplier for disposal or recycle. ASE ensures that fuel spillage or DG or any spillage that has a negative effect on environment will be reported immediately to the airport authority and supplier for corrective actions. Same reporting applied for any equipment not respecting laws or regulations of environment protection. All ASE – premises are non-smoking, respecting Health and Safety of its staff and visitors. The collection and transport of waste is a result of the aircraft cleaning process. The disposal is performed according the airport regulation in the special designated area and in compliance with the requirements to be deposited in sealed sacks. 8.2 ASE Group and The Energy and Environment Research Center (E2RC) At ASE we make sure that we are following the international standards for healthy working environment, that’s why Business Development and Safety, Quality, Risk coordinators are responsible to perform the evaluation of all environmental aspects and hazards. Once a year ASE invites experts to measure the environment aspects in ASE premises to issue an environmental evaluation report. The team considers each of the focused area of the service center’s processes, services or activities, including: Operations Transportation Services Disposal / waste management Each process, service or activity is analyzed and evaluated for environmental impacts and hazards in each of these areas. All environmental aspects and hazards are listed. The tem rates the identified environmental aspects against the defined factors by Environmental law and other regulations then it shall be recorded to identify those that may result in significant impacts. According to the agreement between ASE Aero Services Egypt and Energy and Environment Research Center / Tabbin Institute for Measurements metallurgical studies (E2RC/TIMS) to implement air quality in the company. Research team with mobile laboratory preformed the required measurements in the company using Measurements Parameters: Respirable particulate. Noise Level Heat stress Light intensity Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) Carbon Monoxide (CO) Sulpher Dioxide (SO2) Oxgen (O2) Equipment: Air born Particulate Monitor Mie USA Noise level meter tosto USA Heat Stress Indicator Quest – USA Light Intensity meter-Omega – USA Ambient Air Analizer – Miran – USA Flue gas analyzer Lancom – USA 9. ASE – Aero Services Egypt’s Headquarters New Premises Our Company new premises in the 5th Settlement, New Cairo. ASE will apply the Electricity and Water saving strategy in our new premises. Floor Plan 10. ASE – Aero Services Egypt Awards 2011 10.1 ASE – Aero Services Egypt received “The Majestic Five Continents Award for Quality and Excellence”. At the Hilton Cavalieri Hotel in Rome, Italy, Mr. Mohamed Hanno received “The Majestic Five Continents Award for Quality and Excellence” on the 18th and 19th July 2011. This event was attended with companies representing more than 40 countries. The Award is founded by “Other Ways Management and Consulting Association” whose objective is to gather information about quality, excellence, innovation, technology, leadership and prestige. The participants also attended a working session for the purpose of making a public presentation of the companies in order to promote mutual knowledge and commercial relationships between all of the attendees. 10.2 ASE – Aero Services Egypt (ISAGO registration renewal for Luxor Airport): 11. ASE – Aero Services Egypt and the UN Global Compact. ASE – Aero Services Egypt supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and is committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Human Rights: Principle 1 and 2: ASE Group supports the humanitarian flights where ever our team is needed, such as the evacuation of the Egyptians from Djerba to Cairo. Labour: Principle 3, 4, 5, and 6: ASE Group follows these principles throughout our Company Policy and Code of Conduct. Environment: Principle 7, 8, and 9: ASE Group Environmental Policy covers these principles. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: ASE Group Code of Conduct and Ethics cover this principle. ASE – Aero Services Egypt is in process to be certified by TÜV Rheinland for SA8000 Social Accountability system. 12. ASE – Aero Services Egypt membership in The Association of Women in Corporate Aviation. Women in Corporate Aviation, a non-profit organization, is a group of aviation professionals, including flight department personnel, FBO managers, writers, students, training center professional and many others. From our first meeting at the Women in Aviation Conference 1993 to our growing organization today, we have networked and promoted career opportunities in business aviation. We are role models to the next generation of aviation professionals. To provide a positive image of the corporate aviation industry. To promote and support the future of business aviation through involvement, education, public speaking and scholarship programs. To provide a network of professionals acting as mentors for those seeking assistance in achieving personal and professional career development. To be a voice for women in business aviation. 13. ASE Group supports the Human Rights UN humanitarian flights: ASE – Aero Services Egypt Team Members along with Airberlin aircrafts evacuated Egyptians from Djerba to Cairo. In the period from March 3rd to 8th Airberlin carried out 7 flights from Djerba to Cairo for the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency to evacuate Egyptian citizens who crossed the Libyan boarders heading to Tunisia. In line with the UN Global Compact 10 principles implementation, Principal 1 of Human Rights, Article 13, implementing that everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence with the borders of each state and that everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country, ASE – Aero Services Egypt supported these humanitarian flights by sending ASE Team members on board these flights from Djerba to Cairo. ASE – Aero Services Egypt received Recognition and Honoring Certificates from Airberlin for each one of the six team members who participated in the UN Humanitirian Flights evacuating passengers and crew during Djerba crisis. Excerpt from letter of appreciation from Airberlin to ASE – Aero Services Egypt: Dear sirs, These letters are for saying Thank you to some of your employees. My name is Anja Meister, I'm working for the company 'Air Berlin' as an air attendant. On our evacuation flights, bringing Egypt refugees from Djerba to Cairo, we met Rafik Refaat (Customer Relations Manager), Aladin Etman (Operations Assistance Manager), Hatem Ibrahim (Vice President Business Development) and Usama Fawzy. We were very happy having them on board. On our flights they did a very good job. They took over much of the organization and were responsible for a professional process. Without them, the flights wouldn't have been that successful. Greetings from Germany Anja Meister/ MTR” ASE Group Contacts ASE Education Casablanca, Morocco Tel: +212 614 070 006 Fax: +212 528 821 939 E-mail: info@aseeducation.org www.aseeducation.org
