Towards Sustainability Social Responsibility Report 2010 Contents Message from the Board p.1 Employee Development p.40 Business Overview p.2 Supplier Engagement p.46 Sustainability Milestones p.4 Community Involvement p.52 Targets and Progress p.6 Supporting the UN Global Compact p.56 Managing Our Impacts p.8 Environmental Data Table p.58 Integrating Sustainability p.10 Social and Economic Data Table p.60 Engaging Stakeholders p.13 GRI Index p.61 Water Stewardship p.16 Awards and Recognition p.62 Energy and Climate Change p.24 Validation Statement p.64 Packaging and Recycling p.30 Stakeholder Review Statement p.66 Consumer Health p.34 Glossary of Terms p.68 Water Energy and Packaging and Consumer Employee Supplier Community Stewardship Climate Change Recycling Health Development Engagement Involvement About Our Reporting Coca-Cola Hellenic has reported on its corporate sustainability tors. Suppliers are also independently audited for compliance performance each year since 2003. Aimed at NGOs, analysts with our Supplier Guiding Principles. and investors, government and other opinion leaders, this reThis report includes full data for calendar year 2010 pertaining port focuses on the sustainability issues of greatest concern to to the bottling, distribution and sales activities in all 28 countries our stakeholders and our business. The report also serves as of operation. The following investments are not considered our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. here: our brewing interests in the Former Yugoslav Republic Our reporting is guided by the three principles of the AA 1000 of Macedonia (FYROM) and Bulgaria, Greek snacks company Assurance Standard: materiality, inclusiveness, and responTsakiris, and vending businesses in Hungary, Ireland and Italy. siveness. We use leading standards and methodologies for None of these represents more than 1% of revenue. measuring and reporting impacts, such as the Greenhouse Gas To promote transparency and comparability, we have adopted Protocol and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This report has the 2004 baseline used by the global Coca-Cola System for rebeen assessed by the report auditor to meet GRI application porting environmental performance. We no longer report results Level A+. We aim to report fully against the new sector suppleagainst our original baseline of 2002. More information about our ment for the food processing industry in the 2011 report. sustainability strategy and programmes – including Disclosures Following stakeholder requests, we have reintroduced indeof Management Approach can be found on the corporate webpendent assurance of our sustainability reporting. In addition, site. The growing number of local websites and country-level our environmental, quality, health and safety management sustainability reports are another source of information. systems and data are audited annually by third-parties at all 77 bottling plants. At Group level, community investment data are submitted to London Benchmarking Group (LBG) for checks, while our compliance with industry codes on responsible sales and marketing is periodically assessed by independent audiMessage from the Board Dear Fellow Stakeholders, them challenges. The scale of our CHP programme and its The year 2010 marked the innovative quad-generation technology caused administratenth anniversary of Coca-Cola tive delays in some countries – as did our wastewater treatHellenic. As we enter our secment plants. ond decade, we shall intensify Perhaps the most significant way we are stepping up our our efforts to ensure that our efforts is in managing our indirect impacts: the sustainabilbusiness and our communiity challenges inherent in our supply chain. Since the bulk ties continue to thrive. of our corporate water footprint is in sugar production, we Sustainability is usually denow work with sugar suppliers to understand and address fined, following the Brundtland our indirect water use. Similarly, the largest contributors to Commission Report of 1987, our carbon footprint sit in our value chain: the manufacture as the ability to meet the needs of the present without comof beverage packaging and use of cooling equipment. We promising the ability of future generations to meet their own therefore partnered with suppliers to develop more energy needs. We have already made significant strides in our susefficient coolers. We have made our packaging lighter and tainability initiatives, but there is no room for complacency. included recycled content. In addition, we led the establishThe hard decisions required of governments, companies ment of recovery organisations in 19 countries. and individuals if we are to achieve a sustainable world are Throughout the recession, we have worked to protect jobs soberly set out in the WWF’s recent One Planet Report. At in our business and our supply chain, and we have offered Coca-Cola Hellenic we recognize our responsibilities. increased opportunities for training and development. EnWe have therefore stepped up our climate commitments couragingly, engagement levels in 2010 were 13 percentage and are now adding photovoltaic panels to factory rooftops points higher than in the previous survey. in addition to the construction of combined heat and power The number of serious accidents continues to fall. Our safety (CHP) units. In 2010, we commissioned a further three units, programme has led to a 39% reduction since 2009. Regretshowcasing the technology with suppliers, customers, govtably, we continued to experience fatalities. We are doing all ernments and others. On completion, the programme will cut we can to eliminate them. CO2 emissions from manufacturing. In addition, we are close Long-term strategic partnerships are essential to the success to completing construction of wastewater treatment plants of our sustainability efforts. At global level, we are a longwherever municipalities do not or cannot treat wastewater to standing and active participant in the UN Global Compact – in Coca-Cola Hellenic’s standards. In 2010, 97% of our wastewaglobal platforms and local networks –which requires committer was treated. We have developed further community water ment to recognised principles of good corporate citizenship. partnerships, and received a second special commendation in Our sustainability goals are long-term, building value for our 2010 for water stewardship efforts across our business. business and our communities, and we already see benefits. We are reinforcing our efforts to certify our plants against In addition to cost efficiencies, we gain reputational advaninternationally recognised standards for quality (ISO 9001), tage as an employer, business partner, community member environment (ISO 14001), food safety (ISO 22000 and FSSC and business in which to invest. In 2010, we retained our 22000) and occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001). listing on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (World and By 2012, we expect all plants to be fully certified. STOXX) for the third consecutive year. As a result, we are Given that we operate in many developing and emerging among the top 10% of companies worldwide and top four markets, these achievements are significant. In Armenia, beverage companies for sustainability. We were also includwe have gained certification for quality, food safety, environed in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. ment, health and safety and were the first company to inWe hope this report provides the information you seek. As stall wastewater treatment in full compliance with European always, we welcome your comments. standards. Yet these ambitions not surprisingly brought with Sir Michael Llewellyn Smith Chairman, Social Responsibility Committee 1 Business Overview With annual sales of more than two billion unit cases, Coca-Cola Emerging markets Hellenic is one of the largest bottlers of products of The Coca-Cola Armenia Montenegro Company. Operating in 28 countries, the Company serves a diverse Belarus Nigeria population of approximately 560 million people. Bosnia and Romania Herzegovina Russia 2.1 billion unit cases Bulgaria Serbia Sales: FYROM Moldova Ukraine ••••• EBITDA: €1.1 billion Developing markets Croatia Lithuania Czech Republic Poland ••••• Estonia Slovakia 43,189 Hungary Slovenia Latvia Employees: Established markets ••••• Bottling plants: 77 Austria Cyprus Greece Northern Ireland Republic of Ireland Switzerland Italy Across its territories, Coca-Cola Hellenic owns and operates 77 as beverages with health and wellness benefits. In addition to bottling plants and 365 warehouses and distribution centres. producing such global brands as Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite, we By producing and distributing beverages locally, we remain offer many local brands which are designed to meet local tastes. close to our customers and consumers. This business model also generates local employment and supports local suppliers, The Coca-Cola System while minimising the environmental impacts of transportation. Coca-Cola Hellenic produces and distributes beverages under licence agreements with The Coca-Cola Company. These Beverages and Brands brands represented 89% of our Company’s sales in 2010. We offer a diverse range of ready-to-drink non-alcoholic beverBrands belonging to other companies, such as Nestea, illy ages. In addition to sparkling soft drinks, we produce waters, juiccafé, Dr Pepper, Schweppes and Tuborg, accounted for 7% of es and juice drinks, sports and energy beverages, ready-to-drink sales. Our own brands, such as Amita juices and Avra mineral teas and coffees. We also offer reduced-calorie options, as well water, represented the final 4% of sales. Volume Net Sales Revenue (million unit cases) (million €) 2,019 2,115 2,069 2,100 6,462 6,981 6,544 6,794 1,788 5,616 2 Sustainability Ownership Over the past decade, we have worked hard to integrate susOur largest shareholders are the Kar-Tess Group and The tainability considerations into the way we do business. With Coca-Cola Company. Coca-Cola Hellenic shares are listed on a large part of our business in the developing and emerging the Athens Stock Exchange, with a secondary listing on the economies of Eastern Europe and Nigeria, we aim to take a London Stock Exchange. American Depository Receipts are leadership role. Since 2008, Coca-Cola Hellenic has been listed listed on the New York Stock Exchange. on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (World and STOXX), placing us among the top 10% of companies for sustainability ABOUT US www.coca-colahellenic.com/aboutus/ worldwide. We are the only European soft drinks company on PRODUCT PORTFOLIO www.coca-colahellenic.com/aboutus/ productportfolio/ the Indexes. SUSTAINABILITY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ CSR RATINGS www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/csrratings/ Net Profit Return on Invested Capital (million €) 472 (percent) 12,2 424 417 450 10,4 11 10,4 10,7 380 3 Sustainability Milestones 2000 2002 2003 2004 2005 Creation of FTSE4Good listing Formed Social First CSR Policies ratified Launched Green Danube Coca-Cola Hellenic confirmed Responsibility Committee for Human Rights, Partnership with ICPDR Bottling Company of the Board and Equality of Opportunity, Launched WWF Water executive-level council HIV/AIDS, Health & Signed the UN Global Savers tool Safety, Environment Compact 2001 Acquired Baltics First country operations certified OHSAS 18001 and Quality Ratified the UNESDA Coca-Cola operations commitment to certify all First GRI report in the commitments First country operation certified ISO 14001 Acquired mineral water operations non-alcoholic beverage Acquired mineral water commitment to certify all companies Valser in industry companies Bankya in Acquired mineral water operations Switzerland and Dorna companies Römerquelle Acquired mineral water Bulgaria, Vlasinka in Apemin in Romania in Austria and Multivita in company Gotalka in Serbia and fruit juice Acquired Russian company Multon in Coca-Cola operations Poland Croatia Russia Production Volume (million unit cases) Total Water Use (million litres) Total Energy Use (million MJ) Total Landfilled Waste (million kg) BUSINESS MILESTONES www.coca-colahellenic.com/ aboutus/history/milestones/ 4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual sales of waters Signed CEO Water Included in the Dow Started construction of 15 Signed Consumer Goods and juices exceeded 33% Mandate, Caring for Jones Sustainability CHP units to reduce CO2 Forum resolutions of volume for first time Climate statement and Index from bottling operations on deforestation and the Bali Communiqué by over 20% refrigeration Stopped using HFCs in Launched Stakeholder insulation of Cold Drink Launched GDA labelling Panel First absolute reductions Launched solar energy Equipment in water, energy and programme Opened 1 industryst Launched the “Business waste in operations Named Notable Reporter owned PET-to-PET friends of the Danube” 3rd consecutive year of by the UN Global recycling plant in Europe fund Over two-thirds of absolute water reduction Compact operations certified Launched Green IT Extended Safe and ISO9001, ISO14001, Launched carbonLaunched front-of-pack initiative Eco-Driving courses to OHSAS 18001 and efficient fleet of nutritional labelling in all all countries ISO22000 commercial coolers EU countries Joined London Benchmarking Group Increased use of recycled First submission to Anti-corruption training Acquired mineral water (LBG) PET by 70% vs previous Carbon Disclosure rolled out across all company Fonti del year Project operations Vulture in Italy, fruit juice Joined CSR Europe company Fresh&Co in Launched three-year First report on Employer of choice First country operations safety plan awards in 16 countries Serbia and beverage and certified ISO 22000 implementation of CEO dairy company Lanitis in commitment to certify all Αcquired Southern Water Mandate and 13-point rise in employee Cyprus operations Italy Coca-Cola bottling Caring for Climate engagement since 2007 operations First corporate water Acquired beverage Founding member company Aquavision in footprint of European Water Russia Footprint Sustainability Assessment Sounding Board for Sugar First Stakeholder review of CSR Report Over 99% of volume produced by ISO 9001 certified plants 5 Targets and Progress ­ Targets 2010 Progress Future Goals Water Reduce operational water footprint Reduced operational water footprint Understand and reduce supply chain Stewardship by 40% vs 2003 by 48% vs 2004 footprint Established European Water Footprint Sustainability Assessment Sounding Board for Sugar Reduce water ratio by 2% vs 2009 Reduced water ratio by 4% (now 19% Reduce 2011 water ratio by 3% vs 2010 and No increase in absolute water use below 2004). Absolute reduction in 2020 ratio by 40% vs 2004 water use for third consecutive year No increase in absolute water use Ensure 100% of wastewater is 97% of wastewater treated. Final Ensure 100% of wastewater treated treated by 2010 wastewater treatment plant under at all times construction Expand water risk assessments Source vulnerability assessments Source vulnerability protection plans now cover 28 plants in all plants by 2012 Expand water stewardship Programmes in 26 countries, Expand water stewardship programmes covering all major rivers programmes to all countries Expand ISO 14001 certifications Five more plants certified, now All plants certified ISO 14001 by 2012 cover 91% of total Energy and Reduce energy ratio by 2% vs 2009 Increased energy ratio by 0.6% (now Reduce 2011 energy ratio by 3% vs 2010 Climate Change 22% below 2004) Build three CHP units; 15 by 2011 Two CHP units built, 5 under Cut CO2 emissions in production by 25% construction No increase in operational CO2 Operational CO2 ratio reduced 1.2% Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% emissions by 2020 vs 2004 baseline Expand energy-efficient and Purchased 23,400 energy-efficient Cooler fleet to be 50% more energy-efficient HFC-free cooler fleet HFC-free coolers by 2020 vs 2004 Install photovoltaic panels on roofs Photovoltaic panels installed at five Expand to four plants in other of bottling plants Italian plants Mediterranean sites Packaging Improve packaging efficiency by 25% Packaging efficiency decreased 7% Improve packaging efficiency by and Recycling by 2012 25% by 2012 Reduce material use through Saved 5,000 tonnes of PET through Save a further 3,500 tonnes of PET through lightweighting lightweighting lightweighting Increase use of rPET in new bottles Used 6,500 tonnes of rPET Use 6,500 tonnes of recycled PET Recycle 50% of post-consumer Recycled equivalent of 64% of Enhance post-consumer packaging beverage containers in Europe by packaging in Europe. collection and recycling in all compliance 2015 Led establishment of two new schemes recovery organisations; 19 to date. Increase recycling rate in bottling Recycling rate increased 2.4% to 85% Recycle over 90% of plant waste plants by 2% vs 2009 by 2015 Reduce landfilled waste from Landfilled waste reduced by 20% Reduce total landfilled waste by 80% bottling plants vs 2004 by 2020 6 ­ Targets 2010 Progress Future Goals Consumer Continue to expand beverage range 100 new juices, flavours, package Continuously adapt to consumer Health sizes preferences Reduce average calorie content Average calorie content decreased Continue to reduce average 0.5%, now 19% below 2001. calorie content. Promote diet and Low-calorie beverages including light beverages waters account for 26% of volume Extend GDA labels to all products in GDA labels on all products in the EU, Extend front-of-pack calorie information the EU where practical to all product labels in non-EU countries Expand ISO 9001 (Quality) 75 plants certified ISO 9001, covering All plants certified ISO 9001 by 2012 certifications 99.6% of volume Expand food safety certifications 60 plants certified ISO 22000, All plants certified ISO 22000 by 2012 ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000 covering 78% of volume Encourage physical activity among 1.2 million participants in sports Expand programme to all consumers and fitness programmes countries Employee Improve employee engagement Engagement levels 56%, now 13% Achieve engagement levels Development above 2007 equivalent to high-performing norm Improve safety performance Serious accidents down 39% since Continue to improve safety 2009, but fatalities increased performance Expand OHSAS 18001 certifications 65 plants certified, now cover 93% All plants certified OHSAS 18001 of employees by 2012 Extend Leadership Pipeline to all Leadership Pipeline expanded to Incorporate leadership pipeline model managers 100% of managers into HR processes for managers Certify all employees in new anti73% of email-enabled employees Train and certify all employees corruption training certified on Code of Business Conduct Develop employees to their full Employee training rose to 21 hours Roll-out CSR training for all managers. potential per year Set targets for internal promotion Supplier Expand audit programme to more 61 supplier sites audited; 121 to Expand joint audit programme to Engagement suppliers date more suppliers Explore positive screening Work on Pilot Scorecard to assess Refine Pilot Scorecard integration of environmental criteria carbon reduction strategy for packaging suppliers Address global footprint with Worked with sugar refiners to Work with sugar suppliers to improve suppliers understand water footprint their water footprint Engage more with suppliers Included suppliers in Stakeholder Deepen dialogue with suppliers Panel Community Maintain community investment Contributed €9.5 million, 1.4% Maintain current levels of community Involvement at 1.5% pre-tax profit throughout pre-tax profit investment recession 6,000 employees volunteered Encourage employee volunteerism Deepen relation with Red Cross Worked with national Red Cross Expand programmes to more societies organisations in ten countries; countries Provided relief in nine countries 7 Managing Our Impacts Our commitment to sustainability does not stop at the boundaries of our bottling plants. Today, we work to address the impacts of our business throughout our value chain from suppliers to end-consumers. To do so, we work collaboratively with our business partners, The Coca-Cola Company in particular. In addition, we contribute to broader initiatives that promote sustainable development in our communities. Much of our business is in the developing and emerging markets, where our goal is to take a leadership role. Fleet and Suppliers Bottling Plants Transportation Our ingredients, packaging and other We own and operate 77 plants and 365 Coca-Cola Hellenic has a relatively goods and services come from 84,000 warehouses and distribution centres, small transportation footprint. Our suppliers. in addition to corporate offices. Our plants are largely local, as are the maWater use in our agricultural supply business employed 43,189 people at jority of our suppliers. chain accounts for the greatest share the end of 2010. In 2010, the Company owned or leased of our water footprint. We and The Since 2004, we have significantly re3,109 haulage and delivery trucks, Coca-Cola Company are working with duced the environmental impacts of 3,452 management cars and 14,696 sugar producers to better understand our operations. We have improved sales and other vehicles, which conits impacts. our energy and water use efficiency sumed 85 million litres of fuel. Packaging represents the greatest by 22% and 19% respectively. Road safety is a particular concern in source of CO2 emissions in our supply We also implement transformational our emerging and developing marchain. Through collaboration, we reprogrammes such as the construction kets, as six of our nine fatalities reduce the weight of our beverage conof combined heat and power (CHP) sulted from road traffic accidents. tainers, and increase recycled content. plants to reduce carbon emissions by Through our Safe and Eco-Driving proWe also work with suppliers to de250,000 tonnes each year. We own 43 gramme and other initiatives, we have velop low-carbon technologies, such wastewater treatment plants, and 97% reduced the number of accidents and as our pioneering work to develop cliof our wastewater was treated in 2010. avoided 954 tonnes of CO2 since 2009. mate-friendly refrigeration and comThere are 49 trade unions in 15 of our bined heat and power (CHP) plants country operations and work councils in that use quad-generation technology. a further seven. Twenty countries have Almost 90% of our supplier spend is a safety committee with joint managewithin our countries of operation, supment and employee representation. porting local jobs and economies. Our We also invest significantly in developindependently audited Supplier Guiding our employees to their full potening Principles programme aims to tial. Across our operations, we gained ensure good workplace practices in employer of choice awards in 16 counsuppliers. tries in 2010. Internationally recognised management system standards ensure that our approach is rigorous and effective. By 2012, we aim to have certified all plants for quality, environment, health and safety, and food safety. 8 Sales Consumers Communities The greatest share of our total carbon We respond to the changing health We invest significantly in our local footprint comes from the 1,508,000 and wellness needs of our consumers communities, supporting environcoolers, vendors and fountains used by offering more reduced-calorie and mental conservation and promoting to chill our beverages for immediate nutritionally enhanced beverages. We sustainable development. In 2010, consumption. have taken a leadership role in placing we invested more than €9.5 million Our new cold drink equipment is up front-of-pack nutritional labels and in community programmes and partto 63% more energy-efficient than in adhere to stringent codes on responnerships, or 1.4% of pre-tax profits. 2004 and most new models are now sible sales and marketing. We now have watershed protection free of hydrofluorocarbons. By retroMore than 99% of production volume projects in 26 countries and covering fitting energy management devices to comes from operations which are ISO all major rivers. More than 1.2 million existing fleet, we are also improving 9001 certified. people participate in our sports and the efficiency of equipment already in We also help consumers to recycle fitness programmes each year. the marketplace. their beverage packages. In 19 counIn addition to raising public awareness Increasingly, we work with customers tries, we have led the establishment of of sustainability challenges, we enon joint sustainability projects, helpsystems which recycled or recovered courage employees, local businesses ing to educate their shoppers about 64% of packaging during 2010. and communities to participate in our recycling or healthy lifestyles. We also initiatives. support small-scale entrepreneurs, helping to set up and grow distribution and retail businesses. 9 Integrating Sustainability Developing our business in a sustainable manner is part of the corporate mission of Coca-Cola Hellenic. We must not only refresh consumers, partner with customers and reward shareholders, but do so while protecting the environment and enriching the lives of our communities. Our Approach • Tackling energy use, reducing direct and indirect carbon emissions Our sustainability agenda has been, and remains, a journey. As a participant in the UN • Reducing the environmental impacts of packaging Global Compact, we have integrated social and • Helping consumers lead healthy lifestyles environmental considerations into the way we • Developing employees to their full potential do business. With our commitment built into our corporate mission and operating framework, we have focused on: • Working with suppliers to address indirect impacts • Establishing governance and management structures • Investing in local communities • Identifying and addressing material issues Through bold and decisive action, we aim to turn business risks into opportunities, stimulating innovation, driving cost ef• Developing robust management systems and standards ficiencies, gaining reputation and competitive advantage. • Monitoring progress and ensuring compliance Now that our approach to sustainability is integrated throughout our business and we have made major progress in all foSystems and Standards cus areas, we are reaching further into our value chain. To guide our sustainability programmes, we have built a robust framework of policies and management systems. These help to translate our commitment to the UN Global Compact into actionAddressing Material Issues able requirements for our business. We focus our efforts on the greatest sustainability challenges The Coca-Cola Hellenic Code of Business Conduct underpins for our business and our communities. These challenges our standards and outline the behaviour required of employhave been identified through risk management processes, ees and directors. Integrity is one of our Company’s core valstakeholder feedback and ecological analyses of operations, ues and we have a zero-tolerance of corruption and aim to products and raw materials. In this report, we discuss the comply with all applicable laws. seven most relevant and significant issues: We have also developed a set of sustainability-related policies • Managing our use of water and helping to protect waand standards which are periodically reviewed and updated. tersheds In addition, we help to develop industry codes and standards. Certifications of Bottling Plants Management Systems (% of plants certified) Our programme to certify all bottling plants to internationally recognised management system standards is nearing completion. These standards include: quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO 14001), health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and food safety (ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000). Since much of our business is in developing and emerging territories, this has been an enormous undertaking. We aim to take a leadership role and achieve full certification of all 77 bottling plants by 2012. ISO 9001 ISO 22000 Governance and Management ISO 14001 FSSC 22000 Our sustainability agenda is driven from the top of the Company. At Board level, the CSR Committee meets quarterly. The OHSAS 18001 Committee approves sustainability strategy and targets and reWe are on track to achieve full certification of all bottling plants by 2012. views actual performance. Both the Board CSR Committee and 10 the Operating Committee (OpCo) are briefed on sustainability Board of Directors Board Committee for CSR developments, as needed, to ensure that they are kept abreast of changing risks and opportunities. CEO At corporate level, the cross-functional CSR Council also Group Management CSR Council meets quarterly. The Council identifies strategic risks and opportunities, sets targets and reviews performance, as well as Country Management Country Managers assessing compliance. Each country operation has a manager who oversees CSR activities, in addition to health, safety and Plant Management Plant HSE Coordinators environmental coordinators at every bottling plant. New specialist networks across our business help to advance specific topics, such as health and safety; water stewardship; and enThe Coca-Cola System ergy efficiency. As part of our global business system, we work closely on Corruption-related risks are the responsibility of our Internal Audit sustainability programmes with The Coca-Cola Company and function, which reports directly to the Audit Committee. All operaother bottlers. In Europe, a joint Corporate Reputation and Sustions are assessed for corruption risks every two to three years, tainability Board meets twice a year to approve shared goals with those in higher-risk countries audited more frequently. and review progress. To promote transparency and comparaStandards and Policies Issue External Standards Internal Policies Overall UN Global Compact Code of Business Conduct GRI Reporting Guidelines Water Stewardship CEO Water Mandate Environmental Policy Water Stewardship Policy Energy and Climate Caring for Climate Climate Change Policy GHG Protocol Environmental Policy Packaging and Recycling UN Global Compact Environment Packaging Waste Policy EU Packaging Waste Directive Consumer Health ICBA Guidelines Health & Wellness Policy EU Pledge & UNESDA commitments to Quality & Food Safety Policy Statement the EU Platform GMO Statement Employee Development UN Global Compact – Human Rights, Labour, Human Rights Policy Anti-Corruption Equality Policy UN Declaration of Universal Human Rights Health & Safety Policy ILO Codes HIV-AIDS Policy Fleet Safety Policy Supplier Engagement UN Global Compact – Environment, Human Supplier Guiding Principles Rights, Labour, Anti-Corruption Code of Business Conduct Community Involvement UN Global Compact – Environment, Human Human Rights Policy Rights, Labour Standards Code of Business Conduct Anti-Corruption, LBG Model Anti-Corruption UN Convention against Corruption Code of Business Conduct Code of Ethics Code for Dealing in Shares Supplier Guiding Principles 11 Integrating Sustainability bility, we have adopted the 2004 baseline used by the global based on their roles. Commercial employees are trained in Coca-Cola System for reporting environmental performance. competition law, for example, while drivers are trained in our Safe and Eco-Driving programme. Making It Happen To bring our sustainability commitments to life, we clearly deEnsuring Compliance fine accountability and rigorously measure and monitor our We regularly review our compliance with laws, regulations and performance. internal standards. Compliance and continuous improvement are integral to our Building Accountability management systems. In addition to regular internal audits, third parties verify these systems on an annual basis. Our Leadership Pipeline includes CSR as one of seven key results areas in which Coca-Cola Hellenic leaders must excel to Our confidential hotline and email system are another important progress through leadership layers. All managers therefore way to assess compliance. Concerns raised through these and have annual performance objectives related to sustainability; other reporting channels are independently investigated, with these help to determine career progression, as well as varifindings reported to the Audit Committee. Violations of the Code able compensation. of Business Conduct lead to disciplinary action, even dismissal. In 2010, Coca-Cola Hellenic received no significant1 fines for Training and Awareness non-compliance with laws and regulations. All Coca-Cola Hellenic employees are trained in the Code of Business Conduct. Our various reporting channels – includA Culture of Sustainability ing a confidential hotline and email system – are widely pubWe also encourage employee involvement and feedback. To licised. We also make employees aware that if they do not root sustainability into corporate culture, we communicate our report a suspected violation, they themselves violate the Code. CSR strategy and progress through our company magazine Our people are also trained in other aspects of sustainability, Journey and our internal TV channel. Training in the Code of Business Conduct A new e-Learning programme is helping to ensure that our Code of Business Conduct is understood. The programme includes a test which every employee must pass in order to become certified. Already available in 11 languages, the programme will be translated into more. During the first year, 73% of email-enabled employees completed the course and achieved certification. This new initiative complements existing training and communications. An annual letter from the Managing Director to every employee reaffirms our zerotolerance approach to corruption. In addition, we send monthly tips by email and ensure that all new recruits receive in-person training. Third consecutive listing in DJSI For the third consecutive year, Coca-Cola Hellenic has achieved listings on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the DJSI Europe Index (STOXX). This makes us one of only four beverage producers worldwide on the 2010 DJSI World Index – one of two in the Europe Index. We are the only Greek-based company in the Index. In the face of fierce competition and ever higher standards, we must work hard to retain our listing. 1. Fines of €1 million or more are deemed significant by financial auditors. 12 Engaging Stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders the people who affect our business or who are affected by it – is fundamental to our business success. Engagement is also integral to our sustainability strategy. We cannot be successful if we do not listen to others or work with them. As we address our indirect impacts, working collaboratively Set up in 2010, the European Water Footprint Sustainability becomes even more important. Since we do not own or conAssessment Sounding Board for Sugar is one such initiative. trol these other entities, we can only achieve progress by This new coalition of European sugar producers, Coca-Cola working together. bottlers, NGOs and academia aims to address indirect water use in agricultural supply chain. Our longest-standing partnership, the Green Danube, Our Approach marked its fifth anniversary in 2010. Under this umbrella, We engage with our stakeholders in a variety of ways, incountry-level partnerships with environment ministries, cluding: NGOs and others conserve watersheds and raise public • Integrating sustainability into core business relationships awareness in eight countries. and day-to-day engagement In addition, we join major partnerships and strategic initia• Forming or joining strategic partnerships to address key tives. We were founding members of the CEO Water Manissues date and Caring for Climate and actively support 14 local networks of the Global Compact. • Mobilising others – raising awareness and encouraging involvement • Seeking expert input on our sustainability strategy and reDialogue and Engagement porting During 2010, we continued to deepen our collaboration with key stakeholders on sustainability issues. More details on the partners and projects below can be found in subsequent chapters. Working in Partnership NGOs and IGOs – Partners such as the WWF, ICPDR, Water Wherever we operate, we aim to establish long-term partFootprint Network and UN agencies provide the technical nerships with NGOs, UN agencies, government agencies and expertise for our sustainability programmes. With strong others. From conserving watersheds to promoting healthy water stewardship programmes in place, we are broadenlifestyles, working in partnership is central to delivering our ing the range of partners and issues we tackle, such as our commitments. growing collaboration with the Red Cross. Groupwide Partnerships UNGC United Nations Global Compact CEO Water Mandate Caring for Climate International Commission for the Protection of ICPDR the Danube River Country Partnerships WWF World Wide Fund for Nature International Federation of Red Cross IFRC and Red Crescent Societies UNDP United Nations Development Programme GWP Global Water Partnership United Nations Educational, Scientific and UNESCO Cultural Organization 13 Engaging Stakeholders Governments – We work in partnership with government During the recession, we continued to support local suppliagencies on water stewardship, packaging recovery and ers. We commission independent audits of working condiactive lifestyle programmes in many countries. In addition, tions in our supply chain. we work with industry associations to inform public policy Customers – As part of our drive to place customers at the on sustainability challenges, sharing our experiences and heart of everything we do, we are increasing collaboration with advancing practical solutions. We aim to be transparent retailers and other customers on sustainability issues. Proabout our positions – calling for urgent action on climate grammes are at an early stage but we have already worked change; promoting integrated water resource management together to raise shopper awareness of active lifestyles, packand championing the producer responsibility principle, for aging reduction and water stewardship in several countries. example. We also support independent businesses and entrepreneurs. Our Code of Business Conduct governs how we interact with Consumers – To date, our greatest interaction has been in politicians and authorities. No political contributions were two main areas: consumer health and recycling. We have remade by Coca-Cola Hellenic in 2010. sponded to demand for more reduced-calorie and nutritionEmployees – Our overall engagement score rose 13 points ally enhanced beverages; undertaken consumer research in our 2010 survey of employees. This was due to concerted and education about our nutritional labels; and developed efforts to build trust and communication following previous responsible marketing practices that respond to concerns of survey findings. As the recession continued, we tried to mainparents and educators. We also urge consumers to recycle tain jobs and minimise redundancies, keeping employees intheir cans and bottles, providing the infrastructure and eduformed of business developments. Volunteerism is a growing cation to help them do so. part of engagement and in 2010, more than 6,000 employees We are expanding such interaction, integrating sustainabiltook part in our community projects. In 2010, Coca-Cola ity into our brands and marketing programmes, such as the Hellenic gained employer of choice awards in 16 countries. award-winning Greek reforestation project of local mineral Suppliers – To address our indirect impacts, we have water brand Avra. stepped up collaboration with suppliers. We have shared the Communities – We continued to invest significantly in comresults of water footprint studies and begun discussions to munity programmes throughout the recession. We also enreduce water use in sugar production. Work also continues gage with communities in other ways, facilitating employee with suppliers to develop low-carbon and resource-efficient and community volunteerism in our programmes and actechnologies, such as our cold drink equipment and quadtively supporting local networks of the Global Compact. Botgeneration CHP units. Our next step is to assess suppliers’ tling plants host visits from stakeholder groups and plant carbon reduction programmes. managers are responsible for engaging with their community on local issues. Investors – Social and environmental performance is integral to our engagement with investors, from roadshow presentations to our Annual Report. In 2010, Coca-Cola Hellenic was voted No.1 in the European beverage sector for investor relations by Institutional Investor magazine. We also engage with ratings agencies, socially responsible investors and analysts and discuss climate risks in our submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project. The Fondation Guilé helps to guide our sustainability strategy and reporting by assessing how well we meet our commitments to the UN Global Compact. Seeking Expert Input In Greece, we involved consumers in our award-winning partnership to restore forests devastated by recent wildfires. Together with the To inform our approach, we periodically seek input from exenvironmental NGO Arcturos and retailers, we gave away samplings perts on specific sustainability topics. Coca-Cola Hellenic is a in return for purchases of our mineral water. More than 22,140 young trees were planted in forests and we have pledged to care for them member of several sustainability working groups, including until they take root. the IMD’s Center for Corporate Sustainability Management. 14 In 2010, we hosted multi-stakeholder meetings in Hungary and Russia on packaging and recycling; while in Greece, a major stakeholder survey helped identify the focus for our new community programme ‘I Care for My Health’. Our Stakeholder Panel At corporate level, we benefit from the insights of our annual Stakeholder Panel. In 2010, we expanded panel membership to include customer and supplier representatives, in addition to NGOs, academia, investors, trade associations and CSR specialists. Furthermore, the Panel now provides a critique of our report which we publish unedited (see Stakeholder Review Statement). The Panel meeting in November 2010 generated constructive In Italy, we are working with retailers to stage an interactive exhibition feedback on our sustainability strategy and reporting. We also on recycling. More than 5,500 people have already visited the exhibit and over 4,000 copies of our children’s book on recycling have been received valuable input on our reporting from the Fondation distributed. Guilé, GRI and CSR Europe. Key points are listed below. Feedback from Our Stakeholder Panel What Stakeholders Said How We Responded Assurance – External assurance of our report would enhance We reinstated external auditing of our sustainability reporting its credibility (see Verification Statement) Compliance – We should describe more fully our approach to We include a separate section on compliance compliance (see Integrating Sustainability) Diversity – We should explain our statistics and of how we are We discuss research and projects underway to improve our diversity-proofing Coca-Cola Hellenic Company’s diversity Anti-corruption – Although our reporting has improved, we We describe anti-corruption activities in the relevant sections could provide more detail of the report Suppliers – This chapter was weaker in past reports. It needs We significantly expanded this chapter and added a section on more information Sustainable Agriculture Global Compact – We should publish the Ten Principles, We include a table showing how we implement and promote showing how we support each each of the Ten Principles in our business, value chain and beyond External commentary – A panel review of report would be Our Stakeholder Panel has reviewed this report and we more valuable than commentaries by individual experts publish their findings unedited GREEN DANUBE PARTNERSHIP www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/commitmentinaction/greendanubepartner/ I CARE FOR MY HEALTH www.en.coca-colahellenic.gr/Towardssustainabilit/MajorCSRPrograms/ICareforMyHealth/ 15 WATER STEWARDSHIP The world’s available freshwater is limited and accounts for less than 1% of water on the planet. Yet there are competing demands on this finite resource: safe water and sanitation; agriculture and industry, as well as maintaining ecosystems. 3rd consecutive year we have reduced our absolute water use ••••• 19% rise in water efficiency since 2004 ••••• Operational water footprint is 48% smaller than 2004 ••••• More than 97% of wastewater treated in 2010 Freshwater demands increase as populations grow and belocal communities. come more urbanised. In addition, poor or fragmented goverIn 2010, we received a special commendation for ‘Outstandnance has led to depletion and pollution of water resources. ing and sustainable contribution to international water stewWith climate change intensifying the problem, communities ardship’ at the Water Innovation Awards. and ecosystems suffer increasingly from water stress. Water scarcity and declining water quality are now recognised as strategic challenges for businesses, too. Understanding Water Risks As a beverage manufacturer producing locally, our business depends on the availability and quality of local freshwater Our Approach sources. Most of our bottling plants are located within river Since 2003, Coca-Cola Hellenic has developed and evolved basins which are water-abundant. Some watersheds face a comprehensive approach to water stewardship. As a bevwater stress, like the Vistula and Dniepr river basins, while erage company, we anticipated the growing water-related others experience seasonal water scarcity, such as the eastrisks to our business and have made significant progress ern Mediterranean and northern Nigeria. in managing them effectively. The ISO 14001 certifications of Since 2007, each of our bottling plants has conducted comour bottling plants (now covering 97% of produced volume) prehensive assessments of local water resources, developare an essential process towards eliminating risks of polluing an in-depth understanding of their inherent risks. tion and fostering continuous improvement. Our most recent assessments of local water risk showed Our water stewardship strategy focuses on: that eight bottling plants are located in areas facing baseline • Ensuring the sustainability of our water extraction water stress. Approximately one-third of the water we use • Reducing water use within operations is from municipal sources; the remaining two-thirds is from our own wells. Seven plants are approaching the technical • Treating 100% of our wastewater or administrative supply limits, so that we are investigating • Working with suppliers and others to reduce our indirect alternative supplies. In most countries of operation, both water use public and private water supplies are strictly regulated. This • Partnering with others to protect local watersheds ensures that local communities are not disadvantaged by industrial water use. Our approach is underpinned by our support of the CEO Water Mandate (assessment available online), as well as our Working with The Coca-Cola Company, we are developing new water stewardship policy. Developed in 2010, this policy source water protection plans (SWPPs) for each bottling plant. recognises that safe drinking water and sanitation are basic First, hydrogeology specialists help each plant complete a human needs. Although provision of water is largely a govSource Vulnerability Assessment. Potential risks to the quality ernment responsibility, we ensure that our water use will and quantity of local water supplies and the overall health of not negatively impact water available for the basic needs of the aquifer are identified. We also assess our water use visWater Availability in Our Watersheds • Location of bottling operations Extreme scarcity < 500 m3/person/year Scarcity 500-1,000 m3/person/year Stress 1,000-1,700 m3/person/year Sufficient 1,700-4,000 m3/person/year Abundant > 4,000 m3/person/year Annual Water Supply Levels. 17 Water Stewardship à-vis the needs of other users, evaluating the plant’s engageturing processes. In 2010, we recycled and reused 1.2 billion ment with local stakeholders on water issues. litres of water. To help plants identify opportunities, we have conducted audits, developed toolkits and shared best pracFollowing this assessment, the plant’s water resource mantice. As a result, technologies such as dry lube, air rinsers agement team develops a plan to address the critical chaland recycle and reclaim loops are being implemented. lenges identified at catchment level, from hydrological vulnerabilities to local government management capacity. By We also pilot new technologies. Using less water in clean2012, all bottling plants will have developed a Source Water ing processes is an area in which we have made particuProtection Plan. lar progress. Switching to cold Cleaning-in-Place during 2010 yielded savings of up to 40% of water and energy while achieving the same or better standards of cleaning. Improving Our Efficiency There are two parts of our business where water use is Coca-Cola Hellenic has improved its water use efficiency by relatively high. In certain countries, we use refillable bot19% since 2004. We now use 2.3 litres of water to produce tles which need to be thoroughly washed before reuse. one litre of beverage. Secondly, our aseptic production lines to produce juices and teas without preservatives also require significantly We have reduced our water use in absolute terms for the more water in their cleaning processes. To reduce this, we third consecutive year. In 2010, Coca-Cola Hellenic’s bottling piloted an innovative system to recover water from rinse operations used 27.3 billion litres of water. sections of aseptic lines. After encouraging results, we will Since we cannot reduce the water content of our beverages, now move to commercial validation under normal producwe focus on reducing and recycling water in our manufaction conditions. As our water-savings programmes mature, further imWater Use Ratio provement will require significant capital investment. We have therefore developed a process to evaluate and priori(litres / lpb) -19% tise projects by investment required and payback in terms vs 2004 2.86 2.61 2.59 of water savings and return on investment. We have also 2.48 2.40 -3% 2.30 vs 2010 established a network of water experts across our business -40% to help guide the next phase of our water-savings strategy. Treating Wastewater In some countries, municipal facilities cannot treat our wastewater to a level that supports aquatic life, the stanThe water ratio (relative water use, normalised for production) in bottling dard required by our business system. In 2003, we thereoperations has considerably decreased due to water-saving activities. fore committed to build on-site wastewater treatment plants wherever municipal facilities were inadequate. Total Water Use This major investment programme is nearing completion. (billion litres) During 2010, we constructed a further three on-site wasteProduction -2% vs 2004 baseline volume water treatment plants, bringing the total to 43 across our 1.3 no increase business. As a result, on average 97% of all wastewater in 3.2 27.3 5.7 29.1 28.9 28 2010 was treated, a figure which rose to 99% by year-end. 25.8 22.2 We believe this to be is an unparallelled achievement in our territories. Nevertheless, we narrowly missed our goal of 100% wastewater treatment by 2010. In FYROM, we did not receive planning permission to construct our final plant in time, but construction began in early 2011 and should be completed later in the year. Coca-Cola Hellenic’s absolute water use in bottling operations has increased less than production volume and has started to decrease. During 2010, 14,380 million litres of wastewater were reMuch of the increase resulted from the acquisition of businesses and the internalisation of their water use. When correcting for this, the total 2010 turned to the natural environment. Total COD discharge was water use is 2% below 2004 levels. 1,044 tonnes, 70% below 2003 levels. 18 Reducing Indirect Water Use Water Footprint from Bottling Operations Coca-Cola Hellenic’s operational water use is significantly (million m3) smaller than that used in its supply chain. Our wider water footprint reveals that our indirect water use is up to 43 times that used in our own operations. This includes water used by 6.9 -48% 9.9 2 vs 2004 baseline 1.1 agriculture to grow sugar. 12.3 13.6 -2% -50% 34.9 15 14.2 vs 2010 vs baseline 13.8 Agriculture is the biggest user of freshwater resources globally, 21.1 15.4 therefore it is unsurprising that agricultural crops represent the 13.3 12.1 9.8 greatest share of our water footprint. We have started to address this as part of broader efforts towards sustainable agriculture. As sugar is the main agricultural commodity we use, this is our Later acquisitions blue and grey water initial focus. In Europe, we are founding members of the EuBlue water ropean Water Footprint Sustainability Assessment Sounding Grey water Board for Sugar. This brings together our business system with Production volume the Water Footprint Network, academia and leading European sugar companies to better understand the water footprint of the In absolute terms, the total water footprint of our bottling operations has decreased by 48% since 2004, although production volume has risen 58%. As sugar we use. We are also working on a methodology to evaluthe methodology was strengthened, we recalculated our baseline to a tougher ate the sustainability of this water footprint in its local context. standard, which results in a higher baseline than published previously. At a global level, The Coca-Cola Company actively particiWider Water Footprint of Our Supply Chain pates in the Better Sugarcane Initiative and the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) on behalf of our business system (million m3) Bottling operations (see Supplier Engagement). Packaging water footprint water footprint (23 million m3) (196 million m3) Our Water Footprint Coca-Cola Hellenic’s corporate water footprint represents the freshwater consumed directly and indirectly by our business. In 2010, this footprint was calculated to be 1,011 billion litres. Most of this (97.7%) is due to our supply chain, agriculture in particular, with water use by our own operations accounting Sugar for only 2.3%. water footprint (792 million m3) This footprint includes the three different types of freshwater Blue water footprint used by our business: Green water footprint Grey water footprint • Blue water is freshwater extracted and not returned to the watershed the water in our products, as well as ground Our own operations account for only 2.3% of our wider water footprint. or surface water used to irrigate sugar and other crops in South European countries. Community Partnerships • Green water is rain water used to grow crops, especially sugar beet, in our supply chain. In temperate climates, sugar Beyond our value chain, Coca-Cola Hellenic actively supbeet crops use no more water than natural vegetation such ports community water programmes in almost every as grassland, so their net green water footprint is near zero. country of operation. Since 2005, we have worked to build long-term partnerships with NGOs, government and UN • Grey water is an indicator of water pollution. Our grey water agencies in 26 of our 28 territories. Together, we develop footprint has sharply declined as our programme to conprogrammes that benefit local ecosystems and commustruct wastewater treatment facilities nears completion. Fernities: conserving local watersheds; improving access to tilisers and untreated wastewater in our agricultural supply clean water and sanitation; and raising local awareness chain account for the remainder of our grey water footprint. and involvement. We also support initiatives that promote Water footprints have also been calculated for core products an integrated approach to water resource management and of The Coca-Cola Company. better water governance. 19 Water Stewardship Watershed Protection groundwater levels to rise by a metre. As a result of this Rivers are a particular focus for our conservation efforts. and the cessation of forest fires, CO2 emissions from the These vital waterways face threats ranging from excessive Bog have fallen and native birds and vegetation have bewater extraction and over-fishing to agricultural run-off, ingun to return. frastructure and dams. All major river basins in our territories are now covered Education and Awareness by Coca-Cola Hellenic watershed protection projects. The We also build public awareness and understanding of local most longstanding is our Green Danube partnership with the water issues. High-profile annual festivals that celebrate indigICPDR which in 2010 saw activities in eight countries. The enous rivers are a particularly successful way to demonstrate River Danube is the main source of water for millions but the importance of rivers to local ecological, economic and sois among the world’s most endangered rivers, according to cial well-being. These events represent the annual culmination WWF. Since 2005, our partnership has helped restore wetof conservation, education and awareness-raising activities. lands, providing critical habitat for flora and fauna, and supThe largest river festival in the world, Danube Day is now porting better river basin management as well as extensive celebrated in eight countries across the Danube Basin. public awareness campaigns. From NGOs to local authorities, more than 480 organisations Such water basins also offer important opportunities for inhelped us run 140 events in 2010. These included scientific ternational collaboration. Our project to reduce plastic polseminars, roundtables and eco-camps, to community cleanlution in the Tisza River, an important Danube tributary, has ups and traditional cultural entertainment. involved collaborative activities between Ukraine, Slovakia, Inspired by the success of Danube Day, we have launched Hungary and Romania. programmes to celebrate other rivers, including the Volga, Other conservation programmes include: Dnieper, Sava, Tisza and Vistula. We continue to expand the • Russia – Since 2006, our Living Volga programme partnerreach of these festivals. In Serbia alone, we extended celship with UNESCO set up annual Volga Day celebrations and ebrations of Danube Day to 20 towns and cities in 2010. riverbank clean-ups in nine major cities, Volga art and ecoWe also encourage communities to become actively incontests, environmental education for schoolchildren, as volved in conservation. As a starting point, we engage volwell as seminars on wetland biodiversity and eco-tourism. unteers from our workforce and communities in cleaning • Poland – Now in the fourth year of our project with WWF, up local watersheds. Ideally, we aim for programmes to be we have helped to restock the Vistula River with 1,400,000 community-owned. salmon fry. The fish had been almost eliminated from the In Poland and the Ukraine, we give grants to community river due to pollution, overfishing and dam construction. projects to rehabilitate springs and engage local commu• Belarus – Our partnership with local NGO partner Birdlife nities. To date, 15 natural springs have been rehabilitated. Belarus has been restoring Yelnya Bog since 2007. BlockSimilarly, our Kropla Beskidu fund in Poland gives grants to ing the canals that artificially drain the Bog has allowed projects that protect the local watershed. Across the island of Ireland, more than 100 groups of volunteers care for rural beaches as part of the Clean Coasts initiative we support. Our Green Coast Awards recognise their achievements while our Clean Coast Week raises public awareness. Schools Education Teaching young people about water sustainability is an important component of awareness-raising. In a growing number of countries, we work with government and NGO partners to develop educational resources. •O ur award-winning Danube Box tool-kit has now reached more than one million schoolchildren in eight countries. It In Belarus, we are helping to restore the endangered Yelnya Bog. As a result, groundwater levels have risen by one metre and forest fires was introduced to schools in Bulgaria and the Czech Rehave ceased. public in 2010. 20 •A  Volga Box has been launched in Russia, where more than 2,000 schoolchildren and students also take part in our annual Green Team clean-up activities. • In Nigeria, our new Water Ambassadors programme engages schoolchildren and communities. On World Water Day, children from 60 schools visited our plants and our wastewater treatment facilities to learn about protecting water quality, the theme for 2010. • In Italy, our children’s book, ‘The Mystery of the Disappearing Water’, has been used by more than 3,500 schools. The book has been turned into an award-winning film and a stage play which is touring 30 Italian cities. In addition, the All 13 Nigerian plants now have on-site wastewater treatment units. On book has been translated and launched in Russia. World Water Day 2010, children from 60 schools visited our plants to learn about protecting water quality. As part of our Water Ambassadors programme, the pupils saw our treatment facilities, met local water officials and received water treatment products for use at home. Water and Sanitation Safe water and sanitation is essential to human health and Water Health Centres, a network of community-owned wadevelopment, yet one-third of the world’s population still lacks ter purification micro utilities. access. The problem is most acute in sub-saharan Africa. We also support initiatives to improve the quality and availIn Nigeria, our plants provide access to potable water, boreability of water supplies and sanitation in a number of other holes and tanks. In 2011, we will take this support to a new developing and emerging markets. level, working with Coca-Cola Nigeria and WaterHealth InIn established markets, too, we help address the growing ternational to deliver affordable, quality drinking water to rural and disadvantaged communities nationwide. The proproblem of water scarcity. In Greece, our rainwater harvestgramme is part of the broader Replenish Africa Initiative ing programme with Global Water Partnership-Mediterranean (RAIN), a $30 million commitment by The Coca-Cola Company has established 18 systems in schools and public buildings on and others to provide more than two million people in Africa eight islands. These systems will yield an estimated 650,000 with access to clean water by 2015. In Nigeria, our local oplitres annually – enough to meet the freshwater needs of erations and Coca-Cola Nigeria have committed $1 million more than 5,500 people. The Mission Water project won a Eufor projects in 2011 and we are studying the placement of ropean Excellence Award in 2010. Our partnership with Global Water Partnership-Mediterranean has set The rainwater collected by the Mission Water programme in Greece up 18 rainwater harvesting systems in public buildings on eight Greek will yield an estimated 650,000 litres annually enough to meet the islands. freshwater needs of more than 5,500 people. ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIPS www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/commitmentinaction/envpartnerships/ CLEAN COASTS www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/commitmentinaction/envpartnerships/ RAINWATER HARVESTING PROGRAMME www.en.coca-colahellenic.gr/Towardssustainabilit/MajorCSRPrograms/MissionWater/ 21 Water Stewardship Projects in 2010 Northern Ireland and The Republic of Ireland Coca-Cola Clean Coast Programme and Green Coast Awards Czech Republic • Danube Box • Emergency potable water during 2010 floods Austria Switzerland • Green Danube partnership • Danube Challenge Valser Water World • Danube Box D Slovenia • You are my River • Green Danube partnership Italy • The Mystery of • the Disappearing Water • (book and touring stage play) • Otter House Nigeria • Water Ambassadors • Replenish Africa Initiative (RAIN) • Boreholes Russia • Living Volga • Volga Day • Baikal Clean Shores • Green Teams • Emergency potable water during 2010 wildfires Volga Estonia Let’s do it! Beach clean-up Latvia Juglas lake-side clean-up Lithuania Let’s do it! Clean-up of Nemunas river banks Belarus • Let’s Save Yelnya Bog • Meadow of Turov clean-up Poland • Vistula Rivers for life • Vistula Day Yelnya • Kropla Beskidu Fund and Partnership Bog • Emergency potable water during 2010 floods Ukraine • Green Danube partnership Vistula • Danube Day • Tisza River project Central and Eastern Europe • Green Teams Emergency potable water provided • Emergency potable water during 2010 floods in 7 countries following 2010 floods Slovakia • Green Danube partnership • World Water Day • Emergency potable water during 2010 floods Dniepr Romania • Green Danube partnership Hungary • Adopt a River programme • Liberty Island conservation • Water for Vatra Dornei residents • Danube Day • Clean-ups in Vatra Dornei Croatia • Danube Box • Water Education Centre • Our Beautiful Sava • Emergency potable water anube • Emergency potable water during 2010 floods Armenia • Danube Day during 2010 floods • Green Danube partnership • Every Drop Matters • Emergency potable water • Clean-ups in Dilijan during 2010 floods Danube Green Danube Partnership Danube Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Sava Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Slovenia and Czech Republic Bosnia • River bank clean-ups Bulgaria • Emergency potable water • Green Danube partnership during 2010 floods • My Green City • River Petrovksa clean-up • Water supplies in Kostinbrod Serbia • Green Danube partnership • Danube Day • Danube Box • Emergency potable water during 2010 floods Greece • Mission Water rainwater harvesting • Lake Kerkini clean-up ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE CO2 emissions have already started to disrupt the climate. As this continues, hotter and drier summers are expected to dry up rivers and jeopardise harvests, leading to increased food prices and economic hardship. Milder and wetter winters will erode soil and cause floods, threatening farming communities and cities. Everybody will be affected by climate change – but the poorest people and countries will suffer the most. Constructing up to 20 CHP units, the largest energy initiative in our industry ••••• Leading the industry in HFC-free refrigeration ••••• Launched solar energy project at 5 Italian plants ••••• Improved plant energy efficiency by 23% since 2004 Our Carbon Footprint • Our direct emissions are largely due to manufacturing and fleet. In 2010, direct emissions were calculated to be 849,719 tonnes of CO2 a 0.6% increase compared to 2009, due to an increase in production sales volume. • Our indirect emissions mostly result from our cold drink equipment and our packaging. These indirect emissions amounted to 5,13 million tonnes of CO2 in 2010. This is 0.6% higher than 2009, again due to higher production volume. If we are to avoid catastrophic climate change, the earth’s temperature should not increase by more than 2°C. Urgent and extensive action is required by all sectors to achieve this. In 2010, Coca-Cola Hellenic signed the Cancun Communiqué which calls on world leaders to redouble their efforts to achieve a climate deal and pursue an ambitious mitigation strategy. The private sector has a vital role to play. Through innovation and long-term investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies, business must turn the climate challenge into market opportunities. We reaffirm our commitment to transforming Coca-Cola Hellenic into a low-carbon business. Carbon management is a strategic priority for the Company and we are already seeing business benefits resulting from ongoing investments in energy efficiency and low carbon technologies. On-site Combined Heat and Power (CHP) units are now operational at four bottling plants; a further five are due to become operational in 2011. Understanding Our Climate Risks We aim to reduce total emissions while growing our business. Climate change presents significant risks to our business – As a founding signatory of the UN Global Compact Caring for from rising energy costs to threats to our agricultural supClimate platform, we publish a self-assessment of our perforply chain and availability of water. Through innovation and mance against these requirements on our website. leadership, we aim to convert these risks into opportunities: In the past few years, we have come close to stabilising cost-savings, reputation benefit and competitive advantage direct emissions, decoupling energy use from organic to name but a few (see table next page). Our report to the Carbon Disclosure Project discusses these risks and opporgrowth. Nevertheless, we must still compensate for emistunities in detail. sions associated with business acquisitions. By 2020, our goal is to reduce emissions by 25% compared to 2004. We also lead the European food and drink industry in deOur Approach veloping and deploying low-carbon technologies. Coca-Cola As we transform Coca-Cola Hellenic into a low-carbon busiHellenic was the only non-alcoholic beverage company inness, we have committed to take a leadership role. Since vited to showcase its CO2 reduction programme at CSR Eumuch of our business is in developing and emerging marrope’s Enterprise 2020 MarketPlace. Our innovative quadkets, we have a responsibility to promote the need for urgent generation CHP programme has also been designated an climate action. ‘Official Partner’ of the EC Sustainable Energy Europe camWe are tackling climate change in the following ways: paign. • Improving our energy efficiency • Switching to cleaner energy sources Reducing Direct Emissions • Working with others to reduce indirect emissions To reduce direct emissions, we are driving energy efficien• Developing and promoting low-carbon technologies cy throughout our business: in manufacturing processes, • Supporting climate adaptation equipment, buildings and fleet. 25 Energy and Climate Change to Our Business Risks and Opportunities in Our Business Risk Opportunity Regulatory • We are not currently exposed because our • Our investments in on-site CHP units and energy operations are not considered to be major efficiency may yield increased returns as energy sources of emissions. prices rise. • Future regulation may affect packaging, product • Our new cold drink equipment prepares us for delivery and distribution. possible limitations on equipment or coolants. Physical • Production capabilities, supply chain, consumer • Water stewardship programmes protect our demand could be affected. physical and social licence to operate • Water scarcity could limit availability for our operations. Economic • Price and availability of key crops (e.g. sugar • Our new cold drink equipment is a competitive beet) could be affected advantage with customers tackling their own • Poor/inclement weather conditions could reduce footprint. demand for our beverages • Warmer weather could lead to greater demand for our beverages. Other • Lack of leadership in combatting climate change • Helping customers and consumers reduce their could harm our reputation. own footprint and promoting our efforts could deliver reputation benefits. Quad-Generation Power Energy Ratio The cornerstone of our carbon reduction strategy is our (MJ / lpb) -23% commitment to build multiple combined heat and power 0.73 vs 2004 0.66 (CHP) units across our business. Representing an invest0.60 0.59 0.57 0.57 -3% -40% ment of €200 million, this is the largest energy-efficiency vs 2004 initiative in the industry. On completion, this programme will cut direct CO2 emissions by more than 250,000 tonnes annually. By installing a CHP unit, each bottling plant improves its carbon emissions by 40%. By using pioneering quad-generation technology to reOur bottling plants are now 23% more energy-efficient due to energycover food-grade CO2, plants can reduce emissions by up to savings programmes. a further 40% (see Supplier Engagement). Total Energy Use To date, CHP units are operational in Hungary, Romania, Northern Ireland and Italy. A further five are near completion (billion MJ) in Nigeria, Poland and Ukraine which are expected to beProduction volume +4% come operational in 2011. Given the scale of the programme vs 2004 baseline 0.3 7 6.6 6.7 and the technology involved, legal hurdles and administra0.7 0.2 6.3 6.8 -25% tive delays have been considerable. Nevertheless, we re5.9 vs 2004 main fully committed to this project. Improving Energy Efficiency We are systematically identifying and capturing opportuniThe total energy use in our bottling plants has stabilised in the past three ties to save or reuse energy in our plants. Following detailed years, following a significant increase due to business acquisitions. When correcting for acquisitions, the total 2010 energy use is only 4% above the audits of energy use, we completed 233 energy-saving proj2004 baseline. ects across 63 plants during 2010. 26 Initiatives range from technologies, such as CO2 evaporation, CO2 Emissions from Operations (Bottling and Distribution) to ensuring that basics are in place, such as insulating pipes, preventing leaks and reducing boiler temperature. Lighting Total: 849,719 tonnes and heat recovery projects were a particular focus in 2010. We have also launched a new energy-saving software to help plants identify and prioritise further improvement opportunities, calculating the potential investment, energy savings and payback period for projects. Energy efficiency is incorporated into building design, too. Our new automated warehouses in Ireland, Italy and Romania are more efficient than traditional warehouses. These high-bay vertical warehouses occupy less space, require Electricity 38% Heating fuels 10% less light, heat and energy and reduce road transportation Natural gas & LPG 17 % Petrol 9% between production and warehousing. Diesel 17% Carbonation 9% Fleet and Transportation CO2 Emissions Ratio from Operations Fleet sustainability initiatives yielded savings of 954 tonnes of (g CO2 / lpb) 98.7 -27% CO2 emissions in 2010 more than 15,300 tonnes since the vs 2004 programme began in 2007. Our progress was recognised with 79.5 75.3 75.2 -3% 72.4 71.6 vs 2010 an unprecedented three awards from Fleet Europe for fleet -40% vs 2004 safety, environmental performance and fleet management. We have set a maximum fuel consumption for each vehicle, deployed route management systems, trained drivers in Safe and Eco-Driving techniques, and monitored performance monthly. We undertake trials with alternative fuels and vehicles, but to The CO2 emissions ratio from our operations (bottling and transportation) is date, these have not provided a solution for our purposes and now 27% below 2004 levels. we therefore focus on small, clean diesel cars. We aim to purchase the smallest possible engines and vehicles, and almost Direct CO2 Emissions all purchases in 2010 complied with this requirement. (tonnes CO2) We work to reduce our overall transportation footprint, too. Air Production +7% volume vs 2004 baseline freight is not used for raw materials or finished products and we continue to explore switching from road to rail where fea850 -2% vs PY -20% sible. Approximately 90% of raw materials are sourced locally1. 847 895 845 vs 2004 740 785 baseline Green IT Since 2007, our Green IT strategy has worked to change both infrastructure and mindsets and has avoided 10,368 tonnes of CO2 emissions. Total direct carbon emissions (bottling and fleet) has decreased for the third To reduce business travel, we promote audio, video and webex year in a row, following an increase due to business acquisitions. When accounting for these acquisitions, 2010 CO2 emissions are above 7% higher conferencing. Air travel is discouraged and an internal carbon than 2004 levels. tax on corporate flights is used to off-set resulting emissions. Consequently, we avoided at least 600 tonnes of CO2 in 2010 2. ment, our purchasing specifications require that we deploy the Other initiatives include our state-of-the-art energy-efficient most energy-efficient devices. These infrastructure projects data centre and server consolidation. As we retire IT equipare now largely complete. 1. Within our countries of operation or the European Union. 2. Our conservative estimates include only 20% of all conferences and are calculated on the basis of only two people per meeting. 27 Energy and Climate Change We now own the largest range of HFC-free coolers in the marketplace are on track to meet our goal that by 2015 all new equipment will be HFC-free. In addition, intelligent energy management devices and other energy-savings measures have made our new equipment up to 63% more energy-efficient than 2004 models. During 2010, we purchased 23,400 of those new coolers, which will reduce CO2 emissions by an annual 27,000 tonnes. We have also started to retro-fit existing equipment with energy management devices, improving its energy efficiency by up to one third. In 2010, we installed 12,500 devices which will cut CO2 emissions by 4,300 tonnes for each remaining Her Majesty The Queen visited the new and highly energy-efficient bottling year of their 10-year life-span. plant at Knockmore Hill, Northern Ireland. The on-site CHP unit – the fourth across our business – cuts plant CO2 emissions by up to 66% while supplying excess electricity to the local grid. The plant won the Sustainable Ireland 2010 Energy Efficiency Award. Packaging Our comprehensive packaging and recycling strategy elimiSwitching Energy Sources nated an estimated 16,900 tonnes of embedded carbon in 2010 (see Packaging and Recycling & Supplier Engagement). In 2011, Diminishing reserves of fossil fuels mean that we must seek we will start assessing the carbon reduction programmes of renewable energy sources. To increase the proportion of repackaging suppliers as part of our new supplier scorecard. newables in our energy mix, we introduced our first solar project in 2010. In Italy, five plants now have photovoltaic rooftop panels with a total capacity of 5.2 megawatts. We plan to exPromoting Climate Action tend this project to other Southern European countries in 2011. Climate action in developing and emerging markets is parOur CHP units use natural gas which, although cleaner than ticularly important. Given our geographic spread, we have coal or oil, is still a fossil fuel. We have explored switching to a particular responsibility to promote climate mitigation and biogas, but have not yet found reliable sources of sufficient adaptation in our territories. We therefore champion rapid quantity in our territories. and extensive action by governments, businesses and others. Renewable energy accounted for 17.6% of electricity use or At international level, we were a founding signatory of Car6.3% of total energy consumed in 2010. ing for Climate and participate in other industry platforms. During the Cancun Climate Summit in 2010, we signed the two resolutions on climate action by the Consumer Goods Reducing Indirect Emissions Forum. These major initiatives pledge to mobilise our collecMore than two-thirds of our wider carbon footprint stems tive resources to work towards ending deforestation and to from the cold drink equipment and beverage packaging. phase out use of refrigerant gases with high global warmConsequently, this is where we concentrate efforts to reduce indirect emissions. We also continue to enhance our understanding of indirect emissions. In 2010, the emissions associated with sugar use and sweeteners were calculated to be 391,000 tonnes of CO2 or 8% of total emissions. Cold Drink Equipment Our carbon reduction programme for coolers and other cold drink equipment focuses on three areas: supporting the development of new coolers that do not use hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); improving the energy efficiency of new equipment; and improving energy efficiency of existing equipment. These initiatives avoided 46,843 tonnes of CO2 in 2010 (see We have produced communications materials to promote the lowSupplier Engagement). carbon technologies that we have developed. 28 ing potential. We showcased our HFC-free refrigeration to the Shaping Behaviours Consumer Goods Forum and at a leading European sustainWe involve consumers and communities in reducing the carability conference with business, government and academic bon footprint of their beverage by encouraging them to redelegates from across Europe. cycle the container. By playing their part in closing the recycling loop, consumers can reduce the associated emissions by up to 8%. We therefore support recycling awareness and Low-Carbon Technologies education campaigns, as well as anti-littering and clean-up We not only invest in low-carbon technologies but actively initiatives (see Packaging and Recycling). promote these solutions, too. We mark the opening of each CHP unit with a climate-themed event for local stakeholders, demonstrating the technology and emphasising the need for Supporting Adaptation action. In addition to pursuing a vigorous climate mitigation stratAt the commissioning of the Nogara unit in Italy in 2010, egy, we must prepare our business for the reality of climate more than 500 suppliers, customers, officials, NGOs and emchange. We must also help our communities do the same. ployees took part in events that included a roundtable with The availability and quality of fresh water will be the main way business leaders and environmental agencies. In Northern in which climate change affects us all. Our comprehensive Ireland, the inauguration of our Knockmore Hill CHP unit by water stewardship strategy is therefore the most important HM the Queen generated international media coverage of way that we address these growing risks to our business, our our quad-generation technology. communities and ecosystems (see Water Stewardship). CO2 Emissions Saving Programmes Start of CO2 reduced in CO2 reduced in Sum of CO2 reductions programme 2010 vs 2009 2010 vs baseline cumulated each year since Programme start of programme (baseline) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Energy savings activities in plants 2004 15,168 332,034 1,478,275 Combined Heat and Power 2006 7,000 25,000 89,000 Packaging reduction 2004 16,918 115,461 541,422 Corporate flights offsetting 2006 2,105 2,105 10,242 Eco-Driving 2007 7,000 7,554 15,354 Greener coolers 2008 46,843 62,746 78,650 Green IT 2007 600 3,940 10,368 Total 89,587 548,839 2,223,311 New Solar Programme Starts in Italy During 2010, we installed 150,000 m2 of solar panels on the rooftops of five Italian plants, with a capacity of 5.2 megawatts (or 5.88 million kilowatt hours). In our Nogara plant, this initiative, our new CHP unit and other energy-efficiency initiatives, have already cut the plant’s CO2 emissions by 66%. CLIMATE CHANGE POLICY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ CHP PLANTS www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/flagshipprogrammes/Reductionofcarbonemi/ CARING FOR CLIMATE www.unglobalcompact.org/Issues/Environment/Climate_Change/ 29 PACKAGING AND RECYCLING Packaging plays a vital role in maintaining product quality and safety as beverages travel from production line to end-consumers. As a result, packaging contributes to overall sustainability, preventing breakage and spoilage. Nevertheless, the cans and bottles themselves account for significant environmental impacts which we work to reduce at every stage of their lifecycle, from manufacture to recycling and disposal. Avoided 51,000 tonnes PET since 2005 through lightweighting ••••• 64% of packaging waste recovered and recycled in 19 countries ••••• Doubled the capacity of the Austrian PET to PET plant ••••• Recycled or recovered 85% of production waste Our Approach Packaging Material Use Ratio We reduce the environmental footprint of our packaging by: (g per lpb) • Reducing materials and energy used in the manufacture of +7% vs 2004 packaging 69 65 68 61 62 62 • Using recycled or renewable content to replace non-renewable material • Championing the recovery and recycling of packages: working with others to strengthen the infrastructure and consumer participation In addition to reducing use of non-renewable materials, these The amount of packaging material used to manufacture our products, per litre of strategies help to drive down the carbon footprint of our packproduced beverage, has remained broadly stable. In 2010 it was 7% above 2004. ages. Our ultimate goal is to close the recycling loop, converting used packages into new. We have committed to invest in bottleto-bottle recycling plants wherever environmentally and economweigh only on average 18 grammes, 36% less than in 2005; ically sustainable. We have done so in Austria, where we co-own while our 500ml bottles for carbonated beverages are 26% a plant which recycles up to 570 million PET bottles each year. lighter (see below). As a result of these efforts, we avoided the use of more than 4,500 tonnes of PET in 2010. Since 2004 our continuous lightweighting efforts have resulted in PET Reducing Packaging bottles that are now on average 16% lighter. Source reduction is the most significant way to diminish the • Short-height plastic closures: We continue to roll out shorter impact of packaging. By reducing the material content of our bottle closures across our business. Not only do these clopackages, we reduce carbon emissions in manufacturing, as sures use less material, but they also allow bottle necks to well as subsequent transportation and recycling. be shorter and lighter, further reducing material use. By using Our goal is that by 2012 we will reduce packaging used per litre these closures, we avoided 527 tonnes of material in 2010. of beverage by 25% compared to 2004. In 2010, this packaging •L  ight-weight glass bottles: In 2010 we introduced 55 million ratio was 7% higher than in 2004 and we used 771,000 tonnes of light-weight glass bottles using up to one third less material. material, up 6.5% over the previous year. Much of this increase •C  ans and cartons: Although these represent only 16% of our was due to replacement of wooden pallets used to transport primary packaging mix, we continue to work with suppliers cases of beverage, which must be periodically replaced. on sustainability projects that include lightweighting. For more than a decade, we have focused on lightweighting •S  econdary packaging: We minimise our use of cardboard, and all key packages now use considerably less material. shrink film and other materials to deliver products to busi• Lighter PET bottles: During 2010, we established new benchness customers. Such projects benefit customers, too, reducmarks for PET bottles. Our 500ml bottles for waters now ing their packaging waste and labour costs. Lightweighting of Packages PET 500ml Glass 330ml PET 500ml (sparkling) (still) 2005 Weight Weight Average weight 28 g. 263 g. 28 g. 2010 Weight Weight Average weight 20.7 g. 210 g. 18 g.1 We have significantly reduced the material used to produce each of our main packages. 1. Lowest achieved: 12.2 grammes. 31 Packaging and Recycling As we seek opportunities to remove material from our packrecycling plant we co-own in Austria. With access to more reages, we work within constraints. If a package is not strong processed PET, we aim to produce bottles with higher recycled enough to withstand transportation and storage, this will lead to content. product waste, which typically accounts for considerably higher CO2 emissions than packaging alone. Consumer appeal is another important consideration since the look, feel and convePlantBottle nience of packaging plays a significant role in brand preference In 2011, Coca-Cola Hellenic will launch PlantBottle, the and purchasing decisions. award-winning PET bottle developed by The Coca-Cola Company. Up to 30% of the PET in this package is derived from renewable plant-based material. The bottle Recycled and Renewable Content has a lower carbon footprint than traditional PET yet Using recycled or renewable content is another way we lessen maintains the same performance standards and is fully recyclathe impact of our packaging. These materials replace non-reble. Coca-Cola Hellenic will trial PlantBottle in Switzerland. newable materials, and their production uses much less energy – 85% and 95% less for recycled PET and aluminium respectively. While we focus on increasing the recycled content of our Promoting Recycling packages, The Coca-Cola Company has developed packaging For our packages to be recycled or recovered, we work with inmade with renewable raw materials, such as the PlantBottle. dustry and government to achieve two important pre-conditions. Firstly, we set up schemes to collect, recycle or recover packaging. Secondly, we encourage consumers to play their part in Recycled PET closing the recycling loop; otherwise empty cans and packages Aluminium cans and glass bottles contain up to 60% recycled end up as landfill or litter, not valuable feedstock for recycling. content. By contrast, the maximum recycled content in our PET bottles was 30% in 2010. We increased the recycled PET we used in 2010 to approximately 6,500 tonnes. Nevertheless, this Recovery Organisations still represents a small proportion of total PET usage and we In 19 countries, Coca-Cola Hellenic has led the establishment of aim to increase this. The greatest obstacle is lack of a stable organisations to collect, recycle and recover packaging. In turn, supply of recycled PET feedstock. Around half of PET bottles these bodies work with 29,000 municipalities to provide 135 milare recycled, of which approximately two-thirds2 are diverted lion people with access to collection systems. In 2010, 64% of into the PET fibres and sheet industry which does not demand our packaging was recycled or recovered in these countries. food-grade quality standards. We must therefore enhance the The challenge is to bring all territories up to speed, as there are efficiency of PET collection (see below) and increase our share still countries where collection and recycling are limited or nonof the recycled material produced. In 2010, we supported the existent. We promote producer responsibility schemes since introduction of another production line at the bottle-to-bottle they facilitate both environmental and economic progress. During 2010, two new recovery organisations came into being. In the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), Pakomak was officially approved, starting operations in 2011. In Serbia, Sekopak completed its first year of operations. Residential collection systems have been set up in 21 municipalities and campaigns to teach residents how to separate waste. First-year results exceeded targets with almost nine tonnes of packaging recovered. Since some municipalities previously had no residential waste collection, this result is particularly encouraging. Other progress during 2010 included: • In Romania, we extended collection systems to include rural At the Pet-to-Pet Recycling plant in Muellendorf, Austria, a new processing households. Again, this marked the first collection of waste line has been installed. The state-of-the-art recycling plant has been of any kind. In 2010, 38,000 tonnes of PET were collected for producing PET flakes from recycled PET bottles for many years and now using the latest technologies to turn used PET bottles into granulate. recycling. 2. PETcore.org 32 • In Russia, the new packaging and environment coalition RusLandfilled Waste Ratio PEC, chaired by Coca-Cola Hellenic, held its first multi-stakeholder conference. By bringing together government agen(g/lpb) 5.0 cies, authorities, suppliers, manufacturers and recyclers, we developed comprehensive proposals for PET collection and -71% recycling for submission to the Russian Parliament. 3.0 3.0 2.8 vs 2004 1.9 • In Hungary, we held a multi-stakeholder forum on PET pack1.5 -5% vs 2010 aging waste. This led to new projects, including a lifecycle -90% vs baseline analysis with the Ministry of Environment, on-pack labelling of recycled content and other consumer messaging. Where recovery systems are in place, we remain actively inThe amount of waste from plants that is sent to landfill, relative to the volume volved and retain an ownership stake in 18 organisations. Durproduced, is now 71% below 2004 levels. This results from reducing total waste and increasing recycling rates. ing 2010, we began a new initiative to review and improve their performance. We paid almost €42 million in recovery fees in Total Landfilled Waste 2010. (million kg) We continue to work with government and industry to proProduction mote market mechanisms, technological and sorting innovavolume tions and creation of equitable closed loop packaging solu4.5 tions. At an international level, we support efforts by industry 37.2 -58% 34.3 vs 2004 baseline 33.7 associations to work towards a global standard of producer 29.7 17.6 -80% responsibility. 21.6 vs 2004 baseline Mobilising Consumers Since consumer participation is vital to the success of recycling Total waste from bottling plants that is sent to landfill is now 58% below 2004. initiatives, we support education and awareness campaigns. We also mobilise communities to support clean-up operations tournaments and music festivals to product sampling. In 2010, and anti-littering campaigns. we collected 141 tonnes of packaging at events. To stem the growing problem of plastic pollution in the Upper Tisza river basin, we support new projects in Romania and In-Plant Recycling Ukraine. Lack of waste collection led residents to dump rubbish in rivers, floodplains or landfills. In addition to pioneering rural Our goal is that all plants will recover or recycle at least 90% collection, we conducted education and awareness campaigns of production waste by 2015. We are on track to achieve this and clean-up operations. with 39 plants recycling 90% of waste and a further 14 plants Even where recycling infrastructure is established, consumers achieving rates of 80%. As a result, we diverted 103,000 often lack access when away from home. We therefore include tonnes of waste from landfill, an absolute reduction of 58% collection schemes at all events that we support, from sports since 2004. Tackling plastic waste pollution in Ukraine In the rural community of Drotyntsi, plastic waste had blocked a cross-section of the river and led to flooding. Our Green Danube partnership worked with local authorities to address the source of the problem by installing residential waste collection and setting up a collection centre where plastic waste is compressed and baled, ready for recycling. In addition to tackling a local environmental issue, the project has also created jobs in the collection system. A local awareness campaign is now underway. We also organised clean-up activities along the river. PACKAGING AND PACKAGING WASTE POLICY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ PET-TO-PET RECYCLING PLANT www.en.coca-colahellenic.at/Tow-sustainability/Environment/Packaging-Recycling/PET-to-PET/ 33 CONSUMER HEALTH Our business success depends on meeting changing consumer demands. As a result, we now offer more lower-calorie options, natural ingredients and added health or wellness benefits. Consumers also want more nutritional information about their food and drink. As the recession continues, affordability is particularly important. 26% of sales volume is low-calorie ••••• Front-of-pack calorie information on all sparkling beverages labels in EU ••••• 1.2 million people actively took part in our fitness programmes in 2010 Changing demands and expectations are due in part to the Growth of Still Beverages and Water increasing prevalence of obesity. Already a major public health issue in developed countries, overweight and obesity (sales volume) are on the rise in developing and emerging countries, too. 2001 By 2015, the World Health Organisation predicts that there will be 2.3 billion adults overweight more than 700 million of them obese. Our Approach Sparkling beverages 90% We respond to the changing needs of our consumers in the Waters 6% following ways: Other still beverages 4% • Expanding our product range especially reduced-calorie, nutritionally enhanced or all-natural beverages 2010 • Providing highly visible nutritional information on labels • Ensuring that our sales and marketing is conducted responsibly • Working with others to promote physical activity and healthy lifestyles • Reformulating products The complexity of the obesity challenge requires the involvement of all stakeholders, from governments, NGOs and Coca-Cola 36% Waters 21% business to schools, families and individuals. Our challenge Coca-Cola low-calorie 6% Juice drinks 9% is to enable consumers to enjoy our beverages while helpFanta 10% Sport and energy 1% ing them maintain a healthy weight and lead an active lifeSprite 6% Iced teas 5% style. Children are a particular concern. Other sparkling beverages 6% We work closely with The Coca-Cola Company which owns Low-calorie sparkling beverages, waters, juices, teas and other still many of the brands we produce. The Coca-Cola Beverage beverages now account for 42% of volume. Institute for Health and Wellness helps our business system by assessing wellness trends and advancing development of enjoy sparkling beverages while managing their weight, new beverages. we now offer low-calorie options, such as Coke Zero and Coca-Cola light. A Wider Choice of Beverages Certain beverages have been reformulated to contain less Our growing range of beverages includes waters, juices and sugar. To allow consumer tastes to adjust, sugar content is juice drinks, iced teas, ready-to-drink coffees, sports and energy drinks in addition to sparkling soft drinks. Average Calorie Content In addition, we are reducing the calorie content of many (kcal/100ml) beverages, using natural ingredients and adding health and -19% vs 2001 wellness benefits. We extend these benefits to lower-income 37 36 34 33 32 31 consumers, too, with juice drinks brands such as Dobry and 30.2 29.8 30.3 30 Su-Voce sold in Armenia, Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Serbia and Montenegro. Reduced Calorie Content Sugar gives the body energy in the form of calories – but if more calories are consumed than expended through physAverage calorie content has fallen 19% due to the growth of waters and ical activity, this can lead to weight gain. To help consumers reduced-calorie beverages. 35 Consumer Health Amita neXt Ev Zyn We continue to launch new juices and juice drinks with health and wellness benefits. These range from added vitamins and minerals to antioxidants, prebiotics and natural polyphenols. reduced gradually. In 2010, we eliminated a further 3-4% of launched Cappy Multivitamin, as well as Amita Extra Vitamin sugar from Nestea beverages, depending on the flavour. To C in Greece. date, Nestea, Fanta and Sprite have been reformulated to Other functional juices include benefits such as prebiotics, contain up to 20% fewer calories. fibre, omega-3, polyphenols and antioxidants. Low-calorie carbonated beverages and waters accounted •G  reece – Our Amita Ev Zyn range includes Omega-3 for for 26% of our sales volume in 2010. The average calorie heart health; mastic for the immune system; fibre for the dicontent of our products by volume has decreased 19% since gestive system; and calcium and Vitamin D for bone strength. 2001. • Serbia – Expanding our neXt BodyTime functional juice Smaller serving sizes also help consumers manage their range, we launched Cardio, which is rich in natural polycalorie intake. In some EU territories, our beverages are phenols to help the cardio-vascular system. available in smaller 200ml bottles and 250ml cans – in addition to 250ml bottles and 330ml cans. Natural Ingredients All-natural Fanta was piloted in 2010 in response to consumNutritionally Enhanced Beverages er desire to avoid additives. This reformulation contains no Our growing range of juices and juice drinks with added viartificial flavours, colourants or preservatives. Instead, the tamins and minerals help consumers meet their nutrition flavours and colours are derived from fruits and vegetables. needs. We also avoid the need for preservatives in our growing In Nigeria, our 5Alive juice drink is now enhanced with Virange of juices by investing in aseptic technology. We now tamins B1 and B2. In Russia, our Yasli-Sad juice is the have 58 aseptic production lines. only juice for children with added calcium. In Poland, we Nutritional Information Growth of juices, teas, waters and low-calorie beverages In order to understand calorie intake, consumers need to (million litres) -0.6% clearly see the energy contained in their food and drink. In the vs 2009 first such global commitment in our industry, The Coca-Cola 5,345 5,046 5,143 5,113 Company pledged to place the calorie content on the front of 3,695 all packages worldwide by the end of 2011. 2,894 This builds on the front-of-pack labels in our European ter2,301 ritories which show the Guideline Daily Amounts (GDAs) for 1,569 1,108 calories and other key nutrients. By the end of 2010, all spar790 kling beverages and most other products carry front-of-pack calorie information where practical in EU territories. These Juices, teas, waters and low-calorie beverages have become an increasingly allow consumers to easily identify the calories and other key important part of our volume, growing more than five-fold since 2001. nutrients per serving, as well as how this fits into a balanced 36 In 2010, our award-winning Wake Your Body programme in Hungary marked its fifth anniversary. More than 2.1 million people have taken part in 500 sports and fitness events. diet. More detailed nutritional information can be found on same: we respect the authority of parents and caregivers the reverse of packs. Our beverages do not contain salt1, and do not target marketing at children under the age of 12. trans fats or saturated fats2. Previously, this was defined as marketing communications in We continue to promote consumer understanding and use which under-12s represented more than 50% of the audience. of GDA labels. During 2010, we supported education and In 2010, in consultation with UNESDA, we made this definition awareness campaigns in countries as wide-ranging as Estomore stringent, extending this prohibition to marketing comnia, Poland, Bulgaria and Hungary. munications where 30% or more of the audience are under 12. In non-EU countries, we are working towards our business We have implemented these codes throughout our busisystem’s goal of placing calorie content on the front of all ness. Independent audits verify industry compliance with packages. Consumers can find further information about these codes. specific beverages, ingredients and nutritional content During 2010, Accenture assessed compliance with the EU through country websites and consumer response hotlines. Pledge in six markets including three in which we operate Greece, Hungary and Poland. Analysis of more than 580,000 Responsible Sales and Marketing TV spots found a compliance rate of 98.9%. Similar analysis Children are a particular concern to us and our stakeholders. of online advertising across nearly 50 websites aimed at unTo ensure that we market and sell our beverages in a responder-12s found just one case of non-compliance. Comparable sible manner, Coca-Cola Hellenic helps to develop and impleresults were found by previous audits on behalf of UNESDA ment industry codes of practice. These include the EU Pledge and the ICBA. on advertising to children, as well as commitments made by These commitments are periodically reviewed and updated. European beverages association UNESDA. This approach is During 2010, the UNESDA commitments were expanded to underpinned by Global Guidelines on Marketing to Children include digital marketing communications since new techof the International Council of Beverages Associations (ICBA). nologies now allow tangible and verifiable steps to ensure The underlying premise of these various codes remains the compliance. 1. Except for sports drinks where salts help to replace those lost during strenuous exercise 2. Except when occurring naturally in beverages containing milk or milk products 37 Consumer Health UNESDA also adopted a Code for the Marketing and LabelCoca-Cola Hellenic has a longstanding commitment to footling of Energy Drinks in 2010. Since we recently introduced ball. The tournaments we support are often the largest youth such drinks, we are implementing these commitments sporting competitions in the country. In Poland alone, 3,256 which include on-pack recommendations that they are conteams took part in the 2010 Coca-Cola Cup, including more sumed in moderation and are not suitable for children, pregthan 1,100 girls’ teams. We also support running – from nant women and those sensitive to caffeine. competitive marathons to community fun-runs. A newer focus for Coca-Cola Hellenic is cycling with its Promoting Active Lifestyles dual benefit of improving physical fitness while providing a greener form of transport. During 2010, more than 9,000 To prevent or reduce obesity, people must not only reduce people took part in our cycling activities in Romania, Croatia, their calorie intake but also increase their levels of physiHungary and Serbia. cal activity. We therefore work with NGOs, authorities, sports and nutrition bodies to help people become more active. During 2010, more than 1.2 million people actively took part Schools in our sports and fitness programmes. By working with government agencies, sports and nutrition experts, we support healthy lifestyle programmes in Communities schools. These programmes teach children the role that diet and lifestyle play in health, aiming to instil positive habits at Regardless of age or ability, we encourage people to try a a formative age. wide variety of sports and make exercise part of their lives. In Hungary, our ‘Move! Wake Your Body’ programme celebrated In Greece, we work with the Ministry of Health and Social its fifth anniversary in 2010. More than 2.1 million participants Welfare on the Moderation-Balance-Diversity programme have participated in 500 recreational fitness, sports and wellwhich integrates nutrition education and physical activity into ness activities. To extend its reach, the programme is working the school curriculum. By year-end 2010, the programme with strategic NGO and business partners, such as Tesco. had reached 61,500 students in 875 schools. For the third consecutive year, the programme gained first prize at the For a third consecutive year, our ‘Be Active’ programme on 2010 Hellenic CSR Excellence Awards. the island of Ireland was awarded the prestigious Big Tick Healthy Communities award from Business in the CommuWe also support broader industry initiatives. In Poland, the nity. Working with local sporting bodies and councils, the Keep Fit partnership involved 780,000 pupils in 6,949 schools programme had attracted 106,000 participants to ‘Football during the 2009-2010 school year. Aimed at teenagers, the for You’ with the Irish Football Association, as well as to programme emphasises personal choice and responsibility. many other sports. Surveys found that participants had more balanced diets than During 2010, more than 9,000 people took part in our cycling activities in Romania, Croatia, Hungary and Serbia. 38 those who had not participated. Almost three million students have taken part since the programme began in 2006. In Lithuania, we support a partnership between the food industry, NGOs and the Ministries of Healthcare and of Education that is promoting the importance of balanced nutrition and physical activity in schools. The project has involved more than 11,000 children in 160 schools. In locations where children lack a safe, fun place to be active, we provide infrastructure. To date, we have provided 116 sports grounds and playgrounds in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Bulgaria. Coca-Cola Hellenic encourages employees to participate in these activities as well as organising wellness activities in Company operations (see Employee Development). Almost three million Polish teenage schoolchildren have taken part in the Keep Fit programme since it began in 2006. Maintaining High Quality Standards The quality and safety of our beverages is fundamental to maintaining consumer and customer trust. Of our 77 plants, 75 have been certified against the ISO 9001 quality management system standard. This represented 99.6% of produced volume in 2010. An early adopter of the international food safety standard ISO 22000, we are also implementing the Food Safety System Certification standard FSSC 22000 following customer requests for a system recognised by the Global Food Safety Initiative. We have now achieved ISO 22000 certification at 60 plants (78% of produced volume) and FSSC 22000 certification at 32 sites (42% of volume). We expect to complete certification of all plants within 2012. Following our acquisition of Multon in Russia in 2005, the Schelkovo plant has gained ISO 22000 certification and consumer complaints have fallen by 46%. Our ingredients and packaging come only from approved suppliers and are tested in quality control laboratories. Finished beverages are tested in our plants and in the marketjuice to turn brown. In both cases, we worked closely with place. If products do not meet our quality standards, they the authorities and independent tests gave the beverages may be removed although safe to consume. the all-clear. No safety risks were involved in either incident. In 2010, we worked with government agencies to resolve Consumer feedback also plays a key role in quality managetwo instances of non-compliance due to isolated quality inment. In 2010, we decreased complaints further, receiving cidents. In Romania, a small piece of cardboard in a bottle only 0.28 consumer complaints per million containers sold. of mineral water led to withdrawal of that batch. In Belarus, Given continued concern among consumers in our territories, sales were suspended on a batch of juice after caramelisawe do not use ingredients that are genetically modified or detion of natural sugars due to the summer heat caused the rived from GMOs. Our position on nanotechnology is the same. OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO www.coca-colahellenic.com/aboutus/productportfolio/ UNESDA COMMITMENTS www.unesda.org/our-unesda-commitments-act-responsibly SUPPORTING HEALTHY LIFESTYLES www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/commitmentinaction/sportingprogrammes/ QUALITY AND FOOD SAFETY POLICY; GMO STATEMENT www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ EUROPEAN HYDRATION INSTITUTE www.europeanhydrationinstitute.org/partners_and_collaborators.html BEVERAGE INSTITUTE FOR HEALTH AND WELLNESS www.thebeverageinstitute.com/ 39 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Our core values define the way that Coca-Cola Hellenic treats employees. We aim to help our people achieve their full potential, engaging with them openly, honestly and with respect. We are committed to providing a workplace that protects employee safety and promotes their health and well-being. All managers assessed for CSR performance ••••• Employer of choice awards in 16 countries in 2010 ••••• Safety performance improved 39% since 2009 Our Workforce Coca-Cola Hellenic employed 43,189 people at the end of 2010. Almost 98% of our workforce is of local origin, with more than 78% from emerging and developing economies. We are committed to developing local talent and almost 91% of our management are local nationals. Temporary labour only accounts for around 5% of positions. By developing a reputation as an employer of choice, Coca-Cola ness trips and stretching deadlines. To help employees Hellenic aims to attract, develop and retain the necessary talmanage the transition, a tailored stress management proent to succeed today and in the future. gramme was made available in the countries. We will conDuring 2010, we gained employer of choice awards in 16 tinue to listen and respond to changing employee expectacountries. We were named Best Employer in Ukraine by tions to improve this measure. AON Hewitt and placed second for Best Employer in Central Each business unit is now implementing action plans, with and Eastern Europe 2009-10. employee focus groups providing ongoing feedback. The next survey will be conducted in 2012. Employee Engagement Throughout the recession, we have worked hard to keep A Safe and Healthy Workplace employees informed and motivated. Our 2010 engagement Our high-profile safety programme continues to yield results. survey provided valuable feedback on employee views of Serious accidents again declined, a 39% reduction since the Coca-Cola Hellenic as an employer and whether these had programme began in 2009. Operations in Latvia, Lithuania changed since the 2007 survey. and Estonia had no lost-time accidents during 2010, while 23 Approximately 87% of employees participated in the survey, countries performed better than the industry average. up from 78% . Even more encouragingly, our overall engageChampioned by our Operating Committee (OpCo), our safety ment score rose 13 points to 56%. This compares favourably programme aims to address systemic issues and build the to the People Metrics database of approximately 50 organifoundation for a world-class safety culture. Defining acsations, in which the median score is 48%. countability and embedding safety into business processes To be considered engaged, employees must respond posihave been key to progress. Safety is now on the agenda of tively in three key areas: Retention (how committed they are to every meeting of the Operating Committee; it is also built staying at Coca-Cola Hellenic); Effort (how motivated they are into job descriptions and performance objectives, as well as to go ‘the extra mile’), and Advocacy (how likely they are to recbusiness planning and budget approvals. ommend the Company as a great place to work). Our improved Despite progress in 2010, we did not eliminate fatalities. Rescore was largely driven by an increased rating for Retention, grettably, nine people lost their lives, six in road traffic acalthough we also scored higher for Effort and Advocacy. Increased scores across all question categories showed that Employee Engagement employees feel more empowered and have a greater sense of purpose. Critical questions relating to professional growth and (% of engaged employees) performance feedback improved significantly. In addition, 80% 65% of employees said that they really like working for Coca-Cola 56% Hellenic. 43% There is, however, still work to do if we are to achieve the People 26% Metrics top performing norm of 65% engagement. Although trust in senior management has improved, employees want their input to be more considered when major decisions are made. Coca-Cola Coca-Cola 1 Hellenic 2007 Hellenic 2010 Despite an eight-point improvement, work-life balance reOur 2010 employee survey showed a 13-point increase in engagement ceived one of the lowest scores. The roll-out of SAP has levels since 2007. This exceeds the median score of 50 organisations in added to the challenge because of additional training, busiour survey provider’s database. 1. Based on PeopleMetrics client data from around 85,000 employees across a variety of industries and regions. 41 Employee Development In 2010, we enhanced the practical skills of frontline managers and supervisors. We ran 33 two-day workshops helping almost 750 participants develop action plans. These include ‘Toolbox Talks’, short but regular team discussions about local safety issues, and ‘Walk the Talk’, whereby managers observe safety practices in day-to-day activities and discuss improvement opportunities. We will actively promote the value of ‘Near-Miss’ incident reporting. In addition to internal communications and engagement, we share our performance externally. Large notice boards outside each plant now display site safety performance. We have made good progress in our OHSAS 18001 programme, with 65 plants (84%) now certified. By year-end 2012, our goal is to certify all plants. Our progress received recognition with the 2010 Fleet Safety Award from Fleet Europe. The campaign ‘Safety is My Responsibility too’ received the Serbian Association for Public Relations award for the second year. Each plant communicates its safety performance with new notice boards prominently displayed outside each site. Health and Wellbeing cidents. Three incidents involved driver error, two unsafe We promote healthy, active lifestyles among our employees. behavior and one in which our driver was hit by an oncoming Preventative programmes include cholesterol and blood vehicle that had crashed through the median barrier. Two fapressure monitoring; flu vaccinations; diabetes and cancer talities were due to circumstances beyond our control includscreening; and free on-site medical consultations. More than ing political violence and armed attack in Nigeria. The last fa20,000 employees in 22 countries have benefited from such tality was as the result of the collapse of warehouse racking. programmes. No fatal accident or injury is acceptable to Coca-Cola Hellenic. During 2010, we also staged health and wellness events in 17 In-depth investigations are conducted; country General Mancountries, ranging from sports and fitness events, education agers present and discuss findings with OpCo; and lessons sessions, nutrition advice and lifestyle consultations. In Bullearned are shared across our business. To learn why ungaria, we launched a new programme to promote healthy and safe behaviours persist, we will audit compliance with our active lifestyles with tips, contests and personal consultations Fleet Safety Policy. We are also trialling the active fleet safety with health and wellness experts. In Serbia, more than 1,200 device Mobileye which alerts drivers to risky behaviours, employees and family members received advice from external such as tailgating. Where vehicles are equipped with GPS experts during an open day. In Austria, we have now set up systems, we will monitor results centrally. monthly Active Days, with 650 participants during 2010. In SwitFatalities Incidence Rate Sickness Average (Employees and Contractors) Sickness Days (including to/from (excluding to/from (number of accidents (per FTE) (absence days) work accidents) work accidents) with >1 day absence per 100 employees) 2004 14 7 3.6 215,786 5.86 2005 18 9 2.9 220,608 5.75 2006 23 17 3.5 196,221 4.85 2007 15 13 2.4 231,210 5.34 2008 28 25 3.8 282,309 5.75 2009 5 5 1.4 262,537 5.76 2010 9 9 1.1 233,898 5.36 42 zerland, smoking cessation courses for employees and their partners helped 44 people stop smoking, 57% of attendees. Other programmes respond to local risks. In Nigeria, we support the Roll Back Malaria partnership, providing insecticide-treated nets to employees, their families and communities. As part of our HIV/AIDS programme, over 1,000 Nigerian employees have chosen to be tested, while infected employees and their dependents can receive free anti-retroviral treatment. Education programmes continue in Russia, Armenia, Estonia, Poland and Bosnia, where awareness remains relatively low. During our first Active Week, 300 Austrian employees tried a range of new People Development sports and learned simple exercises. Based on the success of Active Week, we have set up monthly activities and 650 employees took part during 2010. We are committed to helping employees realise their potential through training and development opportunities. Another critical challenge is to create a pipeline of talented future 2009. This increase was made possible by in-house trainleaders for our business. ing capabilities which deliver accredited programmes from AGORA, our Learning Centre of Excellence. By year-end 2010, 72% of frontline managers had participated in our core Leadership Pipeline leadership training programme, ‘Passion 2 Lead’. The newly Given the complex challenges facing businesses today, we launched ‘Leadership Excellence’ programme reached alhave defined seven core areas in which our leaders must most 35% of the target population. excel. These include not only Business & Financial Results, We also continue to develop coaching skills within our but also Management, People Development, Leadership, Company. By year-end 2010, 63 managers had been exterRelationships, Growth & Innovation and CSR. nally certified as coaches. Almost 300 more managers have For each of these areas, we have identified the skills, knowlparticipated in our programme on developing a coaching edge and experience required at every layer of leadership. leadership style. This matrix forms the basis of our recruitment; performance management system; training and development; assessment and rewards. Equality and Diversity To build a pipeline of future leaders, Coca-Cola Hellenic Annual People Development Forums in each country ensure that we have the necessary talent to fill key capabilities and must draw from the widest pool of talent available. A diprojects, as well as succession plans to ensure business verse workforce also helps us to mirror the diversity of our continuity. consumers and customers. More than 70 nationalities were represented in our workforce in 2010. Six nationalities are From team leader upwards, all employees create their own represented on our Board of Directors; OpCo members are development plan. We are also rolling out a new career planalso drawn from six different countries. ning framework which identifies the performance standards and critical experiences required for career development. We are committed to developing local leaders in every country and 91% of senior leadership positions are occupied by Career planning is not limited to management. The newly people of local origin. Since we also offer international delaunched Operators Development Programme defines a velopment opportunities for high-potential employees, 53% clear career path in manufacturing roles. From entry level of our expatriate managers are from emerging and developoperator to team leader, the programme provides recogniing economies. tion and reward for developing new skills. In 2010, 24% of managers were female. At all levels and in all functions, we are working towards a better gender balTraining and Development ance. We undertook studies and focus groups during 2010 Despite the recession, Coca-Cola Hellenic continues to into explore why women are less well represented in our crease training opportunities. Employees received on averbusiness and how we should remedy this. In particular, we age 21 hours of formal training in 2010, compared to 20 in tasked participants in our Excel leadership programme for 43 Employee Development Workforce Breakdown Managers Non-Managers Total (2010) Total (2009) Total 3,145 40,044 43,189 44,800 Male 75.7% 75.0% 75.0% 79.2% Female 24.3% 25.0% 25.0% 20.8% Nationals 91.3% 98.3% 97.8% 98.5% Non-nationals 8.7% 1.7% 2.2% 1.5% Under 30 3.0% 35.0% 33.0% 33.8% 30-50 90.0% 57.0% 59.0% 58.0% Over 50 7.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.2% high-performers to study female under-representation in education on human rights and equality are integrated into our Russian business and we await their recommendations. management training programmes. Women are also under-represented in Commercial functions In addition to annual self-assessment, our operations are indein many countries. New recruitment strategies that target pendently audited. To date, 27 (35%) plants have been subject women are being piloted. In Switzerland, we are trialling testo independent workplace accountability audits. During 2010, timonials from female market developers; gender-balanced audits of two Nigerian plants found non-compliance issues reinterview panels; advertising in women’s media and alignlated to overtime, payment procedures, excess overtime and ment workshops with commercial managers. In Serbia, 26% health and safety issues. These findings are being addressed of new hires in 2010 were female, an increase from 6% in through corrective actions and both plants will be re-audited. 2009. This was the result of workshops with the commercial Various reporting mechanisms, such as a confidential telemanagement team and a gender balance objective for the phone hotline and email address, allow employees to raise recruitment manager. During 2011, learnings will be shared concerns. All contacts are investigated at the appropriate across our business and targets set for female representalevel, with results reported to the Audit Committee of the tion. There were no women on our Board in 2011. Board. We are committed to protect from retaliation employDespite under-representation, female employees earn esees who raise concerns in good faith. sentially the same salary (within 2%) as men at the same job In 2010, there were no breaches of human rights policy or grade. At Coca-Cola Hellenic, merit is the sole criterion for related legislation. selection, promotion and remuneration. Gender and other diversity indicators play no role. Employee Relations There were no breaches of our Equality Policy or related legislation in 2010. We respect the rights of employees to join or not to join unions or works councils. Almost half (48%) of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and 27% A Fair and Ethical Workplace belong to independent trade unions. Internationally recognised labour and human rights standards There are 49 independent trade unions in 15 of our countries of underpin our commitment to providing a fair workplace. Our operation, with works councils in a further seven countries. In Code of Business Conduct describes our zero-tolerance apall cases, a formal communications protocol ensures regular proach to corruption (see Integrating Sustainability). and open dialogue and consultation. During 2010, we agreed a new protocol with the secretary of the European Works Council (EWC), increasing the frequency of meetings and available Human Rights external expert consultancy days. Both measures exceed the Our policy clearly prohibits child labour and recruitment procerequirements of the EWC directive and our agreement. dures verify that prospective employees are of legal working age. In five countries, representing 7% of our workforce, there are There can be potential conflict in countries where human neither unions nor works councils: Moldova, Armenia, Berights are compromised. We keep abreast of issues, using larus, FYROM and Hungary. In these countries, we consult such resources as Amnesty International, and ensure that and communicate directly with employees. Independent au44 dits in such countries have not revealed issues of concern. In all of these countries, except FYROM, employee engagement scores improved in 2010, with Armenian operations gaining the second highest score after Greece. Furthermore, Belarus, Moldova and Hungary were among the countries in which we gained employer of choice awards in 2010. Responsible Restructuring Throughout the recession, we minimised job losses by making other cost reductions associated with human resources. Management salaries were frozen, company cars were not renewed and non-essential travel and events were canIn Italy, our road safety awareness programme is the first to be endorsed by the State Traffic Police and Italian Association for Road Traffic Safety. celled. We also instituted a freeze on new positions and furPolice representatives conduct sessions for employees about driving ther reduced temporary labour. responsibly and feature in our Safe and Eco-Driving video which has been distributed to all employees in Italy. Despite this, 1,306 people were made redundant across 16 countries in 2010. In such cases, we aim to treat affected employees fairly and with respect. We consult with unions, Rewarding Performance works councils and, where appropriate, the Select CommitCoca-Cola Hellenic aims to reward employees fairly and tee of the EWC. We also help employees with CV preparacompetitively. We benchmark compensation packages tion, training and outplacement advice. Comprehensive against leading companies. Even entry-level employees are severance packages meet and, in the majority of cases, subpaid on average 50% more than the local minimum wage, stantially exceed statutory requirements. where one exists. In 2010, we closed our plant in Estonia, a country with some Variable compensation rewards not only financial perforof the highest unemployment levels in Europe. By providmance but all seven key results areas, including CSR, people ing outplacement support, approaching local employers and development and innovation. circulating CVs, we secured alternative employment for 40% We are also committed to providing employees with pension of affected employees. and retirement provisions that are sustainable, competitive Aside from some sporadic and short-lived industrial action and appropriate for the long-term. in Italy and Greece, restructuring in 2010 took place without In 2010, Coca-Cola Hellenic paid €1,163 million in salaries incident. Working time lost due to industrial disputes and and benefits. A breakdown of costs and pension plans can strikes was insignificant. be found in the Annual Report and Accounts. Building Trust and Two-Way Communication in Greece In Greece, employee engagement rose to 78% in 2010 – from 46% in 2007 – due to a three-year programme to build trust, transparency and equality in the workplace. Developing effective two-way communication and involving employees in decision-making have been particularly important. More than 20% of the workforce took part in focus groups to determine action plans in response to previous survey findings. Over the following two years, 890 interviews with individual employees helped to refine programmes underway. In addition, employees can put forward ideas to drive innovation. Each year, the top 10 ideas receive awards, with the best adopted by the business. In 2010, the Greek operation was voted the winner of the Best Place to Work for the second consecutive year in the annual survey by the Great Place to Work Institute Hellas, as well as the sixth best place to work in Europe. HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ FLEET SAFETY POLICY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ EQUALITY POLICY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ 45 SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT Our supply chain accounts for far greater sustainability impacts than our own operations. Agriculture represents the largest part of our total water footprint; whereas cold drink equipment and packaging together represent three-quarters of our total carbon emissions. Furthermore, Coca-Cola Hellenic supports many times more livelihoods in its supply chain than within its own operations. Almost 90% of supplier spend is local ••••• Developed innovative low-carbon technologies with suppliers 121 supplier sites audited to date ••••• for workplace conditions Our Supply Chain Footprint Coca-Cola Hellenic sources ingredients, packaging and capital equipment from approximately 84,000 suppliers. Our main suppliers are sugar refiners and manufacturers of PET preforms, glass bottles, cans and coolers. The way that we manage and develop our supply chain has potentially far more impact than sustainability programmes in our own business. With a total supplier spend of €4,029 million in 2010, Coca-Cola Hellenic has significant influence with its suppliers. Since the Coca-Cola global business system is one of the world’s top purchasers of sugar, citrus, tea and coffee, we have an even greater responsibility to address the social, environmental and social challenges in our supply chain. The sustainability of our supply chain is also critical to the future growth of our business. This is particularly true of agricultural raw materials; ensuring the security of sugar and fruit juice supplies are now core business issues. Our Approach Addressing the environmental, social and economic challenges posed by our vast supply chain is an enormous task. We therefore take a phased approach, tackling the most significant impacts and risks first. Our primary efBy working with suppliers, we can include recycled content into our PET bottles as well as reducing their weight by an average of 16%. forts are focused on: • Working with NGOs and suppliers to enhance underSustainability criteria have already been incorporated into standing of indirect impacts purchasing specifications from coolers and packaging • Reducing water use in our agricultural supply chain to vehicles and IT equipment. Now we are expanding this • Developing low-carbon technologies with equipment to evaluate suppliers themselves on their overall sustainsuppliers ability strategy. In 2011, we will pilot a new scorecard in • Reducing impacts in our packaging supply chain and which sustainability criteria will account for up to 30% of a closing the recycling loop supplier’s total score. Environmental Impacts in Our Value Chain Our bottling plants account for only 13% of our total environmental impacts. By contrast, packaging, agricultural crops and cold drink equipment represent more than three-quarters. Coca-Cola Hellenic calculates its broader ecological footprint using the eco-indicator 99 method. Cold drink equipment 41% Distribution 7% Raw materials 37% Post-consumer waste 2% Bottling plants 13% 47 Supplier Engagement By working together with key suppliers, we have developed coolers that use natural refrigerant gases instead of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), which have an extremely high global warming potential. In addition to addressing environmental issues, we aim sugar refiners and juice suppliers, we have a clear reto improve economic and social conditions in our supply sponsibility to help manage the manifold sustainability ischain – for the suppliers who work with us, their employsues in this sector. ees and local communities. We do so by: Our first priority is to work with our agricultural supply • Making clear the workplace practices we require of chain to conserve water availability and quality. Agriculsuppliers and assessing their compliance ture is the single biggest user of water worldwide, with • Sourcing locally to benefit both our communities and almost 70% of the world’s surface water supplies used for our business farming. In our business, agriculture accounts for 78% of our water footprint. Ensuring the security of supply is another priority for our Agriculture and Water Use business. With the world’s population expected to reach The main agricultural raw materials sourced by Coca-Cola nine billion by 2050, production of food must double in the Hellenic include sugar and, to a lesser extent, fruit juice. next 40 years. Although we do not source directly from farmers but from Other sustainability challenges in our agricultural supply chain include protecting soil fertility and biodiversity and supporting the livelihoods of farmers and farm workers. The Coca-Cola Company engages on behalf of our business system to support the development of international standards for sustainable agriculture, which we will subsequently adopt. The Coca-Cola Company is also developing sustainable agriculture criteria as part of the system’s long-term ingredient sourcing plans. Reducing Water in Sugar Production Of the sugar used by Coca-Cola Hellenic, 53% is local beet sugar, 33% is imported cane sugar and the remainder is Internal communication promotes the benefits of HFC-free reduced energy high fructose syrup. As EU sugar reform continues to lead equipment. to more efficient and sustainable sugar production, we 48 work with local suppliers to increase the proportion of local beet sugar we use and to reduce its environmental impacts. At a global level, The Coca-Cola Company works on behalf of our business system to address sustainability in cane sugar production. In Europe, we are founding members of the European Water Footprint Sustainability Assessment Sounding Board for Sugar. Set up in 2010, this new body has brought together our business system with leading European sugar companies, academia, NGOs, and the Water Footprint Network for the first time to collaboratively work on understanding the impacts of water use. The Board has already analysed the water footprint of the sugar produced in several European countries. We have also begun collaboration to evaluate the sustainability of this water use in its local context. By recovering heat energy, CHP units provide power, heating and Developing Low-Carbon Technologies cooling. Innovative quad-generation technology also allows recovery of CO2 for commercial use. As a result, the CHP units are more than 60% The greatest part of our carbon footprint lies in our value less CO2 intensive than traditional power plants. chain – mainly in the use of coolers and the manufacture of packaging. We therefore challenge these suppliers to plants with power, heating and cooling, but we also purify develop new technologies that are increasingly efficient CO2 emissions to the highest food-grade so that they can in terms of energy and resources. By supporting our supbe used in carbonation. By using this quad-generation pliers, we help to make these technologies a commercial technology, our CHP units are more than 60% less CO2 inreality. tensive than traditional power plants. The CHP units produce excess electricity which is proClimate-Friendly Refrigeration vided to the national grid in each country. In addition, CHP By partnering with suppliers in recent years, Coca-Cola units in Romania, Ireland and Italy also produce surplus Hellenic has helped bring about a step-change in cold CO2. In Ireland, we now supply our former supplier – drink equipment. This includes developing a complete meeting the needs of their Irish customers. range of coolers that are free of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and use natural refrigerant gases, which have a significantly lower global warming potential. We believe Packaging – Closing the Recycling Loop that we own the largest fleet of HFC-free equipment in the Packaging accounts for 40% of our carbon footprint and marketplace and we are on track to meet our goal that by we work with suppliers to lessen these impacts. We re2015 all new equipment will be HFC-free. duce material used in packages, increase the proportion Equally and importantly, this new equipment is now more of recycled and renewable content and help to increase energy-efficient, has better insulation and uses LED lightrecycling rates in the marketplace. Since closing the reing. We also worked with suppliers to develop an energy cycling loop is our end-goal, we also work to increase the management device, the Eco Box, which improves the enrecyclate available to our packaging suppliers (see Packergy-efficiency of coolers by around one-third. As a result aging and Recycling). of all these developments, new coolers are now up to 63% more energy-efficient than in 2004. Upholding Workplace Rights Coca-Cola Hellenic requires suppliers to comply with Quad-Generation CHP Technology its Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs). These principles Working with ContourGlobal, we have pioneered quadmake clear our system’s basic requirements with regeneration technology in our programme to build Comgard to human rights, labour rights and ethical business bined Heat and Power (CHP) units across our business. in supplier workplaces. In particular, the SGPs explicitly Not only do these on-site CHP units provide our bottling prohibit child labour and forced labour. 49 Supplier Engagement of plastic closures. Following corrective action, both sites achieved full compliance. No critical non-compliance issues were found in supplier audits during 2010. An Industry Platform Since the underlying goal of our SGP programme is to achieve meaningful progress in overall supply chain performance, we believe that industry-wide standards are the most effective way to do so. On behalf of our system, The Coca-Cola Company actively supports AIM-PROGRESS, an industry forum to promote responsible and sustainable sourcing. As a first step towards industry standards, member companies agreed to accept supplier assessments undertaken on behalf of other members. As part of this process, the Coca-Cola business system accepted 175 audits of suppliers undertaken on behalf of AIM-PROGRESS members during 2010. Bringing Economic Benefit Coca-Cola Hellenic aims to source as close to the Company’s bottling plants as possible. This is not only most cost-efficient for our business, but also brings economic benefit More than half of the sugar we use is from local beet and we work with suppliers to increase this while reducing its environmental to local communities and reduces the environmental imimpacts. pacts of transportation. As a result, almost 90% of supplier payments remain within our territories. We assess how our suppliers meet these expectations, Throughout the recession, we have supported suppliers. commissioning independent audits as part of a joint proWe actively develop new suppliers, and support investgramme with The Coca-Cola Company. In 2010, a further ment in our territories by international suppliers. 61 sites in our territories were assessed. Since the proIn 2010, our operations in Bosnia signed a supplier agreegramme began in 2007, 121 sites have been audited, inment with the new STUDEN-AGRANA sugar refinery, the cluding major suppliers of sugar, primary packaging and first in the country. Technical support from The Coca-Cola equipment. Other suppliers have been screened by difCompany and STUDEN-AGRANA helped the supplier ferent programmes. Higher-risk items (such as promoreach our system’s quality standards. As the country’s tional and marketing materials) and higher risk markets largest industrial user of sugar, we purchased 3,000 (such as China or India) have been subject to a separate tonnes of sugar from the refinery during its first year and audit programme by The Coca-Cola Company. In addition, have agreed terms for future purchases. The new refinery our business system has begun to accept audits conducted on behalf of other AIM-PROGRESS members (see employs 150 people and represents an investment of apbelow). proximately €45 million, one of the largest food industry projects in Bosnia in recent years. Thirty-five of the 61 sites assessed in 2010 were fully compliant; there were minor non-compliance issues at 13 In 2010, our packaging supplier Crown opened the first sites and moderate issues at a further 13 sites. Findings beverage can manufacturing plant in Slovakia. With a secmostly involved relatively minor health and safety issues, ond line installed in 2011, the plant will have an annual such as first aid kits. There were also four instances of capacity of 1.6 billion beverage cans. We have signed a excess overtime and working hours. We will work with long-term contract with the new plant and expect to purthese sites on corrective action and follow-up audits will chase at least 50% of their total capacity. take place for the higher-risk sites. In 2010, re-audits took In Russia, we continue to work with the growing sugar indusplace at two sites – a sugar supplier and a manufacturer try to maximise our use of local beet sugar (see opposite). 50 Our Bosnian operations have signed a supplier agreement with the new STUDEN-AGRANA sugar refinery, the first in the country. Supporting the Russian Beet Sugar Industry We are working with the Russian beet sugar industry to replace as much imported cane sugar with local beet sugar as possible. Local production has grown in recent years, but still accounts for only about half of the country’s annual demand. As a result, Russia is the largest sugar importer in the world. In early 2011 we signed an agreement to progressively increase the proportion of local beet sugar. Whether our suppliers are able to provide the quantities we intend to purchase remains to be seen, especially after a drought led to a drop in beet production in 2010. COCA-COLA HELLENIC SUPPLIER GUIDING PRINCIPLES www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/sustainabilitypolicy/ TCCC’S SUPPLIER GUIDING PRINCIPLES www.thecoca-colacompany.com/citizenship/supplier_guiding_principles.html 51 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Improving the quality of life in our communities is enshrined in our corporate mission. Since Coca-Cola Hellenic is dependent on the development and sustainability of our communities, we thereby ensure the future of our own business, too. Invested €9.5 million in community projects or 1.4% pre-tax profit ••••• More than 1.2 million participants in our sports and fitness activities ••••• 6,000 employee volunteers supported Company projects Since Coca-Cola Hellenic operates in many developing and the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the Model Store Programme emerging markets, we have a particular opportunity – and rehas helped 1,023 customers remodel their premises and besponsibility to contribute to their sustainable development. come more profitable. Our Approach Community Investment Programmes Coca-Cola Hellenic aims to support local communities through In every country of operation, we invest in community projects. both core business activities and community investment proAlthough each programme responds to local needs, there are grammes. We bring benefit by: four priority areas of focus: • Leveraging core business activities that generate local eco• Water and environmental protection nomic benefit • Sports and physical activity • Developing community programmes that tackle locally relevant issues • Youth development • Working in long-term partnerships that deliver measurable • Emergency relief results The bulk (69%) of our investment is channelled into these four • Encouraging the participation of employees, communities areas, but our operations also support programmes that adand others dress important local needs. Creating Economic Benefit Focus of Community Investment Our business model delivers local economic benefit. Across 28 countries, our operations employ 43,189 people. In addition to manufacturing locally, approximately 90% of our supplier spend is local, too. During 2010, we supported the establishment of the first sugar refinery in Bosnia and a can manufacturer in Slovakia (see Supplier Engagement). In addition to the significant taxation payments we make, our business promotes the transfer of technology, skills and knowledge which are especially important in developing and emerging markets. Environment and water 31% Disaster relief 1% Sports and physical activity 24% Other 31% Youth development 13% Supporting Our Value Chain Coca-Cola business indirectly supports employment for up to Type of Contribution 10 times1 that number in our value chain. In a number of countries, we have launched projects that further boost this indirect economic benefit while delivering innovative solutions for our business. In Nigeria, we have set up 381 small businesses to distribute products in communities less easily reached by traditional distribution. More than 85% of these business owners are women. In just two years, this innovative route to market has led to a 300% increase in daily sales in this channel. We also provide support to independent stores and kiosks Community investment 81% since they typically lack the business and marketing expertise Commercial initiatives 12% of international chains. In Poland, 2,228 stores and outlets have Charitable gifts 7% participated in our business skills development programme. In 1. According to previous economic impact studies. 53 Community Involvement the speed and effectiveness of disaster response while raisProgrammes National Partners ing awareness of disaster prevention and preparedness and Watershed WWF, ICPDR, UNESCO, UNDP, local activities of the Red Cross Red Crescent. protection NGOs, environment ministries Youth AIESEC, Junior Achievement, SOS Maintaining Support development Kinderdorf, local NGOs During 2010, we contributed more than €9.5 Sports and Sports associations, education million to our community programmes. This fitness ministries investment is calculated using the widely Disaster relief Red Cross, emergency services recognised ‘London Benchmarking Group (LBG) model’. Although less than the previous year, investment represented 1.4% of pre-tax profits in 2010 and is in line with Working in Partnership other leading LBG members. For our community investment to be most effective, we work In addition to financial support, we contribute other resources. in public-private partnerships with leading NGOs, government Using our marketing skills, we raise awareness of issues and agencies and others. Our focus is on creating long-term reencourage involvement. lationships and programmes that deliver measurable benefit. Promoting employee volunteerism is another way that we enSince 2005, our partnership with the International Commisgage and support our communities. We have set up volunteersion for the Protection of the Danube River (ICPDR) has led ing schemes in 22 countries and more than 6,000 employees to significant projects to restore the River Danube, as well as took part in 2010. Activities ranged from regular engagement awareness-raising and education initiatives that have reached with children’s homes to environmental clean-ups and emermillions of people (see Water Stewardship). gency relief. We are stepping up our collaboration with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world’s largest humanitarian organisation. During 2010, Water and the Environment we collaborated on projects in nine countries. In addition to Coca-Cola Hellenic supports community water projects in 26 disaster relief in Eastern Europe, we launched a new joint countries. These range from conserving watersheds and improgramme in Greece (see opposite) to provide preventative proving access to water and sanitation to awareness raising healthcare and health education to remote communities. We and education (see Water Stewardship). also signed a three-year partnership with the Austrian Red Cross and are a long-time supporter of the campaign to rid Bosnia of landmines by 2019. Youth Development These efforts are supported by a new global partnership beFrom encouraging the development of future leaders to suptween The Coca-Cola Company and the IFRC to enhance colporting at-risk young people, we help young people achieve laboration on disaster preparedness and response around their potential and contribute to society. the world. The partnership aims to use the capabilities and In Nigeria, we support local government initiatives to strengthexpertise of bottlers, such as Coca-Cola Hellenic, to maximise en the educational infrastructure. In 2010, we helped renovate two schools close to our plants in Lagos and aim to extend this activity in other areas. We help refurbish schools in five other countries, too. By partnering with leading youth organisations, we foster leadership, entrepreneurship and advocacy. We work with Junior Achievement, SIFE and AIESEC in 13 countries. In Serbia, we received special recognition from AIESEC in 2010 for our contribution to their platform ‘Responsible young people a sustainable future’. At-risk young people are another focus. Given the high number of children in care in our territories, we support children’s Our Nigerian operations have renovated two schools in Lagos and plan homes in 17 countries. In the Czech Republic alone, we support to help schools in other areas, too. They were awarded the Lagos State Government CSR award in 2010. 10 care homes. We also support the growth of SOS Children’s 54 Villages, the world’s largest orphan and abandoned children’s these projects promote physical activity and disseminate nucharity, which offers children a family-centred upbringing. trition education. In Greece, our ‘Moderation-Balance-Diversity’ In Russia, we have promoted awareness of adoption. In 2010, programme provides 32 hours of interactive lessons during the we supported Gallery of Hearts, a photographic exhibition in six school year. In Poland, the pan-industry campaign ‘Keep Fit’ has cities which was visited by more than 700,000 people. This led reached almost three million students since it began in 2006. to increased interest in adoption in all cities visited. Almost 10% Children also need a safe place to exercise and play. In Rusof children whose portraits featured have since been adopted. sia, Ukraine, Belarus and Bulgaria, we have donated 116 playWe also offer careers guidance, supporting at-risk children’s grounds to local communities. transition to independence. In Bulgaria, we extended our longterm involvement with children in a local care home to help high Emergency Relief school leavers with careers guidance. Similarly, in the Republic As extreme weather events become more frequent due to cliof Ireland, we support the Schools Business Partnership, helpmate disruption, Coca-Cola Hellenic has committed to provide ing underprivileged students prepare for work. Our employees swift emergency relief to local communities. We help to deliver give advice on job applications and hold mock interviews. safe drinking water, one of the most critical needs, as well as mobilising our delivery fleet and employee volunteers if needed. Sports and Physical Activity During 2010, seven of our central and eastern European terDuring 2010, more than 1.2 million people participated in our ritories experienced severe floods. In these countries, we sports and fitness programmes which encourage people of worked with local authorities, the Red Cross and others to deall ages and abilities to become more active. From fun famliver more than 300,000 litres of safe drinking water. We also ily events to competitive races and tournaments, we support provided emergency relief in Russia, after several hundred football, running, swimming, cycling or other sports. wildfires brought death and destruction. This marked our first In Hungary, our ‘Wake Your Body’ programme celebrated its collaboration with the Red Cross in Russia. fifth anniversary in 2010. Over five years, the programme has Coca-Cola Hellenic supports longer-term rehabilitation efforts, involved 2.1 million people in 50 different sports. More than 500 too. In Greece, our campaign ‘Some Forests have their own fitness events have been held in 500 locations. Aura’ is restoring forests following the devastating wildfires of In Ireland, our ‘Be Active’ programme was awarded the Busi2007. Guided by a local NGO, we have adopted five forested arness in the Community Big Tick award for healthy communities eas and planted 22,140 trees, pledging to maintain them over for the third consecutive year. During 2010, 106,000 people took three years. Working with the Ministry of Education, we develpart in our sports events across the country. oped schools resources and seminars on preventing forest fires. We also support healthy lifestyle programmes in schools. At the 2010 Global Bottled Water Congress, the programme was Working with government agencies and technical experts, named ‘Best Environmental Sustainability Initiative’. Healthcare for Remote Greek Communities In Greece, we stepped up our collaboration with the Hellenic Red Cross in 2010, launching an eight-month preventative healthcare programme with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. ‘I Care for My Health’ targeted communities on the Dodecanese islands and the remote northern mainland. Awareness of the importance of preventative health is lower there, leading to higher mortality rates. A team of Hellenic Red Cross paediatricians, dentists and opthalmologists visited schools while a fully equipped mobile health unit offered free medical examinations to local residents. More than 1,300 children and 700 adults were examined while 800 parents and teachers attended seminars on healthy lifestyles and first aid. OUR COMMITMENT IN ACTION www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/commitmentinaction/ 55 Supporting the UN Global Compact As the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative, the UN Global Compact has unparallelled importance. Now in its tenth year, the Compact now has more than 8,000 participants in 130 countries. Actively support 14 local networks Supporting Global Platforms As founding signatories of the CEO Water Mandate and Car••••• ing for Climate, we committed to address water conservation Leadership role in 2 of the top 3 and CO2 emissions in our operations and our supply chain. These two leadership platforms also work collaboratively with local networks governments, NGOs and businesses to achieve broader un••••• 2006 derstanding and change. A self-assessment of our progress Notable Reporter since against both initiatives can be found on our website. Our Approach Supporting Broader UN Goals and Issues Coca-Cola Hellenic has participated in the Global Coca-Cola Hellenic also partners directly with UN agencies Compact since 2005. We meet our commitments by: – including the UNDP, UNEP and UNESCO – to address sustainability challenges. These projects promote access to water • Integrating the principles into our business and watershed conservation; youth development and educa• Addressing the sustainability of our supply chain tion; entrepreneurship and job creation; disaster relief and • Helping to develop local networks rehabilitation. Directly or indirectly, such projects contribute to the Millennium Development Goals. • Supporting the Compact’s global platforms In Nigeria, for example, we are renovating primary schools; im• Contributing to broader UN goals proving access to potable water and sanitation; and supporting ef• Reporting transparently forts to tackle HIV/AIDS and malaria. We have also helped to set Throughout this report, we demonstrate how we implement up 381 entrepreneurs as small-scale distributors for our business. the principles of the Global Compact (summarised opposite). Below, we discuss how we promote the UN Global Compact Reporting Transparently and broader UN goals. A longstanding Notable Reporter, we were further commended in 2010 by a coalition of global investors for producing a “highPromoting Local Networks quality sustainability report deemed useful for investors”. The As the Global Compact expands, its Local Networks play an group members, who manage more than US$2.1 trillion of asincreasingly important role, rooting the initiative in different sets, are all signatories to the Principles for Responsible Innational and cultural contexts. vestment, which support the goals of the Global Compact. Coca-Cola Hellenic is an active member of these networks in We seek third-party feedback on how we can improve our sus14 countries1, having joined the Lithuanian network in 2010. In tainability reporting. Each year, the Fondation Guilé assesses how each country, we help to advance the Global Compact and rewe implement our commitments to the UN Global Compact and sponsible business practices through advocacy and outreach. report our progress. Supporting the Top-Performing Local Networks At the 2010 Annual Local Network Forum in New York, the Serbian and Ukrainian networks were named among the three best-performing in the world. Together with the Japanese network, they received awards for ‘outstanding efforts made to share knowledge and experiences in advancing the Global Compact locally’. Coca-Cola Hellenic is proud to have actively supported both networks since their early days. In Serbia, we lead both the Environmental Working Group and the CSR Working Group, while serving on the Steering Committee and other working groups. UN GLOBAL COMPACT www.unglobalcompact.org/ SUPPORTING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/unglobalcompact/ 1. Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, Serbia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Ukraine. 56 How Coca-Cola Hellenic Promotes the Ten Principles The 10 Principles In Operations In the Supply Chain In Communities Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses Policies: Human Rights; Equal Supplier Guiding Principles Support education and should support and respect Opportunity; Occupational Health Third-party audits entrepreneurship the protection of internationally and Safety Projects to improve access to proclaimed human rights; Industry initiatives, e.g. Part of management system and AIM-PROGRESS safe water and sanitation in Principle 2: Make sure that training Nigeria, Hungary, Romania they are not complicit in Third-party audits human rights abuses. Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses Human Rights Policy Supplier Guiding Support broader initiatives, should uphold the freedom of Part of management system Principles e.g. World Day against Child association and the effective and training Third-party audits Labour in Ukraine recognition of the right to Support diversity initiatives, collective bargaining; Unions and/or works councils in Industry initiatives, e.g. 23 countries AIM-PROGRESS e.g. by local networks in Principle 4: The elimination Greece and Serbia of all forms of forced Formal communications protocol and compulsory labour; in 23 countries Principle 5: The effective Third-party audits abolition of child labour; Salary parity Principle 6: The elimination Pay for entry-level positions of discrimination in respect of exceeds minimum wage employment and occupation. New gender diversity initiatives Environment Principle 7: Businesses 70 plants are ISO 14001-certified Partnering to analyse Set up 19 national recovery should support a Policies on water stewardship, water use in sugar organisations precautionary approach to climate change, packaging production Recycling education environmental challenges; Developed climateprogrammes Since 2002, annual targets for Principle 8: Undertake water, energy, packaging friendly refrigeration with Community water initiatives to promote greater suppliers programmes in 26 countries environmental responsibility; Building 20 CHP plants; solar power also being installed Developed quad-generation Mobilise volunteers from Principle 9: Encourage the technology with suppliers workforce, communities, other development and diffusion Own 43 wastewater treatment plants; 97% of wastewater treated Green purchasing criteria businesses of environmentally friendly for raw materials and technologies. in 2010 Host visits to our wastewater equipment (vehicles, treatment facilities Founding signatory of CEO Water coolers, IT equipment) Mandate and Caring for Climate Promote low-carbon technologies, e.g. at launch of each CHP unit or at CSR Europe marketplace Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses Code of Business Conduct; Supplier Guiding Support anti-corruption should work against additional Codes for Directors Principles initiatives e.g., the new corruption in all its forms, Mandatory training and certification Third-party audits Anti-Corruption Declaration including extortion and of the Serbian Local Network bribery. Confidential reporting mechanisms Whistle-blower protection Regular risk assessment by Internal Audit Reporting to Audit Committee 57 Environmental Data Table GRI Total Amount Relative Amount Relative Amount Indicator 2010 2010 2009 Production million litres Total beverage production 11,875 MATERIALS tonnes g/lpb g/lpb Materials used EN1 Sugar and fructose syrup 850,616 71.6 72.3 Concentrate 78,870 6.6 6.0 PET (bottles) 288,181 24.3 24.4 Plastic (closures) 26,999 2.3 2.2 Metal (crowns) 23,290 2.0 2.2 PE (labels and stretch / shrink film) 42,157 3.5 3.9 Glass (bottles) 113,240 9.5 11.3 Aluminium (cans) 38,248 3.2 3.0 Paper (labels) 1,412 0.1 0.1 Cardboard 40,791 3.4 4.2 Wood (palettes) 150,152 12.6 7.1 Percentage of materials from recycled sources EN2 30-60% ENERGY million MJ MJ/lpb MJ/lpb Direct energy use (plants and fleet) EN3 10,585 0.89 0.91 Electricity 2,749 0.23 0.24 Light heating oil 1,133 0.10 0.09 Heavy heating oil 135 0.01 0.01 Natural gas 2,130 0.18 0.18 LPG 181 0.02 0.02 Others in plants (steam, district heating, own power) 421 0.04 0.03 Diesel 1,889 0.16 0.14 Petrol 1,162 0.10 0.08 Estimated diesel in 3rd-party fleet 1,646 0.14 0.12 Primary energy use EN4 Electricity 7,980 0.67 0.68 Fossil fuels 1,527 0.13 0.13 Energy use of Cold Drink Equipment Total cooling equipment electricity consumption 16,539 • Coolers 15,725 • Venders 369 • Fountains 445 Energy saved in bottling plants (vs. baseline 2004) EN5 2,513 -27.1% -27.6% Initiatives for energy efficiency and renewable energies EN6 see pp. 25-29 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption EN7 see pp. 25-29 WATER litres/lpb litres/lpb Total water received EN8 27,296 million l. 2.30 2.40 Water used 26,597 million l. 2.24 2.32 Water unused (discharged unaltered) 700 million l. 0.06 0.08 Water withdrawal by source (% from municipal sources) 33% Water habitats affected by withdrawal of water EN9 none Total recycling and reuse of water EN10 1,244 million l. 0.1 0.1 BIODIVERSITY Total amount of land owned 878 ha Land owned in protected habitats EN11 none Major Impacts on biodiversity EN12 none Changes to natural habitats resulting from operations EN14 none Programmes to protect habitats EN13 see pp. 20-23 Red List species with habitats affected by operations EN15 none 58 GRI Total Amount Relative Amount Relative Amount Indicator 2010 2010 2009 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE tonnes g/lpb g/lpb Greenhouse gas emissions from operations CO2 from energy used in plants (scope 1) EN16 222,194 18.7 19.0 CO2 from electricity used in plants (scope 2) EN17 337,951 28.5 29.3 CO2 from fuel used in company vehicles EN16 221,280 18.6 16.5 Coolant emissions from Cold Drink Equipment (CO2 eq) EN16 23,500 2.0 2.2 CO2 for product carbonation (CO2 losses) EN16 33,808 2.8 4.2 CO2 from supplied heating and cooling (scope 2) EN17 10,988 0.9 0.0 Total emissions (scope 1 and 2) 849,719 71.6 71.2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 0 CO2 from electricity use of Cold Drink Equipment EN17 2,082,590 175.4 174.9 CO2 embedded in packaging EN17 1,604,467 135.1 137.0 CO2 from sugar 391,530 33.0 33.3 CO2 from 3rd-party transport 121,796 10.3 8.8 CO2 from head office flights EN17 2,105 0.2 0.1 CO2 from product carbonation 77,925 6.6 6.3 Programmes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions EN18 see pp. 20-23 Ozone-depleting substance emissions EN19 CFCs and HCFCs 0.148 <0.001 <0.001 Other significant air emissions EN20 NOx 4,561 0.38 0.39 SO2 3,194 0.27 0.27 Particulate Matter 504 0.04 0.04 WASTE tonnes g/lpb g/lpb Amount of solid waste EN22 Total amount 120,493 10.1 g/lpb 11.2 g/lpb Recycling and energy recovery 102,907 85% 83% Hazardous waste Hazardous waste generated EN24 779 0.1 g/lpb 0.1 g/lpb EFFLUENTS Discharges to water Quantity of wastewater discharge EN21 14,380 million l. 1.2 l/lpb 1.4 l/lpb Total COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) produced EN21 5,750 t O2 484 mg O2/lpb 495 mg O2/lpb Total COD reaching the environment EN21 1,044 t O2 88 mg O2/l 113 mg O2/l Water habitats affected by water discharges EN25 0 Spills of chemicals, oils, fuels EN23 164 t 0.014 g/lpb 0.004 g/lpb PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Significant environmental impacts EN26 CFCs and HCFCs Percentage reclaimable products EN27 3rd party carriers Rate of returnable packaging 11% 12% Possible rate of packaging recycling see pp. 32-33 Achieved rate of packaging recycling see pp. 32-33 COMPLIANCE Incidents and fines EN28 6 minor incidents, no significant fine TRANSPORT ml/lpb ml/lpb Environmental impacts of transport EN29 3rd party carriers Number of vehicles 21,257 Fuel consumption (litres) 85,174,774 l. 7.2 6.3 EXPENDITURES Total environmental expenditures EN 30 not public Note: Core GRI indicators are indicated in bold typeface. Additional GRI indicators are indicated in normal typeface. 59 Social and Economic Data Table GRI TOPIC 2009 2010 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT LA1 Total workforce (no. of employees) 44,801 43,189 Full Time Equivalents (FTEs) 44,231 43,570 Permanent employees >95% >95% Training and Development LA10 Average training hours per employee 20 21 Human Rights HR4-7 No. of workplace accountability audits 13 2 HR4-7 No. of human rights violations resulting in litigation against the Company 0 0 Equality and Diversity LA13 Women in management 26.6% 24% LA14 Male-to-female salary equality 1% 2% EC7 Managers of local origin 88.0% 91% HR4 Breaches of equality legislation 0 0 Labour Rights LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining 46% 48% LA4 Employees belonging to independent trade unions 24% 27% Health and Safety LA7 Fatalities (includes contractors) 5 9 LA Accident incidence (accidents with >1 day absence per 100 employees) 1.4 1.1 LA7 Sickness absence (days absent) 262,537 233,898 LA7 Average Sickness Days per FTE 5.76% 5.36% No. of plants with OHSAS 18001 certification 53 65 % of production volume covered 76% 93% CONSUMER HEALTH No. of new product launches 100 100 Percentage of still beverages (juices, waters, etc.) 37% 36% Average calorie content (per 100ml) 30.3 30 PR3 Rollout of GDA labels in EU territories All sparkling beverages, 100% most others PR5 Consumer complaints (per million containers sold) 0.33 0.28 No. of plants with ISO 9001 certification 75 plants 75 plants (99% of volume) (99.6% of volume) No. of plants with ISO 22000 certification 58 plants 60 plants (82% of volume) (78% of volume) SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT HR2 No of independent SGP audits 35 61 EC1 Total supplier spend €3,955 million €4,030 million EC6 Spending within local territories (includes EU) 90% 90% COMMUNITY EC1 Economic benefits Income taxes €142 million €137 million Salaries & benefits €1,129 million €1.163 million Supplier spend €3,955 million €4,030 million Investment in community projects €12 million €9.5 million EC1 (1.9% pre-tax profit) (1.4% pre-tax profit) Employee volunteers 7,500 6,000 Political contributions 0 0 60 GRI Index The index below lists the disclosures and performance indicators covered in this report and in our Annual Report (AR). Text in italics refers to additional indicators. Disclosures on Management Approach can be found on the Coca-Cola Hellenic website, as well as further information on programmes. Indicator Page Indicator Page Indicator Page Strategy & Analysis Environmental Labour Practices & Decent Work 1.1 1, 5, 6-7, 8-9 EN1 31, 58 LA8 42 1.2 8-9, 14, 17, 25-26, 31, EN2 32 LA9 41-42 2 35, 41-44, 47-49, 50-51, 53-57 EN3 27, 58 LA10 43 EN4 58 LA12 43 Organisational Profile EN5 26-27, 49, 58 LA13 43-44 2.1 Front cover EN6 26-28, 49 LA14 44 2.2 2-3 EN7 28-29, 31, 49, 58 FP3 45 2.3 2-3 EN8 17-19 2.4 Inside back cover EN9 None Society 2.5 2-3 EN10 17 SO1 9, 15,17-18, 32-33, 45, 50-51 2.6 4 EN11 None SO2 11 2.7 2-3, 9, 14, 53 EN12 None SO3 12 2.8 2-3, 8-9, AR EN13 22-23 SO4 12 2.9 AR EN14 None SO5 14, 20, 25, 28, 32, 36-38 2.10 17, 21, 27, 29, 38, 41-42, 63 EN15 None SO6 None EN16 25-27, 59 SO7 Not reported publicly Report Parameters EN17 59 SO8 12 3.1 Contents EN18 26-29, 31-33 FP4 21, 36-38, 42, 55 3.2 2009 EN19 59 3.3 Annual EN20 59 Product Responsibility 3.4 Inside back cover EN21 18, 59 PR1 35-36, 39 3.5 Contents, 10 EN22 33, 59 PR2 39 3.6 Contents EN23 59 PR3 36 3.7 Contents EN24 59 PR4 N/A 3.8 Contents EN25 59 PR5 14, 37 3.9 Contents EN26 17-18, 26-28, 31-32, 49, 58-59 PR6 36-37 3.10 N/A EN27 32 PR7 37 3.11 Contents EN28 12, 59 PR9 12 3.12 62 EN29 27, 59 FP5 39 3.13 Contents, 64 EN30 Not reported publicly FP6 36 FP7 36 Governance, Commitments, Engagement Human Rights FP8 36 4.1 AR HR1 N/A 1 4.2 AR HR2 50 Economic 4.3 AR HR4 None EC1 2, 45, 53 4.4 12, 14-15, 44 HR5 None EC2 25, 26 4.5 11, 45, AR HR6 None EC3 42, 44, AR 4.6 AR HR7 None EC4 £6.75m 4.7 AR HR8 N/A EC5 45 4.8 10-12 HR9 N/A EC6 50 4.9 10-11 EC7 41, 43-44 4.10 10-11 Labour Practices & Decent Work EC8 21, 32-33, 54, 55 4.11 25 LA1 41 EC9 53 4.12 10-11, 25, 26, 28-29, 36-37, 50 LA2 16% 4.13 28, 32, 36-37 LA4 44 4.14 13-15 LA5 45 4.15 13 LA6 51 4.16 13-15 LA7 41-42 4.17 15 1. The Company has made no significant investment agreement in 2010. 2. The Company’s health and safety programmes are separate from union agreements. 61 Awards and Recognition Below are the most significant awards and recognitions for our sustainability programmes in 2010. Overall Energy and Climate Change • Bosnia – Socially Responsible Company of the Year Award, • Romania – Business with the most reduced impact on DOBRO ’10 the environment in Romania, Business Review Investment • Estonia – Most Socially Responsible Company in Estonia, Awards Gala Responsible Business Forum • Ireland – Energy Efficiency Award, Sustainable Ireland • Greece – Gold (highest category), 2nd Hellenic Corporate • Group – Platts Energy Industry Award (finalist) Responsibility Index • Group – International Green Fleet of the Year (3rd place), • Greece – Best Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Bravo CSR Fleet Europe Award, Quality Net Foundation • Lithuania – Environmental Company of the Year, UNDP Packaging and Recycling and Ministry of Environment • Slovakia – ECO TOP award for ULTRA glass, Slopak & Slo• Poland – Responsibility Laurel, Polish Confederation of venian Chamber of Commerce Private Employers Lewiatan; NSZZ Solidarnosc Trade • Bulgaria – Investor in Environment (My Green City), ReUnion and Deloitte sponsible Business Awards, Bulgarian Business Leaders Water Stewardship Forum • Romania – Environment Protection (2nd place I Recycle, • Group – Special Commendation for ‘Outstanding and susthus I Live), Civil Society Gala Awards tainable contribution to international water stewardship’, • Romania – Communication Campaign of the Year (Sep2010 Water Innovation Awards arate Collection Programme), International Business • Greece – Best Environmental Sustainability Initiative, 2010 Awards (Stevie Award) Water Innovation Awards • Romania – Gold Award, Community Relations (Separate • Greece – European Excellence Award (Mission Water) Collection Programme), League of American Communica• Greece – CSR Award, Greek Association of Advertising tions Professionals (distinction for water resources) • Belarus – Commendation, Ministry of Natural Resources & Environmental Protection Consumer Health • Hungary – CSR Best Practice, Hungarian PR Association • Greece – 2010 Hellenic CSR Excellence Awards • Italy – Confimprese award (water-saving and eco-sustain• Ireland – Big Tick Healthy Communities, Business in the ability) Community • Romania – Distinguished Honoree Medal (Adopt a river), • Serbia – Quality Champion (fruit juice category) & four gold International Business Awards (Stevie Award) medals for quality, International Agriculture fair in Novi Sad Following the wildfires that ravaged parts of Greece in 2007, our campaign For a third consecutive year, our Be Active programme on the island of ‘Some Forests have their own Aura’ is helping to rehabilitate forests. We have Ireland was awarded the prestigious Big Tick Healthy Communities award adopted five forested areas and planted 22,140 trees, pledging to maintain from Business in the Community. Working with sporting bodies and them over three years. The programme was named ‘Best Environmental councils, the programme engaged 106,000 participants in a wide variety of Sustainability Initiative’ at the 2010 Global Bottled Water Congress. sports. 62 • Bulgaria – National Competition for Innovations in Soft • Slovenia – Most Respected Employer, career web portal Beverages Industry 2010 (first all-natural sparkling soft Moje Delo drinks) • Serbia – Most Desirable Employer (2nd place), AIESEC • Group – International Fleet Safety Award, Fleet Europe Employee Development • Greece – Best Workplaces Hellas 2010 (1st Place) and Community Investment Best Workplaces in Europe (6th place) • Belarus – Belarusian Children’s Fund Commendation for • Ukraine – Best Employer in Ukraine and Best Employer long-term partnership in social programmes in Central & Eastern Europe 2009/2010 (2nd place), Hewitt • Estonia – Melissa F Wells Award for Corporate Citizenship; Associates Most Responsible Company in Tallinn • Ukraine – Best Employer for Students 2010, Ernst & Young • Latvia – Socially responsible partner, Junior Achievement survey of students – Young Enterprise Latvia • Croatia – Employer Partner Certificate, Selectio & Moj• Nigeria – Lagos State Government CSR Award for 2010 Posao • Poland – Pearl of Wielicki Poviat award • Czech Republic – Most Desired Company, AIESEC • Russia – Most Responsible Company in Krasnoyarsk; • Belarus – Best Employer 2010, SATIO Centre of System Most Responsible Company in Buriyat Republic; Volunteer Business Technologies of the Year (Moscow) • Bosnia – Employer Partner Certificate, Selectio • Serbia – AIESEC special award for contribution to Respon• Hungary – Best Employers Award, Hewitt Associates sible Youth-Sustainable Future • Italy – No.1 Employer of Choice in Sales, Survey of Busi• Ukraine – Diploma for contribution to social-economic and ness Students, University of Rome cultural development of Brovary District • Lithuania – Most Desirable Employer (3rd place), Business News • Moldova – Best Employer 2010, AXA Management ConAWARDS www.coca-colahellenic.com/aboutus/awards/ sultants • Poland – Top 100 Ideal Employers (7th place), UNIVERSUM • Romania – Employer of Choice for Young Talents 2010, Catalyst Recruitment Solutions • Russia – Attractive Employer Diploma & 14th place in Top 50 Dream Employers and Best Employer among FMCG Companies, Superjob and Headhunter job portals In 2010, our efforts to improve the safety performance of our fleet while In Romania, we gained the Employer of Choice for Young Talents award, reducing its environmental impacts were recognised with Fleet Europe one of 16 employer awards we gained during 2010. awards for fleet safety, environmental performance and fleet management. This was the first time a company had gained recognition in three categories at the same time. 63 Validation Statement Independent Assurance Report on the ReportScope, Standards and Criteria Used ing for 2010 We have performed our work to obtain moderate assurance that To the management and the stakeholders of Coca-Cola Hellenic the information in the Report is free of material misstatements. Bottling Company S.A. Furthermore, we planned and performed our work based on the denkstatt GmbH has been commissioned by the Coca-Cola GRI G3 and in accordance with the AA1000 AS (2008). We used the Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. (thereafter, “the Company”) to criteria in the AA1000APS to perform a Type 2 engagement and carry out an independent third party assurance engagement in acto obtain a moderate level of assurance regarding the nature and cordance with the AA1000 AS 2008 Assurance Standard (AA1000 extent of the Company’s adherence to the principles of inclusivity, AS (2008)) on the Company´s 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility materiality and responsiveness. (CSR) Report (thereafter, “the Report”) in its printed and downloadable pdf formats. We have reviewed the Report of the Company Methodology, Approach, Limitation and Scope for the financial year 2010, which comprises the contents of the of Work Report as well as the data. The assurance engagement has covered the nature and extent of the Company’s incorporation of the We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (AA1000APS (2008)) information and explanations that we considered necessary in principles (inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness) with respect relation to the above scope. Our work included the following proto stakeholder dialogue. Furthermore, the application level of the cedures using a range of evidence gathering activities which are Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3 1.0) has been further explained below: checked. • Inquiries and interviews with members of Executive Management, staff from the sustainability department, the reporting Management’s Responsibility department, as well as Management representing different The Company’s Management is responsible for preparing the functions in the Group, regarding the Company’s adherence Report and related web-text, and the information and statements to the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. within it. They are responsible for identification of stakeholders and This includes Management’s commitment to the principles, the material issues, for defining commitments with respect to corpoexistence of systems and procedures to support adherence to rate responsibility performance, and for establishing and maintainthe principles and the embedding of the principles at the coring appropriate performance management and internal control porate level. systems from which reported information is derived. Furthermore, • Understanding of relevant documentation. establishing data collection and registration, internal control systems to ensure reliable reporting, specifying acceptable reporting • Site visits to 10 bottling plants, with a focus on developing and criteria and choosing data to be collected for intended users of the emerging markets: Sarajevo (BosniaHerzegovina), Kostinbrod Report, as well as preparing the Report in accordance with the (Bulgaria), Abuja, Apapa (both Nigeria), Staniatki (Poland), PloiReporting Guidelines of GRI is the responsibility of the Company’s esti (Romania), Moscow, Davydovskoye, Yekaterinburg (all three Management. Russia), and Kiev (Ukraine). • Inquiries and spot tests regarding evidence of implemented proAssurance Provider’s Responsibility cedures and processes, as well as the Company´s policies (plant On the basis of our work, our responsibility is: and corporate level). • To express a conclusion on as well as to make recommenda• Requests and spot tests regarding selected evidence documentions for the nature and extent of the Company’s adherence to tation, to assess the existing systems for data collection and the AA1000APS (2008) principles. registration, and procedures to ensure reliable and consistent reporting from the plants to the corporate level. • To express a conclusion on the reliability of the information in the Report, whether it is in accordance with the criteria of the • Checking the GRI index in the Report, to ensure consistency with GRIGuidelines. the GRI application level requirements of A+. Our team of experts is competent and experienced in assurance The assurance scope covered the whole Report and focussed on engagements related to nonfinancial information. In addition, our systems and activities of the Company during the reporting peteam is competent and experienced in assessing nonfinancial inriod, with the following exceptions: formation and sustainability management, thus qualified to con• The scope of work did not involve verification of financial data duct this independent assurance engagement. During 2010 we (p. 2+3) and the sustainability milestones (p. 4+5). have not performed any tasks or services for the Company or other clients which would lead to a conflict of interest, nor have • The New Water Stewardship Policy is under development and we been responsible for the preparation of any part of the Report. has not been considered during the validation. 64 Findings and Conclusions indirect environmental impacts (such as CO2 emissions of cold drink equipment) and community involvement projects (London Regarding inclusivity: Benchmark Group). • The Company’s Management has a strong commitment to inclusivity and stakeholder engagement. Also, the Company has effective • The Company shows very good processes of sustainability mansystems in place for stakeholders to participate in the development agement with long term goals for water and energy. The Company of the organisation’s response to sustainable development issues, undertakes many efforts to work toward a low carbon industry particularly through the stakeholder panel at the corporate level. (climatefriendly refrigeration, QuadGeneration, CHP Technology). • However, processes at some bottling plants could be strengthBased on our review, nothing has come to our attention which causes ened to ensure the full range of stakeholders is identified and us not to believe that the information presented in the Report of the appropriately engaged. The role and selection criteria for the Company is free of material misstatements and has been stated in Company’s departments at the national level could be clearer to accordance with the criteria mentioned. Furthermore, nothing has ensure balanced representation and focused feedback. come to our attention causing us to believe that the Company does not adhere to the AA1000APS (2008) principles or with the GRI G3 Regarding materiality: guidelines application level requirements of A+. • The Company has a process in place to determine material issues at the management level. Also, the Company has in place a number of relevant senior management level governance bodies Recommendations to discuss, evaluate and determine the materiality of sustainabilThe following is an excerpt from the observations and opportuity issues on ongoing basis (CSR committee and CSR council). nities reported back to the Management of the Company to en• However, the criteria for assessing materiality are more inforcourage continual improvement. However, these do not affect our mal, which could lead to inconsistent assessments across the conclusions on the Report. operating companies. Emerging issues could also be better adRegarding inclusivity: dressed within the materiality assessment. • We recommend the Company to develop a more structured Regarding responsiveness: approach to stakeholder engagement at the local site level and • The Company is committed to being responsive to stakeholders consider implementing a formalised materiality assessment as is evident from the wide range of media, forums and comprocess that would assist in informing the content and prioritisamunication channels used by the Company to communicate on tion of information reported. sustainability issues. Regarding materiality: • The Company was found to be responsive especially to exter• We recommend that the process and criteria applied to assess nal stakeholder concerns and expectations. This was achieved materiality of nonfinancial issues is formalised and documented through the Company’s allocation of resources to stakeholder to ensure a consistent process. engagement, the timeliness and accessibility of reported inforRegarding responsiveness: mation, and the types of communication mechanisms regularly • We recommend improving the inclusion of internal stakeholder used. The responsiveness to internal stakeholder concerns is concerns through the involvement of local unions and working less structured and shows room for improvement. councils in the stakeholder panel and within CSR activities. • The Company’s group policies and guidance on management of • The amount of information on some relevant issues should be material issues are comprehensive; therefore most issues are increased, for example, the responsible sale and marketing well managed across the business. outside the European Union, as well as corruption prevention, Regarding performance information: especially in emerging and developing markets. • The findings of the assurance engagement provide confidence Additional recommendations: in the systems and processes used for managing and reporting • Implementation of long term goals for packaging, consumer sustainability performance information. Data trails selected were health, employee development, supplier engagement, and comidentifiable and traceable, and the personnel responsible were munity involvement. able to reliably demonstrate the origin(s) and interpretation of data. • Establishment of a formal process on the calculation of data to • The majority of data and information presented were found to be ensure reliability throughout the Company, especially for waste accurate. Some data inaccuracies identified were found to be atratio and the waste recycling ratio, as well as for the data on tributable to interpretation and aggregation errors. corporate volunteering. • Data management within the group is on a high level of reliVienna, 6 April, 2011 ability. Furthermore, the Company shows perfect calculation of denkstatt GmbH Willibald Kaltenbrunner Lead Auditor, Managing Director denkstat 65 Stakeholder Review Statement Coca-Cola Hellenic invited a panel of external stakeholders to assess the content and quality of its sustainability reporting for the first time. The statement below represents the panel’s assessment of the company’s 2010 Social Responsibility Report. We express our views as individuals, not on behalf of our organisations. amount of packaging to meet the needs of all stakeholders in the value chain, including consumers. In our view, water is the most difficult issue to analyse. While Coca-Cola Hellenic’s reporting on water stewardship is good, it would be interesting to learn in future reports about the company’s role in defining standards for corporate behaviour and performance related to water. On social aspects, Coca-Cola Hellenic could adopt and showcase a more pro-active attitude not only towards current sustainability issues but also to major upcoming trends, such as demographic changes. Such changes as the ageing population impact the company not only internally in terms of workforce, but also externally in terms of consumers. Quality of Reporting The 2010 report is very clear and accessible to a wide Relevance of Reported Topics range of readers. It is well structured – each chapter conThe Social Responsibility Report 2010 addresses all major tains challenges, key achievements and current efforts. In sustainability issues relevant to Coca-Cola Hellenic. We addition, the UN Global Compact and GRI indices allow for welcome the introduction of a section on sustainable ageasy navigation. The use of plain language, clear charts riculture and water use in the chapter ‘Supplier Engageand graphs, a visually comfortable presentation style and ment’. The more detailed discussion on the challenges of well-chosen illustrations and photography all combine to consumer health and obesity is positively noted. We also deliver a comprehensive and positive report. More speciffound more information on compliance and diversity isic case study boxes could illustrate and highlight achievesues than in previous reports. ments or best practices. We think, however, that the materiality analysis that deWe particularly like the consistent presentation of targets fined the company’s seven key focus areas should be and progress, even though in some instances these could explained more clearly. How are priorities identified and be more concrete, such as supplier engagement. We aphow do they drive the overall corporate agenda? plaud the decision to reintroduce independent verification. With so much information in one report, this helps to address the reader’s need for assurance that there is Processes and Achievements transparency and clarity in reporting results. Since the The report describes all the principal processes by which report contains mainly positive information, however, adCoca-Cola Hellenic’s operations impact on its stakeholddressing more challenges or non-achievements would ers and the environment. It adequately and quantitatively add to the credibility of the report. assesses the magnitude of immediate impacts. The chapIn future, sustainability reporting is likely to face the chalter on packaging reports according to all standard envilenge of meeting diverging information needs of invesronmental parameters, including source reduction, recytors, consumers, academia and NGOs. We think that in its cling, recycled content and sustainable material sourcing. current form, Coca-Cola Hellenic’s report will not meet Nevertheless, the importance of packaging optimisation these expectations. For example, water experts may be is not clearly communicated: using the right type and interested in a water balance map for each hydrological 66 system from which the company and its suppliers take are outstanding. Nevertheless, we encourage Coca-Cola water, understanding how this is balanced against inHellenic to build on its strong reporting and to consider dustrial and domestic water use and how this affects the these recommendations in preparing future reports. vulnerability of individual catchments. We look forward The aspiration for a sustainable global society depends to discussing innovative ways to further evolve the comgreatly on the responsibility and creativity of private inpany’s reporting. dustry. If the potential of private industry is to be realized, powerful leadership will be required from major companies. We urge the company to continue its efforts Conclusion in influencing, by example and persuasion, other major Coca-Cola Hellenic’s 2010 report includes the most matecompanies and their supply chains to develop their straterial sustainability issues faced by the company. We believe gies for sustainability. that the scope, depth, and achievement levels reported Participants and Process In November 2010, the Stakeholder Panel met to discuss Coca-Cola Hellenic’s sustainability programmes in advance of the 2010 report’s development. The panel then assessed the report in a two-stage process. Stage one was an analysis of the initial draft, designed to identify errors or omissions and to suggest how the report could be improved. Stage two was a formal assessment of the report that included a telephone conference in March 2011. An honorarium was offered for our contribution to the review statement. The Stakeholder Panel includes the following individuals: • Alain Beaumont, UNESDA • Oliver Johner, Fondation Guilé (Chair) • Professor Geoffrey Boulton, University of Edinburgh • Stuart Orr, WWF International • Julian Carroll, EUROPEN (European Organisation for • Stephan Savic, AGRANA Beteiligungs-AG Packaging and the Environment) • Philip Weller, ICPDR Secretariat • Sarah Dekkiche, CSR Europe • Venia Zafolia, Frigoglass • Dr. Aileen Ionescu-Somers, IMD’s Centre for Corporate Sustainability Management 67 Glossary of Terms AIESEC: the world’s largest student-run organisation that focusISO: International Standards Organisation es on providing a platform for youth leadership development. KPI: Key Performance Indicator Bottlers: Business entities that sell, manufacture, and distribLandfilled Waste: Waste from bottling operations which is not ute beverages of The Coca-Cola Company under a franchise recycled, re-used or incinerated with heat recovery, but which agreement is sent to landfill for disposal Bottling Plant: A beverage production facility, including associated warehouses, workshops, and other on-site buildings and LBG (London Benchmarking Group) Model: This tool is used installations by leading businesses to measure corporate community involvement Caring for Climate: This framework allows UN Global Compact participants to advance practical solutions to climate change Lightweighting: Reducing the amount of raw materials used to and help shape public policy and public attitudes produce lighter packaging CEO Water Mandate: Launched by the UN Global Compact, Litres of Produced Beverages (lpb): Unit of reference for enthis is a call to action and a strategic framework for compavironmental indicators nies to address water sustainability in their operations and Operations: manufacturing activities (bottling plants) and distrisupply chains bution activities (vehicles) under our operational control Coca-Cola Hellenic: Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate): A form of polyester used to and, as the context may require, its subsidiaries and joint ventures. Also referred to as “the Company” or “the Group” make lightweight, shatter-resistant bottles for beverages, food and non-food. PET can be recycled into new containers, clothCoca-Cola System: The business system comprising The ing, carpeting, automotive parts and industrial materials Coca-Cola Company and its bottling partners PET-to-PET or Bottle-to-Bottle: A recycling system for postCold Drink Equipment (CDE): Coolers, vending machines and consumer PET bottles. Used bottles are collected, sorted, fountains in the marketplace that cool beverages for immediate cleaned, ground and transformed into new material for manuconsumption facture in PET bottle preforms Combined Heat and Power (CHP): A power generation system that can produce power, heat, cooling and in some cases CO2 in Plant: Also referred to as bottling plant, a beverage production a combined process facility, including associated warehouses, workshops, and other on-site buildings and installations Consumer: Person who drinks Coca-Cola Hellenic’s beverages Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs): Coca-Cola Hellenic’s soCustomer: Retail outlet, restaurant or any other business that cial and environmental requirements for suppliers sells or serves Coca-Cola Hellenic products to consumers SIFE: An international non-profit organisation that works with CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility business and higher education to help students become soDistribution: Getting the product from bottling plant to marketcially responsible business leaders place; includes sales, delivery, merchandising and local account management The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC): The world’s leading producer of non-alcoholic concentrates and syrups used to produce Energy Use Ratio: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to meanearly 400 beverage types under licence agreements sure energy consumption in the bottling plants, expressed in megajoules of energy consumed per litre of produced beverUNESDA: The Union of European Beverages Associations is age (MJ/lpb) the European trade association representing the non-alcoholic EU Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and Health: beverages industry A multi-stakeholder initiative to combat overweight and proUN Global Compact (UNGC): The world’s largest corporate citimote physical activity zenship initiative provides a framework for businesses to align GDA: Guideline Daily Amount strategies with its ten principles promoting labour rights, human rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): The GRI sustainability reporting guidelines are the most widely used framework for reportWaste Ratio: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to measure ing CSR performance waste generation in the bottling plant, expressed in grammes of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol: This widely used internationwaste generated per litre of produced beverage (g/lpb) al accounting tool allows organisations to quantify and manage Waste Recycling: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to meagreenhouse gas emissions sure the percentage of production waste at bottling plants that Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC): Chemical compound used in coolis recycled or recovered ing equipment, which contributes to global warming Water Use Ratio: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to meaICPDR: The International Commission for the Protection of the sure water use in the bottling plant, expressed in litres of water Danube River is our partner in the Green Danube programme used per litre of produced beverage (l/lpb) 68 Design and production: Peak advertising. Photography: Mark Fallander. Consultant: Katie Meech. Printing: Baxas S.A. Paper: Greencoat Plus Velvet contains 60% recycled fibre and 40% fibre from FSC forests. Emerging markets Armenia Montenegro Belarus Nigeria Bosnia and Romania Herzegovina Russia Bulgaria Serbia FYROM Ukraine Moldova Developing markets Croatia Lithuania Czech Republic Poland Estonia Slovakia Hungary Slovenia Latvia Established markets Austria Northern Ireland Cyprus Republic of Ireland Greece Switzerland Italy Published by Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. 9, Fragoklissias Str., 151 25 Maroussi, Athens, Greece, tel.: +30 210 618 3100, fax: +30 210 619 5514 www.coca-colahellenic.com sustainability@cchellenic.com
