COP Report Table of Contents Message from the Chairman 3 Company Profile 4 Sustainability Development 6 II. Active Projects in Progress 6 2.1 Projects and Activities Related to the Environment 6 2.1.1 Zero Carbon Rooms 6 2.1.2 Swimming Pools Heating System Using Solar Energy 6 2.1.3 Waste Separation 6 2.1.4 Improving Environment Safety Added Policy 6 Outcomes Measurement 6 2.2 Projects and Activities Related to Labor and Human Rights 7 2.2.1 Suggestions and Complains “Speak Up” Box 7 2.2.2 Anti-Corruption Policies 7 2.2.3 Employees Health Care Improvement 7 2.2.4 Employee Satisfaction Survey 7 Outcomes Measurement 7 III. Future Projects to be Implemented 8 3.1 Projects and Activities Related to Environment 8 3.1.1 Waste Recycling Unit 8 3.1.2 Street Lightening With LED Lamps 8 3.2 Projects and Activities Related to Labor and Human Rights 8 3.2.1 Employees’ Satisfaction Survey Report 8 3.2.2 CSR Awareness Raising Session 8 3.2.3 Employees Motivation Programs 8 3.2.4 Relief Programs 8 IV. Supply Chain 9 V. Local Community 9 2 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report Message from the Chairman I am writing this message during very exciting time for my country. Egypt is going through changes towards democracy and freedom. I do not see a better time to increase our dedication to Social Responsibility and Corporate Citizenship. Oriental Resorts is already playing a role in both issues as shown inside the COP. However, I strongly believe that our future role will be much greater and will have a bigger and faster effect. I am extremely optimistic about the future of my Country. Hussein Sabbour Chairman 3 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report Company Profile Oriental Resorts was founded in 1996 by some of Egypt’s most respected and biggest companies in the field of real estate, finance and industry. From the very inception Oriental Resorts has had a clear vision and determined goal, as written in its Mission Statement: To play a major role in the evolution of Egyptian tourism and create diverse and unique projects, that cater to every need and offer a wide variety of experiences making the visit to Egypt unforgettable. The successes Oriental Resorts has enjoyed to date can be directly linked to the combined expertise of the founders, who between them share a wealth of experience, industry knowledge and impeccable track records in development and delivery. AL-AHLY Real Estate Development Company, a leader in the Egyptian real estate sector that has become one of the biggest companies in Egypt. Projects developed by the company include the Arkadia Mall, Saridar offices and clinics and a number of Residential compounds. The National Bank Of Egypt, the largest bank in Egypt. Oriental Weavers, one of the biggest industrial groups in Egypt. Hussein Sabbour, who holds more than 40 years of experience as a consultant engineer and is renowned for lending his skills and experience to projects like Sadat City, The Underground and the Semiramis Intercontinental. Touristic Real Estate: Oriental Resort Hotel A Feel of Natural Beauty Oriental Resort is an elegant 5-star hotel that is situated in Nabq Bay, 6 kilometers North of Sharm El Sheikh International Airport and 18 kilometers from Naama Bay. Embraced by the spectacular desert and the endless blue of the Red Sea, Oriental Resort offers a unique location where visitors can enjoy exploring the coral reefs, aquatic life and protected parks. Sports lovers will revel in the rich variety of activities including diving, snorkeling and water sports. Nabq Bay was declared a protected area in 1992 and Nabq ranks among the finest destinations for its great biological and natural diversity. Feel at Home Our 380 spacious & luxurious rooms, presidential and royal suites are beautifully decorated, each with a private balcony and the latest modern amenities for your ultimate comfort. Sensational Dining International gourmet specialties are served all around the hotel in the amazing mélange of restaurants & entertainment outlets. Corporate Division Fully equipped meeting & conference facilities that offer comprehensive functions for business or corporate gatherings ensuring achievement of optimum results. 4 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report Sun, Sea & Sand... Unlimited leisure & recreational pursuits are available to meet every guests desire. The grounds of Oriental Resort sport a fully equipped health club, a private sandy beach including a variety of water sports as well as a large pool, a water slide, 2 squash courts, 2 floodlight tennis courts, an amphitheater, a children’s pool & playground and a kid’s club. Commercial Real Estate: La Strada The vibrant heart of Nabq Bay La Strada is the entertainment centre of Nabq. Nabq has developed into a diverse resort town, quickly becoming the first choice of tourists coming to Sharm El Sheikh. With its luxurious resorts and vast sandy beaches overlooking Tiran Island, Nabq has 20,000+ hotel rooms, making it the fastest growing resort town on the Red Sea. Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development has created La Strada to cater to people of all ages. An open-air affair with spacious walkways featuring shops, restaurants and a sizzling night life; not only the place to shop, but also to mix, mingle, dine, hear music and enjoy the attractive outdoor areas. La Strada is located in the centre of Nabq and a short walk from all the major resorts of the area. With its unique architecture emphasizing convenience and entertainment, its large variety of shops, restaurants and coffee shops, La Strada has become the favorite of residents and visitors alike. Residential Real Estate: Sharm Residence Sharm Residence is a Residential complex consisting of separate villas, semi attached villas and studios. The development of the project started in 2005 and soon became one of the most sought after residential complexes in Sharm El Sheikh. The complex consists of 197 units, divided over 61 separate villas, 22 semi-attached villas and 114 studios. Sharm Residence has developed in a community of local and international residents that enjoy the sports and beach and pool facilities of the nearby Oriental Resort Hotel. 5 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report Sustainability Development As a new member in the UN Global Compact Initiative, Oriental Resorts introduced a number of initiatives and projects addressing three pillars of the GC principals, Environment, Labor Rights and Anti corruption. II. Active Projects in Progress 2.1 Projects and Activities Related to the Environment 2.1.1 Zero Carbon Rooms We are proud to be the first hotel owning company in Egypt to provide zero carbon emission rooms in our ORIENTAL RESORT. A specialized company was contracted to measure the carbon emissions of the hotel and calculate the share of each hotel room. According to these calculations we purchased carbon credits to offset the emissions of ten rooms. This initiative proved to be profit making as these rooms were sold at a premium to environmentally conscious hotel guests . 2.1.2 Swimming Pools Heating System Using Solar Energy The heating system of the new swimming pool added to the hotel facilities is done using solar energy technology in order not to increase electricity consumption and the carbon emissions of the hotel. 2.1.3 Waste Separation Oriental Resort Hotel in Sharm El Sheikh provides separate organic and non organic waste bins in all areas for guests and employees to dispose of their waste separately. 2.1.4 Improving Environment Safety Added Policy Oriental Resorts has issued a policy for ensuring workplace health and safety and preventing physical risks such as high temperature in workplace, noise and vibrations, high/low light, risky and dangerous emissions, static and dynamic electricity as well as explosions risks. Also the policy states the Company’s commitment towards saving the energy in all its activities and projects as well as increasing green areas. Additionally, employees are requested to consider saving the environment while performing their daily tasks, each within his/her work area, i.e., paper recycling, economical printing…etc. Outcomes Measurement Numerous beneficial and energy saving benefits have been achieved after implementing several environmental projects that cope with Global Compact Environment principles. A number of 98.5 ton of CO2e (carbon emissions) were neutralized and offset from a number of 10 rooms in Oriental Resort Hotel. More energy was saved by using solar energy for heating swimming pools. 6 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report 2.2 Projects and Activities Related to Labor and Human Rights 2.2.1 Suggestions and Complains “Speak Up” Box One of the implemented activities that guarantees labor right in submitting freely any complains or suggestions they might have is the “Speak Up” Box. A number of 3 “Speak Up” boxes were designed and placed in the hotel as well as the Company’s two offices in Cairo and Sharm. A policy was issued by the HR Department that organizes the procedures of submitting, receiving and handling employee complaints and suggestions. By implementing such an activity, two main benefits are achieved. A spirit of cooperation and home-like feeling is created among workers when they find that their voice is reached to the Top Management which will benefit the Company by achieving higher levels of performance and successes, leading at the end to more profit gain. 2.2.2 Anti-Corruption Policies “Work Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy” is one of Oriental Resorts’ issued policies that informs employees of their duties and responsibilities during performing their daily work tasks among which, preventing employees from doing any work against well-known work ethics and behaviors either internally or with external relations with other institutions and organizations. 2.2.3 Employees Health Care Improvement A thorough medical insurance is implemented for owning company employees that guarantee full medical coverage in all health care aspects as well as 100% coverage of medication for all employees and also for one family member. Oriental Resorts is planning to improve and widen its health care services by applying the service to employees’ additional family members as well. 2.2.4 Employee Satisfaction Survey A comprehensive Employee Satisfaction Survey was developed by a specialized consultancy firm and was conducted on all top, middle and executive managerial levels covering all company’ hierarchical chart. The Survey covered all different areas of interest in a professional way that could extract after report production an accurate overview about employees as well as company’s strength and weak points in order to facilitate in the future the planning process for strengthening positive aspects and defeating weak ones. Outcomes Measurement Beside the quick results achieved by implementing Suggestions and Complaints Box, and as Oriental Resorts is still a new member in the Global Compact Initiative and has recently started modifying and tailoring its work policies and strategies to adapt with the 10 principles of the Global Compact, therefore, the company remains in the monitoring and evaluation process of all applied policies and actions in Labor area with keeping an eye on two main indicators like leaves/absence and turnover and by next year, the company will be presenting more detailed statistics on achieved results using well-known measurement indices. 7 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report III. Future Projects to be Implemented 3.1 Projects and Activities Related to Environment 3.1.1 Waste Recycling Unit Oriental Resorts is planning to conduct feasibility studies as a start for building a Waste Recycling unit to be owned by the company in order to save expenditures and guarantees accurate operations of collection and recycling of hotel waste. 3.1.2 Street Lightening With LED Lamps Company’s Board Meeting has approved using LED Lamps for lightening in all Company’s new Projects for the purpose of energy saving. 3.2 Projects and Activities Related to Labor and Human Rights 3.2.1 Employees’ Satisfaction Survey Report The Report is currently in the process of production with all related charts and diagrams in order to give an accurate and comprehensive overview about company’s status for the current year to make it much easier to enhance current situation in the future. 3.2.2 CSR Awareness Raising Session In the very near future the Company will provide an awareness raising for the members of the Board of Directors as well as another session for all mangers for the purpose of integrating CSR and GC principals in all company’s internal as well as external work. 3.2.3 Employees Motivation Programs Oriental Resorts is keen about its employees’ level of satisfaction, therefore, a number of different motivation programs will be implemented such as evaluations done on a quarterly basis for rewarding professional and effective employees which result in the form of incentives. Also there are recreation programs like external outgoings and gatherings. 3.2.4 Relief Programs Due to the great revolution that took place in Egypt, there has been a slow down in economical activities that we expect will soon end and the country will enter a new era in which Egypt is destined for greatness. However, some poor families who used to earn their living on daily basis are suffering during this interim period. Since tourism was one of the affected fields we decided on the following: No layoffs whatsoever will take place in Oriental Resorts. A fully paid vacation will be given to the temporarily unneeded hotel employees in turns. The employees on paid vacation will be given the option of donating time and effort with an NGO helping the affected families with their basic needs. 8 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report IV. Supply Chain The Company drafted a Contract Appendix that introduces and explains all Global Compact 10 Principles. The Appendix also states clearly that the other party has to commit to all GC principles. This Appendix will be attached to all signed contracts in order to spread the Global Compact principles among our supply chain. V. Local Community As we have a very good understanding of our duty towards the local community , the company’s last Board Meeting approved building workshops in South Sinai for families that were victims of latest Sinai floods. The workshops will be designed to offer hundreds of work opportunities for locals as a way of helping them generate income to help them cover their life expenditures. Communications and arrangements with Governorate representatives are currently in progress in order to get the land to start building the workshop to accelerate the beginning of such a project. The workshops will be donated to members of the local victims at no cost. 9 Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development – Global Compact COP Report
