Sustainability Report 2010 gold sustainable Our vision to be the leading mining company Our mission To create value for our shareholders, our employees and our business and social partners through safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing our products. Our primary focus is gold and we will pursue value creating opportunities in other minerals where we can leverage our existing assets, skills and experience to enhance the delivery of value. Our values Safety is our first value. We are accountable for our actions and undertake to deliver on our We place people first and correspondingly put the highest commitments. priority on safe and healthy practices and systems of work. We are responsible for seeking out new and innovative ways to We are focused on delivering results and we do what we say ensure that our workplaces are free of occupational injury and we will do. We accept responsibility and hold ourselves illness. We live each day for each other and use our collective accountable for our work, our behaviour, our ethics and our commitment, talents, resources and systems to deliver on our actions. We aim to deliver high performance outcomes and most important commitment ... to care. undertake to deliver on our commitments to our colleagues, business and social partners, and our investors. We treat each other with dignity and respect. The communities and societies in which we operate will be better off for We believe that individuals who are treated with respect and AngloGold Ashanti having been there. who are entrusted to take responsibility respond by giving their best. We seek to preserve people's dignity, their sense of We uphold and promote fundamental human rights where we self-worth in all our interactions, respecting them for who they do business. We contribute to building productive, respectful are and valuing the unique contribution that they can make to and mutually beneficial partnerships in the communities in our business success. We are honest with ourselves and which we operate. We aim to leave host communities with a others, and we deal ethically with all of our business and sustainable future. social partners. We respect the environment. We value diversity. We are committed to continually improving our processes in We aim to be a global leader with the right people for the right order to prevent pollution, minimise waste, increase our jobs. We promote inclusion and team work, deriving benefit from carbon efficiency and make efficient use of natural resources. the rich diversity of the cultures, ideas, experiences and skills that We will develop innovative solutions to mitigate environmental each employee brings to the business. and climate risks. P1 Contents Our areas of focus in this report Part 1: Our context and commitments Our sustainability performance in 2010 P3 CEO’s letter P4 Our commitments P6 Sustainable Gold – our report P12 Stakeholder engagement P13 About AngloGold Ashanti P14 Ethics and governance P16 Project ONE P18 AngloGold Ashanti and people P19 Part 2: Our key focus areas Improving operational safety performance P21 Managing health issues P25 Human rights and business P29 AngloGold Ashanti and communities P33 A life cycle approach: exploration and closure P41 Environmental and natural resource stewardship P46 Additional and supplementary information can be found at: The table opposite shows performance indicators relating to the key areas www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability of focus of this report which represent the most important sustainability <http://www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability> challenges – and opportunities – in our business. Registered and corporate office Contact person for the report ‘Sustainable Gold’ 76 Jeppe Street, Newtown Lebo Nkadimeng Johannesburg, Gauteng, 2001 Telephone: +27 11 637 6515 South Africa Fax: +27 86 639 6905 P O Box 62117, Marshalltown Email: lnkadimeng@anglogoldashanti.com Gauteng, 2107 Website: www.anglogoldashanti.com South Africa Telephone: +27 11 637 6000 Fax: +27 11 637 6624 P2 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Contents Our sustainability performance in 2010 2010 2009 2008 Operational safety (pages 21 to 24) Number of fatalities 15 15 (1) 14 All injury frequency rate (AIFR) (2) 11.50 12.88 16.66 Employee and community health(3) (pages 25 to 28) New cases of silicosis 459 409 442 Incidence of compensable noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) (per 100 employees) 2.00 2.36 2.60 Incidence of malaria (per 100 employees) 25 37 42 Percentage of relevant employees provided with anti-retroviral therapy (ART) 75% 87% 76% Human rights (pages 29 to 32) Incidents under the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) 2 1 3 Allegations under the VPSHR 6 4 6 Percentage of security personnel trained in the VPSHR 88% 86% 75%(4) Communities (pages 33 to 40) Economic value generated ($m) 5,620 4,059(1) 3,800 Payments to government ($000) 844,321 644,252 534,549 Community investment ($000) 16,080 10,881 8,441 Environmental and natural resource stewardship (pages 46 to 52) Energy usage (Million GJ) 30.6 29.8(1) 29.4 Greenhouse gas emissions (Mt CO2e) 4.70 4.61(1) 4.55 Water usage (ML) 54,664 55,138 53,617 Number of reportable environmental incidents 27 51(1) 55 Number (percentage) of relevant sites with full Cyanide Code certification (5) 15 (79%) 12 (63%) 8 (42%) (1) Figures have been restated – refer to the relevant section of the report or online supplementary information for an explanation of the restatement. (2) The total number of injuries and fatalities per million hours worked. (3) Data on silicosis, NIHL and ART apply to South Africa only, although small numbers of employees receive ART in other countries. Data on malaria applies to Ghana, Tanzania, Guinea and Mali only. (4) Estimated data. (5)) Cyanide is used at 19 of our operations. P3 CEO’s letter Since 2008, as members of the AngloGold Ashanti team, we have all been working to rebuild our business to ensure we are Mark Cutifani, Chief positioned to realise our full potential. Our strategy has been Podcast: Executive Officer based on the establishment of a stable growth foundation – we have regenerated our financial capacity and reinvigorated operational performance, including the delivery of substantial “ We will only achieve our vision if we can prove our ability to improvements in safety performance, while constructing an operate sensitively to and with exciting range of new projects and development opportunities. our communities, to partner with Together, these initiatives are designed to position AngloGold Ashanti to deliver long-term sustainable value for all its business them to create ‘enduring value’. ” and social stakeholders. In our world the concept of sustainability, the creation of a better present and future for all Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com of our partners, can only be secured if we are navigating our future together with local communities. continued incidence of silicosis, stubbornly high HIV prevalence Our vision is to be ‘the leading mining company’. We will only rates, the related scourge of tuberculosis and a continuing achieve this vision if we can prove our ability to operate incidence of noise-induced hearing loss. In Continental Africa, sensitively to and with our host communities, to demonstrate we mine in areas where malaria is endemic and carries a major that we will partner with them to create ‘enduring value’. We health risk for employees and communities. recognise that ‘enduring value’ is a relative concept and can only be defined in the eyes of each partner – the challenge is to We have made significant progress in bringing down malaria find common ground upon which we both see enduring value incidence rates in Obuasi, one of the worst-affected areas, and as it relates to our respective needs. AngloGold Ashanti is will continue to work in 2011 to replicate the integrated committed to the journey that discovers where these needs approach that has been so successful there in other affected intersect – to help build our company and the communities in regions where we operate, as well as in other areas of Ghana, which we operate. at the request of the Ghanaian authorities, through a substantial grant from the Global Fund. In the shorter term we need to develop appropriate responses to the many sustainability challenges that we face in operating We are addressing the incidence of silicosis by reinforced across geographically and culturally diverse landscapes. In the information and education, reducing the exposure of long term we must be defined by the nature of our employees to silica dust and measuring exposure more relationships with our business and social partners. effectively to help us more effectively manage all aspects of our operations. Unfortunately, we are unlikely to see the results of What are these challenges and how are we addressing them this work for another decade due to the long latency period of now? Improving safety performance is our most important the disease. In the meantime, we continue to offer vulnerable business goal and remains our most significant business employees the means to improve their wellness, particularly by challenge. In 2010 we took two critical steps towards realising combating HIV and tuberculosis, both of which aggravate the our long-term goal of operating an accident-free business – we affect of silicosis. launched our safety transformation project and we undertook the detailed design work that was required to integrate safety Responsible environmental stewardship and the effective transformation into our Project ONE operating model. Our management of scarce natural resources are important to us approach to safety incorporates three elements – engaging in living to our value of respect for the environment. While we people in the work of creating a safe environment, building are improving processes in this area, we regrettably had cause robust systems which support safe work and managing risks to temporarily suspend or curtail production at our two effectively through appropriate controls at all levels. Integrating operations in Ghana during 2010, in order to remediate waterthis thinking into the DNA of the business is essential if we are related concerns. We are addressing these challenges in part to make sustainable gains in safety performance. through the establishment of a task force in the region, with a team member dedicated to sustainability issues. We made While safety in the workplace is our main concern, the overall significant progress in reducing environmental incidents in health and wellbeing of our employees is a major consideration 2010, through a concerted effort in South Africa to address for the same reason – people are our business and their nagging problems that were causing repeated incidents. In the wellbeing takes precedence. In South Africa, where we have a meantime, we continue to develop company-wide approaches large workforce, many of whom are migrant workers, there is a to longer-term issues such as energy and water security. P4 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 CEO’s letter A burgeoning priority area of focus in 2010 was developing a AngloGold Ashanti as a supporter and contributor in their clearer understanding of the steps necessary to ensure that development. This is essential if we are to fulfil our promise of our business operates with due respect for human rights. We leaving communities better off for our presence. operate in regions where communities are vulnerable and we therefore need to be uncompromising in our commitment to Success in this regard is possible, and the positive outcomes respect for human rights and intolerant of corruption in all of its already experienced in the limited application of this approach forms. Such an approach is simply the consequence of our are confirmation that it is. In Argentina, for example, we have belief that people are our business. worked with the community, government and local businesses to sustainably regenerate a region that was in economic We continue to progress the integration of human rights issues decline. In Ghana, we have co-developed projects with local into our security strategy, by embedding the Voluntary communities and, notwithstanding setbacks that still occur, Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) into all are starting to reverse a cycle of mistrust that has been allowed aspects of security management. In 2011, we will continue to develop between the mines and the communities over with this work and will also examine the implications of the several decades. work that is underway in the UN on human rights and business for other areas, for example, in applying due diligence on Our challenge is to take these successes and replicate them human rights issues in our operations and in respect of our consistently in our business, and therefore one of the most supply chain dealings. important aspects of our strategy is how we integrate it into the company’s operating model, through Project ONE. This is Against a backdrop of increasing consumer concern about the essential as we develop a culture of learning to build impact and origin of the products that they purchase, we are successes over the longer term. continuing our active engagement with the World Gold Council and the Responsible Jewellery Council to develop industry Proactive management of sustainability challenges will bring standards for responsible gold production and chain of substantial benefits to the company and assist in securing the custody. In 2010, legislation was passed in the USA which will long-term future of our operations. We believe this approach is give consumers greater transparency over the chain of custody more likely to help instil a sense of pride in our employees – of products manufactured with gold from the Democratic that will be reflected through more constructive relationships Republic of the Congo and its neighbours. We are proactively within our communities. engaging with governments in the region and with the USA government to understand the implications of this legislation and in particular to avoid measures that might inadvertently Important reference points for our strategy have been the work stigmatise gold produced responsibly in the region. undertaken through various industry and government bodies on sustainability issues, particularly as they relate to the mining sector. We continue to support the International Council on The sustainability challenges that we face are as significant as Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the work of bodies such as the they are varied and require a considered strategic response Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). We also from AngloGold Ashanti. In 2010, we started the development support the goals and objectives of the UN Global Compact of a sustainability strategy that not only addresses priority principles. Together with our core values, these international areas of concern but also seeks to achieve competitive standards provide a guideline for implementation of our strategy. advantage for the company through excellence and innovation in sustainability practice. AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability vision will take time to fully realise, but we believe that success will allow us to provide a A key objective of this strategy is to achieve a fundamental shift in the nature of our engagement with communities. The mining better set of outcomes for our industry and its stakeholders. industry has a legacy of paternalistic relationships with We are working together with our independent sustainability communities and – in many ways – AngloGold Ashanti has not review panel – a carefully selected collegium of independent been an exception to this rule. This is hardly surprising as mining experts – in order to achieve this arm’s length critique of our companies are so often better resourced and more formally approach and our progress. structured than the communities which host them. We have always tried to engage respectfully and in the spirit of good I look forward to keeping you updated on progress as this neighbours, but in some cases have tended to direct important area of our work develops. engagement efforts rather than viewing communities as partners. Our aim is to develop an approach that enables communities to Mark Cutifani play the dominant role in designing their economic future, with Chief executive officer P5 Our commitments In this section of the report, we report on progress against commitments made in our 2009 report and set out commitments for 2011 and beyond. These commitments are grouped according to the key focus areas of our report. In 2011, we will also be working to develop a sustainability strategy for the business, which will enable us to better define our priority areas of activity. Improving operational safety performance Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Achieving a further 20% reduction in We achieved a reduction of 11% in our all injury frequency rate in 2010. Although this is the all injury frequency rate with the short of our target for the year, we are pleased to be able to report a 45% improvement long-term objective of operating an in the all injury frequency rate since 2007, from 20.95 in 2007 to 11.50 in 2010. Due to accident-free business the transformational nature of our safety interventions, our expectation was that improvements would be achieved through a series of step changes. Begin implementation of the Safety Implementation of the Safety Transformation project has begun – the project was Transformation project launched in May 2010. Significant work was undertaken on integrating the project into the operating framework of the business. Our 2011 commitments In 2011, we aim to achieve continued improvement in safety performance towards our 2015 business goal of an all injury frequency rate of less than 9 per million hours worked. Our target to reduce fatalities by 70% by 2012 (from a 2007 baseline) remains intact. Work is underway to continue implementation of safety transformation within Project ONE in 2011 through: • completion of guidelines by mid-2011 to support roll out of the global safety standards; • implementation of a new model and process for accident investigation; • a review of organisational safety capabilities; and • development of operational safety plans to business unit teams. Managing health issues Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Elimination of new cases of silicosis We are working towards achievement of this industry milestone. Due to the latency after December 2013 among period of the disease we are not yet able to provide a meaningful assessment of this employees in South Africa with no group of employees. We have, however, met and exceeded industry milestones on silica occupational exposure prior to 2008 dust exposure as one of the measures in place to combat this disease and have set lower internal benchmarks for exposure. Intensify hearing conservation We are working towards achievement of this industry milestone. It is still too early to programmes and continue to silence – provide a meaningful assessment of this group of employees due to the latent nature of to acceptable levels – all identified this disability. noise equipment in order to achieve the industry milestone of no We have been in compliance with the 2013 industry noise targets since 2008 and have deterioration in hearing greater than now set lower internal benchmarks. 10% among occupationally-exposed individuals at South African operations P6 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Our commitments Managing health issues continued Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Maintain a rate of 80% of South 74% of South African employees attended VCT during 2010. The uptake of VCT African employees attending voluntary programmes has been falling since 2008. Programmes relating to the prevention of counselling and testing for HIV (VCT) HIV/AIDS have been in place at AngloGold Ashanti since 2000 and numbers of during 2010, excluding current employees presenting themselves for VCT are declining. Communications and wellness clinic attendees awareness efforts continue, as does the provision of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) and wellness programmes to affected employees. Reduce by 50% the number of Over 4,000 employees attended wellness programmes in 2010 and ART continues to avoidable drop-outs from wellness be supplied to approximately 2,500 employees for whom this treatment is clinically programmes in 2010 indicated. We have not been able to measure the number of drop-outs from wellness programmes accurately, due to the difficulty of establishing the cause of an employee discontinuing treatment. Reduce occupational tuberculosis (TB) We have achieved this target. The incidence of TB among South African employees was incidence to 3% of all South African reduced to 2.64% in 2010. employees by 2010 Successfully cure 85% of new TB Over 90% of new cases were successfully cured in 2009. Data for 2010 is not yet cases in 2010 available as treatment programmes for TB last between six and eight months. Our 2011 commitments To progress our health strategy, we intend to undertake health risk assessments and health system audits at our operations in Continental Africa by the end of 2011 and complete health risk assessments and health system audits for the balance of our operations by the end of 2012. We have set the following goals relating to wellness and occupational environment: • continue progress towards the industry milestone of no new cases of silicosis among previously unexposed employees in South Africa (2008 onwards) after December 2013; • meet the industry milestone of no deterioration in hearing greater than 10% among occupationally-exposed individuals at South African operations; • roll out integrated malaria programmes, drawing on the model implemented at Obuasi in Ghana, at operations in Mali, Tanzania and Guinea; and • in South Africa, continue efforts to reduce occupational tuberculosis (TB) incidence to 2.25% of all South African employees by 2015 and successfully cure 85% of new cases (our long-term target is the reduction of TB incidence to 1.5% of all South African employees by 2029). Podcast: Thero Setiloane, Executive Vice President – Business Sustainability, AngloGold Ashanti “ We understand that there are gaps in our knowledge in certain areas of sustainability. In some of these areas, we have good expertise in the business and will start to close these gaps if we adopt an approach that facilitates cross learning between sites and regions. In others, particularly in managing our relationships with communities, we do not yet possess the right expertise, and will need to harness it externally. Part of our challenge for the coming year will be to develop objectives and performance indicators in all areas of sustainability that clearly progress us towards our vision and can be incentivised internally. ” Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com P7 Our commitments Human rights and business Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Zero violations of the Voluntary In 2010, two violations of the VPSHR were recorded. Details are given on page 32. We Principles on Security and Human are continuing efforts to embed the VPSHR into our security management systems and Rights (VPSHR) in 2010 practices in order to effect the continuous improvement necessary to reach our target of zero VPSHR violations. We continue to encourage self reporting by security personnel of potential violations. Develop a standard approach for all A review of all contracts with private and public security is underway in order to achieve contracts with private and public this target and is scheduled for completion by the end of 2011. security Our 2011 commitments In 2011, we aim to develop a more effective approach to human rights issues by putting in place a company-wide policy, framework and procedures. In the area of security and human rights, we continue to target zero incidents under the Voluntary Principles on Security Human Rights (VPSHR) and aim to reduce the number of allegations of VPSHR incidents that are made. To support achievement of this target, we will: • complete implementation of the global security framework by the end of 2011; and • review all contracts with private and public security services worldwide in order to standardise contract requirements by the end of 2011. AngloGold Ashanti and communities Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Final approval of management Standards have been developed and are scheduled for approval by the executive standards and associated guidance committee of the company in 2011. Work to develop guidance material will follow material that govern how the company shortly after approval. interacts with communities Incorporate community aspects into The ISO 14001 management system is in place at all operations and progress has been each operation’s ISO 14001 made towards incorporating community aspects. Further work is being done to support management system by 2012 sites to meet the target date which is three years following approval of the management standards by the board. Continue to embed the government In 2010 progress was made in incorporating the government relations function into relations function into decision-making broader AngloGold Ashanti decision-making processes. The need for a management processes, including through standard will be reviewed. development of a management standard by 2011 P8 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Our commitments AngloGold Ashanti and communities continued Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Roll-out of a pilot government This pilot programme remains work in progress in South Africa in 2011. Following its engagement strategy model in South successful completion, we aim to extend the model to two other jurisdictions. African and in a minimum of two other jurisdictions in 2011 In South Africa, participate in the We participated actively in the Mining Charter review, including through the relevant Mining Charter review industry structures. The reviewed Mining Charter was agreed and published. Our 2011 commitments In 2011, we aim to better define expectations for performance with regard to community and social performance. This will be done through community-focused management standards which are currently at the latest stages of finalisation and review and are expected to be approved by the Executive Committee of the company in 2011. Work to support and give effect to the standards will begin in 2011, after their approval, and will include the development of guidelines to aid in implementation of the standard and the allocation of appropriate resources. To ensure an integrated approach to managing community and environmental aspects in line with the integration of the two functions, we aim to integrate community aspects into the ISO 14001 management system. Work towards this is already in progress; however, a specific work plan has been developed for 2011 to accelerate efforts such that sites will be ready to undergo certification audits by 2014. Exploration and closure Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Work on findings of review conducted An internal multi-disciplinary committee continued to guide site-level closure planning to in 2009 to address any site-level ensure alignment with the company standard by the end of 2011. A workshop was held deficiencies in closure plans and in December 2010 to ensure alignment amongst environmental, social and accounting ensure alignment with company professionals within the company and to share best practices across the group. management standard by 2011 Our 2011 commitments In 2011 and 2012, assess compliance with the closure standard. Work to achieve compliance with the closure standard at all operations by the end of 2011 will continue. A corporate-led assurance and operations review will assess closure plans to ensure compliance and efficiency. During 2011, the greenfield exploration business unit will be working to formalise and improve a process which will ensure that an appropriate level of community and environmental oversight is completed at each stage of exploration. P9 Our commitments Environmental and natural resource stewardship Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Continue work to improve energy and Comprehensive energy maps have been developed for South Africa and are being water performance including through progressed for all other operations. A more complete range of water performance the development of site-level indicators is being developed for key aspects of water performance. Site water balances objectives are being refined. A global approach for quantifying the energy and water benefits from business improvement projects is also being progressed. Audit the global energy and water High-level energy and water security reviews have been completed at 15 of our security position for all operations 19 relevant operations and the balance will be completed in 2011. Strategic frameworks have been developed for energy and water management. Continue to address key climate Preliminary preparations to understand site-specific climate change risks in greater change opportunities and risks detail have commenced. A project to install heat pumps at high-density residences in South Africa is almost complete and is expected to earn carbon credits. We are continuing to assess other opportunities for generating carbon credits, especially in the South Africa region where our energy consumption is 40% of the group total. Final approval or development of Progress was made in agreeing a biodiversity management standard, which will be management standards and finalised in 2011. Guidance for the closure and rehabilitation management standard was associated guidance material that finalised. govern how the company interacts with the environment Our 2011 commitments Improve energy performance by: • developing site-based targets and action plans from 2012 onwards; • continuing to refine energy metrics, performance measurement and reporting during 2011; and • quantifying the energy benefits of business improvement initiatives. Improve energy security at our operations by: • finalising high-level reviews of site energy security arrangements during 2011; and • commencing the development of site-based energy security strategies for life of mine. Improve water performance by: • developing site-based targets and action plans from 2012 onwards; • continuing to refine key performance indicators, performance measurement and reporting during 2011; and • quantifying the water benefits of business improvement initiatives. Improve water security at our operations by: • finalising high-level reviews of water security arrangements during 2011; • commencing the development of site-based water security strategies for life of mine; and • embedding integrated water management at all sites, and recognising the value of managing water performance across entire site operations in a planned and coordinated manner. Continue to address key climate change opportunities and risks, by specifying life-of-mine climate change risks in more detail for priority operations, starting in 2011 with those at greatest risk. Over 2011 and 2012, a programme of assessing compliance with the environment-focussed management standards approved during 2009 will commence in the form of the biennial Community and Environment Review Programme (CERP). Concurrently, a roll-out phase to socialise finalised community-focussed standards will commence, also as part of the CERP. P10 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Our commitments People The following commitments were made in our 2009 report and progress against these commitments is reported below: Our 2009 commitments Our progress in 2010 Continue with the roll out of the Significant progress was made during the year on implementation of the SP, with the System for People (SP), including the development of a new delivery framework clearly defining corporate and regional roles. global values survey The global values survey was completed in 2010 and the results reviewed by the Executive Committee. The results will be fed back into the business in early 2011. Review the wage negotiations strategy A labour engagement model was developed and successful collective bargaining in Continental Africa and develop a processes were concluded at the Siguiri mine in Guinea and Sadiola/Yatela mines in model for conducting wage Mali. negotiations which can be applied throughout the company’s Continental African operations Standardise, to the extent possible, A survey of conditions of employment with respect to senior and executive management the conditions of employment of senior was conducted by PwC on behalf of the company and the report submitted to the managers to facilitate mobility within Remuneration Committee. This survey covered all the countries in which the company the company operates. The findings of this survey resulted in the formulation of the company’s Remuneration Policy that was approved by the shareholders at the AGM held in May 2010. Namibia Prioritising safety as our first value and most important business objective is a natural consequence of our belief that people are the business. Our long-term goal is the operation of an injury-free business P11 Our report Sustainable gold The intention of this group-level report – Sustainable Gold – is • effective stewardship of the environment and of the natural to provide a concise and balanced account of AngloGold resources that we use, primarily land, water and energy. Ashanti’s sustainability performance in 2010. AngloGold Ashanti has reported on social investment and sustainability In this report we have tried to convey the context for each of issues since 2002. In 2009 we reviewed our approach to these issues, and explain why it is relevant and how it can sustainability reporting, taking into account leading impact on our business and on our stakeholders, social and international practice, and decided to move towards a more business partners. We describe the work that we have focused report, which clearly identifies the issues that are undertaken in managing each issue, the targets that we have important in making our business viable over the longer term, set relating to our performance and our progress in meeting and which most concern our stakeholders, social and these targets. business partners. Extensive web-based information supplements this report and We are continually refining and improving our content selection ensures that we continue to report at an A+ level against the process for reporting, taking into account the diversity in our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines, as well as to portfolio of operations and the countries in which we do comply with our obligations as a signatory of the UN Global business. AngloGold Ashanti operates in 10 countries. The six Compact (UNGC) and as a member of the International focus areas that we have identified are challenges that are Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). common to all operating regions, even though they manifest themselves in different ways in each region and require External assurance for this report is provided by Ernst & responses appropriate to local circumstances. Young. The same company undertakes our financial audit. Our goal is the integrated presentation of financial and Our six focus areas for this 2010 report are: • improving operational safety performance; non-financial information and we intend to move towards an • managing health impacts that arise at our operations and in assurance process that supports this objective. our communities; • operating with respect for human rights; Our external assurance statement is available on our website: • relationships with the communities which host our www.anglogoldashanti.com. operations; • exploration and closure, recognising and reporting This report and its supplements form part of our stakeholder explicitly on these two critical areas in the life cycle of our communications. We understand that communication that is operations; and balanced and accurate generates trust, and we aim to develop P12 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Our report Stakeholder engagement an approach to stakeholder engagement that supports • Dr Muzong Kodi, who has more than 30 years’ experience relationships with governments and communities, as well as in training, research and consultancy in governance, antiother stakeholders, social and business partners. corruption and human rights. He is based in London as an independent consultant and is also an Associate Fellow of We have identified the company’s main stakeholder groups as: the Africa Programme of the Royal Institute of International • employees, their representatives and families; Affairs, where he co-ordinates the Congo Forum. • communities or individuals affected by the company’s operations; • Mr Stephan Malherbe, chairman of Genesis Economic • governments, including at national, state, provincial and Consulting, the first specialist competition and regulatory district level or other relevant local and traditional authorities; economics advisory firm to be based in India, and the founder • politicians, religious leaders, civic organisations, academics and chairman of Genesis Analytics in South Africa. Mr Malherbe and other groups with special interests; has provided economic policy advice to a number of African • businesses supplying, purchasing from or otherwise dealing countries at presidential level and is an internationallywith the company; acknowledged expert on capital markets development. • shareholders; • media; • Dr Ruth Mompati, a South African citizen with a long • joint venture partners; involvement in issues of social justice and gender equality. • advocacy non-governmental organisations (NGOs); and Dr Mompati is currently Mayor of Naledi in the North West Province of South Africa. She has previously served as South • industry associations. African ambassador to Switzerland, was a member of the South African Parliament and was a member of the National These diverse groups require different communications and Executive Council of the African National Congress (ANC). engagement approaches. Refining our understanding of who our stakeholders are and how we should communicate with • Mrs Anita Roper, chief executive officer of Sustainability them is therefore challenging, but it is an area of work that we Victoria in Australia. Previously Mrs Roper worked outside are progressing, and are approaching in a more consistent Australia for 10 years, including as director of sustainability for way through the development and implementation of a global Alcoa in New York, where she was responsible for coordinating engagement standard. and integrating sustainability concepts throughout the company. AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability review panel In 2011, we will strengthen external engagement, including on • Ms Nisia Werneck, a consultant at the Dom Cabral our sustainability report, through input from our independent Foundation in Brazil’s Minas Gerais state, a non-profit Sustainability Review Panel. The panel will act in an advisory institution which aims to develop executives, businessmen capacity to provide an objective and expert perspective on and companies. Ms Werneck has contributed to the social AngloGold Ashanti's sustainability performance and reporting and community development programmes of a range of and its engagement processes. The panel was convened for companies and organisations, and has published the first time in November 2010. It is facilitated by Simon extensively on the themes of sustainability and corporate Zadek, an independent advisor, and has five members. social responsibility. Dr Muzong Kodi Mr Stephan Malherbe Dr Ruth Mompati Mrs Anita Roper Ms Nisia Werneck P13 About AngloGold Ashanti Our primary focus is gold AngloGold Ashanti’s vision is to be the leading mining company – we operate a diverse portfolio of open pit and AngloGold Ashanti is operated through four regional underground mines in 10 countries on four continents. management structures – South Africa, Continental Africa, Australasia and the Americas – each headed by an executive We seek to leverage the diversity in our operations and people, vice-president. and place people at the centre of our business. Our portfolio of operations Ghana Iduapriem Obuasi USA Cripple Creek & Victor Mali Sadiola Yatela Morila Brazil Serra Grande AGA Mineração Tanzania Guinea Geita Siguiri Australia Sunrise Dam Argentina Cerro Vanguardia Namibia South Africa Navachab Great Noligwa Kopanang Moab Khotsong Mponeng Savuka TauTona Surface operations P14 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 About AngloGold Ashanti 4,509,000 Customers and markets AngloGold Ashanti’s customers are typically banks acting as Total oz gold sold in 2010 intermediaries in gold markets. The breakdown of our sales is based on the domicile of these intermediaries and does not necessarily reflect the location of the end-user of the product. The largest end-user markets for gold are India, China, the Middle East and the USA. $5,334m Geographical distribution of gold sales for the year ended 31 December 2010 Revenue from gold sales in 2010 South Africa 50% North America 11% United Kingdom 14% Europe 9% Asia 11% Australia 5% 62,046 Listing and shareholder details With headquarters in Johannesburg, South Africa, AngloGold Employees and contractors globally Ashanti's primary listing is on the JSE Limited (JSE). At 31 December 2010, AngloGold Ashanti had 381,204,080 ordinary shares in issue and a market capitalisation of $18.8 billion (31 December 2009: $14.6 billion). Percentage gold produced by region At the end of 2010, 2.95% of AngloGold Ashanti’s shares for the year ended 31 December 2010 were held by the Government of Ghana. The free float balance of 97.05% was held as shown in the table below: South Africa 39% Americas 19% Region Percentage Continental Africa 33% Australasia 9% Americas 53.80 South Africa 22.54 United Kingdom 11.73 Europe 4.92 Exploration for future growth Asia Pacific/Middle East 3.80 Other/unidentified 0.26 AngloGold Ashanti’s exploration programme has been one of the most successful in the industry, and it holds a substantial greenfield and brownfield project pipeline. Following year end, on 19 January 2011, the Government of Ghana sold approximately 1.4% of their shareholding and now holds approximately 1.6% of our issued share capital. P15 Ethics and governance Giving effect to our values Acting in compliance with our values and standards is integral Board mandate to the way we operate. This section sets out how our values are The mandate of the board is to set strategy and provide put into practice through the company’s various governance organisational oversight. Various board committees, each of structures, as well as through our Code of Ethics, which is the which is chaired by an independent non-executive director, anchor for the application of our values in the company. deal with aspects of the board’s functions, including social, economic and environmental performance. These committees Governance structures have clear mandates and report quarterly to the board. They receive detailed management reports quarterly and, if required, AngloGold Ashanti has a 10-member board that includes eight can call on services of external professionals to advise them. non-executive directors, all of whom are independent as defined by relevant corporate governance codes. The board’s Oversight of sustainability performance Nominations Committee assesses the competencies and The Safety, Health and Sustainable Development, Audit and experience of potential new members , assisted as required by Corporate Governance and Transformation and Human independent and external consultants. On 17 February 2011, Resources Development Committees of the board are the one of the non-executive directors, Dr Motlatsi retired from bodies which most regularly review sustainability performance. the board. The chairman of the Audit and Corporate Governance Committee has been appointed to the Safety, Health and Conflicts of interest Sustainable Development Committee to ensure consistency of A key governance risk is the potential for conflict of interest. oversight and reporting between these two committees. Board members declare all outside interests at the start of their tenure, including where no conflict arises. On appointment, For the 2010 financial year, the board evaluation process has board members are made aware that the board has to been conducted by self-assessment. From 2011, however, the sanction any outside appointments that might occur during effectiveness of the board will be assessed in conjunction with their tenure and a quarterly statement relating to conflict of an external party, which will undertake board evaluations on interest is requested from each board member to ensure that the basis of criteria developed jointly by the external party and any changes are notified. Directors recuse themselves from AngloGold Ashanti. any discussion where they may have an actual, perceived or potential conflict as adjudged by the board. Criteria for evaluating the performance of the board include the ability to successfully assess, monitor and mitigate risk, Conflict of interest policies for employees are set out in the including risks relating to sustainability issues. company’s Code of Ethics, as revised in 2010, and these require a similar declaration of interests at the outset of Remuneration for non-executive directors is by flat fee, approved employment, with provision for annual updates and notification by shareholders. There is no long-term compensation (for when circumstances change or if conflicts arise. example share scheme participation or performance incentives). P16 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Ethics and governance encompassing set of rules on individual behaviour. It covers aspects of the business where ethical considerations are most likely to be raised, including safety, people, environment and community, fraud and corruption, conflict of interest, insider trading and disclosure. “Ensuring performance with integrity” Non-compliance with Our Code is a key business risk and The company’s code of ethics has been translated into our main mechanisms to ensure compliance and bring to light potential operating languages. The logo is intended to suggest that accountability infringements therefore receive significant attention. A ‘whistlebegins and ends with each individual, and that ethical conduct depends on personal choices. blowing’ hotline is already well established. The hotline is independently operated and has its own website and web address, and a telephone service through which tip-offs can be processed. It is available in the company’s major operating Remuneration for executive management includes basic languages on a 24/7 basis. salary, shortand long-term incentives based on performance, pensions and other benefits. The short-term incentive plan is As Our Code is extended through the company over the next referenced to the achievement of a set of individual and 18 months, a communications and training programme will company performance targets relating to earnings per share, seek to integrate its principles into business. A company-wide gold production, cost control, Mineral Resource to Ore training programme will be undertaken and each employee has Reserve conversion and safety. been asked to acknowledge receipt of Our Code to reinforce personal accountability. A summary version of Our Code has The objective of the long-term incentive plan is to align the been produced, translation into the company’s main operating interests of executive management with those of the languages is underway and compliance champions in each company and the shareholders over the medium to long term. operating region are being identified. The targets used for vesting are determined annually by the board’s Remuneration Committee and link directly to the The board will receive quarterly reports on the application of company’s strategy. Measures include earnings per share, Our Code and, in 2011, external assurance will be introduced total shareholder return against a comparator group of gold to assess the process of rolling out Our Code, including mining companies, Mineral Resource to Ore Reserve training offered and responses to confidential tip-offs raised generation and safety. through the whistle-blowing process. Code of Ethics During 2010, we developed a revised Code of Ethics, based on our vision, mission and values. External and internal Podcast: Professor Mervyn King, Chairman, Global engagement was undertaken as part of the development Reporting Initiative (GRI) process and the draft code was benchmarked, both internally and externally. “Amidst evidence that the current economic model is socially and environmentally unsustainable, it We view our Code of Ethics as central to the concept of is time for new and more effective building personal accountability in our business. It has been forms of accountability. The users branded ‘Our Code’ to make the point that it embraces each of an organisation’s reporting should be able to determine and every employee. Communications concerning Our Code whether the organisation’s governing structure has sufficiently have reinforced the principle that those with whom the applied its collective mind in identifying the social, company interacts will judge the company according to the environmental, economic and financial issues that impact on ethical behaviour of each individual. the business, and whether these issues have been Our Code is designed to offer general guidelines on how to incorporated into its strategy. ” Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com approach situations, rather than to provide an allP17 Project ONE AngloGold Ashanti has grown rapidly over the past 12 years • the Business Process Framework (BPF), with the goal of from its South African origins into a global gold company. To having the right work done at the right time and in the right way. underpin this growth and to achieve our future business and growth objectives, we have developed a consistent operating Discipline frameworks map the detailed design of functional framework, thereby enabling delivery on the company’s vision, areas of work, for example safety, and are integrated into the mission and values. SP and the BPF. The sustainability strategy that is under development at This framework has been developed and implemented as AngloGold Ashanti supports and reflects the principles of Project ONE, guided by a steering committee chaired by the Project ONE. Our objective will be to implement each CEO. It has two major components: element of our sustainability strategy through Project ONE, in • the System for People (SP), which aims to have the right order to ensure that it is made relevant to the business and person in the right role doing the right work; and becomes part of the way we operate. Implementing Project ONE at the Geita Gold Mine Case in Tanzania study: When Project ONE was put in place at AngloGold Ashanti, the company’s Geita Gold Mine became a pilot site for implementation. With a legacy of unresolved and persistent obstacles, a culture of uncertainty at Geita hindered the business and its people, affecting predictions of performance, the stability of the operation and casting doubt on its potential lifespan. In the second quarter of 2009, Graham Ehm, previously the executive vice president in Australasia, stepped in to stabilise and turn around the operation and define a sustainable future. The resources for this endeavour included piloting the newly-established operating model through implementation of the System for People (SP) and the Business Process Framework (BPF). By the third quarter of 2009, Geita had begun to meet its predictions of performance and has now produced to budget for six consecutive quarters. There remains much work to be done to complete implementation of the principles and practices of Project ONE, but the mine, now under the leadership of Gary Davies as Managing Director, is well on the road to financial stability. “I see Project ONE transforming the business by generating certainty about the organisation and understanding of the work to be done,” says Gary. “Individuals are clear about their own roles and understand the accountabilities of their managers.” Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, larger truck trays supported increased productivity at Geita Gold Mine. I am now using my understanding of capability when I recruit and hire new team members Represented here are mine staff in the and it has made a difference in how I select candidates”, says Geita’s Sustainability controlled area where manufactured Manager, Clement Msalangi. “I am doing more context setting for my team and have added trucks and parts are stored and where context of the work as part of my recruitment and interviewing process.” personal protective equipment is not obligatory. A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com P18 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Project ONE AngloGold Ashanti and people Towards a productive and engaged workforce We aim to realise one of our core principles – that ‘People are Employees by region of operation the business’ – through implementation of the System for for the year ended 31 December 2010 People (SP). In terms of this principle, we aspire to provide leadership and managerial processes to establish a culture of accountability and trust in which each individual is able and South Africa 57% Australasia 1% willing to work to his or her full potential. Continental Africa 25% Other (including exploration sites) 6% Americas 11% Transformation and diversity Considerations of transformation and employee diversity provide context for the implementation of the SP in each region and at each operation and reflect the way in which we deal legislative compliance. They outline a framework within which with the wellbeing of our employees and the communities in every region and operation will set its own strategies, which they live. structures and policies, taking into account the challenges faced locally, while meeting our corporate standards. The company’s transformation strategy and policy, approved by the board in November 2010, rests on its values: ‘We treat each other with dignity and respect’ and ‘We value diversity’ The SP implementation process and on our commitment ‘To leave the communities in which we operate better off for our having been there’. Our business objectives can only be met through a workforce that is capable, accountable and engaged, and where each The purpose of the transformation policy and strategy is to employee is able to undertake the right work at the right time translate these values into the way we do business globally, in order to deliver consistently on the objectives of the extending our focus beyond South Africa, and beyond pure business. The SP enables a structured, common approach for P19 AngloGold Ashanti and people people to work together to support long-term business improvements. It has three objectives: 1. Creating the right organisation design: a structure where work is undertaken at the correct level, and where the accountability and authority of a particular role clearly contributes towards achieving business objectives. Our organisational structure places priority on operational leadership, with functional roles acting in support of operations through effective cross-functional working relationships. Ghana 2. Ensuring we have the right people in the right roles: the The workshop team at Iduapriem: a key objective of the SP is continual matching of employee capability to role complexity, developing effective working relationships which is necessary for meeting immediate and future business needs in line with employee career development plans. 3. Developing effective working relationships: ensuring that • continually reinforced, until it becomes second nature within employees across the organisation work together effectively, the business. whatever the differences in their internal and external working environments. Effective working relationships are In our 2009 report, we committed to continuing the roll out of facilitated when employees’ behaviour and actions are in the SP, and undertaking a global values survey. Significant accordance with the managerial leadership practices and the progress was made during the year with the development of a company’s values. new delivery framework for the SP that clearly defines corporate and regional roles in the implementation process. Technical design of the SP was completed in 2009, and we are A corporate team was established to be accountable for the currently engaged in its implementation. Our approach to the process of designing and developing the SP material to be implementation is that it should be: implemented throughout the company. Regional human • undertaken in a top-down manner; resources teams have been charged with planning, scheduling • inclusive of, and engaging with all employees as far as this and resourcing activation of the programme in consultation is possible; with line management. • undertaken within the respective managerial accountability hierarchies; and The global values survey, designed to offer all AngloGold Ashanti employees an opportunity to participate in the identification of Steve Rickman, value-based behaviours and to gauge employee engagement, Podcast: was completed during the year. We aim to review our Senior Vice President – organisational mission, vision and values at regular intervals and Business Effectiveness, maintain their relevance in our constantly-changing environment. AngloGold Ashanti The surveys are currently being analysed for trends and “ The essence of SP is simple – it’s about enabling each and every conclusions, and the results, which will be integrated with other business processes and communications, will be fed back into person in the business to work to the business early in 2011. their full potential. Not only do we need to place the right people in In 2010, progress was made on understanding the linkage the right roles but we also need between the SP and the BPF. The harmonisation of these to make sure that they are processes will continue during 2011 under Project ONE. Also engaged in and value the work of importance for 2011 is the design of appropriate that they are doing. ” mechanisms to engage employees in the implementation of Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com the BPF and the SP. P20 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 AngloGold Ashanti and people Improving operational safety performance Safety is our first value Our context Fatalities – group 2006 – 2010 Safety is our most important business consideration and we 06 37 are committed to creating the safest possible working 07 34 environment for our employees. Poor safety performance is 08 14 unacceptable for the business, as well as for our 09 15* 10 15 stakeholders, business and social partners. When our current business goals were put in place in 2008, we committed to * This number has been restated from the number of 16 previously recorded by the company for 2009. Following the investigation into a fatal incident in the long-term goal of operating an injury-free business and May 2009 at Moab Khotsong Mine in South Africa, the Department of Mineral established a five-year goal of reducing fatality rates by 70%, Resources (DMR) determined that the incident was not a mine fatality. working from a 2007 baseline. All injury frequency rate – group 2006 – 2010 We have made significant progress towards this target. In 06 22.83 2008, when the ‘safety is our first value’ campaign was 07 20.95 introduced, a step change in safety performance was 08 16.66 achieved. Between 2007 and 2008 there was a decrease of 09 12.88 59% in the number of fatal injuries and a 20% reduction in 10 11.50 the all injury frequency rate, as illustrated in the graphs Refer to the explanatory footnotes on page 24 for the definition of this opposite. measure. P21 Improving operational safety performance In 2009 and 2010, injury frequency rates continued to improve. hazards and risks. A culture which fosters improvements in A further step change is, however, required to meet our longersafety performance is built on people who think for term objectives. This cannot be achieved through individual themselves about safety issues and who take ownership campaigns alone, but requires a systemic cultural change in and accountability for creating a safe environment. the business, integrating a new way of thinking about safety into the way we work, and underpinned by an organisational • Building the right systems – systems play a key role in culture which displays a deep respect for the dignity and influencing the work environment. We have set ourselves the wellbeing of others. task of building robust systems that are specific to safety and ensuring that safety considerations are thoroughly integrated with other organisational systems that sustain AngloGold Ashanti’s safety safety, such as knowledge management. transformation project • Managing risks effectively – our approach is to eliminate The safety transformation project was initiated in 2008 and has resulted in the development of a safety transformation hazards where possible, and if they cannot be eliminated, approach which has three components: to manage their commensurate risks. This requires broader thinking about hazards and risk, which will result in • Engaging people – people and culture are vitally important building more robust defences to protect people from in creating a safe working environment. Compliance with harm, based on group-level, technical, administrative and rules and procedures alone cannot address or mitigate all individual controls. AngloGold Ashanti’s safety framework Setting vision and intent Building our intent and vision into Evaluating performance our organisation and culture Vision We cannot accept injuries or Safety standards 22 standards that map the impairment to health as a natural minimum criteria for compliance Measurement of consequence of our work. on various aspects of safety. performance against standards. Corporate level Guiding principles Safety guidelines The directives by which we will Documents breaking down each achieve our vision. standard into actions. Reviews of standards, guidelines and Safety policy Group procedures procedures. A document outlining our global The key requirements and approach and understanding on what procedures for the safety guidelines we will do to change safety. mandated at a group level. Regional EVP Regional level Regional strategy development, alignment with global strategy, continuous improvement and reporting. Site-specific procedures Site level The application of the group Review of site-specific procedures based on the site’s procedures. requirements. P22 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Improving operational safety performance Integrating safety transformation into Project ONE Case study: In implementing safety transformation, we have adopted an approach which ensures that all of its components are made relevant to the business by integrating them into Project ONE. AngloGold Ashanti introduced Project ONE as a business change initiative to improve performance levels across all areas of its business operations through consistent management and systems. Project ONE incorporates the Business Process Framework (BPF), designed to ensure that the right work is done at the right time and in the right way, and the System for People (SP), which targets putting the right people in the right role to do the right work. “Living safety as our first value means that we believe that people are the business, and our intention is to bring this to reality”, says Safety Transformation Vice President, Brian Chicksen. “So, for example, if SP has been enacted within the organisation to ensure that the right people are doing the right work at the right time, the safety component of this model is to ensure that safety accountabilities for all employees are clear, and appropriate The memorial garden at AngloGold capabilities are developed to support safe work.” Ashanti’s corporate office in Johannesburg, South Africa A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com This approach has been translated into a safety framework for We aim to achieve continued improvement in safety the business, which is integrated into the broader operational performance, towards our 2015 business goal of all injury model that has been developed through Project ONE. frequency rate of less than 9 per million hours worked. Our Implementation of the safety transformation framework through target to reduce fatalities by 70% by 2012 remains intact. the operational model will enable the company to target and deliver on long-term and sustainable safety improvements. Safety performance in 2010 Safety targets in 2011 In our 2009 report, we committed to the following safety targets for 2010: In 2011, we will continue implementation of the safety • begin implementation of the safety transformation project; and transformation project and integration into Project ONE. • achieve a 20% reduction in our all injury frequency rate. In memoriam We record with sadness the loss of 15 of our colleagues in operational accidents in 2010. In South Africa: In Guinea: Sabido Debrito Augusto at Kopanang Mine Alimou Bangoura at Siguiri Mine Hendrie Khosa and Fundile Gaqelo at Moab Khotsong Mine In the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Sabelo Hezekiel Dlamini and Boy Africa Mabuza at Damien Unegi Anefwa at the Mongbwalu Project site TauTona Mine Fanele Nobulongwe and Bonginkosi Hertzog In Tanzania: Madlopha at Mponeng Mine Esau Mwakibuja and Honest Ngowi at Geita Mine Vasco Alfabeto Nhazilo and Motlatsi Elias Ramokoena at Tau Lekoa Mine In Mali: Jonase Serame Mosebo at Kopanang Mine Lassina Bamba at Sadiola Mine P23 Improving operational safety performance Implementation of the safety transformation project has begun, and the project was launched in May 2010. The table below gives a breakdown of the all injury frequency rate Podcast: Ron Largent, Executive recorded in each of AngloGold Ashanti’s operating regions Vice President – since 2006. Americas, AngloGold Ashanti In 2010 we did not achieve the desired 20% reduction – the overall decrease on 2009 was some 11%. However we “ Good safety performance goes beyond technical systems – it remain confident of achieving our longer-term targets. Given the transformational nature of our approach to safety, we requires that safety is a passion. anticipate that we will improve safety performance through a What does this mean? The series of step changes as we implement the safety relentless pursuit of safety at all framework. Work to effect further improvements is continuing across all regions, even those that achieved the times. ” Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com targeted reduction. All injury frequency rate by region (2006-2010) Region 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 South Africa 16.69 17.72 22.28 29.10 33.12 Continental Africa 5.26 6.09 8.27 10.31 10.33 Americas 5.66 7.12 9.92 7.16 8.63 Australasia 13.10 8.64 15.17 14.49 17.01 Greenfield exploration 16.99 20.56 16.55 24.90 9.36 Group 11.50 12.88 16.66 20.95 22.83 The all injury frequency rate is the total number of injuries including fatalities that occur per million hours worked. It is being introduced across the company as a measure of safety performance, replacing a focus on the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR). This approach is consistent with our commitment to eliminate all occupational accidents. Managing fatigue at Cripple Creek and Victor (CC&V) Case Mine in the USA study: Shift workers in all industries face a similar problem – managing sleep cycles during shift rotations so that they can stay alert and perform their jobs safely. In the mining industry, shift workers operate heavy equipment, and fatigue can pose significant risk. At the CC&V mine in the USA, two relatively serious fatigue-related incidents occurred during early 2010, fortunately without injury. However, as a result, the safety team at CC&V decided to seek external expertise in combating fatigue amongst employees through a targeted intervention. CC&V employees were offered free registration to ‘Z-Coach’, a programme which teaches participants effective sleep cycle management and lifestyle techniques. The programme is Employees at CC&V participating in the computer based and could therefore be accessed 24/7, making it convenient for use by shift Z-Coach Programme, which can be workers, the group most affected by fatigue management issues. tailored to each individual’s specific interests and needs A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com P24 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Improving operational safety performance Managing health issues Occupational and community health Our context In line with our values, we believe that we cannot accept ill health In many areas of operation, we have found that employee and as a natural consequence of our business operations, and that community health issues are inseparable, and integrated our employees must be able to go home fit and well at the end of strategies are required. Approaches to malaria, HIV/AIDS and each working day. Our definition of good health is a state of TB, for example, require community-level interventions as well complete physical, social, mental and spiritual wellbeing and not as employee-level interventions to be successful. merely the absence of disease and ill health. The diagram below shows the model that we aim to adopt in We also subscribe to the value that ‘communities in which we analysing and managing health issues in the workplace, and operate will be better off for us having been there’, which the potential health exposures that employees face. These are implies that our approach to health encompasses community significant, particularly in South Africa where we encounter health issues. many of our most pressing health risks. AngloGold Ashanti’s global approach to wellness in the workplace Employee joins Potential exposures and impacts Employee exits Medical Medical assesment Social context Occupational environment assessment of health status of health status Migrancy Accommodation Psycho-social Communicable diseases Non-communicable diseases Vector-related diseases Lifestyle Dust Gases Radiation Thermal stress Noise Physical injury Desired outcome: An employee’s health status is sustained or improved during the course of employment. Ongoing health evaluations and care in line with values P25 Managing health issues Our most material health risks relate to: In 2011, we intend to move towards a structured approach to • Silicosis – silicosis remains our most serious occupational managing health issues, through the development and health concern. Although the company has been able to implementation of a global health strategy and health eliminate new cases of silicosis at its Brazilian operations, we management system, thus improving the organisation’s ability continue to report new cases in South Africa. The number of to learn from the experience of different regions and to cases reported in South Africa remains high and in 2010 replicate good practice across the group. increased compared with the previous year. The health strategy that we have developed has the following In 2010, 459 new cases of silicosis were submitted to the objectives: Medical Bureau for Occupational Disease of South Africa, • to sustain and improve the health status of the workforce against 409 in 2009. This increase can be attributed to past through disease prevention, early disease identification, effective exposures and potentially other factors such as the high level illness and injury management, and effective rehabilitation; of HIV and TB prevalence in our South African workforce, • to sustain and improve the health status of the communities which aggravates the disease. in which we operate by managing the potential for positive • Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) – this remains a and negative health impacts; and challenge in South Africa. The number of compensable • to provide a working environment conducive to health cases declined from 79 in 2009 to 64 in 2010. However, through pro-active and systematic hazard management. the incidence of early NIHL remains high. 429 new cases of A health management system will be designed and early NIHL were diagnosed in 2010, up from 332 cases in implemented which will be compatible with the best practice 2009. Early NIHL is defined as a loss of hearing of 5-10% standards on occupational health and safety already in use at from baseline and is not compensable under current South our operations and integrated with our broader business African legislation. systems. These include key organisational change initiatives • HIV/AIDS – HIV/AIDS is a health issue in South Africa, such as Project ONE as well as duty of care policies and Tanzania, Ghana and the Democratic Republic of the practices, knowledge and information management systems, Congo. High prevalence of HIV/AIDS contributes to risk management systems and community relations absenteeism, hospital admission, ill-health retirement and strategies. death among affected employees. Standards and guidelines are being developed on key health • Malaria – malaria is a major health concern for AngloGold issues such as health impact assessments, specific disease Ashanti’s operations in Ghana, Guinea, Mali and Tanzania. management and pre-placement medical examinations. The prevalence of malaria in these regions can result in illness and absenteeism among employees, and has a Health impact assessments will be conducted at operations significant impact on the health of employees’ families and over the next 18 months and health risk assessments will be that of the surrounding communities. updated or put in place where they do not already exist. They will also serve as a benchmark for new operations, which in future Failure to manage these issues adequately poses risks to the will be assessed at the feasibility stage. business in terms of increased potential for injuries and accidents, decreased productivity, fatigue, poor morale, increased medical and medical compensation costs and poor Health targets for 2011 and 2012 stakeholder relations, all of which can threaten the social and We intend to take forward implementation of our health strategy legal licence of the company to operate. and management system within the following time frames: • undertake health risk assessments and health system audits Our health strategy at our operations in Continental Africa by the end of 2011; and • complete heath risk assessments and health system audits AngloGold Ashanti is a global company which operates in a for the balance of our operations by the end of 2012. diverse range of settings. Health exposure risks therefore differ We have set the following goals relating to wellness and between regions and according to the type of mining operation occupational environment: undertaken. The company has not implemented a global • continue progress towards the industry milestone of no health strategy or management system in the past and the new cases of silicosis among previously unexposed management of health and wellbeing issues has not therefore employees in South Africa (2008 onwards) after December always been consistent. 2013; P26 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Managing health issues • meet the industry milestone of no deterioration in hearing We have now set ourselves a lower benchmark for dust greater than 10% among occupationally-exposed individuals readings for analysis than the industry milestone and at South African operations; investigate the root cause of all dust readings exceeding this • roll out integrated malaria programmes at operations in Mali, benchmark. We are also in the process of defining a new Tanzania and Guinea, drawing on the model implemented at baseline for dust readings by sampling all employees. This will Obuasi in Ghana; and enable us to evaluate high risk areas and occupations so that • in South Africa, continue efforts to reduce occupational strategies can be adapted accordingly. tuberculosis (TB) incidence to 2.25% of all South African employees by 2015 and to successfully cure 85% of new A former employee, Mr Thembekile Mankayi, instituted a legal cases (our long-term target is the reduction of TB incidence to action against AngloGold Ashanti in October 2006, claiming 1.5% of all South African employees by 2029). approximately $360,000 for damages allegedly suffered as a result of silicosis. AngloGold Ashanti learnt of the death of Health performance in 2010 Mr Mankayi on 3 March 2011 and wishes to offer condolences to his family and friends. In 2009, we committed to a number of targets relating to health issues, as set out below. All of them are centred on In June 2008, judgement on an application was given in the South Africa, where the need for progress has been most company’s favour on the basis that mine employers are acute. This is due to the large numbers of people employed indemnified against claims by employees for damages relating to by the company in South Africa, as well as the incidence of diseases compensated under existing legislation. An appeal by silicosis, HIV/AIDS, NIHL and TB among this workforce. This Mr Mankayi was dismissed by the Supreme Court of Appeal. In section sets out progress against these targets as well as on August 2010, the Constitutional Court of South Africa heard addressing malaria at our African operations. Mr Mankayi’s application for leave to appeal to the Constitutional Court. On 3 March 2011 the Constitutional Court granted the Silicosis leave to appeal and simultaneously granted the Appeal. The Our target is the elimination, by 2013, of new cases of silicosis effect thereof is that the executor of Mr Mankayi’s estate may among employees in South Africa who were not return to the High Court to recover common law damages from occupationally exposed prior to January 2008 (using present AngloGold Ashanti and that they are not barred by legislation diagnostic techniques). from doing so. AngloGold Ashanti has several defences available to it, and it will continue to defend the action. This target is the industry milestone, set at the 2003 Health and Safety Summit. However, it is still too early to provide a Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) meaningful assessment of the group of employees exposed Our target on NIHL is to achieve the industry milestone of no after January 2008 due to the latency period of the disease. deterioration in hearing greater than 10% amongst Current diagnostic techniques do not allow us to make a occupationally-exposed individuals at South African meaningful assessment of performance at this stage. operations. Audiograms are conducted on all occupationallyexposed employees in South Africa when they join the We therefore measure current performance with reference to company and annually thereafter. The baseline for the target is the occupational hygiene aspects of the industry milestones. the routine audiogram performed during 2009 or, for These state that no more than 5% of samples measuring employees who joined the company after 1 January 2009, the exposure should be above the occupational exposure limit of audiogram performed at the start of their employment. 0.1mg/m3 for respirable crystalline silica. Due to the lag between noise exposure and NIHL, we are not A continued focus on filtration strategies and footwall yet able to give a meaningful assessment of performance treatment has enabled us to continue reducing silica dust against this target. In the meantime, however, we continue exposure and achieve compliance with the industry milestone. compliance with noise targets (the industry milestone states We are still maintaining a downward trend of dust exposure that by December 2013, the total noise emitted by all on an annual basis. We also maintained significantly higher equipment installed in any workplace must not exceed sampling rates than those prescribed by legislation, 110dB(A) at any location in that workplace). We have been in increasing our confidence in the data collected and enabling compliance with this hygiene target since 2008 and has now us to manage the issue of silica exposure more closely. set a lower internal benchmark. P27 Managing health issues HIV/AIDS, voluntary counselling and testing continues to be supplied to approximately 2,500 employees (VCT) and wellness programmes for whom this treatment is clinically indicated. Our targets in this area for 2010 were: • to maintain a rate of 80% of South African employees Tuberculosis (TB) attending VCT, excluding those already attending current We have met targets on occupational tuberculosis for 2010, wellness clinics; which were to: • to reduce by 50% the number of avoidable drop-outs from • reduce occupational TB incidence to 3% of all South African wellness clinic programmes in South Africa. employees; and • successfully cure 85% of new TB cases. We were not able to achieve these targets. The uptake of VCT has been falling since 2008 and in 2010 it was 74%. We Occupational TB incidence in 2010 was reduced to 2.64% in treated over 4,000 patients at wellness centres during the 2010 and more than 90% of cases were successfully treated in year but have not been able to measure retention on the 2009. Data for successful outcomes of TB cases treated in programmes. Measuring retention is challenging because of 2010 is not yet available as treatment programmes last between the constant change in the number of patients, and the many six and eight months. Prevalence of this disease among reasons for not returning to the programme. These losses employees in South Africa is closely linked to HIV prevalence. include resignation and voluntary and ill-health separations but are not always recorded as such. Malaria The number of employees presenting themselves for VCT is Downward trends in malaria cases continued in 2010, as declining. Testing and counselling programmes, which have been shown in the table below. in place at AngloGold Ashanti since 2000, have helped curb the epidemic but do not appear to have resulted in a step change in In 2009, AngloGold Ashanti was nominated as the principal prevalence, for which a major advance in treatment such as a recipient of a grant of $138 million from the Global Fund to cure or vaccine would be required. Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The project will cover 40 districts in Ghana and will be based on the integrated malaria Notwithstanding this situation, communications and awareness control model implemented at Obuasi. It is anticipated that this programmes have continued and are now conducted on a onewill run for five years and create approximately 3,800 jobs. on-one basis as well as through mass media communication Work on the project is scheduled to begin in the first quarter of channels. Particular attention is given to VCT at induction. 2011 following successful resolution with the Ghanaian authorities of taxation issues relating to the grant. A major advance in 2010 has been the introduction of linked testing, which enables follow up with affected employees and Starting in 2011, we intend to roll out the highly successful will also form the basis for a better estimate of the incidence of integrated model undertaken at Obuasi in Ghana to other HIV/AIDS among our workforce. Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) malaria-affected areas where AngloGold Ashanti operates. Number of malaria cases in affected countries (2007 – 2010) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Ghana 3,219 5,085* 4,947 7,786 Tanzania 218 447 1,557 3,212 Guinea 783 664 756 633 Mali 268 204 216 434 Total 4,488 6,400 7,476 12,065 * The number of cases of malaria in Ghana was incorrectly stated in our 2009 report as 5,075. P28 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Managing health issues Human rights and business Acting with dignity and respect Our context post-conflict zones, where there are few formal employment opportunities apart from mining. In our values we commit to treating others with dignity and respect, this includes respect for human rights and an This context creates the potential for tension between mines undertaking to operate according to the highest standards of and communities over issues such as land usage, relocation, business ethics. As a business that aspires to live the belief and artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM). ASM activity is that ‘people are the business’, our concern for operating with often the cause of difficult security issues, including allegations respect for human rights stems from our aim to place people of breaches of human rights. Potential solutions lie in devising first in all aspects of the business. programmes for co-habitation with ASM activity and in ensuring that security responses observe the Voluntary A member of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact since Principles on Security and Human Rights (the VPSHR). 2004, we have recorded our commitment to observing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to upholding the In striving to meet our commitments and to mitigate risk, we basic labour rights captured in the Fundamental Principles of have aimed to take human rights considerations into account in the International Labour Organisation (ILO). We value diversity developing policies in the areas of health, safety, community, and believe that diversity in employment can make a positive environment, human resources, security and corporate contribution to achieving our business objectives. governance. In particular, we have focused on implementing and Human rights considerations cut across a range of disciplines embedding the VPSHR in our security management practices. at AngloGold Ashanti, including health, safety, security, community, environmental, human resources, legal and We have not, however, had a company-wide human rights regulatory, ethics, governance and labour relations. Operating policy in place. This is an area of work which was initiated in with respect for human rights is a particularly relevant 2010 and will be developed further in 2011, in alignment with consideration for us because of the location of many of the the progress that has been made in the UN in defining the company’s operations in regions of the world, including in responsibilities of business to respect human rights. P29 Human rights and business Human rights targets in 2011 In 2011, we therefore aim to develop a policy, frameworks and procedures on human rights, giving due recognition to the guiding principles on business and human rights which are currently being formulated by the UN Secretary General’s Special Representative on Business and Human Rights, Professor John Ruggie, and are scheduled for presentation to the UN Human Rights Council during 2011. The guidelines are intended to be a blueprint for businesses, and outline Tanzania recommended policies and procedures. The right to sanitation – Geita Gold Mine pumps water from Lake Victoria to supply the community with all-purpose water We also aim to complete implementation of our global security framework by the end of 2011, which will further entrench our Developing human rights policies commitment and compliance to the VPSHR. and procedures A full review of all contracts with private and public security In 2005, Professor John Ruggie was given a mandate from services worldwide is in progress in order to standardise the United Nations to identify and clarify standards of contract requirements, and is targeted for completion by the corporate responsibility and accountability with regard to end of 2011. human rights. Significant work has been undertaken since this mandate was awarded, including the production of a series of public reports. In 2011, our objective is to operate with zero violations of the VPSHR (in 2010, two violations were substantiated in The ‘Ruggie agenda’, as set out in these reports, is relation to third-party security forces). becoming the primary international guideline regarding business and human rights. It holds that companies have a Human rights performance in 2010 responsibility to respect human rights across a broad range of areas and recognises the VPSHR as an integral In 2010, the company’s activity on human rights issues component in achieving this. focused on two areas: The framework rests on three distinct but complementary pillars: • preliminary work towards developing over-arching human • the state’s duty to protect against human rights abuses by rights policies and procedures, including a gap analysis to third parties, including business; assess the extent to which AngloGold Ashanti’s policies and • corporate responsibility to respect human rights; and performance measure up to the UN framework on business • the need for more effective access to remedies. and human rights; and • continuing implementation of the VPSHR in the company’s The corporate responsibility to respect human rights applies to approach to security management. all recognised human rights. These are mainly derived from the John Ruggie, UN Secretary General’s Special Representative on business and human rights “ The idea of human rights is simple: treating people with dignity. That business should respect human rights is perhaps self-evident. But it requires them to have robust policies and processes. The Guiding Principles will provide a blueprint to help them achieve this. A related podcast by Caroline Rees, Program Director of the Social Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard Kennedy School, is available at ” www.anglogoldashanti.com <http://www.anglogoldashanti.com>. Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com P30 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Human rights and business Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International are required. In Colombia, Ghana, the DRC and Guinea, risk Covenants on Civil and Political Rights and Economic, Social assessments categorise the threats as sufficiently elevated to and Cultural Rights. require the inclusion of state military units (public security forces) on a near-permanent basis. In addition, almost all of our Results from the gap analysis on AngloGold Ashanti’s systems active operations employ private security personnel. compared with the UN (Ruggie) framework suggested that we should: AngloGold Ashanti has adopted an inter-disciplinary approach • review and evaluate whether our Code of Ethics and other to decision-making and management of human rights, security relevant statements and sources contain language and community issues. Implementation of the VPSHR has sufficiently strong and clear to constitute a human rights been a key factor in defining the current structuring of the policy and, if not, draft such a policy; security discipline within the group as well as setting future • refine and develop existing tools for ongoing and regular due targets for performance. diligence with respect to human rights; • approve and institute a draft management standard for the Significant progress on implementation of the VPSHR was handling of grievances, including allegations of human rights made in 2010. Procedures, standards and practices were violations; and reviewed and refined to ensure full compliance, while • develop tools and a framework for fulfilling responsibilities in standards and procedures were revised to include rules of respect of our supply chain. This involves adopting a riskengagement, the use of force, and the application of less-lethal aware approach, where the performance of contractors, force, and allow for transparency in security agreements and suppliers and partners is verified and tracked, and procedures contracts. identified for acting on adverse human rights behaviour. The structured approach to training of security personnel In November 2010 a scoping process to develop a human adopted since 2008 has created a better understanding of and rights policy and framework was approved. The implementation programme which is currently being outlined includes: commitment to the requirements of the VPSHR, specifically • assigning accountability for each aspect of the policy with regard to the use of minimum force and rules of framework; engagement. In the short term, this may result in an increase • integrating human rights with the relevant system; and in the number of alleged VPSHR incidents being reported, as • training as required in support of the policy. awareness of rights and obligations under the VPSHR grows. We are actively encouraging self reporting of incidents by our During 2010, AngloGold Ashanti participated in several Ruggie security personnel to ensure that comprehensive data is consultations to progress this work, and conducted ongoing captured. In the longer term, we expect a reduction in the informal interactions with members of Ruggie’s team. These number of allegations received, which would be an indicator of engagements assisted us in preparing the ground for improved security performance. AngloGold Ashanti to meet its human rights responsibilities in terms of the UN framework. Following self audits in 2009, formal internal audits were conducted during 2010. These indicated good progress in achieving compliance at all our operations, but highlighted the Embedding the VPSHR in our security need to continue the process of formalising implementation management approach and training processes. This will receive the necessary priority in 2011. AngloGold Ashanti uses its own security employees as well as private and public security service providers to ensure the Current efforts in respect of training on the VPSHR will be protection that our employees and assets require. We aim to sustained at all sites to improve engagement processes. The manage security in a way that ensures that the human rights percentage of security service providers trained in the VPSHR of individuals and communities affected by the company’s in 2010 increased slightly to 88%, compared to 86% in 2009. activities are safeguarded. In 2011, training will be extended to stakeholders external to security, where this is appropriate, including employees, Threat and risk assessments are conducted in all countries in community groups and civil societies, to create a better which we operate to determine the security resources which understanding of the issues we face and our goal of eliminating P31 Human rights and business all VPSHR allegations and incidents. External audits by NGOs concession also died in two separate incidents at our contracting for us to establish compliance with the VPSHR are exploration site in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as also planned for 2011. a result of fall of ground incidents. Since the implementation of the VPSHR principles, we have Security incidents in 2010 noted an improvement in our ability to deal with incidents of community unrest in a way which ensures that these do not In 2010, six allegations of VPSHR violations were made. Two escalate and do not result in injury to community members. In violations by members of the military contingent at our operation 2010, there were 12 protest actions by community members in Guinea were substantiated and these were resolved at at AngloGold Ashanti operations, none of which resulted in community, operational and military levels. serious injury to community members or security service providers. No fatal incidents were recorded in 2010 as a result of security interventions by AngloGold Ashanti security personnel (two We are, however, monitoring an increasing trend in the number fatal incidents concerning community members were recorded of security incidents resulting in injuries to AngloGold Ashanti in 2009). personnel which we believe to be the result of a greater level of organisation among criminal elements and syndicates. Of Since the introduction of a more structured approach to the 44 injuries to AngloGold Ashanti personnel recorded in security incorporating the VPSHR principles, there has been a 2010, 29 were at the Obuasi mine in Ghana (against two in significant reduction in the number of fatalities among third 2009) and eight at the Geita mine in Tanzania. parties involved in illegal activity, as shown in the graph below. Fatalities of third parties involved Injuries to AngloGold Ashanti in illegal activity security personnel 2008 – 2010 2008 – 2010 08 28 08 12 09 12 09 11 10 6 10 44 The majority of fatalities recorded in the graph above took The number of injuries to community members has remained place at the Siguiri mine in Guinea as a result of landslides relatively stable despite this trend, a demonstration of the fact which occurred when artisanal miners illegally mined in our that there is increased adherence to procedures emphasising active pit. The number of these incidents declined from 22 in the use of minimum force. Tighter security management, 2008 to three in 2010, and every effort is being made to including improved processes for data collection and prevent these incidents completely, by finding a workable reporting, may also have resulted in an upwards trend in our solution in consultation with communities. reported numbers. In addition to these fatalities recorded at the Siguiri mine in Injuries to community members Guinea in 2010, one fatality and one injury were recorded at 2008 – 2010 the Obuasi mine in Ghana as a result of a police intervention, 08 4 when one person was fatally injured and another injured in an exchange of gunfire that occurred during an attempted theft 09 3 10 5 of explosives. Two artisanal miners working illegally on our P32 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Human rights and business AngloGold Ashanti and communities Partnering for mutual benefit Our context sustainable outcomes for our business and social partners and contribute to the reduction of reportable community and AngloGold Ashanti’s vision is to become the leading mining environmental incidents, which is a key business objective. company which, in the context of sustainability, implies that we will adopt an approach which is inclusive and engaging of a This section gives a consolidated picture of economic value broad range of stakeholders, including host communities and added and distributed by the company in 2010 including governments. payments made to governments and funds invested in host communities. It sets out our current approach to engaging with Many of the communities which host our operations are communities and governments for mutual economic benefit. vulnerable. Transparency in our interactions with both communities and governments, as well as an approach of Economic value added and distributed partnership is therefore essential if they are to derive sustainable economic benefit from our operations. AngloGold Ashanti’s economic value-added statement is presented overleaf. It outlines the financial contributions made AngloGold Ashanti is in the process of developing a global in respect of, among others, dividends to shareholders, sustainability strategy, one of the objectives of which is to salaries and wages to employees, social investments in promote a more consistent approach to local socio-economic communities and taxes paid to governments. development, community and government relations, and which will be integrated with our organisational change model, Our annual financial statements and our website, Project ONE. www.anglogoldashanti.com, give more detailed information relating to operating costs, employee salaries and benefits Our Community and Environmental Framework remains in accruing to shareholders. In this report and in our place to inform community and environment strategies supplementary web-based information we provide disclosure developed across projects and operations. Successful relating to the two remaining aspects of the value-added execution of the sustainability strategy will further strengthen statement – payments to government and community and the implementation of this framework, ensure the delivery of social investments including infrastructural investment. P33 AngloGold Ashanti and communities Economic value added statement for the year ended 31 December $m $m % 2010 % 2009 Economic value generated Gold sales and by-product income 97 5,463 96 3,862 Interest received 1 43 1 54 Royalties received – 8 – – Profit from sale of assets – – 1 49 Income from investments 2 106 2 94 Total economic value generated 100 5,620 100 4,059 Economic value distributed Operating costs(1) 41 2,289 28 1,136 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits 24 1,365 28 1,117 Payments to providers of capital 4 233 4 184 – Finance costs and unwinding of obligations 3 166 3 139 – Dividends 1 67 1 45 Payments to governments – Current taxation 3 147 4 164 Community investment(2) – 16 – 11 Total economic value distributed 72 4,050 64 2,612 Economic value retained 28 1,570 36 1,447 (1) Operating costs for 2009 have been restated to include the effects of the realised gains and losses on non-hedge derivatives and exclude profit (loss) from associates and joint ventures. Operating costs in 2010 are higher due to increased royalty expenditure of $142m (2009: $84m), rehabilitation costs of $109m (2009: $22m), mandatory convertible bonds transaction costs of $56m (2009: nil). The 2010 and 2009 years exclude hedge buy-back costs. (2) Community investment excludes equity accounted joint ventures. Payments to government AngloGold Ashanti is a member of the Extractive Industries type of payments made to each government is included in our Transparency Initiative (EITI). The EITI process supports fiscal web-based supplementary information. transparency and governance, both of which are important in promoting sustainable economic development. Of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, only Ghana has achieved full compliance with EITI membership provisions. Tanzania, Mali, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) are candidate members. We have, however, taken the approach of disclosing payments made to governments in all countries in which we operate, whether or not the government concerned is a member of the EITI. Payments made to governments in 2010 are shown in the Ghana following table. Further detail, including a breakdown of the Two bridges were built over a large river for use by the community just north of Obuasi. Previously there were no bridges over the river P34 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 AngloGold Ashanti and communities Payments to government by country in $000 (2008 – 2010) 2010 2009 2008 Argentina* 62,581 36,592 31,449 Australia 28,095 54,382 65,645 Brazil 122,499 78,353 82,862 Colombia 14,561 9,617 8,053 DRC 10,494 2,177 2,174 Ghana* 61,558 55,409 42,079 Guinea* 96,344 63,567 37,621 Mali* 170,320 153,296 118,145 Namibia 14,014 6,833 9,236 South Africa 199,455 117,707 91,106 Tanzania 44,994 59,743 38,466 USA 19,406 6,576 7,713 Total 844,321 644,252 534,549 *Includes dividends paid to governments as shareholders of operations. Community investment programmes We continue to invest substantially in host communities and conventions, and where legislation dictates that community labour-sending areas and our community investment contributions are made. Each AngloGold Ashanti site defines programme is a significant part of this effort. We define the areas of emphasis in their community investment community investment as the investment of resources, programmes in line with their stakeholder engagement plan, including funds and in-kind contributions, in the community but most include priorities relating to education and social where the beneficiaries are external to the company. This infrastructure. support seeks to complement the work of government, nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) and community-based A breakdown of community investment per operation is organisations (CBOs). It includes those contributions which the presented in the supplementary information on our website, company is obliged to undertake, such as those agreed with www.anglogoldashanti.com. governments as part of stability agreements or mining Community investment by region in $000 (2008 – 2010) 2010 2009 2008 South Africa 3,242 2,962 3,177 Continental Africa 8,047 5,525 3,770 Americas 5,480 2,804 1,997 Australasia 456 133 117 Sub-total 17,225 11,424 9,061 Less equity accounted investments included above (1,145) (543) (620) Total 16,080 10,881 8,441 P35 AngloGold Ashanti and communities Indirect economic benefits resulting the company is still crucial in many respects in preserving local from our operations values and culture, and enhancing the socio-economic status and quality of life of host communities. Our contribution to society and the communities in which In order to make these investments sustainable, we adopt an we operate often extends beyond the direct payments approach of partnership with local governments, communities made to communities and government. and other relevant stakeholders; co-designing strategies that will ensure that communities continue to thrive beyond Healthy and co-operative relationships between the company the lifespan of our operations. In this regard, we strive to and stakeholders, including appropriate responses to identify communities before we start to mine, and engage with community complaints and grievances regarding our impacts, them appropriately throughout the life of mine and during often contribute towards developmental benefits. Investment closure. in infrastructure and local procurement can contribute to local economic development. Our approach to community We operate in various and complex environments, namely in engagement developing countries where in many cases we play a pivotal role in providing a source of income to individuals and families AngloGold Ashanti defines communities as the groups of or account for a significant percentage of gross domestic people who are directly or indirectly affected by an operation, product. In such environments we contribute to social both positively and negatively. They include host communities infrastructure development, for example power supply, water – communities in which the operation is located, labourprovision and sanitation and road construction and sending communities, communities along the operation’s maintenance. Even in more developed economies, the role of transport routes where this applies, and, in some cases, other Puerto San Julian Development Agency Foundation Case in Argentina study: In the late 1990’s, economic conditions in the Santa Cruz province in Argentina were difficult. The area was traditionally dedicated to the breeding of sheep, soil management was poor and a decline in international wool prices added to economic hardship. The aftermath of the Hudson volcano eruption in southern Chile in 1991 made growth and development almost impossible. The population therefore depended almost exclusively on state-sector employment. The start of mining operations at Cerro Vanguardia SA (CVSA) in 1998 provided an alternative source of employment and economic activity. Understanding the inevitability of eventual mine closure, the company proposed the creation of an agency to promote the development of a sustainable economy. With the support of CVSA, the Santa Cruz and local city governments, the Puerto San Julian Development Agency Foundation was established in 2004 as a non-profit organisation which comprises key representative organisations from the company and the “La Cruz del Sur” a fishing vessel community. Its objective was to establish a vehicle which would enable public and private financed by the Agency for artisanal entities to drive economic growth through the provision of services and development fishers, in order to reactivate the local policies based on social equality and environmental sustainability. port and ensure raw material for fish processing plants in Puerto San Julian A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com P36 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 AngloGold Ashanti and communities groups, including former local residents and their families who Guinea, for example, we continued to experience community have moved away but still have strong familial, business or protest actions during the year despite increasing our focus on other ties to the area. engagement, including through the holding of an inclusive stakeholder engagement forum. Engagement efforts generally focus on two aspects – building relationships with stakeholders and working towards the Management standards on engagement and community development of strong economic partnerships. We do this by, complaints and grievances, which are expected to be among others, implementing mechanisms for handling approved in 2011, will assist the sites in employing the correct grievances and complaints, continually assessing the impact strategies of engagement. Even while the standards are being of our presence and activities and implementing and assessing finalised and approved, work continues to tackle these challenges. steps to minimise and mitigate those impacts. Results of engagement strategies have been mixed, with some Community incidents in 2010 sites continuing to enjoy harmonious relationships and engagements with their stakeholders, whilst others have One of the company’s six business goals is the reduction of experienced challenges and friction. At the Siguiri mine in reportable incidents on community and environment. Our Formulating a common approach to stakeholder Case engagement in the Americas study: AngloGold Ashanti’s operations span a wide range of operating conditions and as a result, the means of engaging with communities and other stakeholders differ from site to site. Nevertheless, the company must understand where such engagement is functioning well and where additional effort is required. The development of a common approach and methodology would also allow key challenges and opportunities to be more effectively highlighted across the business and for insights to be shared more effectively. Over the course of 2010, our regional group in the Americas took this work forward, by reviewing stakeholder engagement practices at the Cripple Creek & Victor Gold Mining Company (CC&V) in the USA. The work began with an update to the existing stakeholder analysis. With this in hand, externally-conducted interviews were undertaken with a large number of local and regional stakeholders. The objective of these interviews was to elicit objective assessments of CC&V’s communications and stakeholder engagement practices. This also allowed CC&V to assess whether its understanding of how stakeholders perceive operations was accurate. This aspect of work is still in process at CC&V; the objective for 2011 is to integrate the learning from this process into the mine’s stakeholder engagement strategy for 2011 and beyond. Once this work is completed at CC&V, we will assess the relevance of this process to other parts of the business and decide whether similar efforts could enhance stakeholder The CC&V mine in the USA. Reviews of engagement at other operations. stakeholder engagement practices were held at CC&V during 2010 A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com P37 AngloGold Ashanti and communities long-term objective is the complete elimination of these The management standards that have been developed and incidents. In 2010, community incidents were included in the are pending sign-off are: Engagement, Socio-Economic incident classification and reporting standard. During 2011, Contribution, Community Complaints and Grievances, work will continue to understand these impacts and reduce Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM); Cultural Heritage and their numbers. Sacred Sites; Indigenous Peoples; and Land Access and Resettlement. The standards set out corporate expectations Seven reportable community incidents were recorded in 2010, for performance in these areas and will replace the existing four of which occurred at the Siguiri mine in Guinea, one at the Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan (SEAP) and Integrated Geita mine in Tanzania, one at the Sadiola mine in Mali and one Development Action Plan (IDAP) guidelines which are at the Obuasi mine in Ghana. Two of the incidents were currently in use at our operations. Following approval, classified as major incidents according to the incident operations are expected to comply with standards within a reporting system in place. Of these two major incidents, one period of three years. occurred at the Geita mine when approximately 150 local community members protested against delays in Conduct a Community and Environmental Review compensation payments. Issues relating to these payments Programme (CERP) biennially at selected sites, including have been resolved and the payments have been effected. The community aspects. other occurred at the Sadiola mine in Mali, when local The 2010/11 programme of community and environmental residents protested against the failure of the mine to respond audits comprised a gap analysis to measure the extent to to various grievances. Responses to the grievances raised which sites have met the requirements of the environmental were given following a mediation meeting attended by local community representatives and chaired by a local government management standards. Work to include community aspects representative. will begin after the standards have been approved by the company’s executive committee which is anticipated in the first half of 2011. Community relations objectives in 2010 Standards are in the late stages of internal and external reviews. In our 2009 report, we set out objectives relating to community In the interim, site visits have been undertaken to engage sites relations in 2010. Our performance against these objectives is by raising awareness, soliciting further input and providing set out below. feedback on the steps that they would need to take to comply Implement management standards and associated with the proposed standards. guidance material that govern the company’s relationships with communities and the environment. Incorporate community aspects into each operation’s ISO 14001 management system by 2012. Standards were developed in consultation with the relevant practitioners at AngloGold Ashanti sites. Internal and external The ISO 14001 management system is in place at all experts were invited to review and add input into these operations and some have gone a long way to incorporating standards. Each standard complies with the current International community aspects. Further work is being done to support Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards and ICMM sites to meet the 2014 target date, which is three years after principles and good practice guidelines. approval of the standard. P38 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 AngloGold Ashanti and communities Engagement with government all government stakeholders and to capture online feedback from all meetings with governments globally. The latter will be The government relations function aims to support the analysed and fed back into the business to serve as an ‘early company by addressing its key strategic issues in a warning system’ for emerging issues, as well as assisting each collaborative way with host governments. Its work is operation in managing its business unit. This pilot programme underpinned by an appreciation that government is the will remain work in progress in South Africa during 2011 and, custodian of each country’s natural resources. It has full following its successful completion, we hope to extend the authority to regulate and legislate the licensing of exploration programme to two other jurisdictions. and exploitation of natural resources. Various ministries within each government have a role to play in regulating the industry in areas such as environment, safety, water, finance and taxes. Local skills development Significant direct and indirect economic benefits are generated Government structures being represented at national, regional in host communities through investment in local skills and local level within each country presents challenges and development ranging from hiring, training and developing opportunities for our operations in developing mutually-beneficial employees from local communities. relationships in host countries. For example, community investment needs to be aligned with regional development strategies as defined by host governments. Recognising this Local skills development is not only undertaken as a key role of government, we aim to include regional and national consequence of the impetus of local authorities and government representatives in partnerships and engagement communities to employ people from their own countries, but is processes on local development programmes. also in line with AngloGold Ashanti’s value of leaving the communities better off for us having been there. In 2010, we committed to rolling out a pilot engagement strategy model which would introduce more consistency into As such, a company policy for global transformation and this area of work. Three specific tools were developed: to localisation of labour was approved in November 2010 and will guide conversations with government, to maintain a register of be incorporated into formal policies, leadership practices and the System for People (SP) from 2011 with frequent reviews by regions and committees assigned to the transformation model. Podcast: Kathryn McPhail, The policy aims to promote the company’s values, and in Principal, International particular respect for the diversity of our various societies. Council on Mining It also takes into account our global footprint and the legislative Metals (ICMM) framework of the countries in which we are present, so as to: “ No one party working alone can deliver sustainable development. • redress historical imbalances – this applies particularly in South Africa to historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs); It is critical for key stakeholder • promote the equitable employment of local citizens at all groups to work in partnership: levels of management at our operations; companies, governments, civil • promote the equitable employment of disabled people into society, and international donor the company and at all levels; and agencies. ” Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com • promote gender equality at all levels of management of the company. P39 AngloGold Ashanti and communities Legislation concerning transformation and localisation of Accountability for transformation ultimately rests with line labour is in place in some regions in which we operate: management, with the corporate office transformation team • in South Africa, the Mining Charter aims to transform the supporting the regions in developing their strategies in line with workplace and communities in which we operate and the legislative and business requirements and standards as source labour; outlined in the policy framework. • in Ghana and Tanzania work is ongoing to implement localisation legislation, targeting the reduction of expatriate Implementation of the policy will be reviewed regularly. numbers and the employment of local people into Governance structures have been put in place, including a managerial roles. Here immigration laws and practices board Transformation and Human Resources Development restrict or limit the employment period of expatriates; Committee and a Transformation Steering Committee, which • in Brazil, targets relate to the employment of people with meet quarterly to review progress. Transformation structures disabilities; and will also be established at a regional level, similar to those that • in Argentina, provincial legislation restricts the employment already exist at the group’s South African operations. of people from outside the province of Santa Cruz, where AngloGold Ashanti operates. The focus for 2011 will be on ensuring that all operations have systems and structures to ensure compliance with all AngloGold Ashanti recognises the critical role of employees transformation-related legislation, while at the same time in implementing its business strategy. In line with our values beginning to socialise the transformation policy and strategy as we are committed to recognising diversity and to treating part of the SP implementation process. people with dignity and respect. We acknowledge that significant benefits can arise if transformation and localisation are integral to how we do business, everywhere we operate. Partnering for sustainable development in Colombia Case study: The International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) launched ‘Mining: Partnerships for Development’ in February 2010 – a global initiative to enhance mining’s contribution to development and poverty reduction through multi-stakeholder partnerships. AngloGold Ashanti has been an active supporter of the programme since its inception, supporting workshops in Ghana and in Tanzania and most recently participating in a workshop in Bogota, Colombia in April 2010. The workshop was well attended with over 150 participants from the various stakeholder groups, including community and youth representatives. A basic action plan was developed which included the formation of a committee responsible for promoting mining partnerships within Colombia, to be led by the Colombian Ministry of Mines and Energy as part of their ‘Mineria Responsible’ (‘Responsible Mining’) campaign. Kathryn McPhail, who has spearheaded the programme from within the ICMM said: “The ICMM's work with United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the World Bank Group has shown that the 'resource curse' is not inevitable. That said, we believe more can be done to enhance mining's contribution to economic and social development and this is the rationale for ICMM's Mining: Partnerships for Development.” The team gears up for the 2011 exploration campaign A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com P40 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 AngloGold Ashanti and communities A life cycle approach: exploration and closure Leaving communities better for our presence Our context The commitments made in our values imply that, even at the exploration phase of a project, we need to take into account the fact that our mines will eventually close. Rehabilitation costs must be provided for over the lifetime of the operation, and rehabilitation work must be undertaken in line with our commitment to respect the environment. Communities which have hosted our operations must be consulted on what we leave behind in terms of infrastructure and impacts. AngloGold Ashanti has a large portfolio of greenfield and brownfield exploration projects. Active community engagement is underway at many sites and issues such as health, safety and environmental management are addressed in the exploration phase of our projects. Caroline Digby, Director, Podcast: Post-Mining Alliance, On closure planning, significant efforts have been made to Eden Project improve the quality of closure plans at all of our operations. As a means to achieving this end, a company closure standard was approved in 2009. Operations have been given until the “ Successful mine closure ensures that local people are in a position end of 2011 to comply with this standard. to adapt to new circumstances, as well as establishing new uses This section provides more detail in respect of two critical for the mine site, its surrounding aspects of our business – exploration and closure planning – both of which are essential to mine in a sustainable manner infrastructure and landscape. ” Podcast available at www.anglogoldashanti.com and leave communities with a sustainable future. P41 A life cycle approach: exploration and closure Our exploration pipeline The AngloGold Ashanti commitment to building a global exploration project pipeline has been substantial. The Exploration is the life blood of any mining company. The longcompany has developed a presence in prospective geological environments on each of the major continents. The company’s term and sustained commitment to making new discoveries, Proved and Probable Ore Reserves amounted to 71.2Moz of evaluating them and transitioning them into viable mining gold in 2010 compared to 70.6Moz in 2009 and 74.9Moz in operations ensures sustainability of the organisation. 2008. Following the sale of the Tau Lekoa mine in August 2010, the figure for Proved and Probable Ore Reserves in AngloGold Ashanti’s greenfield exploration business unit is 2009 reduced to 70.6Moz from the 71.4Moz previously stated. mandated to deliver a pipeline of new projects of material value for more detailed resource definition and pre-feasibility studies AngloGold Ashanti’s greenfield exploration business unit as a precursor to mining activities. This mandate is achieved identifies and evaluates new opportunities according to a wellthrough building a global portfolio of projects that balances risk developed mining industry process of exploration. Exploration (including geo-political, commercial, technical and nonis undertaken in a staged manner with a progressively greater technical risks), project flow and the optimisation of overall level of commitment and prioritisation of resources as projects value creation. move through the stages in the exploration process (project Our portfolio of exploration projects Egypt Wadi Kareem JV Hodine JV Canada Eritrea Melville Project Akordat North JV Superior JV Kerkasha JV China Baffin Island JV Gabon Yili Yunhai CJV Dome JV Jinchanggou CJV Ogooue Amiga JV Guinea Colombia Siguiri Blocks 1-4 Djibouti Solomon Islands Gramalote JV Stratex Afar JV Kele & Mase JV Western Cordillera JV New Georgia & Rio Dulce Quebradona JV Ethiopia Vangunu JV La Colosa DRC Stratex JV Chaparral JV Salvajina AGK JV La Llanada Kilo Project New Zealand Seafield JV Argentina Tanzania Santa Cruz (El Volcan) Oryx JV Mkurumu JV Australia Cornelia Range Tropicana JV Brazil South Africa Viking Falcão JV Saxby JV Juruena South African Sea Areas JV Gawler JV Greenfield exploration countries Santana JV (South Carajas Block) Greenfield strategic alliances P42 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 A life cycle approach Tropicana Gold Project – Stakeholder engagement in Case Western Australia study: In November 2010, the company approved the development of the 70%-owned Tropicana project, which expects to pour its first gold in 2013. In advance of production, an AngloGold Ashanti project team was actively engaging key stakeholders to obtain buy-in and to co-design the project. Early stakeholder engagement is important in achieving broad community support for the start up of a new mining project. Community engagement started in the exploration stages of Tropicana in 2002. Initial engagement established communication lines with local government and indigenous communities and as the project developed, these activities were expanded to include special interest groups in the fields of conservation, preservation, pastoralism and key decision-making authorities. A Peer Review Panel was established in 2008 comprising independent specialists who advise on survey methodology, report content, impact management strategies and interpreting community feedback. Eight years of engagement has involved a broad spectrum of communication techniques, AngloGold Ashanti staff meet a group of including proactively seeking out stakeholders, listening and responding to their inputs. traditional owners during the heritage survey of the Tropicana Gold Project A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com generation, target generation, drill target definition, drill testing improve processes for recognising and managing business risk. and resource definition and conceptual studies) and levels of The company is in the process of developing guidelines and business risks are identified, quantified and managed. policies to be incorporated into sustainability practices. AngloGold Ashanti differentiates itself from its competitors by ensuring that its exploration business unit works in partnership Stakeholder engagement in the with the various operational management teams to capture exploration stage of a project regionally based commercial, safety, community and environmental expertise relevant to each stage of exploration. The frequency and type of communication and stakeholder It is this commitment to sustainable development through engagement differs between sites and jurisdictions, and is “operating globally and acting locally” that defines the dependent on the maturity of stakeholder relationships as well company’s value proposition in terms of developing a brand as the stage of development of the project. Stakeholder and reputation at the exploration phase of a project, and establishing trust within the communities in which we operate. engagement has taken place at all advanced exploration sites during 2010 and particularly at the Tropicana Gold Project in From 2011, this process will be developed further, through Project Australia which has now been approved by the AngloGold ONE, which, as a comprehensive business model, enables us to Ashanti board to proceed through construction to mining. P43 A life cycle approach: exploration and closure We are currently undertaking a feasibility study for the construction, for example, cost considerations often dictate Mongbwalu Project in the north east of the Democratic steep slopes, which may lead to expensive earth moving after Republic of the Congo (DRC). As part of the required closure. Establishing flatter slopes during construction could environmental impact study, we are working with independent reduce such costs in the long term. consultants to undertake further specialist studies such as a human rights assessment. We are also working on a The company’s Environment and Community Policy commits stakeholder engagement process to ensure that stakeholders the company to ensuring that financial resources are have access to information on the project and can raise available to meet its closure obligations. Good closure concerns and questions that are important to them, locally, planning is a value-adding exercise that optimises postregionally and nationally. Stakeholders are given feedback on mining land use, and can help to reduce life-of-mine issues they have raised, and participate in the planning of operating and closure costs. project impacts and benefits. Poor or inadequate closure planning can lead to Elsewhere, in Gabon, Northern Canada, Brazil, Colombia and dysfunctional relationships with host governments and the Solomon Islands extensive and ongoing early stage communities. Furthermore, without proper planning the engagement is taking place in partnership with joint venture company is likely to be exposed to higher costs, missed partners at national and regional government level with the opportunities, compensation claims and reputational relevant government and regional development bodies, damage. community groups and NGOs. In order to ensure that operating staff and the company’s In the Western Province of the Solomon Islands, where stakeholders clearly understand our closure commitments AngloGold Ashanti is exploring jointly with Canada-based and to set a common benchmark across the company, a XDM Resources, regular engagements with the community closure and rehabilitation management standard was took place during 2010 on land access agreements and finalised during 2009. Operations were given two years, until compensation for disturbance to land by ongoing exploration the end of 2011, to achieve full compliance with the activity. The joint venture management team provides work standard, which requires, amongst others, that an interim opportunities, small-scale business activities, and health and closure plan be prepared within three years of community programmes to encourage participation by locals commissioning an operation, or earlier if required by legislation. This plan is reviewed and updated every three and customary landowners. years (annually in the final three years of a mine’s life) or whenever significant changes are made. It takes into Closure planning and provision account operational conditions, planning and legislative requirements, international protocols, technological All mining operations eventually cease. Closure planning is a developments and advances in practice. The interim plan critical operational activity, potentially with significant becomes a final plan at least three years before closure is reputational implications. The associated liabilities must be planned. provided for and publicly disclosed. Closure planning is an activity that starts at exploration and mine design and Our long-term remediation obligations include decommissioning continues throughout the life of mine. and restoration liabilities relating to past operations which are based on our environmental management plans and comply Planning for closure implies creating a 'closure mentality', with current environmental and regulatory requirements. whereby closure is considered at each stage in design and Provisions for remediation costs are made when there is a operation of the project. It is often possible to plan and design present obligation, it is probable that expenditure on operations to reduce rehabilitation costs. In waste rock dump remediation work will be required and the cost can be P44 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 A life cycle approach estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes. The costs are based on currently available facts, technology expected to be available at the time of the clean up, laws and regulations presently or virtually certain to be enacted and prior experience in remediation of contaminated sites. Provisions for restoration and decommissioning costs are made at the present value of the expenditures expected to settle the obligation, using estimated cash flows based on current prices and discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Mali In 2010, discounted closure liabilities increased from The women of Kourouketo Village near Yatela mine collect indigenous $418 million to $551 million. This increase is largely Peniculatum grass seeds from the area surrounding their village and sell attributable to changes to life of mine plans, changes in them to the mine for use in its rehabilitation programme estimates of closure liabilities and increased cost escalations. experts where necessary, to meet the standard. A multiCommunity imperatives disciplinary closure working group, established in 2008, oversaw progress and updated executive management. It assessed gaps Among concerns associated with closure is the need to ensure between existing closure plans and the standard. that commitments to communities have been recorded and are acted upon. After the mine has closed the local community Self-assessments conducted in 2010 highlighted that areas must live with its legacy. Our closure standard stipulates that requiring greater attention at some operations include: closure planning must be undertaken in consultation with the • risk and opportunity assessment; community. In the course of these consultations, different • decommissioning and rehabilitation plans; issues are raised which require site-specific solutions. • completion criteria and monitoring; Livelihood preservation and infrastructure are often key • contingency planning; requirements. Local people who were previously employed at • care and maintenance plans; the mine and may have received education and training seek • premature closure; and viable employment alternatives. Communities also require • planning of final exit from site. information on rehabilitation of the landscape and on any lasting environmental impacts. Commitments and delivery Performance on closure planning in 2010 Work to achieve compliance with the company standard for closure and rehabilitation will continue in 2011. Over 2011 and Guidelines to assist operations to implement the closure and 2012, compliance with the standard will be assessed through rehabilitation management standard were developed during a corporate-led assurance and operations review. Closure 2010. A workshop was held in December 2010 to ensure planning is an iterative process and we are aiming for alignment amongst environmental, social and accounting continuous improvement in our performance. professionals within the company and to share best practices across the group. Throughout 2010, closure planning was conducted at an operational level, with assistance from corporate and regional P45 Environmental and natural resource stewardship Respecting the environment Our context Focus areas Our mining operations share scarce resources with the We have identified five focus areas in relation to environmental communities which host us and responsible stewardship of and natural resource stewardship: these resources and of the environment is therefore a moral • water; • energy and greenhouse gas emissions; imperative. If we do not act responsibly in this respect, we risk • land; eroding the goodwill of these communities and potentially • hazardous materials; and incurring legal penalties. We also have a broader societal • air quality. obligation to operate in a way which safeguards the environment and uses all resources efficiently. In the section which follows we provide greater detail on the context for each of these areas, and on our management Our commitments on stewardship of the environment and approach. In addition, we report on the work undertaken to natural resources are reflected in our company values, where improve our understanding of the potential impact of climate we undertake to continually improve our technology and change on our operations and to develop appropriate responses. processes to prevent pollution, minimise waste, increase our carbon efficiency and make efficient use of natural resources. Water These commitments are also reflected in our company goals, which include reducing environmental incidents by 60% by Water management 2013 (from a 2008 baseline) and their elimination in the longer With a global footprint, we face many different water term. The number of environmental incidents reported in 2010 management challenges: decreased by 47% to 27 (from 51 in 2009). • competing needs for water resources in arid and semi-arid locations (for example during dry spells at the Yatela Mine Changing economic, social and environmental conditions in Mali); challenge us to develop innovative solutions and responsible • the potential mediumto long-term threat of disruption to mining practices. The cost of energy, for example, varies with the security of supply of water, as changing climatic conditions and consumption patterns put pressure on the our consumption profile, fuel price fluctuations, electricity capacity of water supply to meet demand; tariffs and the legislation in place in each jurisdiction where we • potential damage to our reputation and community operate. The availability and management of water are issues relationships which can occur as a result of actual or which pose shortand long-term risks and opportunities. In perceived violations of water management standards or many cases we are under pressure to reduce consumption of legislation; and energy and water while meeting increased demands for these • a high level of stakeholder concern over water supply and resources as a result of the expansion of mining activities or quality, which may constrain the development of new the changing nature of mining operations. operations in sensitive areas. P46 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental and natural resource stewardship We use water for multiple applications including minerals We are proactive in addressing the risks associated with mine processing, the transportation of tailings, air cooling flooding and are developing regional flooding models, processes, the powering of hydraulic mining equipment and expanding on existing agreements with neighbouring mines to dust suppression. Process water used in applications where ensure the continued protection of our operations and chemicals and other additives are applied is usually unsuitable engaging stakeholders at national level to expedite available for release into the environment without prior treatment. technical solutions. Preventing its accidental release is therefore a crucial water management objective. We recognise that in the South African context the solution will require an inclusive and collaborative approach from Our water management standard sets out good practice government, industry and community stakeholders and we remain committed to continued engagement with all of our requirements for the monitoring and management of surface stakeholders to ensure the protection of communities and the and groundwater quality as well as its consumption. Since environment and, ultimately, the sustainability of our business. the standard’s launch in 2009, our operations have been working steadily to address deficiencies in specified requirements. Internal reviews of compliance to this and Water management issues at Obuasi other approved standards are planned for 2011 and 2012 Water management concerns in March 2010 resulted in the under the Community and Environment Review Programme suspension of gold processing activities at the Obuasi mine (CERP). in Ghana for five days, pending implementation of a revised water management strategy to reduce contaminants contained in mine discharge. Construction of two process As underground mining has gradually ceased in some of South water treatment plants is scheduled for completion by the Africa’s older mining regions, groundwater has infiltrated mined second quarter of 2011, to better manage excess water to out workings and becomes acidic if it is exposed to sulphide the north and south of the mine. minerals in these workings. Water levels in the closed underground mines can rise, presenting a potential Permitting processes are also under way for the construction contamination risk to shallow groundwater and eventually to of a return water dam to be commissioned by 2012, to surface water resources if allowed to spread further. further improve capacity for managing excess process water, which will in turn improve the stability of the south tailings Our operations are largely situated off dolomitic areas and do storage facility. not encounter significant amounts of deep groundwater compared to some of our neighbouring mines, where pumping In response to these and other operational challenges, we and disposal of large quantities of water are necessary. The have appointed a high-level, multi-disciplinary taskforce to water captured by our mines is used within our operations and address operating performance at Obuasi. This senior so we do not need to discharge large quantities of management team is tasked with designing a turnaround plan underground mine water. As our mines are deeper than that will touch all aspects of the operation, from mining and neighbouring mines, the main issue of concern to AngloGold processing to a holistic approach to addressing legacy issues Ashanti is that both our West Wits and Vaal River operations resulting from a century of mining. This team will report its are at risk of flooding should the adjacent mines cease findings to the board and table a detailed plan for Obuasi’s pumping water from their underground workings. sustained turnaround. Water usage and efficiency by region (2009 – 2010) Water usage ML Water efficiency kL/oz 2010 2009 2010 2009 South Africa 20,896 19,649 11.70 10.93 Continental Africa 24,436 26,344 14.34 14.18 Australasia 3,485 3,703 8.80 9.23 Americas 5,817 5,426 6.22 5.97 Group 54,664 55,138 11.34 11.11 Group consumption totals include usage at Tropicana. P47 Environmental and natural resource stewardship Boosting water recycling capability at our Vaal River Case operations in South Africa study: Groundwater pollution due to seepage from mining activities is one of the main environmental challenges facing our Vaal River operations in South Africa. In 1992, the Northern Well Field, a series of shallow boreholes, was constructed to intercept polluted water and prevent it from entering the nearby Vaal River. However, interception by the well field deteriorated significantly over time and in 2008 a project was launched to increase its effectiveness. The upgrade to the well field resulted in a doubling of the volume of water extracted and a significant reduction in salts discharged into the Vaal River. As a consequence of the Pump testing a new borehole in the upgrade, some 75,000m3 of additional water is recycled each month for use in Vaal River area to determine the metallurgical processes, with a total cost saving of over $600,000 per annum. volume of water that can be pumped on a daily basis A detailed version of this case study is available online at www.anglogoldashanti.com Water security Together with the mining sector as a whole, AngloGold Ashanti Water security is a complex and multifaceted issue, which is faces specific challenges in increasing energy efficiency at its only addressed by comprehensive attention to all aspects of operations. water performance (including consumption, reuse, recycling, quality, discharge profile and infrastructure integrity). The Firstly, any improvements in energy performance tend to be concept of integrated water management is being adopted quickly eroded as our mines mature. Energy consumption progressively across all AngloGold Ashanti operations and typically increases over the life cycle of an operation as mining we are developing a range of water performance metrics, to progresses to lower depths and more complex and lowerbe introduced formally in 2012. grade areas of an orebody. Secondly, as infrastructure upgrades do not take place frequently, there are few Our immediate focus is on making the water performance opportunities to introduce step changes in energy efficiency at gains from business improvement initiatives explicit, setting our operations. Finally, currently available clean energy site-based targets for water performance in our 2012 business alternatives that meet our requirement for 24/7 secure, reliable plan, incorporating integrated water management into our supply tend not to be economically or technically viable. So, global Business Process Framework (BPF) and developing while we have a medium-term target to improve energy internal capability on integrated water management. efficiency by 15% and a longer-term target to improve greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 30%, progress towards Critical next steps are to: achievement of these targets is elusive. • develop country and regional integrated water management strategies; Energy efficiency • adopt technologies that minimise raw water intake wherever In an endeavour to reduce our energy consumption to the feasible for new assets; and extent technically and economically feasible, we have • optimise the recycling of process water. refocused our attention over the past few years on improving energy performance across our operations. Energy and greenhouse gas emissions We have the opportunity with new operations to make significant Mining is an energy-intensive industry and with rising costs changes in energy efficiency. For example, at our Tropicana and climate change high on the global agenda, we seek to project in Australia, the processing plant has been designed to be manage our energy consumption wisely. more energy and water efficient than plants at our other P48 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental and natural resource stewardship Energy usage and efficiency by region (2009 – 2010) Energy usage (million GJ) Energy efficiency (GJ/oz) 2010 2009* 2010 2009* South Africa 12.4 12.3 6.9 6.9 Continental Africa 11.3 11.1 6.6 6.0 Australasia 2.3 2.0 5.7 5.0 Americas 4.7 4.3 5.0 4.8 Group 30.6 29.8 6.4 6.0 * Energy consumption data for 2009 has been restated owing to omissions and fuel conversion factor errors found in the data originally reported. operations. It will utilise high pressure grinding rolls which use less members of local religious congregations to participate in energy than conventional milling. Leach and tailings thickeners education on ways to reduce energy consumption in the home will be used to recover and recycle process water, substantially and local community. reducing the quantity of water pumped to the tailings facility, and grey water from the village will be recycled for use in the Energy security processing plant, reducing the quantity of water drawn from Secure, reliable 24/7 energy supply is an imperative for our boreholes adjacent to the mine that would need to be pumped operations, as it is for the mining industry as a whole. We take to our operations and treated extensively prior to use. electricity from the national grid in South Africa, Namibia, Ghana, the USA and partially in Brazil. With the exception of Also, during 2010 and early 2011, we undertook a number of hydroelectric supply to our Brazilian operations, all other energy efficiency projects to improve the control and operations are fed by on-site fossil fuel generation facilities management of the compressed air and cooling systems for using diesel, heavy fuel oil or natural gas. We also use diesel deep underground mines in our South Africa region. These are as a fuel in trucks and other heavy equipment. projected to result in a saving of approximately 140GWh per year. In addition, vapour compression heating systems are being installed in residential facilities at our South African Factors affecting the energy security of our operations include operations with a further saving of 15GWh per year. This latter our projected energy consumption profile, the availability of fuel project will potentially generate carbon credits under the UN and energy supplies, the maturity of energy markets and the Clean Development Mechanism. rates of economic growth in the countries where we operate. In addition, several of our operations are in countries where As most of our power supply in Brazil is drawn from energy security is potentially affected by political instability, hydropower sources, greenhouse gas emissions from these projections for domestic power supply which exceed available operations were only 33,000t CO2e in 2010. Despite this demand, a lack of internal capability to support commercial already high performance level, the focus on energy efficiency and industrial growth and government regulation. In these across all our operations in Brazil has been relentless. Two key countries, we are building relationships with our host interventions in 2010 included improving ventilation and governments with the objective of jointly developing compressed air system efficiency at our Cuiabá mine and sustainable futures. Each of our mines faces specific compressed air system efficiency at the adjacent Queiroz challenges and individual site-based energy security strategies processing plant. are being developed within our global framework. Many sites extend their energy efficiency focus into the local Our current priorities are to embed comprehensive energy communities around our mining operations. At our Obuasi performance monitoring practices within the Business mine in Ghana, which has a proud record on community Process Framework (BPF), set site-based targets for energy engagement with respect to energy performance, these performance for inclusion in our 2012 business plan, make practices are embedded and include weekly broadcasts on the energy benefits from business improvement projects local radio, participation of the wives of employees in regular explicit and develop processes for better sharing of practical forums on home energy efficiency and encouraging information internally on energy performance. P49 Environmental and natural resource stewardship Critical next steps are to: We have not reported on greenhouse gas emissions from land • implement country and regional energy security strategies; and use change since earlier desktop studies suggested these • where feasible, adopt the latest technologies to minimise emissions are not material. As the available scientific fuel consumption at new and existing assets. methodologies for measuring and monitoring emissions of this nature are changing, further investigation will be Energy costs conducted during 2011 to quantify and clarify the status of these emissions. Managing our energy costs is an increasingly significant challenge. Our energy consumption for 2010 remained relatively stable at 30.6 million GJ, however our energy Further, a desktop study completed by Camco in 2009 efficiency worsened by 5.8% in this period. Energy costs confirmed that AngloGold Ashanti’s Scope 3 emissions are not continue to increase rapidly – rising 33% from 2009 to 2010 – material and as a consequence, are not reported. and are expected to accelerate further. In 2010, energy costs were 18.7% of total operating cash costs for our operations Land and this ratio is continuing to rise. We often own or control large tracts of land, even though only While our electricity consumption has increased by only 0.8%, a relatively small area is used for mining purposes. electricity costs have increased by 35%. In both South Africa Underground mining has a small physical footprint. In contrast, and Ghana for example, electricity prices increased by open-pit operations impact a much larger area in order to approximately 25% during 2010. At the same time, while our access the ore. Unlike other industries, the location of mining diesel fuel consumption increased by 8%, diesel costs activities cannot be altered to avoid impacts, however we have escalated 30%. some flexibility with respect to mining method and the location of ancillary infrastructure. Environmental protection, community Greenhouse gas emissions preferences, the viability of mining operations and regulatory Our total greenhouse emissions in 2010 were 4.7Mt CO2e, an requirements all contribute to our choices in this regard, which increase of 2.0% on 2009. As our production declined by are informed primarily by our commitment to our values. 2.9% in this period, our greenhouse gas emissions intensity deteriorated by 5.0% overall. We need to take into account a range of land-related issues in planning and managing our operations, the most significant of Approximately 99% of our reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 which are: greenhouse gas emissions are directly related to energy • land access – securing the right to use land for mining and consumption. Consequently, improving our energy performance maintaining physical access to the land covered by our at every opportunity is our primary avenue for mitigating the mining rights; impacts of climate change arising from our operations. • biodiversity, land disturbance and rehabilitation; and • the management of waste and tailings. The additional 1% of our reported greenhouse gas emissions are derived from refrigerant losses. These three areas are discussed below. GHG emissions and efficiency by region (2009 – 2010) Emissions (Mt CO2e) Efficiency (t CO2e/oz) 2010 2009* 2010 2009* South Africa 3.42 3.40 1.92 1.89 Continental Africa 0.80 0.79 0.47 0.43 Australasia 0.15 0.14 0.39 0.34 Americas 0.32 0.29 0.34 0.32 Group 4.70 4.61 0.97 0.93 * 2009 data has been restated due to restatements in energy consumption data. P50 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental and natural resource stewardship Land access waste rock is generated during drilling and developing access Access to land is a two-tiered issue. Firstly, the legal right to to underground ore bodies. Overburden and waste rock mine the orebody and to produce gold on a demarcated tract typically contain sub-economic levels of gold and are of land needs to be obtained. Secondly, secure and deposited as large waste rock dumps. unobstructed access to this land has to be maintained, particularly in areas with potential for conflict with local The impact of failure of a tailings storage facility can be communities over land use. significant and we therefore monitor such facilities closely to ensure that their management is in accordance with On the first issue, there are various political and societal commitments made to local communities and to national concerns that must be addressed before we can establish a regulatory requirements. We apply stricter internal controls to mine. For example, we need to ensure that we can mitigate minimise the risk of failure and have established an internal impacts associated with physical land disturbance and put in tailings management framework which is applied at all of our place rehabilitation efforts during and after the mine operations. operational phase to ensure sustainable mine closure. After mine closure, tailings storage facilities and waste rock On the second issue, we recognise that tension can arise with dumps are typically the most significant and visible impact that communities over land use and access. Our approach is to remains and consequently we aim to begin rehabilitation work engage communities, and to find the best way to on these areas as early as possible in the life of an operation. accommodate all parties’ needs within the constraints of the Rehabilitation work typically involves the reshaping and/or available resource. profile capping of the facility to meet the company’s closure and rehabilitation standard and to make these facilities safe, Biodiversity, land disturbance and rehabilitation stable and self-sustaining beyond closure. Mineral resources in traditional mining areas are becoming Regrettably, in February 2010 we suspended operations at our depleted and, like many mining companies, we are Iduapriem mine in Ghana for a period of two and a half months increasingly exploring or operating in remote or previously undisturbed areas where biodiversity requires greater due to potentially adverse environmental impacts arising from attention. Because we must mine where the resource is water discharge at the tailings storage facility at the operation. located, the presence of sensitive habitats or vulnerable In conjunction with the Environmental Protection Agency of species requires careful site evaluation and selection, thorough Ghana we identified an interim location for tailings storage. baseline studies and engagement with local communities to Construction of a new storage facility to cater for life of mine understand their relationships with the environment. tailings deposition is in progress and it is anticipated that this new facility will become operational in the first half of 2011. In order to set an internal standard and common performance expectations, we continue to refine our draft biodiversity Hazardous materials management standard, including subjecting it to NGO review. The standard will be finalised in 2011. The management and disposal of potentially hazardous materials used in or generated as a result of gold production Mine closure issues touch on important aspects of land use requires special attention. Our chemical and waste standards and access and are covered in more detail on pages 44 to 45 address the management of risks arising from the use of of this report. hazardous materials and cover topics including waste avoidance, reduction, reuse, recycling, treatment and disposal. Waste and tailings management We generate waste rock and tailings as a result of mining and The use of cyanide by the gold mining industry has been a mineral processing operations. Mine tailings are the process significant source of stakeholder concern since its effluents generated after grinding and extraction of gold from introduction and cyanide is carefully managed at AngloGold the ore is completed. Tailings are deposited as slurry in large Ashanti operations. We are a signatory of the international storage facilities specifically designed for this purpose. cyanide management code which supports the responsible manufacture, transportation and use of cyanide in gold mining, During open-pit mining large volumes of soil and/or rock enhances measures for the protection of human health, and (overburden) are generated to expose the orebody. Similarly, reduces the potential for environmental impacts. P51 Environmental and natural resource stewardship As a signatory to the code, our operations are audited by ongoing management attention are air quality impacts as a independent third parties to ensure compliance. The results of result of excessive dust liberated at some of our operations these audits are publicly available to inform stakeholders of the and regulated emissions from power plants. status of cyanide management practices at certified operations. Climate change Currently 15 of the 19 of our operations using cyanide are In addition to actions undertaken in the five focus areas, we are certified as compliant to the cyanide code. In 2009, six building on a study completed in 2009 to improve our operations were temporarily withdrawn from the code understanding of the potential impact of climate change on our certification process. During 2010, two of these operations – business and to develop appropriate responses. Navachab in Namibia and Siguiri in Guinea – were audited and certified as fully compliant to the code. Cerro Vanguardia in Argentina rejoined the certification process in 2010 and is Potential physical risks to our operations include increased expected to be certified as fully compliant during 2011. Geita in rainfall or reduced water availability, higher temperatures and Tanzania has completed infrastructure work to meet the code extreme weather events. In addition, the communities around requirements and a compliance audit is expected in 2011. our mines could be exposed to an increased risk of food insecurity, water scarcity and adverse health impacts. In Ghana, infrastructural modifications are required for our two At site-level, we need to interpret the potential impact of operations in that country to become compliant with the code. climate change and develop practical action plans. This At Iduapriem, infrastructure work is expected to be completed includes consideration of engineering and operational issues within the first half of 2011, following which the certification as well as the potential impact of climate change on process should recommence. At Obuasi, we plan to address employees and host communities. the complexities of transporting, receiving and handling cyanide at that site through a new facility. The capital allocation for the project has been made and detailed engineering design Legislation on climate change is being considered in Australia, work has begun. the USA, South Africa and Brazil which may, if passed, have a financial impact on our operations. In each country, AngloGold Ashanti is actively engaging the government in an attempt to Air quality ensure that there is a balance between effectiveness in addressing climate change and adverse impacts on the Our operations in Guinea, Mali, Namibia, Tanzania and South economy and business. Because AngloGold Ashanti exports Africa are situated in arid or semi-arid regions where the almost all of its products and as our prices are not set by the management of dust generated by our activities is necessary. company but on international commodity exchanges, the To protect communities around these mines, water is used to company is potentially exposed if some countries impose a suppress dust from roads. Dust on tailings facilities is price on carbon (for example through a carbon tax) while controlled by using surface binding agents, water and others do not. vegetation. During 2009 we issued an air quality management standard which stipulates requirements to ensure minimum air quality performance for the company’s operations. Consequently, a decision was taken to close the sulphuric acid section of the Vaal River East Gold Acid Float (EGAF) plant permanently during 2010, eliminating sulphur dioxide emissions from the plant. A cost/benefit analysis also showed it was more economical in the long-term to source sulphuric acid externally rather than to upgrade the plant. While we have been able to address the primary source of non-compliance with regulation relating to sulphur dioxide Guinea emissions in South Africa, we will continue our focus on the Water bowser in use at Sigiuri to management of air quality in the region. Aspects which require suppress dust on roadways P52 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental and natural resource stewardship Unless otherwise stated, $ refers to US dollars throughout this report This report, produced annually, covers the financial year ended Moz refers to millions of troy ounces 31 December 2010 and provides an update of information contained in the Sustainability Review 2009 ‘Tomorrow’s gold: Issues that Matter’ and the t refers to metric tonnes 2009 online and supplementary information. Rounding may result in computational discrepencies Data contained in this report covers operations, joint ventures and Locations on maps are for indication purposes only subsidiary companies which are managed by AngloGold Ashanti only and does not cover operations managed by joint venture partners. AngloGold Ashanti is incorporated in the Republic of South Africa, Data relating to the Tau Lekoa mine is covered only until the finalisation of Registration no. 1944/017354/06 the sale of that operation effective 1 August 2010. This report was printed on paper produced at mills that are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in processes that have CoC certification. The FSC promotes environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and economical viable management of the world’s forests, while CoC guarantees production of FSCcertified products from processing to distribution. Forward-looking statements reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set Certain statements contained in this report, including, without limitation, out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, amongst other factors, those concerning the economic outlook for the gold mining industry, changes in economic and market conditions, success of business and expectations regarding gold prices, production, cash costs and other operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other operating results, growth prospects and outlook of AngloGold Ashanti’s government actions, fluctuations in gold prices and exchange rates, and operations, individually or in the aggregate, including the completion and business and operational risk management. For a discussion of such risk commencement of commercial operations of certain of AngloGold factors, refer to the section titled “Risk management and internal controls” Ashanti’s exploration and production projects and completion of in the annual financial statements available on www.anglogoldashanti.com. acquisitions and dispositions, AngloGold Ashanti’s liquidity and capital AngloGold Ashanti undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release resources and capital expenditure, and the outcome and consequence of any revisions to this report to reflect events or circumstances after the date any pending litigation proceedings, contain certain forward-looking of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. All statements regarding AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, economic subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to performance and financial condition. Although AngloGold Ashanti believes AngloGold Ashanti or any person acting on its behalf are qualified by the that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are cautionary statements herein. 3994/10 www.anglogoldashanti.com
