CSR REPORT Profile of Mizuho Company Overview (As of March 31, 2011) Location of Head Offie Marunouchi 2-chome Building, 2-5-1, Main business Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 100-8333 Improvement of overall operation and management of the Telephone 81-3-5224-1111 (reception) Mizuho Financial Group Capital ¥2,181,375 million Promoting policies ● Planning and development of the Mizuho Financial Representative Yasuhiro Sato, President & CEO (assigned on June 21, 2011) Group’s business strategies ● Promotion of synergy effects between Group companies Number of employees 411 ● Reinforcement of risk management, regulatory compliOutstanding Shares 22,733,627,320 shares ance, and internal audit systems （Common: 21,782,185,320, Preferred: 951,442,000） Promotion of business efficiency such as efficient use of the Stock listing Tokyo Stock Exchange (First section), Osaka Securicommon infrastructure through the direct management of ties Exchange (First section), New York Stock Exchange*1 major Group companies *1 American Depositary Receipts (ADR) listed on the New York Stock Exchange Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Corporate Bank (MHCB) Mizuho Securities (MHSC) Mizuho Corporate Bank focuses on corporate finance, primarily A securities company with a global wholesale business Global Corporate Group serving major corporations (such as those listed on the first platform and a nationwide operational base. section of domestic stock exchanges), financial institutions and their group companies, public sector entities, and overseas corporations including subsidiaries of Japanese corporations. Mizuho Bank (MHBK) Mizuho Investors Securities (MHIS) Global Retail Group MHBK primarily serves individuals, SMEs and middle market A securities company that is building a powerful cooperative corporations, and local governments in Japan. network with MHBK. Mizuho Trust & Banking (MHTB) Trust & Custody Services Bank A trust bank that makes the most of its trust functions in A highly specialized trust bank focusing on the custody business. offering solutions to Mizuho’s customers. Global Asset & Wealth Mizuho Asset Management (MHAM) Management Group Established in 1964, an asset management company with a long history. Mizuho Private Wealth Management DIAM A wealth management services company. An asset management company in which The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited and Mizuho both have equity holdings. Mizuho Research Mizuho Information & Institute (MHRI) Research Institute (MHIR) Mizuho Financial Strategy Group Strategic Subsidiaries A think tank. A company in charge of IT strategy. An advisory company for financial institutions. Ordinary Income (Consolidated) Employees (Consolidated) Gross Operating Income by Segment Ordinary Income by Region*2 Others ■Global Asia/Oceania, excluding Japan 5,036 Corporate Others Global 4.8% （8.9%） Group 0.3% Corporate 18,574 Group Global （32.7%） 46.3% Europe Global 4.3% Asset & Japan Wealth Asset & 86.1% Management Wealth The Management Group Americas 5,565 Group 4.8% 8.7% （9.8%） Global Retail Global Retail Group *2 Countries and regions are classified Group 44.7% according to geographical factors and the 27,595（48.6%） mutual relevance of business activities. Net Business Profits*3 Consolidated Net Income Consolidated Net Assets and (¥100 m) (¥100 m) Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio 7,500 7,417 5,000 4,132 (¥100 m) 13.46 15.30 （％） 6,859 2,394 90,000 12 5,000 5,766 0 10.55 66,239 60,000 58,370 8 2,500 -5,000 41,866 -5,888 30,000 4 0 -10,000 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) *3 Net Business Profits are the aggregated total for MHBK, MHCB and MHTB Consolidated Net Assets Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio 1 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Editorial The report and website both concern the group’s activities in Scope of Selected Terms: the area of corporate social responsibility (CSR). The objective Unless otherwise stated, “the group,” “Mizuho” and any is to improve communications with our many stakeholders by “first-person” narrative refers to 13 companies. There have reporting on the group’s thinking, policies, plans and initiatives been no significant changes in the companies covered in the area of CSR, and to provide further impetus for our CSR compared with last fiscal year. activities in the future. Description: The report paid special attention in fiscal 2010 to introduc● “The Group,” or “Mizuho” ing reports and important initiatives in the form of highlight. Mizuho Financial Group and its 12 key group companies in In addition to covering the content of the report, on the Japan: Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Mizuho Securiother hand, the website systematically and comprehensively ties, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Investors Securities, Trust introduced group thinking and policies in various areas, as well & Custody Services Bank, Mizuho Asset Management, DIAM, as various initiatives adopted in line with the GRI guidelines Mizuho Research Institute, Mizuho Information & Research (see below). The content of these two vehicles is the result of Institute, Mizuho Financial Strategy, and Mizuho Private Wealth deliberations by the CSR Committee and final decisions by the Management. President. ●Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG) Refers to Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. on a non-consolidated Reported in this report basis. ●Employees A collective designation for all employees working for the High group in Japan and overseas, excluding non-regular and temporary employees. Period Covered: Stakeholder Concerns This report covers the period from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011. However, it also includes information on significant events since April 2011 Reported on our website Publication Information: High Date of issue: September 2011 Low Degree of Importance for Mizuho Next scheduled publication date: September 2012 (Previous publication date: August 2010, frequency: annual) Contents Profile of Mizuho 1 CSR Highlight Editorial / Contents 2 Highlight Ⅰ Intrinsic Business Responsibility 11 Top Commitment 3 Vigorously Exercising Our Financial Intermediary Function Important Report ① 5 Causes and Plans for Improvement and Counter-measures Highlight Ⅱ Environmental Initiatives 12 Based on the Recent Computer System Failures/Actions to “Restore Customer Confidence” Advancement of Environmental Conservation through the Demonstration of Financial Function Important Report ② 7 Initiatives to Support the Recovery from the Great East Highlight Ⅲ Support for Financial Education 17 Japan Earthquake Committed to Practical Real-World Mizuho’s CSR 9 Financial Education Basic Approach/Priority Areas/CSR Promotion Structure Highlight Ⅳ Highly Responsive Communications 19 Customer Relations 22 Responding to Regional/Local Communities Relations 23 Various Social Issues Stakeholder Dialogue 25 Third-Party Opinion 26 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 2 Top Commitment We reaffirm our social mission as a financial institution and carry out activities as a unified group To fulfill our social mission as a financial experienced any inconvenience due to the recent computer institution system failures of Mizuho Bank. The management and all First, I would like to extend my heartfelt sympathies to those officers and employees of the Group are taking very who suffered as a result of the Great East Japan Earthseriously the situation where we, as a financial institution, quake, which occurred in March of this year. Along with the caused settlement malfunctions amid a difficult time in reconstruction of disaster areas and the rebuilding of Japan. With a strong resolution to prevent its recurrence, livelihoods for those affected by the disaster, I pray in Mizuho will focus all of its energy to restore customer earnest that everyday life can return as soon as possible. confidence. We at Mizuho are making a full-scale effort to assist our Reviewing the recent economic environment, the global customers and the damaged regions, as well as to contribeconomy has been led by newly developing countries, but ute to the recovery of the business community by utilizing the risk remains of a slackening in the economy. In regards our knowledge and know-how as a financial institution. to the Japanese economy, due to the impact of the Great Initiatives we are currently advancing include offering a East Japan Earthquake, constraints to production activities variety of support to disaster-affected, individual customand a sharp decline in personal consumption appear to be ers; offering Disaster Relief Support Funding and the unavoidable, at least in the short term. In addition, the Business Reconstruction Assistance Fund for corporate environment for financial institutions is changing drastically customers; and supporting disaster areas through setting along with the ongoing revision of financial regulations up the Tohoku Fukkou Desk (the Tohoku Reconstruction around the world. Desk) and through employee volunteer activities. In order to respond promptly and appropriately to the Next, I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate new business environment, in May 2010 we announced our deepest and sincerest apologies to everyone who has “Mizuho’s Transformation Program,” the Medium-term Management Policy for the next three fiscal years, and have subsequently been enhancing our strengths in three areas, namely: profitability, financial base, and front-line business capabilities. Through the recent computer system failures that we experienced, we have become seriously aware that implementation of further proactive and self-disciplined transformation is necessary in order to become “the most trusted financial institution” which we have raised as Mizuho’s future vision. Based on this background, we announced “Actions to Restore Customer Confidence” in May 2011. We are thoroughly implementing the “customer first policy” by encouraging officers and employees to change their mindset and restructuring the corporate culture, while thoroughly re-examining our management infrastructure 3 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 ranging from the organizations and structure, to human Nurturing the next generation of human resource management and operations and IT systems. resources through financial education Furthermore, we will endeavor to fulfill our public mission as that makes use of our core business a financial institution. Mizuho places financial education as the pillar of continuous CSR activities and utilizes the management resources Implementing CSR activities fitting of of its core business. At the elementary and secondary a financial institution school levels, we have been conducting joint research with Mizuho is advancing a number of initiatives that take Tokyo Gakugei University since fiscal 2006. We are advantage of the knowledge and know-how cultivated in advancing development of easier to use texts in these our core business. Specifically, we have set our five CSR classrooms, and are integrating them into lessons. We are priority areas of intrinsic business responsibility; environalso actively progressing workplace experience at mental initiatives; support for financial education; highly business locations. As for higher education levels, we are responsive communications; and enhancement of corposending frontline employees to give lectures and courses rate governance. Aside from group initiatives, we have at universities and strive to deliver classes that more engaged in corporate activities that support international strongly convey the dynamism of finance. Going forward, initiatives such as the UN Principles for Responsible Investwe will answer the requests of society while expanding the ment and the UN Global Compact. breadth of our initiatives. As for our intrinsic business responsibilities, the Group is making an effort to provide proactive and smooth financial Mizuho is continuing unique initiatives and intermediary functions by enhancing structure to strengthen progressing CSR activities as a financial institution functions resulting from placing greater emphasis on the In addition the above initiatives, Mizuho will fortify other exhibition of our consulting functions, such as consultations initiatives that address various social issues through and recommendations regarding management issues based products and services. on the recent economic climate. We are further progressing the ongoing “Heartful Project” in response to the aging population and falling birthrates, Actively advancing environmental conservation developing the businesses of providing support from a activities demonstrated by financial institutions financial perspective for barrier-free and universal design With support for the prevention of global warming and initiatives as part of our Mizuho Heartful Business, and, in conservation of biodiversity becoming significant global the area of trusts, advancing the businesses related to issues, the Group has come together as one and is inheritance and testaments such as the testamentary trusts advancing environmental initiatives with the view that business and asset inheritance trusts business. In addition, Mizuho can make large contributions to these areas we donate a portion of the trust fees for investment trusts to through the structure of finance. Specifically, we consider an organization that engaged in improving the infrastructure the environment by actively carrying out financing for of developing nations. renewable energy businesses such as wind power generaWe intend to continue carrying out and developing other, tion, and by the adoption of the Equator Principles for long-term social contribution activities such as Yellow development projects with large environmental burdens. Badge Traffic Safety Campaign and the Coming-of-AgeIn addition, utilizing know-how in the Domestic Credit Day Concert. System – a form of emissions trading – we are promoting the Mizuho Eco-Cycle for environment-related business I believe it is important for Mizuho to place CSR aimed at large corporations, SMEs and middle-market initiatives as the pillar of our corporate conduct, and to corporations and individuals. We carry out various types of fulfill the core responsibilities of our business by carrying consulting related to domestic and overseas emissions out CSR activities while leveraging Mizuho’s uniqueness credits. and strengths. I look forward to your further understandFurthermore, we are making an effort to reduce the ing and support as the Group comes together as one to environmental burden of our operating activities by estabcontinue and advance our initiatives. lishing in fiscal 2010 the Mizuho Environmental Standards to advance energy conservation at business locations, and Yasuhiro Sato by commencing development of “Environmentally ConsidPresident & CEO (Group CEO) erate Branches〜Mizuho Eco Branches,” which the standards Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. are applied to. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 4 Important Report ① Causes and Plans for Improvement and Counter-measures Based on the Recent Computer System Failures As a result of the earthquake that struck Eastern Japan and as Japan found itself in a difficult situation, our settlement transactions such as our fund transfer services and automatic debit transactions malfunctioned as a result of our group’s computer system failures. We would like to reiterate our deepest and sincerest apologies to all of our customers and to everyone who has experienced any inconvenience caused by the failures. In connection with these computer system failures, our group has been undertaking an investigation of the causes and establishing preventive measures. Along with an on-site inspection by the Financial Services Agency, our “Special Investigation Committee on System Failures,” an independent third-party committee, has been investigating the causes as well as evaluating and suggesting on the validity of the preventive measures. Our group is responding to the computer system failures with the utmost seriousness, and all officers and employees of our group will strive to restore the confidence of all of customers as well as society as a whole. Summary and the Causes of the Computer System Failure In connection with the recent computer system failures, the analysis of the causes of the occurrence was included in the “Investigation Report” prepared by the Special Investigation Committee on System Failures. The causes are as follows: <Causes> ● Deficiency of our system functions ● Deficiencies in systems risk management which led to the inability to prevent the failures ● Deficiencies in crisis management capabilities during the restoration process ● Deficiencies in management administration and auditing Plan for Improvements and Counter-measures Based on the Computer System Failures Our plan for improvements and counter-measures, based on the Financial Services Agency inspection and the findings of the “Special Investigation Committee on System Failures,” is as follows. ● Improvements and Counter-measures Regarding the Defectiveness of System Functions ・Reorganization of large volume data processing capabilities ・Unification of Business Infrastructure ● Preventive Improvements and Counter-measures Regarding Deficiencies in Systems Risk Management Capabilities ・Improving the level of our Systems Risk CSA ・Improving the level of our systems risk evaluation in connection with the development of new products and services. ● Improvements and Counter-measures Regarding Deficiencies in Crisis Management Related to Restoration ・Improvement of the response mechanism upon the occurrence of a crisis ・Improvement of the system contingency plan ・Improvement of the business contingency plan ・Customer relations / public relations, etc. ● Improvement Plan for Deficiency of Business Administration and Auditing ・Improvements in personnel training and appropriate human resources allocation ・Improvement of effectiveness of auditing 5 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Actions to “Restore Customer Confidence” Bearing the recent computer system failures in mind and with a strong resolution to prevent its recurrence, we announce the following actions to be implemented by Mizuho as acceleration initiatives of “Mizuho’s Transformation Program” (the “Transformation Program”) in order to restore customer confidence. The core philosophy of the actions to restore customer confidence is a thorough implementation of the “customer first policy.” As the first step, Mizuho has decided that it will further strengthen the unified management of the group through substantial consolidation and unification of its “management structure,” “human resource management” and “business infrastructure,” and substantively transform into “one bank” with a view towards integration by merger, etc., Summary Substantively Transform into “one bank” and consider integration by merger, etc, in future （１）Strengthening of Group Governance Further strengthen group governance through clearly identifying the position of the Group CEO, strengthening the independence of the advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, and unifying the corporate planning and management units. （２）Full Integration of Human Resource Management Realize assignment of the right person in the right position and flexible deployment of personnel and invigorate the organization of the group through full integration of the functions of the executive officers in charge of human resource management and the existing Human Resources Divisions. （３）Unification of Business Infrastructure Drastically improve group management efficiency through unification of operations and full integration of the IT system platform for all of our banking businesses. Under the strong commitment of our management, we are IT systems. Furthermore, we will endeavor to fulfill our public thoroughly implementing the “customer first policy” by encourmission as a financial institution. As described above, we will aging officers and employees to change their mindset and revitalize “Mizuho” through both the management infrastructure restructuring the corporate culture, while thoroughly re-examining reform and the change in mindset, and all officers and employour management infrastructure ranging from the organizations ees of our group will strive to restore the confidence of all of our and structure, human resource management to operations and customers as well as society as a whole. Actions to Restore Customer Confidence (Illustration) MHFG Consider Integration by merger, etc. in future Corporate Planning and Management Units Human Resources Units Group CEO MHFG 1) Unify corporate planning and Corporate Planning and management units MHBK MHCB MHTB Management Units 2) Overall IT systems governance and the next-generation IT systems Corporate Planning Corporate Planning Corporate Planning Human Resources Units 3) Fully integrate human resources management and and and Management Units Management Units Management Units Strengthen unified Human Human Human Substantively management of the group Resources Units Resources Units Resources Units Transform into “One Bank” MHBK MHCB MHTB Business Business Business Planning Units Planning Units Planning Units Business Business Business Planning Units Planning Units Planning Units Business Business Business Business Business Business Promotion Units Promotion Units Promotion Units Promotion Units Promotion Units Promotion Units Operations Operations Operations Unify operations and IT systems (Administration) (Administration) (Administration) Operations (Administration) 4) Unify 3 Banks’ operations 5) Operate IT systems stably and manage IT Systems IT Systems IT Systems IT Systems (Operation) systems risks (Operation) (Operation) (Operation) For further details, please refer to the following: ● News Release on May 20, 2011: Investigation Report ● News Release on May 23, 2011:Causes and Plans for Improvements and Counter-Measures based on the Recent Computer System Failures ● News Release on May 23, 2011: Actions to “Restore Customer Confidence” ● News Release on June 29, 2011: Regarding the Submission of the Business Improvement Plans Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 6 Important Report ② Initiatives to Support the Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake In light of the severity and scope of the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake on the national economy and the Japanese people’s lives, and bearing in mind our social responsibility and public mission as a financial institution, Mizuho stands ready to devote our entire group strengths to aiding the rapid recovery of our customers, and supporting regional and industrial reconstruction. Mizuho’s Structure to Support Recovery Initiatives to Support Victims Initiatives to Support Victims Initiatives to Support Initiatives Aimed at among Individual Customers among Corporate Customers Disaster-stricken Areas Reviving Industry Roll out recovery support measures on an individual company basis or a group-wide cooperative basis Mizuho Corporate Bank Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Bank (MHBK) Mizuho Securities (MHSC) (MHCB) (MHTB) Mizuho Investors Mizuho Research DIAM Mizuho Information & Mizuho Asset and other Securities (MHIS) Institute (MHRI) Research Institute (MHIR) Management (MHAM) companies Study recovery support measures and monitor their implementation Mizuho Financial Group Initiatives to Support Victims among Mizuho Disaster Consultation Desks Individual Customers MHBK, MHCB and MHTB have established consultation desks in Mizuho Bank (MHBK) offers Disaster Recovery Loans for their head offices and branches throughout the country to offer Great East Japan Earthquake Victims with a view to being as consultation services pertaining to transactions with customers hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake. useful as possible to the recovery efforts of customers who By the end of May 2011, MHBK had set up a specialist Disasterwere hit by the earthquake disaster. For individual customers related Consultation Desk on Weekends and Holidays to provide dwelling in regions designated under the Disaster Relief Act, customers with consultation services on weekends and holidays as well as working days at the Sendai Branch, the Iwaki Branch, and we respond flexibly to requests for deferments of payments of some branches in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. principal and interest associated with borrowings to acquire or As of the end of June 2011, we continued to offer our dedicated refurbish homes. We also provide consultations concerning Disaster-related Dial-up Consultation Service. repayments of borrowings or housing loans at head office, all ● Services offered branches and some sub-branches throughout the country. ・Consultations on deposits MHBK and Mizuho Trust & Banking (MHTB) allow ・Consultations on repaying housing loans and other personal loans customers who have lost their passbooks, seals or ATM ・Consultation on various procedures (inheritance, etc.) cards as a result of the disaster to withdraw cash at branches after confirming their identity. We are ready to draw on the full range of expertise Initiatives to Support Victims among offered by the group, including MHTB’s real estate and other Corporate Customers trust functions, to respond quickly and flexibly to a variety of MHBK, Mizuho Corporate Bank (MHCB), and MHTB hold management issues. individual consultations with corporate customers who have MHBK and MHTB offer Disaster Relief Support Funding suffered damage as a result of the disaster. This enables and handle various policy loans provided by public them to offer various kinds of management support, from institutions. The goal is to help the disaster reconstruction meeting funding demand related to disaster reconstruction efforts of corporate customers whose head offices, business to introducing new customers to sell their products, or sales offices, factories and other buildings, machinery, suppliers, and even new partners that should be helpful in equipment and other commercial facilities, or products, have rebuilding their businesses. suffered damage from the disaster. 7 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 In May 2011, MHBK also set up the Business million from the group overall plus contributions of ¥68.47 Reconstruction Assistance Fund of ¥200.0 billion to facilitate million from the management, officers, and employees and financing for corporate customers affected by the disaster. the Mizuho Charity Fund have been made to the victims via These include both customers whose business assets were the Japan Red Cross Society and other organizations. Our directly damaged, and customers who were indirectly group companies have donated children’s books, writing affected by rolling power cuts, difficulties in securing raw materials, and clothing to primary and junior high school materials, and unfavorable reputations. Besides financing, students in the disaster-stricken areas, and are working on MHBK holds individual consultations and provides its delivering other things, including diaries and calendars. branches to several public institutions as places for MHBK sent flowers, saplings, and school supplies, and briefings concerning their reconstruction support schemes sponsored summer festivals in the Tohoku region as a with a view to strengthening the supply of information. campaign to thank individual customers for their business. Initiatives Aimed at Reviving Industry MHCB draws on its deep understanding of industry and the know-how it has accumulated in various areas of finance, including joint initiatives between the public and private sectors, and makes proactive use of its financial intermediation and consulting functions in tackling the revival of industries Presentation ceremony of Collected children’s books that have been affected by the disaster. children’s books More specifically, it has set up the Tohoku Fukko Desk Support through Financial Products (the Tohoku reconstruction desk) and is promoting MHSC is donating a portion of its trust fees from stock exchanges of information among local companies, regional investment trusts to an NPO that is engaged in relief efforts financial institutions and local public entities centered on in the disaster-stricken area. Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima Prefectures. The aim is to bring Mizuho’s knowledge together and channel it into Employee Volunteers concrete initiatives for the revival of industry and the region Employees participated in during the process of recovery and restoration following the volunteer activities in the Great East Japan Earthquake. disaster area from June through July 2011, removing Initiatives to Support Disaster-stricken sludge and cleaning up. In Areas aggregate, 142 employees Coast-cleaning activity in disaster-stricken area Donation and Contributions carried out activities over 60 To support the victims of the disaster, a donation of ¥660 days. Responses to Electric Power Conditions Amidst concerns that electricity supplies will come under recorded strategies for reducing electricity consumption at pressure as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake, home on their Mizuho Eco Action Declaration form, and in the demand for measures to reduce power consumption correlation to the number of declarations we received, we will is increasing in society. In the areas supplied by Tokyo donate saplings to establish green areas to combat the heat Electric Power Company and Tohoku Electric Power island phenomenon in Osaka and Tokyo and other locations . Company, we are promoting efforts to reduce electricity consumption by 15% compared with our peak power usage in the summer of 2010. In addition, we held a campaign under the theme of “reducing electricity consumption at home” to raise awareFlyer for Mizuho’s Eco-Action Flyer for Mizuho’s Eco-Action ness among employees and their families. For this, families Declaration(front) Declaration(back) Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 8 Mizuho’s CSR Basic Approach We aim to resolve various social issues in line with the Mizuho Code of Conduct and international initiatives. In order to coexist with international society, Mizuho must *1 UN Global Compact: Ten voluntary, further strengthen initiatives that take into account the universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment needs of a wide range of stakeholders and the global enviand anti-corruption that the UN ronment with a view to creating a society capable of susencourages companies and civil society organizations to support and tainable development. Based on this approach, Mizuho enact within their sphere of influence. places CSR initiatives at the heart of its corporate activities * 2 UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI): Aims to identify, promote and realize as it works both to fulfill its responsibilities in its core busithe adoption of best environmental ness and to make the most of the management resources it and sustainability practices at all levels has built up through its core activities. of financial institution operations. The UN Global Compact When engaged in these activities, we depend on the Five Basic Principles of the Consolidation announced when Mizuho was first established, and The Mizuho Code of Conduct to guide us in our managerial decision making and daily behavior. Additionally, in order to pursue CSR activities that adopt a global perspective, we participate in international initiatives such as the United Nations Global The UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Compact*1 and the UNEP Finance Initiative*2. Mizuho’s Basic Policies 1. Social Responsibility and Public Mission ● As Japan’s leading comprehensive financial group, we will remain conscious of the importance of our social responsibilities and public Basic mission at all times, and dedicate ourselves to sound management Principles of the based on self-responsibility. Consolidation ● We will encourage close communications with society, and work to ensure that our corporate activities conform to social common sense. Mizuho’s 2. The “Customer First” Principle Basic Policies ● We will place our customers first and ensure that they are provided The Mizuho with the best possible services at all times. ● We believe that earning the customer’s trust is the basis for winning Code of the trust of shareholders, the local community and all other stakeholdConduct Mizuho’s Basic Stance ers. 3. Complying with Laws and Regulations ● We are committed to strict observance of all laws and regulations as we go about our corporate activities in a fair and honest manner in Mizuho’s Behavioral Guidelines conformance with the norms accepted by society. ● We will comply with international rules, obey the laws of different regions around the world, and respect their customs and cultures. 4. Respect for Human Rights Various Regulations ● In addition to ensuring that we respect everyone, including our customers, executives and employees, and value fundamental human rights in all our activities, we will work to create a corporate culture in Based on the group-wide policies of “Mizuho’s Basic which the spirit of respect for human rights is all-pervasive. Policies,” the “Mizuho Code of Conduct” is con5. Disavowal of Anti-Social Elements structed on stances toward stakeholders, ( “Mizuho’s ● We firmly state our opposition to the activities of any entity that threatBasic Stance” ) and how managers are expected to ens the rule of law and public order or safety. behave, (“Mizuho’s Behavioral Guidelines”). Mizuho’s Basic Stance 1 Basic Stance toward Customers 4 Basic Stance toward Employees 2 Basic Stance toward Shareholders 5 Basic Stance toward Suppliers and 3 Basic Stance toward the Competitors Community 6 Basic Stance toward Political and Governmental Officials Mizuho’s Behavioral Guidelines 1 Maintaining Order in the Workplace 3 Appropriate Management of Information 2 Prohibition on Private Use of 4 Prohibition on Conflicts of Interest Corporate Assets 5 Temperate Private Behavior 9 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Priority Areas We have established priority areas in order to fulfill the “CSR Imperatives of Financial Institutions.” Mizuho believes that financial institutions are expected to financial education” to ensure that the know-how we have shoulder three forms of CSR: (1) Maintain orderly credit acquired through our core activities is made available to conditions and protect depositors; (2) Offer finance that society for its own use, committing us to making the most of shapes the future; and (3) Enhance the quality of corporate our core activities to contribute to the healthy nurturing of management to achieve substantial progress in CSR the next generation who will be responsible for society’s activities. We have taken up the challenge of tackling these future; “Highly responsive communications,” which means three forms of CSR in five priority areas: “Intrinsic business taking up the challenge of focusing on dialogue with responsibility” to ensure the practice of responsible financial stakeholders in order to ensure transparency and trust as a investment in order to maintain orderly credit conditions and company; and “Enhanced corporate governance,” which protect depositors; “Environmental initiatives,” which means means building a corporate governance framework that is using our characteristics as a financial institution to premised on maintaining fairness and integrity in our contribute to the resolution of environmental issues ; corporate activities. “Suppor t for Intrinsic Business Responsibilities ● Maintain trust and protect depositors ● Contribute to the healthy and sustainable development of the global economy by working to facilitate financing and making responsible loans and investments ● Earn the unwavering trust of customers and society Maintain orderly credit conditions and as a whole by faithfully carrying out business activiprotect depositors ties through sound and appropriate management Highly Responsive Environmental Intiatives Communications ● Recognizing that restricting and Enhance the quality ● R e a l i ze re s p o n s i ve c o m m u n i reducing impact on the global enviof corporate management Finance that Shapes cations with stakeholders by further ronment is a shared challenge, to achieve substantial the Future promoting information disclosure to provide financial ser vices that progress in CSR activities ensure greater transparency in contribute to the prevention of corporate activities global warming, etc., and reduce our own consumption of resources Enhance Corporate Support for Financial Governance Education ● Establish a corporate governance ● Support financial education for the structure capable of earning a repunext generation on whom society’s tation for excellence in global finanfuture depends to enable them not cial and capital markets by mainonly to acquire financial awareness taining fairness and integrity in our but also to cope with the issues corporate activities they will face in their daily lives CSR Promotion Structure Mizuho Financial Group To promote integrated group-wide CSR activities, the Executive Management President & CEO Social holding company MHFG has established a Business Policy Committee Contribution Committee Committee known as the CSR Committee which discusses and coordinates company and group CSR policies and Environmental Issues m e a s u r e s. Po l i c i e s a n d m e a s u r e s d e c i d e d by th i s CSR Committee CSR Promotion Office Committee Corporate Communications committee are rolled out across key group companies, Strategic Planning Group each of which submits regular reports on progress and moves its initiatives forward. Policies and measures Report Key Group Companies Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 10 Intrinsic Business Responsibility Vigorously Exercising Our Financial Highlight Intermediary Function Streamline Systems to Further Facilitate Corporate Finance Customers Mizuho has traditionally been proactive in providing financial intermediary services underpinned by the belief that active fulfillment of its financial intermediary function, under an appropriate risk management structure, Sales Sales Sales Staff Staff Staff contributes to the sound development of its customers’ businesses and the enhancement of their private lives and of the economy. This in turn will ensure Financing Facilitation At a Officer the soundness and integrity of Mizuho’s operations. Business Mizuho created an integrated financial facilitation organization for Office the Group, and it is enhancing its monitoring of how customer Special unit Desk to deal with businesses fare, for example, after changes in lending condicustomer complaints tions and exercising its consulting function to help customas to financing Financing Facilitation ers solve business problems. We do this in a genuinely facilitation Manager customer-oriented effort to proactively help customFinancing Facilitation ers improve or revitalize their businesses. Going Management Committee forward, we are committed to using all of the At the resources available to promote financial President Head facilitation, and to meeting our social Office Board of Directors responsibilities as a financial institution. Initiatives 1 Aiming to Perform Management Consulting Functions Advancing Management Consulting MHBK fulfills its important role to society by having business Support for Business Lifecycles promotion divisions and branches and specialized units MHBK supports initiatives for businesses in the environcome together as one to perform consulting functions mental, agricultural, Heartful and other growth segments, through activities such as changing conditions of loans, and provides business analysis, business matching, M&A, reviving and supporting business continuity, and applying and other solution options. MHBK promoted a variety of the Group’s information resources and networks to provide customer business consultations by creating independent management advice and support. By providing consulting information tools such as consultation materials, financial functions we build relationships of trust with customers, see diagnosis, and data provision, as their needs and concerns based on the life cycles of their well as established the Business businesses from their perspective, and endeavor to make Consultation Help Desk in June and implement recommendations to serve those needs and 2010 to support sales staff to concerns. provide appropriate advice to customers. Business consulting tools Promoting Activities by SMEs and Middle-Market Corporations Held the Mizuho Business Consulting Seminar MHBK makes use of the survey and research, information As part of its efforts to promote SME’s and middle-market corporations, which drive the growth of the Japanese economy, Mizuho has provision, and other comprehensive consulting functions of been supporting the Medium and Small Business Research Mizuho Research Institute. And to supplement our support Institute since its establishment in 1996. We support the institute’s for customers, we began conducting Mizuho Business Consult“Good Company Grand Prix Award” program and empirical surveys ing Seminars for small and medium-sized enterprises. In and research. 2010, we held these seminars on six occasions for a total of approximately 300 participants. Exterior of MHBK Tokaichiba branch Mizuho business consulting seminar 11 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Ⅰ ⅠAdvancement of Environmental Conservation Environmental Initiatives Highlight through the Demonstration of Financial Function Mizuho is promoting various measures in accordance with its Policies for Environmental Activities. Mizuho Corporate Bank was Realization of a sustainable society the first Japanese bank to adopt the Equator Principles for financing projects conducted with attention to the natural environment and local communities. We have also actively engaged in the financing of businesses related to renewable energy, including solar thermal power, solar power, and wind power generation. We also promote Prevention of global warming Preservation of biodiversity the “Mizuho Eco-Cycle” initiative by widely providing products and services related to the emissions trading system to individual and Adoption and corporate customers. Furthermore, we commenced the developEnvironment-related application of the loans Equator Principles Promoting the ment of environmentally conscious Mizuho Eco Branches in 2011. Support for concept of emission trading Mizuho Biodiversity Offsets Finance Consulting Products services, development surveys and and sales research Initiatives for Mizuho’s environmental conservation through the demonstration of financial function Initiatives 1 Beginning to Make Branches More Eco-friendly Developing Eco Branches Based on Our Own Standards To lower the environmental burden, Mizuho has been proacimplemented for existing branches by applying the “Mizuho tive in identifying, reducing, and disclosing CO2 emissions Environmental Standards” to them in accordance with their and energy consumption of the entire Group. To further individual circumstances. strengthen these initiatives, Mizuho Bank has established “Mizuho Environmental Standards” for promoting the operaMizuho Environmental Standards tion of environmentally conscious branches. From 2011, we （1）Construction: Improve performance of exterior walls began to develop environmentally conscious branches – （2）Electric power facilities: Use high-efficiency transformers （3）Electric power facilities: Use high-efficiency lighting “Mizuho Eco Branches” – applying these standards and equipment (including LED lighting) opened the first model branch, the Tokaichiba Branch in （4）Air conditioning system: Use high-efficiency air Yokohama, in February 2011. The Tokaichiba Branch utilizes conditioning equipment （5）Air conditioning system: Use high-efficiency ventilation a solar power system and LED lighting in its ATM corner. It is equipment expected that initiatives like these will result in an approxi（6）Plumbing system: Use water-conserving fixtures mate 20% reduction in equivalent CO2 emissions, relative to （7）Plumbing system: Use high-efficiency water heaters existing branches. Going forward, Mizuho will continue to （8）Renewable energy (Solar power, green roof, rainwater usage, etc.) consider environmental measures that could be effectively Manager’s Comments To Be a Branch the Community Can Take Pride in Yokohama’s Midori-ku, or “Green Ward,” where the Tokaichiba Branch is located, is an area that has waterways and wooded areas. With a significant portion of the local residents keenly interested in protecting the environment, many of our customers, who could see the solar panels on the roof and the LED lighting inside, asked about how much energy was being saved. Receiving this kind of attention was fantastic and great encouragement for all of us working there. The need for energy efficiency is growing ever larger, and I am hopeful that by adding management innovations in the future we will become a branch that local residents not only accept as a neighbor but are also Takayuki Yoshimoto proud to have in their community. Manager Customer Service Department Tokaichiba Branch, Mizuho Bank Meter displaying amount of power generated Rooftop solar power system ATM corner using LED lighting Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 12 Ⅰ Ⅰ Environmental Initiatives Highlight Advancement of Environmental Conservation through the Demonstration of Financial Function Initiatives 2 Active Finance for the Environment Providing Financial Support for a Solar Thermal Power Project Guzman solar thermal Solacor solar thermal As solutions for the problem of global warming, solar power, power plant power plant in Cordoba, Spain in Andalucia, Spain wind power, and other forms of renewable energy have gathered attention across the world. Among this, MHCB has assembled a team to specialize in 50MW 100MW project finance related to renewable energy. The team is Solaben solar actively working to support construction of solar thermal thermal power plants, which are extremely effective in reducing CO2 power plant S PAIN in Extremadura, Spain Acciona Termosolar emissions. Solar thermal power plants require abundant 100MW solar thermal sunlight, broad expanses of flat land, high air temperature, power plant and a plentiful supply of water. And, when compared to solar in Andalucia and Extremadura, Spain power generation, solar thermal power plants, using the same area of land, can generate power on the order of several times to several tens of times more megawatts, and 200MW to that extent are highly effective in reducing CO2 emissions. As a Managed Lead Arranger/Facility Bank for a In addition, solar thermal power plants can produce power Power Plant Servicing around 26,000 Households that is easier to use partly because it is alternating-current In March 2011, MHCB signed on as a Joint Managed Lead power that is compatible with the power transmission Arranger/Facility Agent for the project finance deal involvnetworks of existing power companies. Countries and ing Spain's Guzman solar thermal power project. In this regions where the right conditions are in place support the project, Mitsui & Co. and Spain's number one general propagation of solar thermal power through the use of subsicontractor, will build a solar thermal power plant capable dies and other means. In Spain, a country blessed with of generating approximately 50 MW of power (enough to copious amounts of sunlight, several projects are underway. service around 26,000 households) in the outskirts of the Since the financing of Spain’s Solacor solar thermal southern Spanish city of Cordoba. power project in August 2010, MHCB has undertaken project finance projects for four additional Spanish solar thermal power projects, making it one of Japan’s leading financial institutions in this field. Manager’s Comments Further Refining Strengths as a Leader In project finance, where financing is based on the revenues generated by the project, it is essential to identify as many potential risks that may arise until the period up through the completion of Solacor solar thermal power plant (Photo by Courtesy of project as possible, and create ahead of time systems capable of Abengoa Solar) appropriate risk diversification. The greater the project experience, therefore, the keener the eye for recognizing risks. In other words, for MHCB, which has developed know-how and accumulated project experience ahead of its competitors, solar thermal power is an area where it can exercise strengths to a degree competitors cannot. Going forward, Mizuho will continue to augment and Ken Furukawa Senior Vice President refine its know-how and build an Head of Renewable Energy and even more solid presence in projects Carbon Business Team for various locations across the Global Structured Finance Division Mizuho Corporate Bank globe. Overhead view of the Solacor solar thermal power plant (Photo by Courtesy of Abengoa Solar) 13 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 To Respond to the Growing Demand for Renovating Water Purification Facilities Water systems are essential social infrastructure for With this as the first step, MHCB will continue collaborating maintaining comfortable, hygienic living environments. At with various local governments to respond to strong present, approximately ¥40 trillion has been invested in demands for renovating water purification facilities. In Japan's water systems. Most of that amount was used for regards to demands for new facilities in bustling Asian construction during Japan's period of high economic growth regions as well, we are actively supporting the water and it is now estimated that demand for renovation caused business starting with water systems infrastructure, and by deterioration will largely increase in 2025. On the other are contributing to improving the living environment. hand, local governments, who operate water systems, are * The Private Finance Initiative approach was developed in the U.K. as facing financial difficulties. If this trend continues, it is feared a way to provide social capital. Its purpose is to use private-sector capital, management know-how, and technical expertise to perform that a great backlog of renovation work will develop as public-sector services (Construction, maintenance and management, operation, etc. of public facilities) more efficiently and effectively than renovation demand exceeds the amount of funds available. national or local governments could on their own. Japan, therefore, has loosened regulations on water system operations, and is attempting to make systems more efficient Dewatering building Membrane filtration building by outsourcing to private-sector providers, while also moving ahead with social infrastructure improvements Distribution reservoir financed with private-sector money under PFI (Private Finance Initiative)* schemes. Responding to societal demands, MHCB arranged a syndicated loan for the refitting Solar panels and operation of Yokohama’s Kawai Water Purification Plant. This was the first PFI Project for the renovation of an entire water purification facility in Japan. The application of the PFI Membrane filtration equipment approach offers local governments the benefit of not having to invest large amounts of public money to renovate aging Source: Yokohama Waterworks Bureau’s Website (Translations by Mizuho) facilities and gives private companies and investors an Kawai Water Purification PFI Project: The subject of this project is a opportunity to participate in the stable business. As the first deteriorating water purification facility constructed in 1901. The project calls for a water system company established with joint investments by water systems PFI in Japan, this project attracted attention the private sector to refit this facility and, after its transfer to the city of from cities, towns, and municipalities across the country. Yokohama, manage and operate it over the ensuing 20 years. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 14 Environmental Initiatives Highlight Advancement of Environmental Conservation through the Demonstration of Financial Function Initiatives 3 Emissions Trading as Keywords Promoting the Mizuho Eco-Cycle Initiative to Reduce CO2 Emissions Throughout Society We promote the Mizuho Eco-Cycle initiative by providing a Products for Corporate Customers series of environment-related financial products and services, for the Domestic Credit System, a Japanese “Mizuho Eco-Assist” “Mizuho Eco-Assist plus” system of emissions trading. The Mizuho Eco-Cycle scheme MHBK offers environmentally conscious financing refers to a series of environment-related financial products products with below-market interest rates to respond to and services such as loans that contribute to environmental the working capital and investment capital needs for those preservation and business matching and consulting practicing environmentally conscious management or services, which build a bridge among small, medium and proactively addressing environmental problems, and to large corporations and even individual customers. Through companies investing in facilities to improve the environengagement in these efforts, Mizuho will expand the “Ecoment. From March 2011, under our “Mizuho Eco Grade” Cycle” to reduce CO2 emissions throughout society. system, we began to use our own standards to evaluate the status of environmentally conscious management at Mizuho Eco-Cycle customer companies and to offer “Mizuho Eco-Assist Want to do environmental efforts Want to expand environmental Want to reduce costs through energy businesses plus” with terms based on the results. conservation capital investments Want to cut CO 2 emissions Want to sell CO 2 emission credits Want to buy CO2 emission credits Flow of Mizuho Eco Grade evaluations Deloitte Tohmatsu CO2 emission credits Evaluation and ● Customer MHBK MHIR Certification SMEs and CO 2 Large Organization Co. Ltd. middle-market corporations emissions reduced ¥ corporations Simplified Credit screening ● Development Expert advice on ● Technologies and equipment environmental based on and the acceptability ● Funds for purchasing CO2 capabilities evaluation and improvement of and examination rating environmental improvement of Introduction/Supply emission credits Introduction report capabilities evaluation of Products (Evaluation rank, evaluation capabilities status overview, methods evaluation ● Environmental Business ● Environmental Business ● Implementation methods analysis of key Matching Matching ● Loan products for Mizuho ● Introducing potential sellers points for improving of evaluations of the investment in of Domestic Credits environmental environmental environment-related facilities capabilities, etc.) capabilities of ● Support for application for individual companies Domestic Credits Supply of Products ● Preparation of ● Introducing potential buyers ● Eco Fund simplified of Domestic Credits environmental ● Eco Loan capabilities examination report Individual customers Products for Individual Customers Mizuho Replacement * “The Domestic Credit System” is a system under which small and Mizuho Housing Loans Purchase Loans medium-sized enterprises, with the technical and financial support of large corporations, implement initiatives aimed at reducing CO 2 emissions, and the emissions credits resulting from these initiatives MHBK Remodeling Loans MHBK New Car Loans are purchased by the corporations for use in achieving their own CO 2 emissions reduction targets. In support of the efforts individual customers make to protect the environment, MHBK has for some time now Mizuho’s “Environmental Business Matching” been offering loans with preferential interest rates. These MHBK’s “Environmental Business Matching” (customer loans have been available for customers wanting to referral) facilitates a meeting between small or mediumremodel an existing home, or build or purchase a new sized enterprises (SMEs) interested in energy conservahome, to benefit the environment – for example, through tion and equipment manufacturers and service providers the use of solar power generation or all-electric power – and with the expertise and technologies to deliver energy the purchase of an environmentally friendly car. In fiscal conservation. Business negotia2010, we embarked on another tions have been put into initiative in this direction by implepractice and a total of over menting a system under which 100 companies have particiMizuho will purchase 1.4 tons pated in the Mizuho Business worth of domestic CO2 emissions Matching Forum (on the credits for each eligible loan Environment). transaction, and donate them Environmental Business Matching to the national government. 15 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Supporting Japan’s First Program-based Emissions Reduction Project Misawa Homes Co., Ltd., which has poured a great deal of in Japan. effort into developing and marketing environmentally The Mizuho Information & Research Institute, which has conscious homes, also advanced an initiative in which it has supported and advanced the “Domestic Credit System” customers who purchase homes equipped with solar power under a commission received from the Ministry of Economy, systems join its “Eco-ni-naru-ie-no-kai” (Eco Home Club), Trade and Industry at the outset of the program, supported and pools the emissions reductions of members as domestic the Misawa Homes scheme, which was a first achievement in emissions credits. There were concerns that the system for Japan and a rare case at the global level as well. Because accepting emissions credits would recognize emissions they have the flexibility to add members, this scheme will reductions associated only with the number of club members facilitate the certification of domestic emissions credits from enlisted and that the application process would have to be not just solar-powered homes, but also from the use of repeated for any new members that joined the club. Misawa heat-pump water heaters, household fuel cells, and other Homes, therefore, proposed to the domestic credit certificacommon types of household energy efficiency equipment tion committee that a program-based emissions reduction and facilities. Looking ahead, MHIR will continue to help project under which emissions reductions associated with promote household CO2 emissions reductions, which are new member households could be added at any time. It increasingly drawing attention, by encouraging the wider submitted an application to that effect in March 2010 and won adoption of program-based emissions reduction projects. the first certification for program-based emissions reductions Diagram of Misawa Home’s “ECO-ni-naru-ie-no-kai” scheme Report Operator, manager Entrustment ● Operation and management of business Emis Emission sion red ucti reducti uction on busin busin usiness ess ● Approval and certification operators procedure ECO-ni-naru-ie-no-kai Credits ● Conduction of Eco-social ECO social activities Application for certification Co-provider, ● Report on activities of Individual emission contribution reduction operator, committee (Solar powered homes) manager Confirmation Certification of result Domestic Review Credit Certification organization Committee MHIR’s consulting Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 16 ⅢCommitted to Practical Real-World Support for Financial Education Highlight Financial Education Teach people how to use money and foster a proper money sense Education to teach economics and the mechanisms of finance Mizuho believes that it is vital for the sound growth of children Education Education in who will create our future society to learn about the basic about money economics financial system from an early stage of school education. Based on this recognition, Mizuho started a joint research project on financial education in fiscal 2006 with Tokyo Investment Life plan Gakugei University. The basic research period led to the education Financial education development and improvement of education tools. Fiscal Education 2009 marks the start of a new three-year practical research Education to foster healthy Education to teach healthy phase to further strengthen the classroom, and we are common sense about household budget investment, and nurture management and make promoting workplace experience and practical lessons in investors who can act people think about a life plan responsibly Career Consumer for the future classrooms. Donated lectures and courses under the theme education education of financial dynamism have also been established in the area of higher education. Education in selecting a Education to give future career and teaching people the knowledge the significance of working needed to become to realize a life plan self-reliant consumers Initiatives 1 Elementary and Secondary Education Fields Promoting Initiatives to Enhance the Quality of Worksite Experience Mizuho cooperates in offering elementary and secondary and cashier windows of Mizuho branches. In addition, video school students with workplace experience so that they may materials for employees summarize the key points for gain firsthand knowledge of what it means to work. This educating students on the spot at the branches. workplace experience is highly anticipated by teachers at the The workplace experience was offered 150 times during educational site as part of career education, and Mizuho has fiscal 2010, an increase of 40 from the previous fiscal year. tried to increase the number of days it is offered every year. Furthermore, Mizuho Group employees offer financial educaTo enhance the quality of the workplace experience while tion in classrooms as guest teachers. More than 10,000 responding to schools’ requests, Mizuho has developed persons have participated in these lessons since the video teaching materials for financial education for elemenprogram started in 2006. Similar events to educate students tary and secondary school students. These materials at worksites and provide financial education in classrooms explain deposits, loans, remittances, currency exchange, as have been positively implemented at overseas Mizuho well as customer reception manners relative to the lobbies branches, extending the educational activity worldwide. 17 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Classes at Special Education Schools Hachioji Branch Helps to Conduct Classes In 2008, Mizuho prepared Life and Money, a textbook for In March 2011, MHBK's Hachioji Branch cooperated in the special education schools resulting from joint research, to conducting of a class on How to use a bank ATM at Tokyo’s support an initiative to increase the social participation of Hachioji Higashi Special Education School for children with disabled children. Financial education physical disabilities. The nine fifth-year primary school through in classrooms has been carried out second-year middle school students (six of whom used wheelsince fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2010, chairs) participated and learned about banking jobs, how to Tokyo’s Katsushika School for the use banks, and about being careful when handling cash cards Hearing Impaired, Itabashi Special and passbooks. Later the students experienced how to Education School, and other campuses operate an actual ATM and discussed what they learned. conducted classes. Mizuho prepares guidelines jointly with teachers while Life and Money, a textbook for special education schools holding discussions, and teachers endeavor to offer lessons tailored to the degree of understanding of the respective students to help them understand the textbook and apply the lessons to practical use in their Classroom scene Learning how to operate and ATM daily lives. Education lesson implemented at special education schools Tsujido Branch Assistance with Work Manager’s Comments Experience Activities for Middle School Students In November 2010, MHBK’s Tsujido Branch hosted secondReminded of the Importance of Firsthand year Chigasaki city middle school students for four days of Experience work experience activities. Participating students learned Hearing students say that they gained a clear understanding of about the work performed by banks and structure of the how ATMs work and now know more about the details of bank financial system through a talk given jobs reminded me of the by the General Manager and video importance of experiencing materials, and later observed branch things firsthand. It would make operations. Afterward, they used me very happy if continuing mock bills to practice counting, tried with efforts like this could play their hands at operating totalizator even a small role in helping Observing the counting of bills ordinarily used by bank employees, local children develop the desire and observed the carrying of cash and confidence to live indepenbags and wrapping of coins. Begindently. We are going to apply what we learned this time to Kazuhisa Tanaka ning with the second day, students Joint General Manager our initiatives at our branch. wore “Work Experience Participant” Hachioji Branch, Mizuho Bank tags and engaged in activities like greeting customers. Greeting customers in the lobby Initiatives 2 Higher Educational Field To Develop Talented People Who Can Lead the New Paradigm Shift In the wake of the 2007 subprime crisis, the global economy major European and U.S. financial institutions,” “PFIs (Private has undergone a paradigm shift. With attention focused on Finance Initiatives),” and “New Ways to Support Business expanding markets of newly developing countries and fiscal Through Finance,” for its fiscal 2010 donated lectures and problems in developed countries, courses. there is now a great deal of interest Lectures Given in Fiscal 2010 in the role financial institutions will Kyoto University Advanced Banking Theory play in the changed global economic Keio University Contemporary Corporate Finance structure. Against that background, University of Tokyo Risk Management at Financial Institutions Financial Law Mizuho adopted new themes, includHitotsubashi University Financial Frontier ing “Recent Developments among Classroom scene Waseda University Changes in the Financial Markets and Financial Institutions Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 18 ⅣResponding to Various Social Issues Highly Responsive Communications Highlight Mizuho is advancing initiatives to solve social issues through financial products and services. One issue of particular importance in a country facing a falling birthrate and aging population is how to create a community in which everyone can live and participate with a sense of safety and security. To support that issue, MHBK inaugurated the “Mizuho Heartful Business” initiative in fiscal 2010 to support corporate and individual customers who are actively working to create employment opportunities for the elderly and disabled, and introduce barrier-free concepts and Universal Design Principles. Meanwhile, MHTB has created trust products that help customers secure their retirements and their families’ futures, and MHSC has developed stock investment trusts to support the improvement of infrastructure in developing countries. Initiatives 1 Under the Keywords, “Silver” and “Barrier-Free” Inauguration of the Mizuho Heartful Business Initiative Aiming to create banking environments that can be used with “Mizuho Heartful Forum” ease by anyone, MHBK began incorporating barrier-free MHBK holds the “Mizuho concepts and Universal Design Principles in its banking Heartful Forum” to help environments under its “Heartful Project” in fiscal 2005. In c u s to m e r s i n te r e ste d i n fiscal 2010, we took a further step in this direction by launchbusinesses aiming to serve ing the “Mizuho Heartful Business” initiative for supporting the elderly develop alliances. corporate and individual customers who are working to Two forums were held in fiscal create employment opportunities for the elderly and 2010. disabled, and introducing barrier-free concepts and UniverHeartful Forum sal Design Principles. Mizuho Heartful Loan Financing For corporate customers that qualify as “Heartful Compato FP Corporation nies*” – for instance, businesses that provide products or In June 2010, MHBK made its very first Mizuho Heartful services for the elderly or disabled, or promote the employLoan. That loan was made to FP Corporation, which manument of the elderly or disabled – MHBK provides “Mizuho factures and sells disposable food containers. FP actively Heartful Loans” and “Mizuho Heartful Private Placements.” employs people with disabilities and has been recognized by We offer “MHBK Remodeling Loans,” with below-market the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for its excellence interest rates, to individual customers planning to remodel in this regard. FP has taken various steps to ensure these their homes based on barrier-free concepts. MHBK also individuals are provided with a safe and secure workplace. provides financial planning services that use investment Examples include the deployment of supervisors to ensure simulations, helps to manage retirement funds and performs that basic needs with regard to matters like eating meals and other tasks that assist individuals in creating a secure retirechanging clothing are met. ment. And MHBK works in collaboration with MHTB to provide FP has taken these steps at products and services that support the smooth transfer of FP Group business locations wealth from one generation to the next. in Japan. FP is also helping * Companies fitting any of the following descriptions. （1）Companies that have introduced (or will introduce) facilities or the elderly by providing food equipment (barrier-free) aimed at improving working conditions or containers that are designed daily life for the elderly or disabled. （2）Companies that actively employ the elderly or disabled. based on Universal Design Inside an FP Corporation （3）Companies that provide or develop products or services that Principles. manufacturing facility improve the lives of the elderly or disabled. 19 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Initiatives 2 Giving Shape to Wishes to Transfer Assets “Yasuragi” Asset Inheritance Trusts Enabling the Secure Transfer of Assets Manager’s Comments MHTB uses its trust functions to offer various services that enable the smooth transfer of assets from one generation to Attaching the Customer’s Wishes to the next. “Yasuragi” Asset Inheritance Trusts developed in His/Her Assets direct response to customer input are prime example. “We A major characteristic of “Asset Inheritance Trusts” is that they don’t have children, so I want to prepare a will that leaves all allow customers to transfer assets consisting of not only money of my assets to my wife, but she’s already getting up in years, but also their feelings or consideration for the beneficiary. For and I’m worried about whether she’ll be able to manage the example, one of my customers included in his will the transfer of assets properly once they pass to her.” “I want to make a will a certain amount of his estate to that transfers some of my assets to my grandchild, but she’s a particular relative on a monthly basis with the request that the still a middle school student, and I would like her to receive relative look after the customer’s her inheritance little by little, in regular installments once she home and grave. When recombecomes an adult.” “I’m worried that I won’t be able to mending products or giving properly manage my assets if I lose my ability to make advice to customers, I listen reasonable judgments and come to require long-term care.” carefully to their descriptions of “Yasuragi” Asset Inheritance Trusts were developed in their circumstances and wishes, Yuko Sekiguchi response to needs like these. They let customers establish and do my best to help each Financial Advisor customer accomplish his or her Private Banking Office ,Ikebukuro Branch trusts that are based on wills or agreements and suit their goals. Mizuho Trust &Banking particular circumstances and wishes. Overview of a “Yasuragi” Asset Inheritance Trust scheme Services covering everything Consent to Undertake the from consulting for will Agreement-based trust Execution of Wills Service preparation to will execution. Customer ❶Trust establishment (monetary trust) ❷Payment of funds as trust Will Safe-Keeping Safe, reliable will custody (fixed amount at beneficiary Service services. set times） Inheritance Representation in the perfor❶Agreement of consent Customer to undertake the execution MHTB Arrangement Services mance of necessary proce(settlor) of wills, Will custody and management (trustee) dures following will execution. Family members Custom planning for the future ❷Will execution as trust Asset Inheritance Trust transfer wealth (monetary) ❹Payment of funds beneficiary Estate ❸Trust establishment (fixed amount at (monetary trust) set times） Will-based trust Estate and Will Seminars MHTB conducts seminars on estates and wills to promote wider understanding of these topics. In fiscal 2010, MHTB held around 500 of these seminars in locations throughout Japan for a total of approximately 8,000 participants. Seminar on estates and wills Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 20 Ⅳ Highly Responsive Communications Highlight Responding to Various Social Issues Initiatives 13 Helping to Improve Infrastructure in Developing Countries Donation of a Portion of Trust Fees to an Organization Working to Improve Developing Country Infrastructure In developing countries, there are countless areas where the Manager’s comments achievement of economic independence is being hindered by a lack of infrastructure like water and sewage systems, A Product Reflecting Long-Held Principles road and transportation systems, schools, and port In our business of providing securities finance services, the most facilities. Many of these areas are also facing challenges important thing we do – and our most significant social mission – from poverty, diseases like HIV and malaria, rampant crime, is to provide customers with easily understandable recommendaand other serious social problems. For its part, MHSC has tions on which of our outstanding asset management products best suit their needs. The donation of a portion of our fees is a begun to support the improvement of infrastructure in develsecondary element of our products, oping countries through its core business operations. It is but, as an initial experiment in doing this based on the idea that financial services should such endeavors, we anticipate benefit not only customers but society at large. that it will serve to broadly In more specific terms, MHSC donates a portion of the communicate our long-held trust fees it receives from the beneficiaries of stock investphilosophy that financial services ment trusts*1 that have invested in the shares of companies should be used by and benefit society at large. We are looking that own road, airport, port, or other infrastructure assets. forward to this product, including Donations are made to the organization (NPO Peace Winds its concept, design, and donation Masahiro Ikeda Japan*2) which is working to improve infrastructure in develscheme, to be widely praised by General Manager oping countries. Retail Business Planning & customers, and to ultimately boost Coordination Department The companies in which our equity investment trusts customer satisfaction. Mizuho Securities invest are “pure infrastructure companies” that either own or operate infrastructure assets. Given factors like the demand for new infrastructure in emerging economies and the growing demand for the repair of existing infrastructure in developed countries, pure infrastructure companies promise continuous long-term growth. As we provide ongoing financial support to this organization, we will also continue our pursuit of CSR activities through financial services. *1 “Global High Yielding Pure Infrastructure Fund (Monthly Dividend) (Growth Type)” “Global High Yielding Advanced Infrastructure Fund Construction of a hospital in Halabja, (Currency Select Type)” Iraq Copyright© Peace Winds Japan Well construction in Sudan Copyright© Peace Winds Japan *2 Established in 1996, Peace Winds Japan is a nonprofit organization that engages in activities for assisting people facing war, natural disasters, poverty, or other threats to their existence. Headquartered in Japan, this organization is also working to procure, ship, and distribute emergency relief supplies to help victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Bringing in relief supplies for victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake Copyright© Peace Winds Japan 21 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Customer Relations At Mizuho, where our “customer-first” attitude underpins everything we do, we are constantly striving to provide “comprehensive financial services” that are of the highest quality and fulfill customer needs. Given “Award for promoting Barrier Free” by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport Child-Rearing Support Campaign and Tourism for Distinguished Efforts to Promote Barrier-Free Environments Since 2005, MHBK has been promoting its “Heartful From November 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011, MHBK Project” as an initiative aiming to use barrier-free concepts implemented its “Child-Rearing Support Campaign” at its and Universal Design Principles to create banking facilities Tokyo branches. We did this in collaboration with the Tokyo that can be used with ease by anyone regardless of age, Metropolitan Government, which is promoting the creation gender, or disability. Through this project, we are working to of environments that are helpful for those raising children, eliminate factors that inconvenience or dissatisfy customers and with “Kosodate Oen Tokyo Kaigi” (Tokyo Conference on three fronts – Facility-related initiatives covering branches, for Child-rearing Support) to encourage customers with facilities, equipment, etc., service-related initiatives coverchildren to feel comfortable in using our banking facilities. ing customer forms and documentation, Internet content, During the campaign, branch lobby personnel actively etc., and psychological initiatives involving education and welcomed customers with children to make them feel at training to improve customer relation skills, etc. home. Customers were given “Hello Kitty” origami and pocket tissue packs, and picture books were made available Basic Initiatives Verify Effectiveness ● Facility-Related for children to look at while waiting. We also took steps like Feedback Monitoring ● Buildings & Facilities Verified ● Expert Advice creating priority lanes in ATM facilities and “Kids’ Corners” ● Devices Results Customer Satisfaction at some branches. In December 2010, we participated in the ● Furnishings, Furniture & Fixtures ● Periodic Survey of ● Service-Related Customer Service Customer Satisfaction “Kodomo Mirai Tokyo Messe 2010” (Child Future Tokyo Ascertain Customersʼ ● ● ● Customer Forms & Documents Needs Trade fair 2010) event sponsored by the Tokyo Metropolitan ● Internet Contents ● Psychological Government. There we introduced “Mizuho Direct,” which Accommodation Training allows customers who are caring for children and find it ● ● Human Rights Awareness Training difficult to go to a branch to use various banking services Broad Disclosure to the Assessments and Public and Customers Criticisms from the over the Internet. Public and Customers Going forward, MHBK will continue to listen to the Disclosure of Initiatives CSR Report, Websites, Model Branch, Mass Media comments and requests of customers in creating bank environments that are friendly to customers with children. Our all-encompassing, ongoing efforts to make branches easier to use based on customer input gained formal recognition in January 2011, when MHBK became the first financial institution to be given the “Award for Promoting Barrier-Free” by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Mizuho will continue to be a leader in introducing barrier-free concepts and Universal Design Principles and will contribute to the realization of a vibrant society by supporting customers and others working to do the same. Priority lane at the ATM corner Award ceremony at the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism * This award was established in 2007 for the purpose of recognizing individuals or groups that have made outstanding contributions to the promotion of barrier-free concepts in areas overseen by the Ministry of Kids’ corner Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and to encourage the broad adoption of the excellent barrier-free approaches taken by prize winners. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 22 Regional/Local Communities Relations As an integral member of local communities, Mizuho works hard at interactive communications with other stakeholders. Mizuho established the Standards for Social Contributions and Environmental Issues, and is moving ahead with Participation in the TABLE FOR TWO Program continuous social contribution activities. Social contribution activities are separated into seven classifications such as “Youth Development,” ”Social Welfare,” ”Support for the The Mizuho Financial Group participates in TABLE FOR Arts, Culture, and Academics,” ”International Exchange,” TWO, a program designed to simultaneously resolve the ”Environmental Preservation,” ”Financial Education,” and problems of food imbalance between developing countries “Humanitarian Activities.” And the contents of contributions suffering from starvation, and developed nations besieged are examined from multifaceted points of view, such as by obesity and other lifestyle-related whether they contribute to the local community, whether diseases. they substantially benefit society and can earn broad We have initiated a program through acceptance by the public, and whether they address which each time an employee social issues in an original or progressive way. chooses to purchase a healthy beverage from one of the company’s vending machines, a donation will be Corporate Citizenship Outlays made toward school lunches for ■ Youth Development ■ Others 6.8% 8.0% children in developing countries Vending machines used through the non-profit organization in the program ■ Humanitarian Activities ■ Social Welfare 3.8% 18.1% TABLE FOR TWO International. ■ Support for the Arts, Culture, Total Outlays and Academics ¥737 million 30.7% ■ Financial Tree-Planting Activities by Employee Volunteers Education 23.3% FY2010 Since fiscal 2008, Mizuho has undertaken to donate one ■ Environmental ■ International Exchange Preservation 5.3% 4.0% tree seedling for every 20 employees who pledge to be environmentally conscious in their everyday activities under * Outlays for initiatives that fall under two categories are split half-and-half between the two categories. the Mizuho Eco-Action Declaration. In fiscal 2010, 28,490 employees pledged to participate, and Mizuho contributed to reforestation activities by donating 1,424 seedlings to Tokyo’s Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest) Supporting Ashoka to Help Solve Social project, the Nagoya West Forest project, and to local Problems schools, hospitals, and other facilities. In addition, since fiscal 2007, Mizuho has participated in On January 11, 2011, Mizuho Bank concluded the “STRATETokyo Greenship Action, a Tokyo Metropolitan Government GIC SUPPORT AGREEMENT” with Ashoka, an association forest management program which promotes development with global influence as a supporter for social entrepreof healthy forests by thinning trees and clearing underbrush neurs, to cooperate in assisting Ashoka’s activities in Japan in otherwise neglected forest areas. In fiscal 2010, employand to support social entrepreneurs. With the backup of ees and their families volunteered to help with the thinning Ashoka, MHBK supports entrepreneurship activities to effort in the Ome-Kaminariki Forest Conservation Area in address social issues through business, accumulates Ome, Tokyo. knowledge and expertise on social business, including on the activities of aforementioned entrepreneurs, and examines the influence of financial institutions on social business. Tree planting activities at Nagoya West Forest Bill Drayton, Chair and CEO of Tree thinning activities in Ashoka Ome-Kaminariki 23 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Participation in Japan Association for the World Food Programme Charity Walk Yellow Badges Presented to First-graders On June 6, 2010, 200 Mizuho employees and their families Since 1965, Mizuho has presented first-graders nationwide took part in the “End Hunger: Walk the World” charity walk with Yellow Badges, signifying traffic accident insurance sponsored by Japan Association for the World Food coverage and calling for the prevention of traffic accidents Programme, and held in involving children. The number of badges presented as of Yokohama’s Minato Mirai 2011, the 47 th year of the program, totals 57,750,000, distribdistrict. uted in cooperation with Sompo Japan Insurance Inc., Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company, and The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Ltd. The charity walk Mizuho Volunteer Day Held at 26 Locations Worldwide Since fiscal 2006, Mizuho Corporate Bank has held its Mizuho Volunteer Day, a community volunteer event involving employees and their families, and taking place at various domestic and overseas locations. In fiscal 2010, Mizuho Volunteer Day was held in September at 26 locations worldwide. In all, volunteer activities took place in 14 countries, and involved over 1,000 employees, family members, and friends. Volunteers took part in a range of activities, including improving parks and 47th campaign PR poster The Yellow Badge gardens, preparing food for the homeless, painting day care facilities, and providing support for the elderly, the disabled, and children. Coming-of-Age Day Concert Held Since 1990, Mizuho has held an annual Coming-of-Age Day concert, in support of young artists and to expose more young people to classical music as part of our efforts to nurture the next generation. Young artists are invited to perform, and 100 people who have just come of age are invited to attend. Painting a childcare facility in New York Bandoneon performance (Photo: K. MIURA) Supporting disabled children in São Paulo Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 24 Stakeholder Dialogue We conduct an ongoing dialogue with experts to deepen our involvement in Priority Areas. The Dialogue Covered Two Main Themes, “Financial Education” and “Initiatives Addressing an Aging Society.” Mizuho held its 6 th Stakeholder Dialogue. In the dialogue, we receive several views from experts who are concerned about two main themes “Financial Education” and “Initiatives Addressing an Aging Society,” which Mizuho focused on during fiscal 2010. Theme1 Financial Education http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/stakeholder/dialog/education.html http:// Mizuho has positioned support for financial education at the and looked at several issues, including how our financial eduelementary, secondary, and higher education levels as one of cation initiatives, now in their sixth year, are being assessed by the Priority Areas among its CSR activities, beginning fullexperts in the field, and what will be needed to further expand fledged efforts in this area in fiscal 2006. This dialogue these efforts in the field of education. involved employees responsible for such financial education, Participating Experts Yukie Ikushige Katsumi Osawa Takeshi Rikimaru Saeko Jingu Executive Director Professor Teacher Teacher School Advice Tokyo Gakugei Ushioda Junior Itabashi Special Network (NPO) University High School, Education School, Yokohama Tokyo Participants from Mizuho Shuichiro Kayama Tomoaki Sako General Manager of Corporate Communications Head of CSR Promotion Office Mizuho Financial Group (Currently General Manager of Corporate Communications Corporate Banking Division No. 5, Mizuho Corporate Bank) Mizuho Financial Group Initiatives Addressing Theme2 an Aging Society http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/stakeholder/dialog/society.html http:// As Japan faces a rapidly aging population, it is increasingly Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking participated in a discussion important that we work to achieve a society in which everyto examine what Mizuho, as a leading financial institution, can one, regardless of age, gender, or disability, can fully particido, and what we should focus on in helping to make a barrier pate and lead worthwhile lives. The employees of Mizuho free, universal design-oriented society a reality. Participating Experts Yoshitaka Toui Hiroshi Takahashi Toshiyuki Kitamura Director Professor Director Policy Division for Universal Design International University of HealthCare Business Generalization Headquarters Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Health and Welfare Nichii Gakkan Campany Transport and Tourism Participants from Mizuho Yoshihisa Kasahara Shigeru Takeda Katsunori Tomita Tomoaki Sako General Manager of Corporate Banking General Manager of Private Wealth General Manager of Corporate Head of CSR Promotion Office Planning Division Management Business Planning Communications Corporate Communications Mizuho Bank (Currently general manager Department Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Financial Group of Trust Business Department I, Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Trust & Banking) 25 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Third-Party Opinion climates, but by sharing and taking action on a common sense of social responsibility that goes beyond those differences, each company can better experience the positive impact of the merger. In fact, there are many companies which have taken advantage of an integration or merger to focus more on CSR, promote reconciliation between group companies, and Professor Graduate School of enhance overall corporate strength. Global Environmental Studies Unfortunately, looking at Mizuho’s CSR to date, I have to Sophia University say that they have not succeeded in fully exploiting these kinds Yoshihiro Fujii of common advantages. To further enhance the power of the This year’s CSR report marks a historical milestone, both for “one bank” concept will require an even more far-reaching CSR Mizuho and for Japanese society as a whole. The report opens strategy. with a Top Commitment section, in which Group CEO Yasuhiro Mizuho has already organized an approach to that point of Sato immediately takes up the impact of “3.11,” the Great East view, a perfect example of which is Group CEO Sato’s Japan Earthquake, and goes on to address the effects of the statement regarding their disaster response that “We will fulfill computer system failures that were initiated by the concentraour social mission as a financial institution.” Positioning of the tion of a large number of money transfers to donation accounts first of Mizuho’s five CSR priority areas, a focus on their “intrinset up at Mizuho Bank after the disaster. sic business responsibilities, is also part of that same direction. Mizuho’s response to the latter issue did not stop at techniThe CSR report includes numerous examples of specific cal restoration, but led to a group-wide review of corporate initiatives. These include Disaster Relief Support Funding and governance structure. A decade after Mizuho was born out of a Business Recostruction Assistance Fund for disaster-stricken merger between Daiichi Kangyo Bank, the Industrial Bank of areas, and creative approaches to environmental financing Japan, and Fuji Bank, designed to pull the banks out of the deals, including funding for solar thermal power projects and financial crisis of the late 1990s, Mizuho, in effect, has decided the Mizuho Eco-Cycle. to begin substantively transforming three of its group banks— Nevertheless, consumers expect more from megabanks Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank, and Mizuho Trust & than the simple development of individual financial products Banking—into “one bank.” and services. After all, doesn’t the real value of a megabank lie At the time, this integration of three banks was hailed as a in its financial strength, in its ability to turn out products and bold decision, because it was seen as eliminating the fences services in volume over the long term, and provide them to the surrounding the major banks, an attempt to take the initiative in customers who need them? Such financial strength helps disregarding minor differences in favor of the larger picture. reduce business risks for the borrower and can respond to However, the fact that 10 years later the group has had to contingency needs in disaster-affected regions, but can also reiterate its “one bank” commitment, is an admission that the contribute to the future sustainable growth of society by ensurrecent computer system failures were, at least in part, due to ing the circulation of capital. Mizuho, of all companies, has that the group’s failure to completely eliminate many of the smaller kind of strength. barriers. Looking back, CSR assessment in Japan to date has This has a subtle impact on any assessment of Mizuho’s depended largely on so-called CSR specialists whose primary CSR over the past 10 years. In a way, it is only natural in the focus was on verifying adherence with standards such as GRI course of a corporate merger that some vestiges of pre-merger guidelines. It seems, however, that this approach may not organizational barriers and corporate climate remain in the necessarily correspond with the assessments of the business merged entity. This is because, to the extent that any organizaworld or consumers. I hope Mizuho’s approach to CSR will help tion is comprised of people, the integration of different organito bridge that gap. A positive response to their CSR efforts will zations inevitably takes time. And in some cases, it may be only come when those efforts lead to enhanced corporate value preferable to maintain and share the best parts of each organiand a greater level of trust among consumers and customers. zation post-merger. In conclusion, as I pointed out last year, I hope that in CSR can function as an effective means of allowing such attempting to verify that response on a daily basis, Mizuho will positive differences to remain, while heightening a sense of continue to enhance bi-directional communication with its unity in the merged organization. Group companies may many stakeholders. Web-based efforts using Twitter and other continue to have their individual corporate cultures and tools will also become part of the CSR arsenal. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2011 26 Comments and inquiries regarding this report should be directed to: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Communications 81-3-5224-1111 (reception) http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/ Marunouchi 2-chome Building, 2-5-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8333, Japan Total CO2 Please access the barcode Total CO2 emissions from the production emissions: for a detailed breakdown of of this report: 1.8ｔ total CO2 emissions (Japanese text only) All CO2 emission related to the printing of this report have been offset through Nihon WPA and CARBON OFFSET JAPAN
