《中材建设有限公司 2010 年度履行社会责任报告》 CBMI Csr Report for Year 2010 序 Preface ◇本报告是中材建设有限公司 (英文：CBMI Construction.Co., Ltd，可简称“中材建设”或 CBMI ) 在 2010 年度履行社会责任方面持 续改进的写照。通过这个报告，企业员工、服务客户、合作伙伴、 股东和出资人、国家各主管部门、社团及所有关心中材建设的相关 人士，可以了解中材建设的社会责任理念与实践，了解中材建设继 续为实现经济、社会可持续发展所做出的努力。 The report is a portrayal of continuous improvement for CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. (referred to as CBMI) to fulfill social responsibilities in 2010. From the report, all including employees, customers, partners, shareholders, investors, state authorities, community organizations, and all relevant people caring about CBMI may understand the concept and practice of social responsibility, understand the efforts to work for sustainable economies and social progresses continuously. ◇本年度报告采用“全球契约”中国网络中心推荐的提纲编写。 本年度报告有中英文对照两个版本，报告审核以中文为准。 The annual report has adopted the outline recommended by Center Office of Global Compact Network China. It has two versions in 1 English and Chinese, and the certificate is based on Chinese version. ◇为在更大的范围内宣传履行社会责任的知识、理念，和确保 履行社会责任年度报告编制素材来源的广泛性、专业性，及其确保 报告编制的质量，中材建设成立了履行社会责任年度报告编写领导 小组和编写机构，制订颁发了年度报告编写工作流程、编写纲要等 指导文件，以指导和规范社会责任年度报告的编写过程。报告中所 涉及财务数据符合国家颁布的《企业会计准则》和《企业会计制度》 的规定。为保证整个报告的真实性、可靠性，《中材建设 2010 年度 社会责任报告》提请“全球契约”中国网络中心进行了第三方评价并提 出完善建议。 To promote the knowledge and idea of social responsibility in a wider range, ensure the universality and professionalism of material source for preparing the annual report on social responsibility, and ensure the quality to prepare the report, CBMI has set up a leadership team and preparation agency to prepare the annual report on social responsibility as well as invited experts from Global Compact Network China so as to carry out some special guidance for report writing. At the same time, CBMI has formulated and issued guidance documents such as annual report preparation process and preparation outline so as to guide and regulate the preparation process of annual report on social responsibility. Financial data involved in report shall meet the requirements in Enterprise Accounting Standards and Enterprise Accounting System 2 issued by the State. To ensure the authenticity and reliability of whole report, the Center Office of Global Compact Network China has been invited as the third party to evaluate CBMI CSR Report for Year 2009 and put forward sound proposals. ◇欲在线阅读《中材建设 2010 年度社会责任报告》电子版本， 请访问中材建设网站 http：//www.cbmi.com.cn，《中材建设 2010 年 度社会责任报告》已经提交联合国“全球契约”办公室指定的网站，请 访问 http：//www.unglobalcompact.com. For reading any electronic version of CBMI CSR Report for Year 2010 online, please visit http://www.cbmi.com.cn. The report had been submitted to the website specified by United Nations Global Compact Office. Please visit http://www.unglobalcompact.com. 一、董事长致辞 Address by CBMI Chairman 中材建设接受“全球契约”在尊重人权、劳动权、环保和反腐败 等方面的社会责任理念，将继续在可影响的范围内，支持和促进其 “十项原则”的实施。中材建设的策略、文化和日常运转，将关注 对利益相关方的影响，履行相应的社会责任。 CBMI accepts social responsibility concepts in the respect for human rights, labor rights, environmental protection, anti-corruption, and etc. from Global Compact as well as continue to support and promote the implementation of its ten principles within a scope of influence. All 3 including CBMI strategy, culture and daily operation will focus on the impact of stakeholders to fulfill the corresponding social responsibilities. 中材建设公开承诺，遵循“全球契约”的“持续改进”理念，继 续改善在人权方面非歧视用工、杜绝童工、不强制劳动和本地劳工 权利等状况；保护全体作业工人职业健康和人身安全，保障他们的 劳动所得，关心他们的职业发展；推广和使用新技术，节约能源， 减少排放，保护工作和生活周边环境；努力建设公平公正文化，推 进反腐败进程。中材建设将继续以公开的形式，报告履行社会责任 的进展情况，接受公众的监督。 CBMI publicly commits to follow Global Compact’s continuous improvement philosophies; to continue to improve the conditions such as human right non-discrimination in employment, child labor elimination, non-forced labor, and local labor right protection; to protect all workers exposed to occupational health and safety; to protect their income from works; to care for their career developments; to promote and use new technologies, energy conservation, emission reduction, and working and living surrounding protection; to try to build a fair and just culture; and to promote the process of anti-corruption work. CBMI will continue to report the implementation progress of social responsibility and accept public supervisions with an open form. 中材建设有限公司董事长签字： 4 Chairmen of CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. 二、公司概况 Overview 1、、基本信息 Basic Information 中材建设有限公司是一家科技型、管理型、国际型的大型国有 控股企业，现隶属于中国中材集团旗下的中国中材国际工程股份有 限公司，已有 50 多年的历史。主要从事境内外项目总承包业务，主 营业务为冶炼、建材等工业技术的开发、装备研究及制造、安装等 业务，为行业内企业提供集成化的技术服务，在建材工程建设领域 内处于领先地位。中材建设具有对外经营权、进出口权及国家工程 总承包一级资质。 CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. is a large state-owned holding company with science and technology, management and internationalization.It is a subsidiary of China National Material Group Corporation Ltd., Sinoma International Engineering Co., Ltd., and has 50 years in history.It mainly engages in domestic and overseas project turn-key businesses.Its main businesses include development, equipment research, manufacturing, installation and other services for refining, 5 building materials, and other industrial technologies. CBMI has the foreign trading right, import & export rights, and 1st rate qualification of national engineering turn-key. 中材建设注册于中国河北省唐山市，其管理中心、技术中心、 工程中心、采购中心设在北京经济技术开发区。公司拥有包括项目 咨询、融资服务、工程设计、装备制造、采购成套、物流运输、工 程建设、调试培训、备品备件和生产管理等完整的业务链。 CBMI registered in Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. In Fengrun district and Harbor Development Zone, there are three large mechanical and electrical equipment manufacturing plants. All including management center, technology center, engineering center, and procurement center are set in Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone. It has a complete business chain including project consulting, financial service, engineering design, equipment manufacturing, procurement package, logistics and transport, engineering construction, commissioning, training, spare parts, and production management. 中材建设已通过 ISO9000 质量管理体系认证（含英国 UKAS、德 国 TGA 认证）、ISO14000 环境管理认证和“OHSAS”的质量、环境管 理以及职业健康安全体系认证。信用度连续保持 AAA 级。 CBMI has passed ISO 9000 Quality Management System Certification (including the United Kingdom UKAS, Germany TGA Certification), ISO14000 Environmental Management Certification, 6 OHSAS Quality & Environment Management and Occupational Health and Safety Certification. Its credit continuously maintains AAA grade. 2、、主营业务、 主营业务、经营规模、 经营规模、组织结构 Core Business, Scale of Operation and Organizational Structure （1） ）主营业务 Core Business 中材建设主营业务为水泥工业项目总承包，可针对不同客户需 求及环境特点，在各种规模水泥生产线的工程咨询、设计研发、设 备制造和成套、土建安装、生产调试、备品备件和售后服务等方 面，为客户提供 EPC、EP 等模式的个性化“总承包”集成服务。 CBMI’s main business is the turn-key of cement industry project. It can aim at different customer needs and environmental characteristics to provide personal Turn-Key Integration Services with EPC, EP, and other models for customers in engineering consulting, design & research development, equipment manufacture & equipment purchasing, civil erection, commissioning, spare parts, after-sales services, and etc. For various scales of cement production lines. （2） ）经营规模 Scale of Operation 中材建设先后承建了中国国内水泥行业大多数的水泥生产线重 点项目，其中包括绝大多数外商投资项目和规模超过日产水泥熟料 4000 吨以上的水泥生产线，累计建设水泥生产线 150 多条。目前， 千余人的职工队伍，可在全球十几个国家，同时展开接近 100 亿元 7 人民币投资额、20 多个项目的建设工作。 CBMI has undertaken most key projects of cement production line in China cement industry. They include most projects with foreign investments and cement production lines with 4,000 ton more cement clinker in daily production scale. CBMI has constructed 150 more cement production lines in accumulation already. Currently, more than one thousand employees may carry out constructing 20 more projects with almost RMB 10 billion in investment at the same time in dozen countries in the world. 在中国水泥工业建设史上，中材建设创造了首条全套引进技术 生产线、首条自行开发干法旋窑生产线、首条中外合资生产线、首 条国际总承包模式交钥匙项目、首条日产万吨水泥熟料生产线安装 和全球最大的包括两条万吨线水泥厂项目建设，和首条向欧洲国家 出口水泥生产线成套设备等多项第一。 In China cement industry construction history, CBMI has created many first items such as the first complete set of introduced production line, the first self-developed dry rotary kiln production line, the first Sino-foreign joint production line, the first international turn-key project, the first cement clinker production line with 10,000tpd production, the largest cement plant project including two 10,000 tpd production lines, the first complete set of production line equipments exporting cements to European countries, and etc. 8 、建设项目分布 3、 建设项目分布 Distribution of Construction Project 中材建设正处在国际化进程中，90%以上的业务在国际市场。 承接实施的主要建设项目目前分布在欧洲、亚洲、非洲、美洲的西 班牙、法国、意大利、俄罗斯、匈牙利、阿尔巴尼亚、乌克兰、摩 尔多瓦、塞浦路斯、阿塞拜疆、叙利亚、沙特阿拉伯、突尼斯、摩 洛哥、毛里塔尼亚、赞比亚、南非、尼日利亚、乌干达、多米尼 加、厄瓜多尔、马来西亚等国家和地区。中材建设是中国水泥工程 承包行业率先进入国际市场的知名企业。 CMBI is in the process of internationalization, and 90% more of businesses are in the international market. Major undertaken and implemented construction projects are distributed in the following countries and regions of Europe, Asia, Africa, and America such as Spain, France, Italy, Russia, Hungary, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova, Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Syria, Arabia, Tunisia, Morocco, Mauritania, Zambia, South Africa, Nigeria, Uganda, Dominica, Ecuador, and etc. CBMI is a well-known enterprise entering the international market firstly in China cement engineering contracting industry. 、企业战略、 4、 企业战略、价值观、 价值观、社会责任理念 Strategy, Value, and Social Responsibility Concept 中材建设提出“走出去、站稳脚、塑品牌”的国际化战略，当前 9 的具体表述为“以做强做大国际市场和总承包业务为目标，以加强总 承包业务功能建设为手段，以推进精细化管理和企业文化建设为保 障，加快公司规模提升和实现跨越式发展”。 CBMI put forward the international strategy of Go out of China, Gain Firm Footing, and Build Brand. It can be expressed currently as Strengthening and Expanding International Market and General Contracting Business as the Goal, Enhancing the Function Construction of Turnkey Business as the Means, Promoting Fine Management and Enterprise Culture Construction as Guarantee, Speeding up CBMI’s Scale and Improvement, and Realizing Great-Leap-Forward Development. 中材建设的核心价值观表述为“知成并重、务实创新、诚信为 本”。 CBMI’s core values may be expressed as Both Knowledge and Achievement Equally, Pragmatic Innovation, and Integrity-Based. 中材建设将履行“建造质量优良、环境优美的水泥工厂，使人们 的工作更有效益，而且使他们的生活更有乐趣”，作为企业使命。 CBMI takes Building CBMI into the quality oriented and garden-like cement producer bringing both joy and benefits to our employees as their mission. 10 5、、报告期间所获荣誉 Awards during the Reporting Period 荣誉名称 Honors Won 授予单位 Granted by 备 注 Note 履行社会责任报告获得 “经典报 联合国“全球契约”中国网 2010 年申报 2008 年度报告 告”荣誉 “Classic Report” for 络中心 United Nations CBMI CSR Report for Year CBMI CSR Report Global Compact Network 2008 which applied in China 2010 被认定高新技术企业 High-tech 省 级科 技厅 Science and enterprise Technology Agency in provincial level 出 口 退 税 工 作 优 秀 单 位 唐 山 市 政 府 Tangshan outstanding enterprise in Municipal Government export tax rebates performance “2010 年全国安全生产月活动优 国家安监总局、全国总工会 秀单位” 等 Excellent unit in 2010 National State Administration of Safety Month activities Work Safety, the National Federation of Trade Unions, etc. 立功竞赛“工人先锋号”光荣称号 全国总工会、中国机冶建材 坦桑尼亚 TPCC 和福建塔牌 Pioneer Workers glorious 产业系统 项目部 Tanzania machine title the National Federation TPCC and the Fujian of Trade Unions, the rule Department of tower card of China Building project Materials Industry System 企业文化展示银奖 Silver Award 全国机械冶金建材工会 for Corporate Culture China Trade Union for Mechanical, metallurgy 11 and building materials 2010 年度模范职工之家 唐 山 市 工 建 交 工 会 叙 利 亚 项 目 部 Syria 2010 the Homes of the Workers Tangshan Union project department Model 2010 年度模范职工小家荣誉称号 2010 “the Little Homes of the Workers” Model 文明单位、先进纪委称号 Tangshan SASAC “Civilized unit and Advanced discipline” Title 财务工作竞赛获得一等奖 First Tangshan General Union prize for Financial work competition 三、利益相关方信息 Stakeholder Information 1、、利益相关方概况 Overview of Stakeholder 序号 No. 利益相关方 Stakeholder 利益相关方 沟通方式 Form 利益关系 Interest of Relationship Communication 1 股东一：中材国际工程股份有限公司 1st Shareholder: Sinoma International 控股 Holdings 股东大会 Engineering Stockholders’ Co., Ltd. Conference 股东二：职工或者自然人 2nd 参股 Share Shareholder: Staff or natural persons 2 客户：业主 Customer: Owner 客户服务 业务往来 Customer service Business Contact 12 3 职工一：在册职工 Staff A: Registered staff 职工二：国内雇佣劳工 Staff B: 合同、工会 劳资关系 Labor Domestic employment labor Contract and labor Relation 职工三：国外项目所在地雇佣劳工 union Staff C: Local employment labor of foreign project 4 供应商一：技术设计分包 Supplier A:Technical design subcontract 供应商二：采购分包 Supplier B: 业务分包 Procurement subcontract 业务往来 Business 供应商三：工程分包 Supplier C: Business Contact Subcontract Engineering subcontract 供应商四：劳务分包 Supplier D: Labor subcontract 5 社区一：公司、项目所在地政府 政策法律相关 Community A: Local government of Relating to company policies and laws and project 社区二：公司、项目所在地居民 经济、就业、环 会议及约访 Community B: Local resident of 境相关 Meeting and company and Relating to reservation project economy, access employment and environment 社区三：公司、项目所在地社团组织 工会、信息等专 Community C: Local community 题相关 organization Relating to special of company and project topics such 13 as labor union and information 6 总部、分公司和项目所在地新闻媒体 信息、广告 Local news media of headquarters, Information and 采访 Interview branch advertising office and project 2、、参加国内外主要的社会团体 CBMI Memberships with Major Social Organization in Domestic and the World 序号 名 称 Name 公司角色 Position NO. 1 联合国“全球契约”组织 成员 Member United Nations Global Compact Organization 2 中国建材机械工业协会 副会长 Vice President China Building Material Machinery Association 3 中国水泥协会 成员 Member China Cement Association 4 中国施工企业管理协会 常务理事 China Construction Enterprise Management Executive Director Association 5 中国会计学会建材分会 Building Materials Branch, Accounting 成员 Member Society of China 14 四 、 公 司 治 理 和 管 理 体 系 Corporate Governance and Management System 1、、治理结构 Governance Structure 中材建设是按照《中华人民共和国公司法》组建的一家有限责任 公司，依照公司《章程》设立股东会、董事会、监事会和总经理，总 经理对董事会负责。公司董事会下还设有企业战略发展委员会、安 全生产委员会、招标委员会、风险管理与内部控制领导小组、全面 预算管理领导小组等专业委员会，管控企业经营风险，监督企业廉 政经营。 CBMI is a limited liability company formed according to Company Law of the People’s Republic of China. According to constitutions, it has established shareholders, board of directors, supervisors, and general manager. The general manager shall be responsible for the board of directors. The board of directors has also been set with professional committees including enterprise strategy development committee, production safety committee, tender committee, risk management and internal control leadership group and comprehensive budget management leadership team to manage and control enterprise operating risks as well as supervise enterprise honest operation. 15 2、、决策程序 Decision-making Procedure 中材建设每年定期或不定期召开股东会、董事会、监事会和总 经理办公会，并按照公司《章程》、《股东会议事规则》、《董事会 议事规则》、《监事会议事规则》和《总经理工作细则》开展工作， 对企业的生产、经营、管理工作进行决策。 CBMI will hold office meetings with shareholders, board of directors, board of supervisors and general manager regularly and irregularly. It can also carry out working in accordance with CBMI Articles of Association, Meeting Procedure Rules of Shareholders, Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Director Meeting, Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Supervisor, and Work Rule of General Manager so as to carry out decision making on production, operation and management. 3、、机构设置 Organization Structuring 中材建设根据公司经营、生产、管理和业务开拓的需要，组建 公司的组织机构，设有 15 个职能部门。具体包括办公室、人力资源 部、财务部、市场部、技术中心、装备研发部、采购部、物流部、 工程管理部、调试服务部、区域经理办公室、质量控制部、安全监 督管理办公室、结算稽核中心、党群工作部等。按照承接项目合同 履约需要，公司随时组建相应的项目经理部（下图为企业组织结构 图）。 16 According to the requirements of operation, production, management and business development, CBMI had formed organizational structures with 15 functional departments.These specific departments include Office, Human Resource Department, Finance Department, Marketing Department, Technology Center, Equipment Research and Development Department, Procurement Department, Logistics Department, Project Management Department, Commissioning Service Department, Office of Regional Manager, Quality Control Department, Safety Supervision & Management Office, Settlement & Audit Center, and Party & the Masses Work Department. According to the requirement of project contract performance, CBMI shall set up the appropriate project management department at any time. The following is an enterprise organization chart. 17 18 股东会 董事会 监事会 管理团队 风险管理与内部控制领导小组 企业战略管理委员会 招标管理委员会 全面预算管理领导小组 安全生产委员会 技 工 质 人 稽 党 装 调 区 办 术 市 程 采 财 量 安 力 核 群 物 备 试 域 公 中 场 管 购 务 管 监 资 结 工 流 研 服 经 室 心 部 理 部 部 理 办 源 算 作 部 发 务 理 部 部 部 中 部 部 部 办 项目经理部 项目经理部 …… 19 五、基本经济业绩 Basic Economy Performace 1、、 企业经营业绩和发展情况 Business Performance and Development 2010 年，国际建材特别是水泥工业建设市场竞争异常激烈，面 对严峻的形势，中材建设积极调整策略，围绕国际化、规模化和相 关多元化主题，抓好水泥工程主业和业务多元发展两大任务，在国 际市场创建一批品牌示范项目，企业文化建设、社会责任实践等各 项事业均取得了长足进步，确保了中材建设经济指标稳健增长、业 务平稳发展、企业和谐稳定、职工安居乐业。继续保持科学、健 康、持续、快速发展的良好态势，取得了良好的经济和社会效益。 In 2010, the international building materials market especially cement industry is fiercely competitive. Facing the serious situation, CBMI activtly adjusts its strategy to focus on international, large-scale diversification and related topics, and does a good job in cement industry and the multi-business diversification. CBMI has established a number of brand-demonstration projects in international market and the work of corporate culture, social responsibility practice and other undertakings have made great strides to ensure that the company has solid economic indicators growth rate, stable and harmony business development, and balanced staff live and work. CBMI maintains scientific, healthy, sustained and rapid development momentum, and achieved good 20 economic and social benefits. 2、、企业技术升级情况 Technology Upgrades 2010 年，中材建设加强企业技术升级，大力推进新产品、新技 术、新装备的研究开发和应用。仅取得经由国家授权的专利就有 5 项，分别为刚性百叶阀、内筒式三通分料阀、偏心轮弧形阀、辊磨 磨盘陶瓷衬板、耐高温耐磨陶瓷阀板。正在授权中的专利有 2 项， 分别为低漏料陶瓷衬板、立式乙醇蒸馏塔。受理专利有 1 项，为回 转式全密封乙醇连续发酵反应罐。各项专利申报和授权详情见下 表。 In 2010, CBMI strengthen technology upgrading, and vigorously promote the research and development on new products, new technologies and new equipment and applications. The Corporate has 5 patents authorized by the state, including Rigid shutter valve, Within the cylinder triple gate diverter, eccentric arc valves, roller grinding disc ceramic liner, high temperature resistant ceramic valve plate, and has 2 patents which is in the process of authorzation, namely low-leakage ceramic liner material, vertical ethanol distillation tower. There also is a processing of patent for the rotary sealed ethanol continuous fermentation reactor. The patent application and authorization table: 序 授权/受 授权 受 项目名称 Project 号 类型 Type 理 专利号 Patent No. Name N Authoriz 21 o. ed / Processi ng 1 刚 性 百 叶 阀 Rigid 实 用 新 型 utility 已 授 权 louver valve model Authoriz ZL2010 20153662 ed 2 内筒式三通分料阀 实 用 新 型 utility 已 授 权 Three points inside model Authoriz ZL 2010 2 0153664.6 the cylinder valve ed 3 实 用 新 型 utility 已 授 权 偏 心 轮 弧 形 阀 model Authoriz ZL 2010 2 0153663.1 Eccentric arc valve ed 4 辊磨磨盘陶瓷衬板 实 用 新 型 utility 已 授 权 Disc ceramic liner model Authoriz 2010201737169 roller mill ed 4 耐高温耐磨陶瓷阀 实 用 新 型 utility 已 授 权 板 High-temperature model Authoriz 201020173702 resistant ceramic ed valve plate 6 低漏料陶瓷衬板 实 用 新 型 utility 授 权 中 Low leakage ceramic model Processin 201020531871 liner material g 7 立式乙醇蒸馏塔 发明专利和实用新型 授 权 中 Vertical ethanol patent of invention & Processin 201020611486.X distillation utility model g 8 回转式全密封乙醇 发明专利和实用新型 受 理 中 连续发酵反应罐 patent of invention & Processin Hermetically sealed utility model g rotary continuous ethanol fermentation reactor 2010 年，中材建设单侧四滑履大型管磨机的研究、双对流换热 高效水泥冷却器、双回转式散装水泥装船机和高效预处理脉冲喷吹 袋式收尘器等，分别获得中国中材集团有限公司、中国建材机械协 会、中国建材联合会和唐山市人民政府颁发的科技进步奖励，详见 下表。 In 2010, CBMI’s research on unilateral four large sliding shoe tube 22 mill, Dual convection heat transfer and efficient cement cooler, dual rotary bulk cement ship loader and efficient pre-processing such as pulse jet bag filter, respectively won scientific and technological progress awards granted by China National Materials Group Co., Ltd., China Building Material machinery Association, China Building Materials Federation and the Tangshan Municipal People's Government issued. 序 号 类 别 等 级 项 目 名 称 Project Name 授予单位 Granted by N Type Level o. 1 单侧四滑履大型管磨机 Unilateral 科技进步 二 等奖 唐 山 市 人 民 政 府 Tangshan four large sliding shoe tube mill Science and 2nd Municipal People's Technology Prize Government Progress 2 双对流换热高效水泥冷却器 Dual 科技进步 三 等级 唐山市人民政府 convection heat transfer and Science and 3rd efficient cement cooler Technology Prize Progress 3 应用于回转机械的大型焊接齿圈 科技进步 二等奖 中国中材集团有限公司 large welded tooth circle used in Science and 2nd rotating machine Technology Prize Progress 4 应用于回转机械的大型焊接齿圈 技术革新 一等奖 中国建材机械协会技术革新 large welded tooth circle used in Technologi 1st 奖 China Building Material rotating machine cal Prize Machinery Association innovation Innovation Award 5 应用于回转机械的大型焊接齿圈 技术革新 二等奖 中国建材联合会技术革新奖 large welded tooth circle used in Technologi 2nd rotating machine cal Prize innovation 6 双回转式散装水泥装船机 Dual 科技进步 三 等奖 唐山市丰润区人民政府 rotary bulk cement ship loader Science and 3rd Technology Prize Progress 7 高效预处理脉冲喷吹袋式收尘器 科技进步 三 等奖 唐山市丰润区人民政府 Efficient pre-pulse jet bag filter Science and 3rd Technology Prize Progress 23 8 单侧四滑履大型管磨机 Unilateral 科技进步 二等奖 唐山市丰润区人民政府 four large sliding shoe tube mill Science and 2nd Technology Prize Progress 9 大型堆取料机无线控制装置 科技进步 二等奖 中材集团 Large Stacker wireless control Science and 2nd device Technology Prize Progress 10 技术中心数字信息管理系统 建材业优 二等奖 中国建材工程建设协会 Technology center digital 秀设计软 2nd Construction Association, information management system 件 Prize China Building Materials Excellent design software in building materials industry 3、、主要经济指标 Main Economy Indicator 2010 年，中材建设实现销售收入 35.75 亿元，比上一年度增长 20.74%。资产总额 28.92 亿元，比上一年度略降 0.62%。实现利润总 额 2.70 亿元，比上一年度增长 44.39%。企业继续保持着科学、健 康、持续、快速发展的良好态势。 The sales revenue had been realized into RMB 3.575 billion yuan that was increased with 20.74% more than that of last year. The total asset was RMB 2.892 billion yuan that was slightly decreased with 0.62% less than that of last year. The total profit had been realized as RMB 270 million yuan that is increased with44.39% more than that of last year. CBMI continue to maintain the scientific, health, sustained and rapid development momentum. 年度 销售收入 Sales Revenue 实现利润 Profit 资产总额 Asset 24 （年） 总量（亿） 增长（%） 总量（亿） 增长（%） 总量（亿） 增长（%） Year Amount increase Amount increase Amount increase (100 (%) (100 (%) (100 (%) million) million) million) 2006 12.22 29.45 0.51 -10.53 11.38 9.53 2007 16.30 33.39 0.84 64.71 10.60 -6.85 2008 22.40 37.42 1.25 48.81 28.80 171.70 2009 29.61 32.19 1.87 49.60 29.10 1.04 2010 35.75 20.74 2.70 44.39 28.92 -0.62 2010 年，销售收入和利润总额指标继续保持较大幅度的增长， 有效实现了国有资产的保值增值。这表明，中材建设在坚持不懈地提 高企业的经营管理水平，提高在国际水泥工业建设领域的竞争能力。 同时，也仍然坚持不懈地，在促进社会、经济、环境及生态可持续发 展方面，继续努力履行企业的社会责任。 In 2010, sales revenue and profit targets have maintain high growth rate which effectively realize the increasing value of state assets. This indicates that CBMI has improved the enterprise operation & management level tirelessly as well as the competitiveness ability in international cement industry construction field. At the same time, CBMI has also continued to implement social responsibilities continuously in promoting social, economic, environmental and ecological sustainable developments. 4、、市场开拓 Market Development 2010 年，国际水泥工业建设市场复苏速度低于预期，中材建设 快速调整策略，创新市场服务模式，巩固业务规模。全年新签合同 总额 30 亿元， 新签海外总承包项目合同包括中材建设与 CEMENA 集团签署的 UACC3200TPD 水泥生产线等 4 个总承包合同。同时全 25 年累计跟踪投标项目近 40 个，为下一年度市场开拓做好了良好的开 端。 In 2010, the recovery rate of international cement industry construction market is lower than expected. CBMI quickly adjust its strategy, innovate marketing services model and consolidate the business scale. The total number of annul newly signed contract is RMB 3 billion and the newly signed overseas project contracts includes four turnkey contract such as UACC3200TPD production line which signed between CBMI and CEMENA. At the same time CBMI almost has 40 Tracking bidding projects which work as a good start for next year’s market development. 5、、建设业绩 Construction Achievement 2010 年，项目建设和生产工作进展顺利，四个区域中 15 个项目 建设快速有序推进。海内外项目建设成果丰硕，共有 5 个项目顺利 点火投产。尤为值得一提的是环地中海区域阿尔巴尼亚 TITAN 项目 和叙利亚 ABC 项目成功实施。 In 2010, projects’ construction and production are progressing smoothly, and 15 projects in four regions are promoted quickly and orderly. CBMI has fruitful achievements at home and abroad, including five projects successfully put into operation, especially the Mediterranean region Albania TITAN project and the Syria ABC project. 26 阿尔巴尼亚 TITAN 项目提前工期一个月点火投产，成为公司、 中材集团乃至中国水泥工程业在国际市场第一个提前竣工的项目。 阿尔巴尼亚总理贝里沙也高度评价了此水泥厂给阿尔巴尼亚带来的 巨大社会经济效益，他赞扬该水泥厂是高科技的代表，是环保的典 范。叙利亚 ABC 项目于 2010 年 12 月一次性成功点火，比合同工期 提前 40 天，成为中叙人民友谊和双方经贸合作的示范项目。2010 年 10 月全国政协主席贾庆林访叙期间，专程到叙利亚 ABC 项目现场视 察，对项目技术、质量、工期、管理和公司国际工程总承包业务的 发展给予了高度评价。 Albania TITAN project put into operation one month ahead of schedule and became the first project which completed ahead of schedule of CBMI as well as Chinese cement constrution industry. Albanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha also spoke highly of ecomomic benefits to Albania of this project and commeded that the cement plant represented a high tech and protection model. In Decemeber 2010, Sybia ABC project put into operation which was about 40 days ahead of the schedule and set an example project of Sino-Sybia bilateral friendship and trade cooperation. In October 2010, Jia Qinglin, the CPPCC National Committee Chairman visited Syria and made a special trip to ABC project site, speaking highly of project’s technologies, quality, duration, management and company's international business development. 尼日利亚、塞浦路斯、匈牙利等海内外总承包项目进展顺利， 27 获得了业主的高度认可，为公司在国际市场树立一批示范项目，为 国际化“塑品牌”战略快速推进，奠定了牢固的基础。 Nigeria, Cyprus, Hungary and other domestic and international general contracting project are progressing well, gaining highly recogition from owners and establish a number of demonstration projects in international market, which set a solid foundation for CBMI putting international branding strategy forward fastly. 6、、经济和社会影响情况 Economic and Social Impacts 中材建设在各个项目实施过程中，继续践行物资资源和人力资 源的“本土化”承诺。一如既往的报税纳税、增加就业，促进项目 所在地社区的贸易活动，拉动那里的社会、经济发展。 CBMI practice its commitment of “localization” of material and human resources during projects’ implementation process, providing tax returns, increasing employment, promoting trade and pulling the social and economic development in the communities where the project activities. （1）、 ）、促进社会经济发展 Socio-economic Development ）、促进社会经济发展 中材建设国内外项目的实施有着大量设备、材料、物资的采购 业务，带动着国内外市场、项目所在国家和地区商贸经营。2010 年，公司全年采购业务量达 56,015 万余元，其中设备采购量为 36,955 万 元 ， 大 宗 物 资 完 成 采 购 额 19,060 余 万 元 ， 钢 材 采 购 28 9891.904 吨（金额 4760.52 万元），固定资产设备采购 80 台套（金 额 12719 余万元）。 CBMI Construction has a large number of domestic and international implementation of the project equipment, materials, supplies procurement, promoting the domestic and foreign markets in the host country and regional business operations. 2010, the company's annual procurement volume of 56,015 million yuan, including equipment purchases 36,955 million, the amount of bulk material is more than 19,060 yuan, steel procurement 9891.904 tons (the amount of it is 47,605,200 yuan), fixed assets, procurement of 80 sets of equipment (the amount of it is 12,719 million yuan). 阿尔巴尼亚 TITAN 项目的建成投产，大大提高了当地建材的产 能和效率，每年 130 至 150 万吨/的水泥产量可以满足当地市场和周 边其他国家地区 1 年的需求。 The operation of Albania TITAN project greatly improve the capacity and efficiency of local building materials. TITAN produces 130-1500000 ton per year which meet the cement needs of local market and near countries and regions. 塞浦路斯 Vassiliko 水泥厂新线项目建成投产后，也大大提高了 当地建材的产能和效率，500,000 吨的水泥年增产量可满足当地市场 30 年的需求。这个项目的实施大大带动了当地物资业、农副业、物 流运输业、机具租赁业等行业的发展。以数据可统计的物流运输业 29 为例，仅截止 2010 年 8 月，塞浦路斯 Vassiliko 项目部共计完成 76402 立方米（总重 34166.8 吨）货物的内陆运输，这些货物均分包给由当 地物流运输公司操作完成。 The operation of a new prodution line in Cyprus Vassiliko cement plant also greatly enhanced the capacity and efficiency of local building materials. This project increase 500,000 tons of cement production per year can meet local market demand. The implementation of this project greatly boosted the local materials industry, agricultural and subsidiary business, logistics transport, equipment leasing industry, etc. Take the statistical data available to the logistics transportation as an example, only as of August 2010, Cyprus Vassiliko project completed a total 76,402 cubic meters (total weight of 34,166.8 tons) cargo inland transportation, sharing of these goods contracted to the local logistics and transportation companies. （2）、）、增加就业机会 ）、增加就业机会 Increase employment opportunities 中材建设项目的实施采用“总承包”模式，大量使用作业层劳 务工人。2010 年，中材建设为国内四川、江苏、河北等省劳务人 员，直接创造就业机会达 800 多人次。 CBMI adopts an “Overall Contract”mode in the implementation of projects, which allows it to use lots of labor services workers. In 2010, CBMI created more than 800 employment opportunities for labors who come from Sichuan Province, Jiangsu Province, Hebei Province, etc. 30 各个海外项目部均在当地雇佣了大量的劳工，培训了大量技术 人员和熟练工人，为当地就业以及劳工技能的提升做出了贡献。 2010 年，国外各项目部累计雇佣当地员工数量为 2700 多名，组织当 地员工 2000 余名，参加了中材建设提供的各种技能培训。塞浦路斯 Vassiliko 项目的建设为当地居民长期提供大约 170 至 180 个工作岗 位。阿尔巴尼亚 TITAN 项目的建设也为当地居民直接和间接的提供 了 370-400 个长期就业岗位。 All overseas projects hire a lot of local employees, and train a lot of technical personnel and skilled workers, which have great contribution to the local employment and labor skills. In 2010, the total number of local emplyees for foreign projects is more than 2,700. CBMI organized over 2,000 employees took part in all kinds of skills trainings provided by CBMI. In Cyprus, the construction of Vassiliko project provided about 170 to 180 jobs for local residents in the long term, and in Albania, the implementation of TITAN project made about 370 to 400 long-term jobs both directly and indirectly for the local community. 六、环境业绩情况 Enviornmental Performance Condition 中材建设坚持“用人文精神和绿色意识建设我们共同的家园” 环 境观，在经营管理过程中，努力遵守《联合国环境规划署清洁生产宣 言》、《国际商会商业规章》等规章。在生产、生活和办公工作中， 积极采取各种措施，减少污染，保护环境。2010 年度，公司未发生 重大环境污染事件。 31 CBMI adhered to the environment concept of “Using Human Spirit and Green Sense to Build Our Common Home”. In a management process, CBMI tries to comply with regulations such as United Nations Environment Programme Declaration on Cleaner Production and The ICC Commercial Rules. In production, living and office works, CBMI had taken various measures actively to reduce pollutions and protect the environment. Till 2009, there was not any major environmental pollution incident for CBMI. 1、、环境管理机制 Environmental Management Mechanism （1） ）机构 Organization 2010 年公司“节能减排工作领导小组”继续加强领导和协调全公 司环境保护工作，在部署和安排 2010 年度工作计划时，进一步完善 环境保护内部控制目标和指标的编制，并落实了责任部门和责任 人。 In 2010, CBMI leadership group of energy-saving and emission reduction continues to strengthen, lead and coordinate corporationwide environment protections. While planning and arranging 2010 annual work plans, CBMI had drawn up internal control objectives and indicators of environmental protection as well as implemented responsible departments and persons. （2） ）制度体系 2010 年度，中材建设更新或充实公司的环境管理体系文件，使 公司的管理活动、生产过程和服务过程，更加符合相关法律、法规 的要求。2010 年，对已经建立的 IS014000 环境管理体系，再次修 订，并通过咨询机构的认证。同时，再一次通过质量、环境、职业 32 健 康 的 体 系 认 证 。 In 2009, CBMI had updated or enriched environmental management system documents so as to make CBMI’s management activities, production processes and service processes comply more with relevant laws and regulations. In 2009, CBMI had revised existed ISO14000 Environmental Management System again, and passed through the authentication of consultation agency as well as passed through quality, environment, and occupational health system authentications again. 2、、环境管理措施 Enviornmental Management Measures 2010 年，中材建设充分运用公司办公系统、网络、报刊、讲座 等宣传形式，宣传节能减排的方针、政策和科技知识，员工的生态 环境保护意识明显提高，公司节能减排工作有效开展。 In 2010, CBMI fully use company’s office systems, networks, newspapers, lectures, etc. to promote energy conservation principles, policies and scientific and technological knowledge, which greatly increasing employees’ aware of ecological and environmental protection, and carring out company’s work on energy-saving and emission reduction effectively. （1） ）生活办公领域 生活办公领域 Office Life 2010 年，中材建设对水、电、燃油的使用和管理，继续实行总 部、项目经理部分工负责制。 33 总经理办公室负责办公楼内的水、电管理，统计所属范围内 水、电消耗量。作业现场水、电、油管理由项目管理部负责，建立 本项目能源消耗统计台帐，按月采集水、电、油消耗数据，填入 水、电油消耗卡。 公司总部和项目经理部都按办公纸张使用及管理办法检查考 核，各部门废弃的纸张基本实现双面使用，且做到全部回收。同 时，公司对计算机系统重新升级，加大无纸化网络办公的管理工 作。 In 2010, Sinoma construction of water, electricity, fuel use and management, continue to implement the headquarters, the project manager some public accountability. General Manager's Office is responsible for building the water and electricity management, statistics, within their respective water and electricity consumption. Job site water, electricity, pipeline project management department is responsible for reason, energy consumption statistics to establish the project accounting, monthly collection of water, electricity and oil consumption data, fill water, electricity and oil consumption card. Corporation headquarters and project manager are used by office paper and check the assessment of management practices, the department abandoned the basic realization of double-sided paper use, and to achieve full recovery. Meanwhile, the company's computer system to re-upgrade, 34 increase the paperless office network management. （2） ）生产经营领域 生产经营领域 Production and Operation 2010 年，中材建设加强新技术研究和开发，继续在工艺和设备 选型中，优先采用节能效果好、能源消耗低的技术、材料和设备。各 项目优先选用节电、油型施工机械，在施工中合理、科学的使用施 工机械，提高设备利用率。 In 2009, CBMI strengthen research and development on new technologies, and used technologies, materials and equipments with good efficiency and low energy consumption when selecting processes and equipments. Every project management department took measures to improve the equipment utilization rate and preferred energy-saving construction machineries in operation management. 第一，新技术研究、应用及推广 Firstly, Research, Application and Promotion of Newly Environmental Technology ○中材建设在自己承接的摩洛哥FES项目上，推广了第四代篦冷 机技术，节省土建费用，提高二次风温50℃，减少煤电能耗。 ○在阿塞拜疆项目，采用SNCR(选择性非催化还原)对烟气进行脱 硝处理，大大降低了氮氧化物的排放。 ○叙利亚ABC项目采用玄武岩代替粘土和铁粉作为生料原材料， 实际生产数据得出：每生产1千克熟料所消耗的能量从730 Kcal降低 到713 Kcal。 ○ Sinoma to undertake the construction of the Moroccan FES in 35 their projects, to promote the fourth generation of grate cooler technology, save construction costs, improve secondary air temperature 50 ℃, reduce coal consumption. ○ projects in Azerbaijan, the use of SNCR (selective non-catalytic reduction) and denitrification of flue gas treatment, significantly reduces nitrogen oxide emissions. ○ Syria ABC project uses basalt and iron instead of clay as raw material, actual production data obtained: each 1 kg of clinker from 730 Kcal of energy consumption down to 713 Kcal. 第二，有害气体排放和废弃物处理 Secondly, Harmful Gas Emission and Waste Disposal 2010 年，中材建设总部及各项目经理部、分公司等办公生活区 的垃圾，继续按可再利用和不可再利用分类存放。各个项目经理部 均对施工生产现场可回收利用的废弃物，集中进行处理。对于废电 池、废硒鼓、日光灯管、打印机墨盒等有毒有害废弃物，实行以旧 换新制度，或协议由供应商回收。 2010 年度，废电池、废硒鼓、废 日光灯管和废墨盒回收率均达 100%。 In 2010, garbage in office and living areas such as CBMI headquarters, every project management department and branch companies continued to be stored in reusable and non-reusable classifications. Every project management department had carried out treating with recyclable wastes in concentration on construction and production sites. For any toxic and hazardous wastes such as waste batteries, waste toner cartridges, fluorescent tubes, and printer cartridges, CBMI implemented the old-for-new-service system or agreed on 36 suppliers to recover them. In 2010, the recovery rate of waste batterywaste toner, waste fluorescent tubes and waste cartridge was 100%. 阿尔巴尼亚 TITAN 项目部在项目实施过程中，建立起自己的环 境保护指标体系，将环境污染事故控制和污染达标率等指标纳入项 目部综合目标，专项专人管理。在施工现场，使用黑色密目网和使 用自制洒水装备，减少和控制施工作业扬尘。项目部定期组织人员 对现场施工垃圾以及生活垃圾进行清理，并雇佣当地专门的垃圾清 理机构，将施工和生活垃圾运送到当地政府指定地点倾倒。为保护 地下水资源，防止污水渗入地表，项目部启用一套完善的污水处理 系统，并保持这套系统正常运行，确保每一滴生活污水全部输送到 当地市政污水管网。 Albania TITAN project established their own enviornmenatl indivator system during the project implementation process, which include the indicator of enviornmental pollution accident controllment and pollution compliance rate and set special personnel to take responsiblility for that. At the construction site, the use of black dense mesh and self-watering equipment reduce and control the dust on site. TITAN project department regularly organizes staff to clean up on-site waste and household garbage and hires local garbage cleaning organizations transport these garbage to the dumping site which designated by local government. For the protection of groundwater resources and prevent infiltration of surface water, the project enabled a comprehensive sewage treatment system. By maintaining the normal operation of the system,TITAN ensures that every drop of sewage has been transported to the local municipal sewage pipe network. （3）、）、节能减排主要效益 ）、节能减排主要效益 Major Benefit of Energy Saving and 37 Emission Reduction 通过技术推广和严格的管理，中材建设 2010 年度节能减排目标 实现了内部达标，详情见下表。 目标项目 2010 目标值 Target 完成情况 完成情况 Actual Situation Target Project in 2010 设备利用率 Equipment ≥82% 74.86% utilization ratio 设备完好率 Equipment ≥97% 94.87% availablility 业主综合满意度 Comprehensive satisfaction ≥80% 86.04% of the owner 合同履约率 Contract 100% 100% compliance rate 大宗物资、设备降耗控制 Bulk materials and ≤5% ≤5% equipment saving control 培训覆盖率 Training 100% 100% coverage 节能减排宣传报道 Media 100% 100% coverage on energy saving 纸张耗量 Paper ≤90% 90% consumption 电消耗量 Electricity ≤95% 95% consumption 钢材利用率 Utilization rate 97% 96.38% of steel 七、职业安全与健康 Occupational Safety and Health 2010 年，中材建设继续加强职工的职业安全与健康管理工作， 改善职工工作生活环境，改善职工的社会保障状况和福利待遇。特 别在 2010 年的安全管理方面取得了显著的成绩，全年未发生重大安 全事故，死亡率目标确定为零，如期实现。 In 2010, CBMI continued to do a good job of occupational safety 38 and health, improve employee working and living environments, and improve employee’s social security and welfare benefits. CBMI always adhered to the concept of“Safety is Our Needs, Responsibility, Wealth, Morality, and Contract”, continued to do security management, and obtained significant achievements especially in security management. There was not any serious security incident throughout 2009. The goal of mortality rate was determined as zero, and had been achieved successfully. 、对员工健康及安全的保护 Protection of employees' health 1、 and safety 2010 年，中材建设坚持“安全第一、预防为主、综合治理”方 针，强化安全生产责任意识，狠抓安全管理制度、措施的落实，开 展安全生产大检查和实施安全生产专项整治，确保各项安全生产工 作的落实。 In 2010, CBMI adheres to the safety and prevetion first, comprehensive management policy, strengthening production safety responsibility awareness, and pays close attention to safety management system and the implementation of measures. CBMI carries out safety inspections and implements special safety rectification to ensure the implementation of work safety. （1） ）继续抓好目标和管理体系建设 跟随公司业务内容、范围、人员和海外项目实施地域的变化， 39 进一步调整了安全生产委员会，任命了各项目的安全经理，安全机 构建设更加完善。 CBMI had combined with the adjustment of business content, scope, staff and implementation of regional changes in overseas projects, readjusted safety production committee, set and appointed security managers for every project so as to improve security institution constructions. 40 41 （2））健全保障制度 2010 年，中材建设强化安全生产责任制度，各个职能部门与公 司总经理之间再度均签署安全环保责任书。2010 年，上至公司总经 理，下至分包商一线操作人员，共计 12 个项目签订安全环保责任书 61 份，签订责任书率达到 100%。 同时，继续组织分包商签订安全生产责任状，分包商的安全责 任状覆盖范围包括分包商负责人、现场负责人、班组负责人和主要 42 操作人员。 (2) improve the security system In 2010, CBMI Construction strengthen production safety responsibility system, the various functional departments and general manager of safety and environmental protection between re-signed both letters of responsibility. 2010, from general manager down to the subcontractors, line operators, a total of 12 projects signed letters of responsibility for safety and environmental protection 61, signed a letter of responsibility rate of 100%. At the same time, continue to organize sub-contractors signed safety liability form, sub-contractors, including coverage of security responsibilities-like person in charge of sub-contractors, on-site person in charge, team leaders and key operating personnel. （3） ）完善安全标准 improve safety standards 2010 年，中材建设为工程建设管理，提出了具体的标准体系， 逐步提高和完善安全管理标准。初步制定了包括工作服、防护安全 鞋、防护眼镜、安全帽、脚手架扣件、安全带、吊蓝、焊帽、登高 用梯子、作业平台脚手架、荧光服等在内的劳保防护用品安全标 准。 In 2010, CBMI proposes specific standards for projects’ management, and gradually increases and improves safety management standards. The company initially develops standard of labor protective 43 equipment safty including work clothes, protective safety shoes, safety glasses, helmets, scaffolding fasteners, belts, hanging blue, welding hat, climb ladders, scaffolding platforms, fluorescent clothing, etc. （4） ）排查事故隐患 Investigation of Potential Hazards 2010 年，中材建设组织各项目部，深入开展了现场构件、材料 堆放以及吊装作业、现场习惯性违章、安全工作分析和许可证制度 执行力度、特种作业人员上岗资质、安全技术方案措施落实和安全 技术交底等各项专项整治，促进现场安全管理。公司组成检查团对 各项目进行安全巡检和组织各项目每月自查。全年安全检查共计 158 次，发现事故隐患 1534 项，立即整改和限时间整改，全年隐患整改 率为 100%。 In 2010, CBMI organizes each departments to make safety special rectifications on field components, materials stacking and lifting operations, on-site customary regulations, safety analysis and licensing enforcement, special operations personnel induction qualification, implementation of safety measures and technical solutions technical tests, promoting on-site security management. Companies also forms project inspection team to carry out safety inspection and organizes monthly self-examination of each projects. In 2010, the number of safety inspection is 158, finding 1,534 hidden dangers. CBMI does inmediate rectification in time limits and the annual rate of hidden danger rectification is 100%. 44 （5） ）加大安全投入 Increase Investment in Safety 中材建设进一步完善安全生产投入的保障机制，确保对安全管 理、事故隐患整改和安全技术措施开支的及时到位。2010 年，公司 安全管理资金投入共计 1686.15 万元。其中，安全设备、设施费为 521.77 万元，安全隐患整改费为 428.95 万元，安全防护用品费用为 453.2 万元，安全生产宣传费用为 64.38 万元，安全教育培训费用为 为 199.85 万元，其他安全费用 18 万元。 CBMI further improves its protection mechanism of safety prodction investment to ensure that the expenditures of safety management, correction of accident risks and safety technical measures are in place and in time. In 2010, company’s total capital on safety management is 16.8615 million yuan. Among them, safety equipment, facilities fee is 5.2177 million yuan, accident risks rectification fee is 4.2895 million yuan, security supplies is 4.532 million yuan, safety broadcasting fee is 643,800 yuan, safety education and training costs is 1.9985 million yuan, the other safety activities costs 180,000 yuan. （6） ）各类安全培训 Safety Training 2010 年，中材建设特别把出国人员培训，纳入安全生产监督管 理范畴。统一编制培训大纲、培训课件，坚持未经培训不得派遣国 外，全年对出国人员安全培训共计 613 人次。 同时，还组织电工、脚手架、起重工、焊接气割等特种作业人 员，进行特殊的技能培训和考核。为了保证三类人员取得合格证书 45 持证上岗，公司组织他们参加了地方政府监管机构的相关培训和考 试，参加培训人员 42 人全部通过了考试。 In 2010, CBMI brings overseas training into safety management areas. The company prepares a unified training program, training courseware, and adheres that employess could not be send abroad without safety training. In 2010, 613 emplyees receive safety training before they go overseas. At the same time, CBMI also organizes special skills trainings and assessment for electrical, scaffolding, lifting work, welding torch cutting and other special operations personne. In order to ensure the three types of personnel to obtain a certificate, the company organizes them to participate in training and testing held by the regulatory agencies of local government, and 42 employees passed the exam. 中材建设每年 6 月开展安全生产月活动，2010 年，在更大的范 围内，举办了“安全生产”知识竞赛，竞赛的题目涵盖了法律法 规、安全技术、安全管理、交通安全、急救等各个方面。 2010年，中材建设的安全管理工作卓有成效，各项计划控制指 标如期实现，详情见下表。 CBMI carries out Safety Prodction Month activity in every June. In 2010, CBMI also holds a Safty Knowledge Contest in a larger context which covering the questions in laws and regulations, security technology, security management, traffic safety, first aid, etc. . 46 In 2010, CBMI does great job on safet management and achieve each control targets in time. 2010 年度的安全管理目标（指标）完成情况 指 标 对 比 项 目 Project 2010 计划 2010 完成 2009 年完成 安全生产标准化管理达标率安全 100% 100% 100% Compliance rate of safety production standardization management 安全培训覆盖率 100% 100% 100% Safety training coverage 安全管理专项费用投入增加 5% 5.6% 5% Specially increased funds for safety management 重伤以上事故发生率 0 0.81‰ 0 Serious injury accident rate 劳动环境与劳动条件治理后的有 100% 100% 100% 害作业场所达标率 Compliance rate of hazardous workplace after treating with working environment and condition 事故隐患整改完成率 100% 100% 100% Completion rate of potential hazards rectification 特种作业人员持证上岗率 100% 100% 100% Certificate rate of special operation personnel 47 安全检查合格率 100% 100% 100% Security check rate 设备完好率 97% 94.87% 96.4% Equipment availability 中材建设的安全管理深得业内认可，2010年4月，拉法基全球 “DEC Safety Days”活动在中材建设重庆永川项目举行，拉法基全 球水泥项目高管120余人对现场安全管理进行参观和交流。拉法基参 观团对永川项目的安全宣传、PPE佩戴、门禁控制、许可证管理等 方面给予了赞赏肯定。 CBMI’s safety management won industry recognition. In April 2010, Lafarges held DEC Safety Days event in CBMI’s construction project in Yongchuan, Chongqing. More than 120 executives from Lafarge’s cement project visited CBMI’s on-site safety managemene and gave the positive appreciation on afety publicity, PPE wearing, access control, license management of Yongchuan project. 2、、提高员工的福利保障 Improve the Welfare and Security of Staff 2010年，中材建设持续关注职工的福利保障工作，不断提高职 工就业安全、继续教育和工资的提高。 In 2010, CBMI continues to pay close attention to workers welfare and security work, and to keep improving their job security, continuing education opportunities and wage standard. （1） ）依法签订劳动合同 Sign Labor Contracts 48 2010 年，中材建设在相关法律法规及政策的指导下，完善员工 录用制度。本着“同工同酬”的非歧视原则和不雇佣童工、不强迫 劳动的原则聘用员工。2010 年，中材建设共招聘新员工 34 人，合同 签订率为 100%。 In 2010, CBMI continue to under the guidanceof relevant laws and regulations and policies, improve employee recruitment system. The Company adheres the spirit of non-discrimination equal pay principle and does not employ child labor and forced labor. In 2010, CBMI recurits 34 new employees and all of them sign labor contracts with the company. （2） ）购买各种保险 Purchase of Insurance 2010 年，中材建设已经建立的社会劳动保障体系继续为职工按 时缴纳住房公积金、养老保险金、医疗保险金、工伤保险金和失业 保险金。2010 年，公司为员工（含外聘民工在内）购买了团体商业 医疗保险，包括团体意外伤害保险、附加意外伤害团体医疗保险、 重大疾病保险、住院安心团体健康保险。据统计，仅意外伤害保险 2010 年，中材建设就为职工参保 574 人次，保费支出达 310100 元。 In 2010, the established social security system of CBMI continue to pay the housing provident fund, pension insurance, medical insurance, industrial injury insurance and unemployment insurance for employees. In 2010, company (including external workers) buys the group business health insurance for employees, including group accident insurance, group medical insurance, additional accident, critical illness insurance, 49 group health insurance hospital. According to statistics, in 2010 CBMI provides 310, 1000 yuan for 574 employees in unexpected injuries insurance. 同时，中材建设考虑到不同环境职工工作风险的情况，特别为 风险系数较高岗位职工，增加保额。尼日利亚项目所在地治安环境 比较乱，传染病流行严重，公司为尼日利亚项目出国人员意外伤害 险，增加了疾病身故部分，每人每年增加保费 1150 元。自 2010 年 2 月起为公司出国人员购买雇主责任险，全年共计投保 637 人，保费 共计 200655 元。 Meanwhile, CBMI takes into account the risk of workers in different environments and increase the sum of insurance especially for workers in the higher risk factor status of. Nigeria project locates in a chaotic site and has serious epidemics. Therefore, the company put diease insurance into their accident insurance which account about 1,150 yuan per year for every employee in Nigeria. In February, 2010, the company started to buy employers liability insurance for employees who work overseas which benefit a total of 637 employs and the total number of insurance is 200,655 yuan. （ 3 ） 提 供 继 续 教 育 机 会 provide continuing education opportunities 2010 年，中材建设为员工继续教育提前做出计划和安排，先后 投入培训费 371730 元，展开职业技术、管理技能、文化素质和职 50 称、学历晋级等培训 55 项，累计培训 537 人次。员工中，2010 年新 取 得 中 级 工 程 师 同 比 增 长 19.5%， 新 取 得 高 级 工 程 师 同 比 增 长 23.3%，新取得教授级高级工程师同比增长 10%。 In 2010,CBMI makes advance plans and arragements of continuing education for employees, investing 371,730 yuan on training and holding 55 trainings for 537 people on vocational and technical, management skills, and cultural qualities and titles, academic training and educational promotion, etc. In 2010, the number of new mid-level engineers increases 19.5%, the increase rate of the number of new senior engineer is 23.3% and new professor-level engineer is 10%. 2010 年，有 6 人通过注册安全工程师考试，使公司注册安全工 程师人数达到 8 人次；有 11 人通过一级建造师考试，使公司一级建 造师人数达到 29 人。作业层、管理层职工新取起重特种作业证 141 人、架子工特种作业证 72 人，大大提高了职工技能等级水平。 In 2010, there are six employees passed registered safety engineer examination and raised the total number of safety engineer in CBMI to 8. There are 11 staff passed first level architect examination and incrased the total number of first level architect to 29. 141 employees in operaing level and management level obtained special lifting operating permit，and 72 employees have special operating permit for scaffold builder, which greatly improving the level of skill levels of workers. 2010 年，为在岗需要进修学习的职工开办了工程管理硕士班， 51 全面提升职工的学历水平、管理能力。10 月国家统一考试中，42 名 员工考试成绩通过国家分数线，通过率 76%。 In 2010, CBMI holds management master's program for in the post workers who need training, improving the overall education level and management capabilities of workers. In October, 42 employees through the national test and the pass rate is 76%. （4） ）提高薪酬福利 increase salaries and benefits 2010 年 4 月、9 月、12 月，中材建设分 3 次对不同岗位和级别 职工的工资系数进行了调整，使薪酬结构、分配更趋于合理，使公 司 95%以上的普通员工的薪酬工资有所提高。 同时，在 2010 年，中材建设出台了《冬季取暖补贴发放办法》、 《住房补贴管理办法》，将公司对职工的冬季取暖补贴和住房补贴制 度化。 2010 年，组织全体公司职工（含离退休职工和部分分包队员工） 进行了一年一度的健康体检。 In April, September and December 2010, CBMI adjusts three times in salary levels so that the salary structure and distribution tends to be more reasonable, more than 95% of staff’s salary have increased. Meanwhile, in 2010, CBMI promulgates the winter heating subsidies paid and the housing subsidy management approach , put the company's winter heating subsidies and housing subsidies into mechanism. 52 In 2010, CBMI organizes all employees (including retired workers, and some sub-contract staff) to do their annual health check. 八、反腐败和反商业贿赂 中材建设国际化的工程建设和商务活动特点，决定了各个部门 职工对外联络频繁，有腐败和商业贿赂风险的部门达 100%。公司财 务、稽核、纪委等机构仍是主要的防腐倡廉的保障关口，开支、报 销、结算均制定和继续执行较为完备的管理制度。2010 年公司“招 标委员会”正常运转，相关的招投标管理制度正常贯彻执行，有效 地从源头上控制了经济腐败和商业贿赂事件的发生。 CBMI’s core business is to carry out business activities of project construction and implementation. Various departments shall contact with foreign frequently, and 100% sectors have the risk of corruption and commercial bribery. CBMI’s finance, auditing, discipline inspection commissions and other institutions are still major barriers for anticorrosion and corruption. All including expense, reimbursement, and settlement shall draw up and implement relative complete management systems.In 2010, CBMI’s Tender Committee was operating normally and implemented the bidding management system to control corruptions and commercial briberies effectively from their sources. 2010 年度，中材建设继续结合项目所在地的国情，有针对性地 组织员工开展职业道德和行为规范教育。一年一度 2010 年，公司再 53 一次邀请总部所在地检察和反贪机关专家，为公司管理人员开展预 防职务犯罪专题报告。2010 年，未发现有腐败和商业贿赂事件发 生。 In 2010, CBMI organized staff to carry out professional ethics and conduct code training in target as well as anti-corruption educations according to the conditions of project site. In 2010, CBMI invited experts from the People’s Procuratorate and Anti-Corruption agencies in district where CBMI’s headquarters is located to carry out Report on Prevention of Position Crime on the site of project implementation. In 2010, there was not any corruption and commercial bribery. 九、社会公益及捐赠 Social Contribution 2010 年，中材建设遵循“做好一项工程，促进一方经济”的原 则，与项目实施所在地政府和居民和谐相处，建设积极支持和参与 公司总部或项目所在地的公益事业，支持和带动国内外在建项目和 总部所在地社会、经济的进步和发展，开展助学扶贫和救灾的捐助 捐赠活动。 In 2010, CBMI follows the principle of do a project to promote the local economy , and works harmonily with local government and residents, actively supporting and participating public welfare projects in corpoate headquarters and the community where projects operation. CBMI supports and promotes social and economic progress and 54 development both in domestic and overseas, carring out student aiding, poverty alleviation and disaster relief donation. 2010 年，中材建设全年参与 6 项公益事业和捐助项目，累计捐 献资金达 73.63 万。捐献项目包括为西南旱灾灾区捐款 6.33 万元，支 援玉树地震灾区捐款 17 万元，支持地方生态林建设 39 万元，和支持 公司总部所在地唐山市乐亭县邓滩村、丰润区新立庄乡村道路、照 明建设 10 万元。同时，为联合国“全球契约”组织捐款 1.3 万元人 民币。阿尔巴尼亚 TITAN 项目部为当地学校捐赠约 2400 欧元电脑、 桌椅，用于改善那里的办学条件。尼日利亚项目部为所在地尼日利 亚共和国 OGUN 州 ITOR 社区，政府捐赠 300 万奈拉（约合 15 万人 民币），用于帮助当地政府发展经济，改善民生。塞浦路斯项目每位 职工按照工资额的 1%，捐款给当地工会组织。 In 2010, CBMI participates six public welfare and donor projects and the total number of donation reaches 736,300 yuan, including 63,300 yuan for the Southwest China disaster area, 170,000 yuan for earthquake in Yushu, 390,000 yuan for supporting of local eco-forest building and 100,000 for new road and lighting constrution in Dengtan Village, Leting County and Xinli Town, Fengrun District, Tangshan, Hebei Province which CBMI’s headquarters located. Meanwhile, CBMI donated 13,000 yuan to UN Global Compact. In Albania, TITAN project donated € 2,400 computers, tables and chairs to local schools, used to improve school conditions. Nigeria Project donated three million naira (about 15 million 55 yuan) to Nigeria OGUN State ITOR community to help local government to develop economy and improve people's livelihood. Each employee in Cyprus projects contributes about 1% of wages to the local trade unions. 2010 年，中材建设继续资助武汉理工大学联合开展“基于全球 契约的中国跨国企业社会责任研究：以中材建设为个案”的课题研 究。 In 2010, CBMI continue to fund the research project on “Research on Chinese Multinationals CSR based on the Gloal Compact Principles: CBMI’s Case Study” that carried out jointly by Wuhan University of Technology. 十、2011 年展望 Outlook 2011 2011 年度，中材建设将进一步贯彻“全球契约”的“十项原 则”，“持续改进”履行社会责任工作、年度报告的编写工作，进 一步扩大对利益相关方的交流与影响。 In 2011, CBMI will further implement Ten Principle of Global Compact, continue to improve the preparation of Fulfill Social Responsibility and Annual Report as well as further expand the influence of stakeholders. 、加强全员社会责任意识 Strengthening Full Sense of Social 1、 Responsibility 第一，继续积极参加“全球契约”所组织的各种交流活动。 56 第二，继续邀请“全球契约”组织的机构和专家，指导公司履 行社会责任工作。 第三，推进海外项目开展履行社会责任宣传、检查。 Firstly, Participating in various exchange activities organized by Global Compact actively. Secondly, Continuing to invite experts from Global Compact Organization to guide CBMI fulfill its social responsibility. Finally, by the research work on Social Responsibility of China Multinational Corporation Basing on Global Compact (Case in CBMI) promoted and developed jointly with universities, CBMI will carry out publicizing and inspecting social responsibilities of in-depth social overseas project. 2、、 节能减排指标管理 Target Management of Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction 加强节约能源、减少排放和保护环境的管理，将在新的年度提 升环境管理质量详情见下表。 CBMI will strengthen managing energy saving, emission reduction and environment protection so as to promote the quality of environment management in the new year. For further information, see the following table. 2011 2011 目标值 2010 年目标值 目标项目 Target Target Value in Target Value in Project 2010 2011 57 设备利用率 Equipment utilization 79% ≥82% ratio 设备完好率 95% ≥97% Equipment availability 业主综合满意度 Comprehensive 86.5% ≥80% satisfaction of the owner 合同履约率 100% 100% Contract compliance rate 大宗物资、设备降耗控制 Bulk materials and ≤5% ≤5% equipment saving control 培训覆盖率 100% 100% Training coverage 节能减排宣传报道 Publicity of energy 100% 100% saving and emission reduction 纸张耗量 ≤90% ≤90% Paper consumption 电消耗量 ≤95% ≤95% Electricity consumption 钢材利用率 96.5% 97% Utilization rate of steel 58 附件：反馈表 附件： 信 息 反 馈 表 Information Feedback Form 反馈人 工作单位 Feedback Work Unit Person 反馈意见 涉及主题 Theme Involved with Feedback 反馈内容 Feedback Content 签名（或单位公章）： Signature (Official Seal): 印鉴 Seal 时 间： 年 月 日 Date: MM DD YY 联系办法 电话：Telephone: MSN： QQ: Contact 注：此表填写后，可传真 0086-315-3221044，或快递河北省唐山市丰润区幸福道 7 号转杨 敬收。邮政编码：063030 Note: If the form has been filled, facsimile to 0086-315-322104 or express delivery Yang Jing, 59 No.7 Xingfu Road, Fengrun District, Tangshan P.C.: 063030 60
