2011 UNGC Communication of Progress Report Batten & Allen Limited Batten and Allen Limited 2011 Global Compact – Communication of Progress Table of Contents Introduction – A foreword by our Managing Director Section One – Internal performance • Overview • Performance indicators • Other actions Section Two – Supply Chain • Overview • Performance indicators Section Three – Future plans Tool Design Tool Manufacture Electroplating Stamping Batten and Allen Limited 2011 Global Compact – Communication of Progress Introduction – A foreword by our Managing Director Batten and Allen Ltd are pleased to announce our continuing support for the Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. Launched by Kofi Annan in 1999, the Global Compact initiative is a network of UN agencies, corporations, NGOs, labour, and academic institutions that endorse a set of principles on human rights (derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights), labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Signing the Global Compact affirms our long-standing commitment to strive to conduct business responsibly. Having long recognized the importance of sustainability from a business perspective, in particular promoting environmental improvement, and of the responsibility that business has to effect positive change, we welcome the inclusion of principles concerning human rights, labour and anti-corruption in addition to environment by the Global Compact. Our participation in this initiative provides us with an opportunity to effect meaningful change within our sphere of influence, which we have enthusiastically accepted. Shawn Batten Managing Director Tool Design Tool Manufacture Electroplating Stamping Batten and Allen Limited 2011 Global Compact – Communication of Progress Section One – Internal performance Summary We have a diverse range of targets and objectives which are designed to facilitate continual improvement through reduced levels of waste and increased efficiency, though we also maintain focus on customer satisfaction, delivery performance and other important performance indicators. This culture of continual improvement has allowed us to achieve our target scrap rates for our main manufacturing process, despite having reduced our targets annually for several years. Our program of continuous investment in technology is aligned with our policy of continual improvement. We have made significant environmental improvements with respect to water consumption in our plating processes, reducing our water consumption by 90% over a seven-year period. This has featured in case studies which Thames Water published as an example of good practice. In 2008 we focused on increasing energy efficiency, forming an Energy Efficiency Team after commissioning an energy-efficiency report from our energy suppliers. This has lead to many improvements (such as movement sensors for lights and switching off equipment that isn’t in use) which have collectively resulted in a significant improvement in sales per KwH. During 2009 we replaced our lorry with two smaller vans, reducing our emissions per mile, and put systems into place to ensure that waste such as batteries and printer cartridges were disposed of separately from normal waste and continues our program of adding PIR’s to lighting where this is likely to lead to a reduction in usage, During a time of reduced demand from Customers we took the opportunity to focus our efforts on increasing our efficiency and reducing scrap and waste. During 2010 our sales per KwH increased significantly, producing our highest annual result to date. In fact we consumed less electricity than we had in 2009. This verifies the effectiveness of our program of continual reduction in waste and increasing efficiency In accordance with our policy of reducing waste the frequency of supplier questionnaires has been reduced to every second year. Performance indicators 2008 2009 2010 Sales per KwH of Day-rate electricity £6.76 £5.77 £7.78 Sales £10.3kk £6.5kk £11.3kk KwH electricity consumed 1,950,146 1,950,146 1.829,275 Internal process scrap rate (Stamping) 0.31% 0.23% 0.28% Composite stamping speed as % Min (Stamping) 107.80% 109.92% 108.31% Internal process scrap rate (Plating) 6.1% 5.9% 6.3% Accidents reported 6 6 12 * The above data is accurate at the time of publication. Tool Design Tool Manufacture Electroplating Stamping Batten and Allen Limited 2011 Global Compact – Communication of Progress Other actions We continue to review all of our targets and objectives each year, actively encouraging continual improvement in all processes and areas of the business. The targets of five of our nine objectives were adjusted following a review of our performance during 2010. Data from internal processes is not published until the end of year. The indicators listed in this section concern our performance with regard to the environment or health and safety. Section Two – Supply chain Summary In our first year of participation in the Global Compact we revised our supplier rating system in order to identify levels of participation in the Global Compact amongst our suppliers. We now continue to determine the proportion of suppliers who violate any of the stated principles, again through our supplier rating system, and determine how many of them know if there are any violations in their own supply chain. The weighting system for supplier ratings remained unchanged in 2011, as we continued to encourage our suppliers to introduce environmental management systems, awarding one-hundred percent of available environmental points for having an EMS and fifty-percent of available points for an environmental policy. As a result the system continues to provide a competitive advantage to suppliers who have an EMS, although other aspects are obviously included in the analysis of performance. We have seen improvements across the board in this section, with increases in the proportion of suppliers who have an operational EMS in place, those that simply have environmental policies (the first step in introducing an EMS) and those that intend to introduce an EMS. Performance indicators 2007 / 2008 2010 2011 Total No. of Suppliers 35 38 35 Suppliers with EMS 29% 53%* 57% Suppliers without EMS but with Environmental Policy 12% 31% 47% Suppliers who intend to introduce an EMS N/A 20% 36% Suppliers who participate in the UNGC N/A 11% 12% * Revised to correct an error in the previous report. Tool Design Tool Manufacture Electroplating Stamping Batten and Allen Limited 2011 Global Compact – Communication of Progress Supplier Survey The changes in scores from the previous survey reflect that some new Suppliers have been added to the system whilst others have been removed removed. Yes No Don’t know Does you company violate UN Principles concerning human 0% 82% 18% rights Do your suppliers violate UN Principles concerning human 0% 61% 36% rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Does you company violate UN Principles concerning labour 0% 91% 9% Do your suppliers violate UN Principles concerning labour 0% 58% 39% Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Does you company violate UN Principles concerning 0% 91% 9% environment Do your suppliers violate UN Principles concerning 0% 58% 42% environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and; encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Does you company violate UN Principles concerning anti0% 91% 9% corruption Do your suppliers violate UN Principles concerning anti0% 61% 39% corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. * The above data is accurate at the time of publication. Section Three – Improvements which will affect 2012 results • We will continue to reduce our environmental impact and, where possible also reduce our environmental risk. • We will further increase our energy efficiency through a program of continuous improvement, including a review of lighting. • We have modified our Supplier Manual to include a recommendation for suppliers to become active within the Global Compact. • We have become compliant with SA8000, the Social Accountability Standard. Tool Design Tool Manufacture Electroplating Stamping
