GREAT PEOPLE + SUCCESSFUL COMMUNITIES ANNUAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS I.GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1 About Homex: presence, divisions, products, stock listing, number of jobs created 1.2 Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors 1.3 Making history (key events in Homex’s history, timeline) 1.4 Awards, distinctions and associations II.OUR CULTURE: THE BASIS FOR OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Satisfaction conditions 2.2 Scope of this report III.ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 3.1 Corporate structure, internal and final customer service 3.2 Business ethics (code of ethics, SOX) 3.3 Corporate governance 3.4 Mexican housing day 3.5 Homex day 3.6 Employee relations 3.6.1 Human development 3.6.2 Let’s talk 3.6.3 Gender equity model 3.6.4 Homex University 3.6.5 Life and career planning 3.6.7 Other programs of 2010 3.7 Our clients’ satisfaction is our commitment 3.8 Vendor relations 3.8.1 Vendor programs and satisfaction indicators 3.8.2 AccionaRSE 01 IV. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 4.1 Successful communities 4.1.1 Philosophy of client service and satisfaction indicators 4.1.2 Post-sale programs 4.1.3 Education, community plazas and value workshops 4.1.4 Collaboration with COECTO and ENLACE, Mano Amiga schools, health (health begins at home) and sports (Homexfut) 4.1.5 Social workers 4.1.6 Homex volunteer program. 4.1.7 Fundación Homex: present in rural areas. V. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 5.1 Environmentally friendly construction system 5.2 “Homex goes green” campaign 5.3 Environmental conservation and protection awareness 5.4 Homex community: a new way to build cities. Stimulus for research and development 5.5 Conserving natural heritage for our clients VI. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights, labor standards, environment, anti-corruption VII. CONTACTS 02 1. GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1 ABOUT HOMEX * Homex is one of Mexico’s leading home development companies, distinguished by its broad geographic diversification, with a presence in 21 states and 34 cities of Mexico and Brazil. * To serve its various markets, Desarrolladora Homex is organized into four operating units: SALES Mexico, International, Tourism and Infrastructure. BREAKDOWN BY PRODUCT* * Homex is proud to be the only Mexican company belonging to the Latin American Corporate Governance Roundtable Companies Circle, an agency of the Organization for 95.1% affordable Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). entry-level housing 4.9% middleincome * It is also the only company in its industry listed simultaneously on the Mexican Stock housing Exchange (BMV) and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). It went public with an initial *Breakdown of sales public offering on June 29, 2004. volume as of September 30, 2010 * The company has earned the distinction of *Breakdown of sales volume as of September 30, 2010 being one of the largest generators of direct jobs in Mexico, not counting the multiplying effect in terms of indirect jobs. At the close of 2010 it had more than 22,000 workers. O3 1.2 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS T hroughout 2010, Desarrolladora Homex strengthened its As in previous years, our Report on Social Responsibility for 2010 commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, internationally and was prepared according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) domestically. That is why I am proud to share with you the activities guidelines and the universal principles proposed by the UN Global and achievements of these great organization, grouped into three Compact, concretely with regard to human rights, labor standards, major categories: economy, society, and the environment. environment, and anti-corruption. We are convinced that only by frank and ongoing dialogue with I am therefore proud to declare that we have once again met, and our workers, clients, vendors, government and shareholders, can even surpassed, the goals we set toward making Homex a Socially we meet the expectations of these stakeholders and contribute Responsible Corporation. to Mexico’s development. In this report, we want to place special emphasis on our people, whose greatness inspires our daily efforts and makes Homex a company with a heart. Within this company, we continually work toward the well-being and development of each and every one of our employees, through attractive incentives and a workplace environment that promotes creativity and harmony. This spirit is spread to our clients, through homes that are developed with the highest industry standards and with exceptional post-sale service, which translates into better quality of life through education, health, sports, environment, and neighborhood organizations. In a similar fashion, we strive for a win-win relationship with our vendors and, based on best corporate governance practices, we guarantee our shareholders that we will meet our goals and commitments. Finally, aware of the importance of contributing to a sustainable world through our own sphere of action, we are constantly seeking out cutting-edge alternatives for doing business with a minimal impact on the environment, and encouraging conservation of resources by all the stakeholders with whom we interact. Sincerely, Eustaquio de Nicolás Chairman of the Board of Directors Homex 04 1.3 MAKING HISTORY KEY EVENTS 1989 Homex starts up operations in Culiacan, Sinaloa 1991 Homex expands into the affordable entry-level housing segment. 1992 The company extends its operations to other states of Mexico. 1993 Strategic planning intensifies and geographic coverage increases. 1997 Homex has ten branches in leading cities of Mexico. 1999 The international mutual fund ZN Mexico Funds acquires a minority stake in its equity. 2001 Equity International Properties, the largest real-estate developer in the United States, acquires a minority interest. 2003 The company refocuses operations to incorporate the middle-income segment. 2004 Procedures are completed to make a simultaneous stock offering on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). 2005 Issues a 10-year, US$250mn bond. Desarrolladora Homex acquires Casas Beta. 2006 Secondary stock offering is performed; market float rises to the highest level in the industry. 2007 The company makes a strategic purchase of a new construction technology based on aluminum molds. The Residential (Upper-Income) Housing Division is created. 2008 Two new divisions join the organization: International and Tourism. Innovative marketing strategies are introduced. 2009 Homex ventures into Brazil, its first international project. The company celebrates its fifth year of listing as a public company. 2010 A new operating unit called Infrastructure is created and strengthened, focused on public works construction. 05 1.4. AWARDS, DISTINCTIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS In recent years, Homex has distinguished itself for its firm Recognitions commitment to being a Socially Responsible Corporation. To Socially Responsible Corporation (SRC) this end, it has followed key The alliance for Social Responsibility (AliaRSE) and the Mexican Center for Philanthropy worldwide initiatives aimed at (CEMFI) have awarded Homex this distinction for adapting its business strategy to incorporate developing a stronger corporate programs aimed at its stakeholders in four main lines of action: quality of life in the company, culture. community relations, business ethics, and environment. Family-Responsible Company. The Mexican Ministry of Labor and Social Planning (STPS) accredited the company’s workplace practices regarding gender equity, preventing and reduction of workplace violence, and its actions and polices aimed at encouraging workers to be responsible family members. Inclusive Company The STPS also recognized Homex for its development of a workplace attitude of inclusiveness toward the physically challenged and senior citizens. Gender Equity Model MEG:2003 Since 2006, the Mexican National Institute for Women (INMUJERES) has recognized Homex’s effort to include internal policies and practices that lead to equitable conditions for the professional development of both men and women in the workplace. ASSOCIATIONS The Global Compact In 2005, Homex joined this United Nations Initiative, for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Latin American Corporate Governance Roundtable Companies Circle In October 2007, Homex became the first Mexican company to join this initiative by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Global Corporate Governance Forum. The objective is to integrate leading companies in Latin America and promote the discussion of challenges, responsibilities and solutions toward improving corporate governance practices throughout the region. 06 For more information, go to http://unglobalcompact.org/participant/11429 ESR 7th year II. OUR CULTURE: THE FOUNDATIONS OF OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 SATISFACTION CONDITIONS At Homex, we see Corporate Social Responsibility as the basis All of Homex workers base their actions on our code of of our organization, both internally and externally. That is Ethics, while striving to provide the best service possible why our work plan and our goals are aligned with the various to others. Thus, we guarantee a better quality of life for the stakeholders with which we interact on a daily basis. families that live in our homes, and help to make Mexico a better country. All our actions are governed by five satisfaction conditions. well-bein The well-being of our personnel Th e g of Taking into account the dignity of our personnel and their families, which is crucial to harmonious development in and from the workplace. u o l r p e n ers o n Highly satisfied clients and communities y sa tisfied c Offering not only high-quality homes but ensuring that our organizational High l lie nts structure includes the human and material resources to ensure sustainable growth an d ie it s com in every community we develop. mun 100% Vendor satisfaction 1 00 % Vendo r Strengthening our vendors by seeking the satisfaction and preference of each of them. sa tisf a cti o n Governance Being recognized as a solid and responsible company on all three levels at which we operates--municipal, state and federal--and by the various institutions with G which we interact. ove r-n a n c e Financial health Fin ancia l Protecting and building the value of investment in order to ensure healthy finances. h ealth 07 2.2 SCOPE OF THIS REPORT For the fourth year in a row, Homex is publishing its Annual Economic performance Corporate Social Responsibility Report, prepared according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the principles of the UN Global Compact. Social performance Through this document, we will share the various programs and initiatives we have introduced for our workers, clients, vendors, shareholders and government, The results can be grouped into three central areas: Environmental Performance Furthermore, in keeping with GRI methodology, we provide historic and/or comparative figures based on the available information. 08 III. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 3.1 CORPORATE STRUCTURE, INTERNAL AND FINAL CUSTOMER SERVICE Alberto Menchaca Fernando Ventura Alberto Urquiza Carlos Olmos Operating Unit Operating Unit Operating Unit Operating Unit Mexico Tourism International Infrastructure Carlos Moctezuma Mónica Lafaire Finance Human Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Celina Navarrete Procurement Ramón Lafarga Treasury and Elsa Ramos Administration Customer Satisfaction Rubén Izábal Construction Javier Romero Legal Affairs Víctor López Systems Jorge Hach Land Reserves Gerardo de Nicolás Chief Executive Officer Eustaquio de Nicolás Chairman of the Board of Directors 09 3.2 BUSINESS ETHICS CODE OF ETHICS Commitment, responsibility, clear, open and honest communication, To help more individuals to know and study this fundamental integrity, innovation and cutting-edge technology, and quality, are the document, and to promote sensitivity about the importance of values by which all Homex employees abide. These values are set forth in detecting incorrect situations, we held a rally in 2010 called “Being our Code of Ethics, a document prepared according to the guidelines of and Acting Ethically.” In parallel, we reinforced Homex’s Ethical Vision, Mexican law and the Sarbanes-Oxley Law of the United States. publicizing it through print and electronic media, and stressing two aspects: A Job Well Done (quality, respect for processes and deadlines) To fortify ethical behavior throughout the organization, our personnel and Playing by the Rules (code of Ethics, Internal Work Regulations and have five ways to anonymously report violations: toll-free phone (01-800), SOX Law). e-mail, web page, fax and P.O. Box. There is also an independent agency in charge of investigating charges of unethical conduct or situations that For our sales force (prospectors, real-estate advisors, prospecting imperil the workplace environment. coordinators, closing coordinators and sales chiefs), we organized weekly training sessions. Finally, we held “Ethics in Construction” In addition to reading and signing the Code of Ethics, workers are required training sessions to establish our “ten commandments” for dealings to take an online course to ensure that they fully understood the issues. with customers and vendors. This year we created a specialized area for ethical investigation with consultancy from SICOFIN. 10 INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE SARBANES-OXLEY LAW Increasingly solid internal controls contribute to Homex’s competitiveness and efficiency, and helps it to meet institutional goals. In 2010, we made an ongoing effort to guarantee documentation quality, available through the institutional processing webpage called ADN, and worked to standardize process execution. This is an effort we make, year in and year out, to ensure the accuracy and transparency of the financial information we publish. Homex also rigorously abides by all the laws and regulations governing it, including the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Law (SOX), which applies to companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SOX Law also governs all foreign companies listed on that market, including holding companies, subsidiaries and affiliates. The SOX Law clearly establishes how corporations should conduct 2009 2010 themselves in the areas of control, corporate governance, administrator responsibilities, transparency and integrity of financial statements, 1. 6% ethical practices and correct process documentation. 11 10,282 From their respective positions, all Homex workers contributed to internal 4,858 controls and compliance with the SOX law in 2010. Number of workers who read and signed the Code of Ethics 3.3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At Homex, we abide by the best corporate governance practices, issuing from our own corporate charter, the Securities Market Act, and general provisions issued by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV), the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Additionally, in order to meet international standards that enable this company to be more competitive and transparent in its management and to offer greater confidence to its investors, we adopted the Best Corporate Practices Recommendations of the CNBV. Our Board of Directors, which is our highest governing body, meets four times a year to analyze financial and operating information, establish general business practices, and protect the interests of our shareholders, vendors, clients and workers. It is made up of a majority of independent members and has six committees: auditing, Corporate Practices and Compensation, Executive, Risks, Disclosure, and Ethics. In 2010 we took part in the preparation and publication of a book called “Practical Guide to Corporate Governance,” together with other members of the Latin American Corporate Governance Roundtable Companies Circle. The book presents successful experiences and best practices in the field and is intended to serve as a basic reference in universities or centers specializing in corporate governance. 11 For more information, go to http://www.oecd.org 3.4 MEXICAN HOUSING DAY This year, the 7th annual Mexican Housing Day event was held (INFONAVIT), the Fund for Housing and Social Security and Services on February 4 and 8 in London and New York City, respectively. for Government Workers (FOVISSSTE), the Federal Mortgage Society In it, the Mexican real-estate industry discussed strengths and (SHF), the Mexican Bankers’ Association and the Mexican Mortgage investment opportunities in this industry to an audience of more Association, as well as regulatory agencies like the Ministry of than 400 analysts and investors from the international financial Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), Ministry of Social Development, community. and Ministry of Economy. Organized annually by Mexican housing developers, Mexican Homex has participated in all seven of these events, and has been Housing Day provides a forum for members of the financial met by a positive response from the market each year. This shows and business sectors to discuss to the federal government’s how important these initiatives are for communicating with investors commitment to public housing policy, the lending goals of public and analysts who deal with the company, on the economic and social home mortgage agencies and private banking institutions, and situation in Mexico and the business opportunities to be found in Mexico’s macroeconomic prospects and social policy priorities. Mexico’s housing industry. At the same time, they bolster government support for housing and ensure that the housing industry continues This year, the event involved participants from leading players in to evolve in coordination with the national mortgage industry; in this the Mexican housing industry: The National Housing Commission regard, Homex is a leader and innovator in the industry. (CONAVI), the National Workers’ HousingFund Institute 3.5 HOMEX DAY On May 24, 2010, Homex held its fifth annual Homex Day event in New York City, organized in order to inform analysts and investors of Mexico, the United States and Europe about the company’s most recent strategies and events. Headed by Homex CEO Gerardo de Nicolás, the company’s management team discussed the main operating and financial results, business strategies applied by the Mexico, International and Tourism operating units, the growth identifies we identified, and finally the activities we carried out in the areas of social responsibility and the environment. 12 3.6 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 3.6.1 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT At Homex, our people are the heart and soul of the organization. The The growth of our employees extends to the personal and family main factor in our success is the well-being of our employees. Because spheres. To attain this objective, we have complementary programs this vision is a basic condition of our corporate life, everything we do at in education, health and sports, along with social and team-building Homex is based on plans that ensure development and performance, events. together with recognition and fair compensation. This means everyone has an opportunity to be the creator and director of their own success within Homex. 3.6.2 LET’S TALK This program was created to provide a direct channel for communication between Homex employees and management. These regularly scheduled sessions have been useful in innovating toward a better work place and a harmonious working environment. Also in 2010, we introduced a forum called “Live with Monica,” a direct link with Monica Lafaire, Homex’s Director of Human Development and Social Responsibility. This innovative channel for communication has given all our workers a chance to submit specific proposals on employee /HW·VWDON well-being and making Homex one of the best places to work in the country. LET’S • 155 sessions TALK • 1,720 participants 13 3.6.3 GENDER EQUITY MODEL Since 2006, the company has had Gender Equity Model (MEG:2003) certification from the Mexican National Women’s Institute (INMUJERES). This accreditation attests to Homex’s effort to include internal policies and practices that incorporate gender awareness and foster equitable conditions for the professional development of both men and women in the workplace. COMMITMENT TO EQUITY 2009 2010 Total number of administrative workers 4,858 8,004 Number of women employees 1,690 2,307 Percentage of total employees 34.79 % 28.82 % Number of men and women in top 112 115 management positions Classification of women by level: Board of Directors 1 1 Steering Committee 2 4 Branch Directors 17 18 Directors 8 7 Percentage of women in upper-level management 25.00 % 26.08 % Number of men and women in managerial positions 118 126 Number of women in managerial positions 25 24 Percentage of women in managerial positions 21.19 % 19.04 % Percentage of Directors/ 4.73 % 3.01 % Managers in total workers Number of women on maternity leave 125 163 14 Number of men on paternity leave 12 10 3.6.4 HOMEX UNIVERSITY This ground-breaking initiative by Homex was envisioned as a way to train and develop human talent. For this purpose, we identified training needs in the various phases of the business process and created course content with the support of external consultants on training programs. There are three types of training available through Homex University: • Homex Culture: Human education and values • Profession: Postgraduate degrees, diplomas, specialization courses, etc. • Technical: Specialization in daily activities 2010 855 Number of training sessions (274 in person, 581 long-distance) Scholarships and grants 483 (undergraduate, master’s (20 postgraduate, diploma, masters’ diplomas, and specialization and bachelors’ degree grants and courses) 463 specialization courses) This year, Homex replicated this initiative in the creation of Homex University Brazil, where 591 training sessions were held in corporate We are the only housing culture, sales and support, totaling more than 14,000 hours of developer to have an training for administrative staff, labor and sales consultants. evaluation center for certifying real-estate advisors. This year, we offered 855 training sessions for workers at the corporate Training in Corporate Culture: This program was developed level and in the Mexico, International, Tourism and Infrastructure in order to help the people working at Homex to understand what units, aimed at specializing business processes in: makes our corporate culture different, and to freely assume this culture in carrying out and completing any project. Our Culture: Sales training: The objective of this program is to enhance the our values: commitment, responsibility, clear, open and honest expertise of our sales team in conversing with clients and helping communication, integrity, innovation and cutting-edge technology, them obtain the best deal. This involves training in sales techniques and quality; and our satisfaction conditions: well-being of personnel, and certification in mortgage funds. highly satisfied clients and communities, 100% vendor satisfaction, governance and financial health. Construction Division Training: This program was developed in order to train and certify company workers specializing in areas Leadership training: Created to keep up an active level of like plumbing, electricity, carpentry, detailing and windows, among institutional dialogue on culture and business strategy. High team others, through a model created for adult workers who can take the performance is the guiding principle. courses on-site. 15 3.6.5 LIFE AND CAREER PLANNING At Desarrolladora Homex, we are extremely satisfied and proud to observe the professional and personal growth of our employees, some of whom offer their testimonies below: “I’m very happy, very pleased with my new job, and especially all the good changes that have happened in these past five years I’ve been with Homex. Belonging to this great company has had a tremendous impact on me, has transformed me in every way--as a mother, a wife, a daughter … totally. I have been able to see life from another angle, I’ve seen an infinite number of colors, and I’ve lived life alongside my other family, which is Homex. In my life, there is a balance between these two families. Being with the company has changed me in every way, in the lifestyle for me and my family, in being able to give my children a better education and better opportunities for living and growing, in having the peace of mind of knowing that every day I get up with the commitment I have and the conviction of giving the best of me, because I love what I do. I am very happy. I feel a huge sense of satisfaction, and I feel that I’ve learned a lot in all the areas where I’ve worked. I’m grateful to Homex for this great opportunity. I will also do my job and give the best of myself.” Diana Macía Murillo Project Director, Commercial Area Miguel García López Elizabeth Cortés Multi-purpose construction Real-estate advisor worker “I’m doing pretty well here at Homex, we learn a little bit about “In the five and a half years I’ve been at Homex, I’ve become a everything. Both we and our families benefit, because by learning a professional at what I do, I’ve been able to give many families a Homex little more, we also make a little more money, we have a chance to home, I bought my own house, I’m a client, and the main goal for me work and learn more. I tell my friends I come here to learn, I would like now is to pay for my son’s college. them to really know how to take advantage of this space so that they could develop, and besides that, their families could get a little more Homex is what has transformed my life, for me it means respect, ahead, solving their problems … I thank Homex for everything I’ve family, homes, and everything I am. I love my company, I’ve had my learned.” achievements and I want more. For me, being here is becoming what I want to be.” 3.6.6. INTERNAL OPPORTUNITIES 1,264 The Department of Human Development and Social Responsibility is in % 2009 774 .6 90 2010 charge of supporting all of Homex’s employees through this program, % .1 (61.23%) using results-based management. Our workers take part in internal 70 663 490 selection processes and have an opportunity to grow and move on to 455 5% (38.77%) better jobs both within our main offices and at the various Homex branches 5. (68.63%) 13 throughout the country. 208 This past year, we set a record in terms of sales per administrative employee, (31.37%) involving everyone in the entire business process and creating successful communities, with 1,075 successful closings. 16 Total promotions Men Women 3.6.7 OTHER PROGRAMS Throughout 2010, the Homex family gathered not just for traditional celebrations but also to participate in activities like sports tournaments, on-site fitness, health care campaigns, child care service, and cultural promotion. This year we founded Homex Radio, a new communications media that links together more than 60 branches and points of sale. Finally, we renewed our commitment to especially recognizing the extraordinary efforts made by workers in our various areas. Some of the year’s most successful events were: Integration 21st anniversary of Homex. Saturday, February 27. Children’s Day. April 30. Día de la Santa Cruz (patron saint of construction workers): May 3 Mother’s Day: May 10. Bicentennial of Mexican Independence: September 15 December festival: December 11 Health and Sports 2010 International Marathon. Saturday, January 16 36 sports tournaments--soccer, baseball, beach volleyball, bowling and chess, along with rallies and get-togethers around sporting events. Visual Health Conference. November 13 Breast Cancer Conference. December 1 and 11 Culture Talent Show in support of Im Joa (Homex Foundation). May 5. Jazz and Blues concert. November 19. Recognition events First Superstar Walk (68 real-estate advisors). April 21, 22 and 23. Second Superstar Walk (18 real-estate advisors). December 16, 17, and 18. Post-Sale (42 employees all together). October 25-30. Seniority and Loyalty awards, 2, 10 and 15 years of service. December 11. 17 3.7 OUR CLIENTS’ SATISFACTION IS OUR COMMITMENT Because we know that buying a home is one of the most important decisions a person can make, we strive every day to be the best choice for our clients. To identify and effectively meet their needs, we provide complete information about our homes and give homebuyers advice on the purchasing process, so that they can make the most important purchase of their life with complete security, and convinced that we are their best choice. Our Client Satisfaction area ensures the quality of our products and services by providing the following: • A 1-800 toll-free number and e-mail (atencionclientes@homex.com.mx) to handle all types of procedures and inquires. • Personalized delivery of homes. • Home construction process checklist. • Orientation on home maintenance. • Clear and timely information on the closing process. • Post-sale service. • Area dedicated especially to ensuring conservation and maintenance of yards and gardens. We also have a number of methodological tools to evaluate our service, like the Borrower Satisfaction Index (BSI) created by INFONAVIT, in which Homex consistently earns high ratings. In addition, we train our sales consultants in post-sale service and our branches work to maintain the urban image of each development. • 78.01% of our clients recommend us (BSI). For our middleand upper-income • 287 post-sale trainings for sales consultants homebuyers, we developed • Attention through 62 branch offices. a structure to support and manage our condominiums in 34 developments, benefiting 15,000 families. 18 3.8 VENDOR RELATIONS 3.8.1 VENDOR PROGRAMS AND SATISFACTION INDICATORS This past year, Homex redoubled its commitment to being our vendors’ To strengthen relations with our vendors, we offered ongoing support best customer. We conducted an impartial evaluation of metrics like in the form of cutting-edge technological tools, especially the new product price, quality and reliability, and helped them developed a electronic billing program. In 2011 we introduced new options to strategy of continuous growth. With these principles we can offer expedite data input and improve the process. attractive alternatives to vendors of all kinds, with a special accent on smalland mid-sized businesses, which are the driving force in Mexico’s We kept up a steady pace of vendor relations and new contracts during growth. the year, but focused on a smaller catalog of products in order to provide better attention and improve financial conditions to work directly with producers and eliminate the middleman. For more information, go to: http://esr.cemefi.org/accionarsesinaloa 2009 2010 Active vendors 5,528 3,182 Active vendors in electronic 335 527 billing platform For 2 years, Homex chaired the Board of Directors of AccionaRSE. Today, AccionaRSE is made up of 3.8.2 AccionaRSE 53 Sinaloan companies. In 2010, Homex was once again active in AccionaRSE, a community of Sinaloan companies founded March 2007 for the purpose of developing and promoting an attitude of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and encourage the exchange of experiences with members of our value chain, sharing best practices in this area. and urge other organizations to become familiar with the concepts of business ethics, community outreach, and environmental conservation, At present, AccionaRSE, Comunidad Sinaloense A.C. has 53 corporate among other vitally important issues. members, primarily in the agricultural, real-estate and service sectors, all of them with Socially Responsible Corporation (SRC) certification. We also created an educational page for small and mid-sized businesses as part of the website of the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI), We fully share the basic aims of our association: encouraging alliances promoting socially responsible practices. 19 that fortify CSR in the state and throughout Mexico. Accordingly, we WORKING FOR COMPLETE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2010, for the seventh year in a row, Homex was recognized as a Socially Responsible Company by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy, A.C. (CEMEFI) and the Alliance for Social Responsibility (ALIARSE). This important distinction was granted in recognition of our compliance with standard in the following strategic spheres: Quality of Life in the Company, Ethics and Corporate Governance, Community Outreach, and Environmental Care and Conservation. Throughout these seven years, Homex has been identifying priority issues for its communities and taken direct action to benefit homeowners in its developments. We have encouraged the use of environmentallyfriendly technology, guaranteed fair working conditions for our employees and promoted ethical behavior by our workers and other stakeholders. All of this makes us one of a group of Mexican companies that maintain a comprehensive set of initiatives aimed at the social, environmental and economic development of the communities where we are present. This recognition is not only a source of great pride but also concrete proof of our ongoing commitment to the five satisfaction conditions, and of our role as a builder of successful communities in both Mexico and Brazil. 20 IV. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 4.1 SUCCESSFUL COMMUNITIES 4.1.1 PHILOSOPHY OF CLIENT SERVICE In addition to helping make the dream of owning one’s home a reality, Homex is continually innovating in the service it offers its clients. Once homebuyers in our developments are settled into their new homes, we provide them with a series of programs that include neighborhood organization, education, health, sports and the environment. By encouraging a higher quality of life for them and their families, we help build strong communities. 4.1.2 POST-SALE PROGRAMS 195 Neighborhood committees active in Homex developments. Neighborhood organization In order to contribute the welfare of the community, neighborhood organizations are created in Homex developments. These organizations hold meetings on the planning of neighborhood projects to improve urban image, prevent crime and plan activities, as well as on personal and family growth programs (creation of soccer teams and tournaments, values workshops, cleanup and tree-planting campaigns, and many others). Community plazas Homex Developments include public educational spaces open to the community and equipped with a computer center with Internet access, printer, multi-purpose room (with TV and DVD) and a room for educational video consulting. Promoted by Homex and with the support of the National Institute for Adult Education (INEA), these Community Plazas are aimed basically at young people over 16 and adults who have not begun or completed their basic education (literacy, primary 1 (Culiacan Zona 2009 Dorada development) and/or secondary school). They also offer access to life and work training programs given by the National 3 (2 in Puebla Council for Life and Work Education (CONEVYT). 2010 and 1 in Acapulco) Opening of Homex-INEA Community Plazas 21 For more information, go to http://www.inea.gob.mx 4.1.3 EDUCATION, COMMUNITY PLAZAS AND VALUE WORKSHOPS. 1,200 students in In the field of Education, Homex has Primary School a number of programs to benefit and 2,282 graduates English program develop communities, like: from Homex’s Adult Secondary 471 Values Workshops Education Program 109 Future Vision workshops 96 enrolled in Homex preparatory school programs 17 enrolled in bachelor’s degree programs In order to improve the quality of life through education, this year we signed a 6,013 enrolled collaboration agreement with the National in Homex’s Workers’ Housing Fund (Infonavit), the Adult Secondary National Educational Facilities Institute Education (Inifed) and Adopt a School (a non-profit Program organization). Eustaquio de Nicolás, Desarrolladora Homex; Ernesto José Velasco León, Inifed; Víctor Borrás Setién, Infonavit; Dan Epelstein Rapaport, Adopt a School; Víctor Pérez Orozco, Infonavit; Beatriz Hernández Calva, Infonavit. Future Vision Workshops. Since 2006, social workers from Homex have given these workshops, designed to raise awareness among residents of our developments about taking action and committing to teamwork with their neighbors. With such encouragement, all can help improve the urban image of their developments and live in harmony. 109 Projects carried by Future Vision Workshops, including neighborhood alerts, revival of public spaces, reforestation routes, child brigades, and clean neighborhood drives. 22 Homex Adult Secondary Education Program Convinced that education is one of the basic drivers of human development, we opened Homex facilities for consultants from the national Institute for Adult Education (INEA) to provide support in the areas of literary, primary and secondary school education based on the open system. Originally created in 2003 for project workers, this program was later extended to clients (2004) and to small and mid-sized businesses in the value chain (2007). Through it we have helped more than 20,000 individuals, including workers and clients, to improve their 6,013 level of education, strengthen their personal character and expand Enrolled their professional opportunities. 6,574 2,282 Graduated 2010 2,149 2009 Homex Preparatory School Founded in 2004, this program offers part-time education to workers and clients who wish or need to begin, continue or complete preparatory school. To date, more than 400 individuals have benefited from this initiative, especially designed to provide more educational and job opportunities to these groups. In addition, this year we promoted a new bachelor’s degree program tool created by the Ministry of Public education as a way to supply education through open and long-distance technology. At present we have 17 individuals enrolled through this system. 96 enrolled in Homex Preparatory School and 17 in bachelor’s degree program Values Workshops The preservation of family values is fundamental for harmonious life in a community. With the joint support of social workers and Fundación Mexico Unido (FMU), we provide these workshops to our communities on a monthly basis. The goal is to encourage our homebuyers to adopt these values as part of their daily life, and to share with each other ways to develop themselves and to contribute to the progress of Mexico as a nation. values Workshops together 23 with Fundación México Unido Primary School English Firmly committed to raising the standard of primary school education in Mexico, Homex has an agreement with the Ministry of Public Education and Culture of the state of Sinaloa, under which we support a “Primary School English” program in 5 schools in Culiacan. Certified professors give classes in English through an agreement with Cambridge University. This initiative gives schoolchildren a window of opportunity on the world, and countless possibilities for access to information in today’s world. 1,200 students benefit from Primary School English 4.1.4 COLLABORATION WITH COECTO AND ENLACE, MANO AMIGA SCHOOLS, HEALTH (HEALTH BEGINS AT HOME) AND SPORTS (HOMEXFUT) Building lives. Quality education is only possible if teachers and parents are effectively in promoting the development of their children and their convinced of the importance of higher academic standards surroundings. This is achieved through diplomas in Family Orientation and the transmission of values. To optimize teaching in and Educational Leadership. our communities’ schools, Homex has forged alliances with Educational Consulting for Total Quality (COECTO) and Community Connections (ENLACE). COECTO provides advice on detecting strengths and areas of opportunity for each school, helping parents play a more active role in their children’s education, and promoting ongoing improvement for all the members of the educational community. With consultancy from ENLACE, teachers are training in becoming more involved and committed to a model of quality education which, grounded in the family, has a multiplying effect on the rest of the community and enriches quality of life. ENLACE also helped educate parents so they participate Programs benefit 22 schools and more than 7,000 individuals in Mexico State. 24 ANSPAC Courses We at Homex know that successful communities are home to families whose values inspire them to behave ethically on an individual and social level. We promote the total development of the individual, based on the conviction that only someone who is constantly striving to improve their human potential can build a new and better world, in their family and in their community. In partnership with the National Association for Personal Advancement (ANSPAC), we offer courses n three developments in the city of Culiacan: Los Angeles, Prados del Sol II and Santa Fe. Both the basic and the advanced course, which last for three and two years, respectively, concentrate on human and moral education, as well as life skills and workshops. Sixteen workshops were held in Culiacan in 2010. The women that take part in these courses obtain greater awareness of transcendent values, of their own dignity and identity; they gain a stronger will to develop themselves fully, while contributing in an intelligent, balanced and responsible way to the progress of their families, their society, and thus the nation as a whole. 16 workshops in human and life skills Mano Amiga Schools Mano Amiga (“Friendly Hand”) Schools are community development centers created to transform the lives of needy families. The educational program, based on values and virtues, is complemented with health services and programs that promote economic and cultural growth. To contribute to the education and total development of our clients’ children, we crated an alliance with the Altius Foundation, which operates the schools build by Homex. Today there are Mano Amiga Schools in Culiacan, Tijuana, Tapachula and Tuxtla Gutierrez. 2010 Schoolchildren benefited at preschool, 1,756 primary and secondary levels 2009 1,583 25 HomexFut. We believe sports are an essential part of family development. We therefore promote soccer activities among the children and young people that live in Homex developments. In 2010 we held 71 HomexFut League tournaments, made up of teams in the children and youth categories, participating in playoffs within and outside of our developments. These activities promote values, respect for teammates, promptness, and fair play. HOMEX FUT 71 HomexFut tournaments in the children’s and youth categories. Health begins at home. In collaboration with the public, social and private sectors, the company supports the “Health begins at home” program, participating in health fairs and vaccination campaigns. To bring the program to our employees we brought mobile units to our headquarters and branch offices. For our homeowners, health fairs and vaccination campaigns were conducted in home visits and modules set up within our developments. At health fairs, community members can receive preventive and corrective attention for illnesses that affect various population groups: high blood pressure, 54 Health Fairs and 367 Health heart disease, accidents, dental health and acute Campaigns provided first-hand health respiratory tract infections, among others. Vaccination care to more than 300,000 families in our campaigns were conducted intensively with the developments Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), health centers and other public health agencies. 26 4.1.5 SOCIAL WORKERS It is impossible to envision post-sale activities without the day-to-day efforts of our employees and social workers, who actively support our clients by guiding them in how to create and execute community improvement projects. Their role is fundamental in transforming community vision and ensuring the conservation and improvement of families’ equity. Clients are given information on all the post-sale programs at the time the home is titled. Homex has an employee or social worker for every development of more than 50 inhabited homes. Workers remain in the developments up to six months after the development has been delivered to the municipality where it is located, and represent the company on the Neighborhood Committee. In 2010, we awarded certificates to the first class of INFONAVIT Neighborhood Promoters, who help residents in housing developments to organize and develop their day-to-day surroundings, to live in harmony in a safe and secure environment. Homeowners can thus improve their quality of life and build up the equity in their homes over time. 2009 2010 Social workers promoting post-sale activities at Homex developments 38 41 4.1.6 VOLUNTEERS IN THE COMMUNITY. Homex’s social performance is also evident in the contributions of employees who donate money and hours of service to communities in need of assistance or in emergency situations. This year efforts were focused on earthquake-stricken zones of Mexicali and Haiti, and in the flood-ridden areas of Monterrey and Veracruz. Homex is home to the Telethon We set a new record for donations As we do every year, we supported Mexico’s Telethon in 2010, from workers, clients and vendors conducting fundraising activities among our employees, clients and vendors. Homex donated 5 million pesos to the annual campaign, and raised another 563,688 pesos, especially from employees and vendors, setting a record for donations. Another achievement was the creation of a virtual training centers for workers at Vifac, whose motto is “Celebrating life,” in support of human development, training, and administration. 27 For more information, go to http://www.teleton.org.mx y http://www.vifac.org 4.1.7 Fundación Homex: Present in rural areas. Im Joa Im Joa, which means “my home” in the Mayan Yoreme dialect, a program of assisted selfproduction and homebuilding. Its purpose is to awaken interest among participants for transforming their current situation and building their own adobe home. We provide advice and technological assistance to participants, helping them to build homes using the traditional system of compressed soil blocks (adobe). To date, 824 homes have been build through this significant effort, which brings together federal, state, and municipal governments, and government as well as non-government agencies, Fundación Homex and the community. Fundación Homex not only provides advice on home In 2010, Fundación Homex signed a collaboration agreement with construction but provides the machinery needed to produce Habitat for Humanity Mexico, an international organization present adobe blocks, as well as project supervision. Government in 18 states of Mexico, which since its founding has helped build agencies provide the funding to cover direct costs and supply 26,000 homes and benefited more than 130,000 individuals. The the materials and machinery for grading and excavating the purpose of this agreement is to help families build compressed soil area. Non-government organizations contribute funding and block homes using the technology and technical advice of Im Joa. in-kind donations, and finally, community members provide In the initial phase of this joint project, 100 families from Tlapa, the labor to form the blocks and build the homes. Guerrero, will receive support. To date, 824 families have benefited in the Culiacan and Choix communities in Sinaloa, and Aporo in Michoacan. Ramona Ruiz Peñuelas, Im Joa program beneficiary, Limon de los Ramos community, Culiacan, Sinaloa I have children, and I tell them, in this house we’ll grow old, and you’ll marry here. Now we don’t have to go around asking someone for a place to stay--now we have our own place. I’m more excited about working now, because I want to keep doing better, I want to improve my house, plastering the walls, painting it, making it look better, taking care of it. Now I want to work and throw myself into fixing it up and buying what it needs. I feel truly at home now, really happy. Let it rain, let it pour … I’m great! For more information, go to: http://www.imjoa.org Acambay 2012 Through empowerment, citizens committed to community In 2010 the planning and resource management phase continued, development can improve their standards of living. Based on with the aim of building 1,000 homes in 2011. We are also now this premise, Fundación Homex and the government of Mexico working on a prototype home. State created the program Acambay 2012, based on the Future Vision program, whose philosophy is joint responsibility for A Future Vision workshop was also held as part of this program, development. It helps people together define a vision, establish a involving 25 municipal leaders. specific objective and pursue it with the help of our workers. 28 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 5.1 ENVIRONMENTALLY We use no timber FRIENDLY CONSTRUCTION in our construction SYSTEM process: IN 2010, WE Building with respect for the environment. SPARED ALMOST We build our homes using a combination of aluminum molds and 60,000 TREES a metal reinforcement system. This allows us to form walls and floor slabs in a single step, reducing the cost and time necessary to build the home and ensuring the quality of every development. And more importantly, this innovative process has tremendous advantages for the environment. Unlike traditional methods, our construction process does not use timber, which helps to preserve our forests. The use of this combination of molds and metal reinforcements in 2010 spared almost 60,000 medium-sized trees and avoided issuing the equivalent of 8,649.10 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2). Homes built Equivalent savings through use of aluminum with molds: molds instead of wood Operating unit 2010 2009 2010* Affordable entry-level Number of homes in which molds were used 8,629 23,854 89% Metric tons of wood 2,715.6 7,317.3 Residential 5% Medium-sized trees 23,769.9 59,783.7 International 1% Square meters these trees would occupy 136,496.3 343,309.7 Infrastructure 2% Regulation-sized soccer fields (100x75mn, international) these trees would occupy 18.2 45.8 Equivalent metric tons of CO2 per year 496.7 1,249.5 *Homes in Mexico, International and Infrastructure 29 operating units. 5.2 “HOMEX GOES GREEN” CAMPAIGN The “Homex goes Green” (Homex se Pinta de Verde) program encourages joint participation by our workers, our clients and their families, in ecological activities aimed at cleaning up the environment, preserving home equity, and promoting an attitude of sustainability. Among these activities are water conservation and recycling projects, cleanup campaigns (including removing objects where standing water might accumulate and allow mosquitos to breed, graffiti elimination, and removing litter from parks, gardens and yards) and reforestation campaigns. 2010 Cleanup campaigns 492 Reforestation campaigns 188 Water conservation and recycling campaigns 125 5.3 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION AWARENESS In our daily operations, we pay special attention to protecting the environment. By introducing creative savings campaigns and intensive recycling programs, we have been able to save significantly on paper and energy One of the actions we have to taken to raise awareness and encourage employee cooperation was our campaign for administrative expense savings, which extended to 50% of our offices and reduced spending by 48%. Office paper recycling: 2009 2010 Total boxes of sheets* 594 1,580 Recycled cardboard boxes 198 2,500 Recycled sheets of paper 990,000 3,900,000 Kg. of boxes and sheets recycled 7,382 14,520 30 *Each box contains 5,000 sheets 5.4 HOMEX COMMUNITY: A NEW WAY TO BUILD CITIES. STIMULUS FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT In 2010, Homex announced a plan to develop systems, processes and construction specifications that would allow energy insulation conditions Thanks to the dedicated efforts of to be introduced to low-cost housing. the R&D Team, which registered the program with Proinnova, Homex Carried out with the support of the National Council for Science and earned economic stimulus totaling Technology (Conacyt), the project will improve comfort and energy 10.76 million pesos. consumption readings in each home, and allow homeowners to save up to 15% on their energy bills. Thanks to the dedicated efforts of the Research and Development Team, which registered the program with the federally sponsored program Proinnova, Homex earned economic stimulus totaling 10.76 million pesos. At the same time, it formed a working relationship with the Autonomous University of Sinaloa (UAS), Autonomous University of Nuevo León (UANL) and the company Owens Corning, which participated as consultant on the project. Every Homex 5.5 CONSERVING NATURAL HERITAGE home comes FOR OUR CLIENTS with a tree. Building a real-estate development involves changing the natural environment. Aware of this fact, we are concerned about replanting trees in affected areas with species that are native to each area, in order to preserve existing ecosystems. In addition to these trees, the “Homex Goes Green” program delivers a tree for every home sold. Through these actions, and always thinking of future generations, Homex respects biodiversity and works to conserve this country’s natural heritage. 31 VI. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Since 2005, Homex has adopted t he universal principles contained in this business sustainability initiative sponsored by the United Nations (UN). Human Rights Environment Principles Principles 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Compliance environmentally friendly technologies. By our Code of Ethics, we are bound to respect the rights of individuals and require all of our workers to respect and Compliance promote ethical values, principles, rules and conduct; while We use environmentally-friendly construction technologies sanctioning any breach of these rules. and take actions to protect the environment, like our Metal Reinforcement System, used in combination with aluminum molds, to eliminate the need for timber in our processes. We also promote tree-planting programs in our communities Labor and paper recycling and energy conservation practices in our offices. We relocate flora and fauna that may be affected Principles by the construction or our developments, thus helping to 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and preserve biodiversity. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and Anti-Corruption 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Principles and occupation. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Compliance Homex rejects all forms of child labor, and we enforce the Compliance rights established in Article 123 of the Mexican Constitution For Homex, guaranteeing the transparency of our operations and its Regulatory Law. We have contractual relationships to all our stakeholders is fundamental. For this reason, we with various unions and have introduced the Gender Equity abide by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Law and the new Securities Model (MEG:2003) by which we guarantee equality of labor Market act in Mexico. We reinforce our compliance with these and wage opportunities for men and women. legal provisions through our Code of Ethics and Internal Work Regulations, which are signed and accepted by each of us who works at Homex. 32 VII. GRI CONTENTS PROFILE 3. Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period for 1. Strategy and Analysis information provided. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). organization 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. • Determining materiality; 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. • Prioritizing topics within the report; and 2.5 Number of countries where the organization • Identifying stakeholders the organization operates. expects to use the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 3.6 Boundary of the report 2.7 Markets served. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, • Number of employees; outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect • Net sales; comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. • Total capitalization broken down in terms 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. of debt and equity; and 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information • Quantity of products or services provided. provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, structure, or ownership including: boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and GRI CONTENT INDEX • Changes in the share capital structure and other 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard capital formation, maintenance, and alteration Disclosures in the report. operations. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ASSURANCE 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 33 4.Governance, Commitments, and Engagement GOVERNANCE 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also topics and concerns, including through its reporting. an executive officer 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. MANAGEMENT APPROACH 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest AND PERFORMANCE governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and INDICATORS environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ECONOMIC DIMENSION. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS. members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community performance and the status of their implementation. investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the governments. organization’s identification and management of economic, EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or suppliers at significant locations of operation. principle is addressed by the organization. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization is involved. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT kind, or pro bono engagement. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of ASPECT: MATERIALS engagement by type and by stakeholder group. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 34 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASPECT: ENERGY ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. as a result of these initiatives. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. reductions achieved. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed ASPECT: WATER hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. of water and runoff. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value services, and extent of impact mitigation. outside protected areas. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, reclaimed by category. and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 35 SOCIAL DIMENSIONS LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, region. and other indicators of diversity. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and advise on occupational health and safety programs. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, including the percentage of employees trained. and number of workrelated fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and category. actions taken to support these rights. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing ASPECT: CHILD LABOR career endings. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child development reviews. labor. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 36 ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to and actions taken. operations. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS INDICATORS ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT: COMMUNITY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations categories subject to such procedures. on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their ASPECT: CORRUPTION life cycle, by type of outcomes. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiPR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and corruption policies and procedures. percentage of significant products and services subject to such information SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys development and lobbying. measuring customer satisfaction. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS country. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their and sponsorship by type of outcomes. outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of privacy and losses of customer data. non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 37 VIII. CONTACTS Mónica Lafaire, Corporate Director of Human Development and Corporate Social Responsibility mlafaire@homex.com.mx Carlos Moctezuma, Corporate Director of Finance and Strategic Development cmoctezuma@homex.com.mx Mariana Celis, Director of Fundación Homex mariana.celis@homex.com.mx Cristina Herrera Lasso, Director of Human Development cherreralasso@homex.com.mx Mariela Jacobo, Director of Internal Communications and Homex University mjacobo@homex.com.mx Almendra Zavala, 5 Satisfaction Conditions azavalaa@homex.com.mx Javier Romero, Director of Legal Affairs jcromero@homex.com.mx Elsa Ramos, Director of Client Satisfaction eramost@homex.com.mx Ruby Verdugo, Head of Post-Sales rverdugo@homex.com.mx Vania Fueyo, Director of Investor Relations vfueyo@homex.com.mx Manuel Pacheco, 100% Vendor Satisfaction lpacheco@homex.com.mx Jesús Gutiérrez, Director of Research and Development jgutierrezr@homex.com.mx 38 39 (94,5;,9 030 4 ,: 9 ,47 ,:(5:()3, ( 76 S L :V JY JPH :L [H  YxH }U KL PZP S ;YHIHQV`7YL]
