HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY WELCOME Welcome to our fifth annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Five years into our sustainability journey, we have learned and changed a great deal. The world around us is not the same world we knew when we identified sustainability as a key priority for our business. We now see more businesses adopting strategies for sustainability within our industry and across the markets we serve. We see issues such as natural resource scarcity and emerging economies creating new challenges and opportunities. Although the world today is one nearly unimaginable to us even five years ago, our strong sustainability foundation has enabled Fairmount Minerals to chart a path for a strong future. The strength of Fairmount Minerals Fairmount Minerals makes Fairmount Minerals’ financial success today and tomorrow is fundamentally environmental stewardship a is rooted in our ability to identify and rooted in our people and the fundamental element of the way we respond to key social and relationships we create. To build an operate not only because it is critical to environmental issues. Our approach to engaging, thriving workplace, our prosperity, but because we haven’t sustainable development affords us Fairmount Minerals makes safety, inherited this earth — we’re borrowing with a social license to operate and health and wellness, and community it from our children. Learn More >> helps to drive innovation and growth. engagement management priorities. As a business, Fairmount Minerals’ Learn More >> profitability creates prosperity for our shareholders and employees while contributing to economic development in our communities. Learn More >> 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY ABOUT REPORT MENU REPORT PARAMETERS Report Parameters Since 2007, Fairmount Minerals has published an annual report detailing the organization’s goals and performance in sustainable development. 2010 marked a Stakeholder Engagement year of growth and development at Fairmount Minerals, and we are delighted to GRI Content Index acknowledge and celebrate key milestones in our fifth Corporate Social Responsibility Report. In addition to our full online report, we also produce a printed annual highlights brochure, providing a short overview about progress and accomplishments DOWNLOAD REPORT for the year. Full Report The scope of this Corporate Social Responsibility report includes facts and figures relevant to the 2010 About Report Only fiscal year and cover Fairmount Minerals’ global operations, including subsidiaries. To better enable accurate reporting on our energy footprint and associated greenhouse gas emissions, we made the Need Adobe Reader? decision to adjust our reporting period back one quarter from January 1-December 31 to October 1September 30 for each year. We have recalculated greenhouse gas emissions and energy data from previous reports to follow the new reporting cycle in this report. SEARCH Transparency around our company’s performance through external reporting is an important element to Fairmount Minerals. We follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines in our reporting CONTACT practices. In order to help our stakeholders easily recognize the detail of our disclosures under the G3 For further information about our Guidelines, Fairmount Minerals participates in a GRI Application Level check. Our 2010 report, which has 2010 Corporate Social been verified by GRI for completeness, aligns with GRI application Level A. Responsibility report or Responsibility report or sustainable development progress at Fairmount Minerals, please contact Kristin Lewis at sustainability@fmsand.com. GRI APPLICATION LEVEL Fairmount Minerals Receives Application Level A Check/Approval from GRI. We apply the following G3 principles to ensure a strong representation of information and sustainability performance in our report. Materiality & Stakeholder Inclusiveness Our reporting process is strengthened by the participation of our valued stakeholders. We define report content by integrating stakeholder feedback into our own sustainability assessment process to ensure our primary sustainability objectives reflect an inclusive approach. Our Sustainable Development Initiative Teams set environmental, social and economic goals on an annual basis to ensure we are addressing our significant impacts and stakeholder concerns, while building on our strengths. These goals are reviewed by our Sustainable Development Advisory Committee. Sustainability Context & Completeness: A strong report addresses material stakeholder issues, relevant sustainability objectives and goals pertinent to our impacts across our value chain. The facts and figures found within this report are related to our environmental, social and economic objectives and performance. Balance: We demonstrate transparency in reporting by sharing progress updates and opportunities for improvement on all sustainable development goal areas. We present favorable and unfavorable results equally and communicate our real performance. Comparability: We aim to provide metrics over a minimum of four years (less only when the information is not available) and include a thorough GRI Content Index to assist in readability. Timeliness: Fairmount publishes our Corporate Social Responsibility report on an annual basis each April, following the evaluation of the previous year’s data, performance metrics and feature stories. Accuracy and Reliability: This report was reviewed by the Fairmount Minerals’ senior management team and is published with their support and approval. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY ABOUT REPORT MENU Report Parameters Stakeholder Engagement GRI Content Index DOWNLOAD REPORT Full Report About Report Only STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Need Adobe Reader? If it is true that there is strength in numbers, then it only stands to reason that Fairmount Minerals’ many stakeholder communities help to make our company SEARCH strong. We proactively engage our employees, customers, suppliers, neighbors, and others to better understand their varied perspectives on Fairmount Minerals environmental, social and economic impacts. Through the process of strategic CONTACT stakeholder engagement, we are able to share information about Fairmount’s For further information about our operations, as well as learn from others’ best practices. This helps us to appreciate 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility report or the issues that affect the communities in which we operate and co-create solutions sustainable development that meet our stakeholders’ needs while strengthening Fairmount’s performance. Our progress at Fairmount Minerals, stakeholders have influence over the way we carefully manage our social, please contact Kristin Lewis at environmental and economic impacts and help us to identify new, innovative ideas for sustainability@fmsand.com. future growth. We consistently engage a variety of stakeholders through community health fairs, open houses, GRI APPLICATION LEVEL communications initiatives, and innovation assemblies. We also uphold our commitment to open Fairmount Fairmount Minerals Receives facilities to the local community, where we educate on our operational impacts and invite feedback from our Application Level A neighbors and local partners. Check/Approval from GRI. In 2011, we will hold our third Appreciative Inquiry summit on sustainable development. Fairmount family members and key external stakeholders will be invited to come together in one powerful event where we can, collectively, discuss possibilities for the future. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY ABOUT REPORT MENU GRI CONTENT INDEX Report Parameters 1. Strategy and Analysis Stakeholder Engagement PROFILE GRI Content Index DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT 1.1 Statement from the most senior Letter from Chuck Statement of decision-maker of the Continuing DOWNLOAD REPORT organization. Support Full Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Strategy & Analysis Statement of About Report Only and opportunities. Continuing Support Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH 2. Organizational Profile CONTACT PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT For further information about our 2010 Corporate Social 2.1 Name of the organization. Organization Profile No specific COP Responsibility report or element sustainable development progress at Fairmount Minerals, 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Organization Profile No specific COP please contact Kristin Lewis at services. element sustainability@fmsand.com. 2.3 Operational structure of the Organization Profile No specific COP organization, including main element GRI APPLICATION LEVEL divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Fairmount Minerals Receives Application Level A 2.4 Location of organization’s Organization Profile No specific COP Check/Approval from GRI. headquarters. element 2.5 Number of countries where the Organization Profile No specific COP organization operates, and names element of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal Organization Profile No specific COP form. element 2.7 Markets served (including Organization Profile No specific COP geographic breakdown, sectors element served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting Organization Profile No specific COP organization. We do not report net sales, element total capitalization, total assets, beneficial ownership, sales broken down by country/region, and costs by countries/regions because, as a private company, we choose to not disclose any financial information. 2.9 Significant changes during the Organization Profile No specific COP reporting period regarding size, element structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting Awards & Recognition No specific COP period. element 3. Report Parameters PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., Report Parameters No specific COP fiscal/calendar year) for element information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report Parameters No specific COP report (if any). element 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Report Parameters No specific COP etc.) element 3.4 Contact point for questions Report Parameters No specific COP regarding the report or its element contents. 3.5 Process for defining report Report Parameters No specific COP content. element 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., Report Parameters No specific COP countries, divisions, subsidiaries, element leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on Report Parameters No specific COP the scope or boundary of the element report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint Report Parameters No specific COP ventures, subsidiaries, leased element facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques Report Parameters No specific COP and the bases of calculations, element including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reReport Parameters No specific COP statements of information provided element in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous Report Parameters No specific COP reporting periods in the scope, element boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of GRI Content Index No specific COP the Standard Disclosures in the element report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with We choose to review our report No specific COP regard to seeking external content internally as opposed element assurance for the report. to engaging an external auditor. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the Governance Actions taken to organization, including committees implement under the highest governance Principles 1-10 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Matt LeBaron, managing Actions taken to highest governance body is also director at American Securities, implement an executive officer. serves as Fairmount Minerals’ Principles 1-10 new Board Chairman while Bill Conway now serves as Chair Emeritus. 4.3 For organizations that have a Governance Actions taken to unitary board structure, state the implement number of members of the highest Principles 1-10 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Stakeholder Engagement Actions taken to employees to provide implement recommendations or direction to Principles 1-10 the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation All Fairmount Minerals nonActions taken to for members of the highest union employees, including implement governance body, senior senior managers and Principles 1-10 managers, and executives executives, may be eligible for (including departure bonus compensation based on arrangements), and the business metrics and the organization’s performance completion of our annual Bold (including social and Goals for sustainable environmental performance). development. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Governance Actions taken to governance body to ensure implement conflicts of interest are avoided. Principles 1-10 4.7 Process for determining the Governance Actions taken to qualifications and expertise of the implement members of the highest Principles 1-10 governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of Mission & Principles, Actions taken to mission or values, codes of Collaborations implement conduct, and principles relevant to Principles 1-10 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest Letter from Chuck, Strategy & Actions taken to governance body for overseeing Analysis implement the organization's identification Principles 1-10 and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the 2010 Performance Actions taken to highest governance body's own implement performance, particularly with Principles 1-10 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how Strategy & Analysis Actions taken to the precautionary approach or implement principle is addressed by the Principle 7 organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Collaborations Actions taken to environmental, and social implement charters, principles, or other Principles 1-10 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations Collaborations Actions taken to (such as industry associations) implement and/ or national/ international Principles 1-10 advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement Sharing the COP engaged by the organization. with the Company’s stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and Stakeholder Engagement Sharing the COP selection of stakeholders with with the whom to engage. Company’s stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Sharing the COP engagement, including frequency with the of engagement by type and by Company’s stakeholder group. stakeholders 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have Stakeholder Engagement, Sharing the COP been raised through stakeholder Strategy & Analysis with the engagement, and how the Company’s organization has responded to stakeholders those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT DMA EC Disclosure on Management Prosperity, 2010 Bold Goals Actions taken to Approach EC implement Principles 1, 4, 6, and 7 Economic performance Economic Impacts No specific COP element Market presence Economic Impacts No specific COP element Indirect economic impacts Economic Impacts No specific COP element Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value Prosperity No specific COP generated and distributed, As a private company, we do element including revenues, operating not provide specific financial costs, employee compensation, data but do include donations and other community descriptions of economic investments, retained earnings, impacts and activities. and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other Strategy & Analysis Actions taken to risks and opportunities for the implement organization's activities due to Principle 7 climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s Exceptional Workplace No specific COP defined benefit plan obligations. We offer an employee stock element bonus plan and two defined benefit plans. We also offer a 401K option to our employees. EC4 Significant financial assistance We do not receive significant No specific COP received from government. financial assistance from local element or federal governments. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard Our standard entry level wage Outcomes from entry level wage compared to meets or exceeds local implementing local minimum wage at minimum wage requirements at Principle 1 significant locations of all significant locations of operation. operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and Supplier Relationships No specific COP proportion of spending on Local procurement is an element locally-based suppliers at element of our sustainable significant locations of supply chain activities, but is operation. not a part of the spending data that is tracked specifically. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and While we do not have a Actions taken and proportion of senior specific policy relative to local outcomes from management hired from the hiring practices, the majority of implementing local community at significant our production employees and Principle 6 locations of operation. plant management are residents of the local communities in which our facilities are located. Indirct economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of Community Investment No specific COP infrastructure investments and element services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing Economic Impacts No specific COP significant indirect economic element impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT DMA EN Disclosure on Management Planet, 2010 Bold Goals No specific COP Approach EN element Materials Land Restoration No specific COP element Energy Energy & Climate Change No specific COP element Water Clean Water No specific COP element Biodiversity Land Restoration No specific COP element Emissions, effluents and waste Waste & Recycling No specific COP element Products and services Superior Products No specific COP element Compliance Planet No specific COP element Transport Energy & Climate Change No specific COP element Overall Planet No specific COP element Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or Land Restoration Outcomes from volume. The majority of the materials implementing used at Fairmount Minerals are Principle 8 those that we mine. We consider total tonnage of materials extracted to be proprietary information, so we choose to report total acreage mined. EN2 Percentage of materials used Supplier Relationships Outcomes from that are recycled input Because the majority of our implementing materials. input materials come directly Principles 8 and 9 from the materials we mine, we choose to focus our efforts on our own recycling and reuse activities. We have converted many of our inbound and outbound packaging materials to reusable super sacks that, at the end of their useful life, are recycled into alternative packaging material. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by Energy & Climate Change Outcomes from primary energy source. implementing Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Energy & Climate Change Outcomes from primary source. implementing Principle 8 EN5 Energy saved due to Energy & Climate Change Outcomes from conservation and efficiency implementing improvements. Principles 8 and 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energyNew Products and Markets Actions taken to efficient or renewable energy implement based products and services, Principles 8 and 9 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Energy & Climate Change Actions taken to energy consumption and implement reductions achieved. Principles 8 and 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by Because we employ a closedOutcomes from source. loop process in the majority of implementing our facilities, we have not yet Principle 8 developed a system to track total water withdrawal or usage. We are in the process of developing a water footprint process and working to reduce overall water consumption. We intend to report on this indicator in our 2011 report. EN9 Water sources significantly Because we employ a closedOutcomes from affected by withdrawal of water. loop process in the majority of implementing our facilities, we have not yet Principle 8 developed a system to track total water withdrawal or usage. We are in the process of developing a water footprint process and working to reduce overall water consumption. We intend to report on this indicator in our 2011 report. EN10 Percentage and total volume of Because we employ a closedOutcomes from water recycled and reused. loop process in the majority of implementing our facilities, we have not yet Principles 8 and 9 developed a system to track total water withdrawal or usage. We are in the process of developing a water footprint process and working to reduce overall water consumption. We intend to report on this indicator in our 2011 report. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land Land Restoration Outcomes from owned, leased, managed in, or implementing adjacent to, protected areas Principle 8 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant Planet, Land Restoration Outcomes from impacts of activities, products, implementing and services on biodiversity in Principle 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or Land Restoration No specific COP leased, and managed for element production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Land Restoration Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Land Restoration Actions taken to future plans for managing implement impacts on biodiversity. Principle 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Our stakeholder engagement Outcomes from species and national process deemed this level of implementing conservation list species with detail immaterial to our report. Principle 8 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect Energy & Climate Change Outcomes from greenhouse gas emissions by implementing weight. Principle 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect Energy & Climate Change Outcomes from greenhouse gas emissions by implementing weight. Principle 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce Energy & Climate Change Actions taken and greenhouse gas emissions and outcomes from reductions achieved. implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting In 2010, our ODS emissions Outcomes from substances by weight. resulting from leaked HCFC-22 implementing (R-22) totaled 43 lbs. Principle 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant Air Quality Outcomes from air emissions by type and We report on HAPs and implementing weight. particulate matter as those are Principle 8 our significant air quality impacts. EN21 Total water discharge by quality Because we employ a closedOutcomes from and destination. loop process in the majority of implementing our facilities, we have not yet Principle 8 developed a system to track total water withdrawal or usage. We are in the process of developing a water footprint process and working to reduce overall water consumption. We intend to report on this indicator in our 2011 report. EN22 Total weight of waste by type Waste & Recycling Outcomes from and disposal method. We have not yet established a implementing consistent waste tracking Principle 8 system and, therefore, cannot provide accurate waste totals at this time. We intend to report on this data in our 2011 report. MM3 Total amounts of overburden, Safety No specific COP rock, tailings, and sludges and Although we do not track this element their associated risks. data specifically, our comprehensive safety management system addresses risks associated with our mining operations. EN23 Total number and volume of We do not have any spills to Outcomes from significant spills. report. implementing Principle 8 EN24 Weight of transported, We do not produce any Outcomes from imported, exported, or treated hazardous waste. implementing waste deemed hazardous Principle 8 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, Because we employ a closedOutcomes from and biodiversity value of water loop process in the majority of implementing bodies and related habitats our facilities, we have not yet Principle 8 significantly affected by the developed a system to track reporting organization’s total water withdrawal, usage or discharges of water and runoff. discharge. We are in the process of developing a water footprint process and working to reduce overall water consumption. We intend to report on this indicator in our 2011 report. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Superior Products Actions taken to environmental impacts of implement products and services, and Principles 7, 8 extent of impact mitigation. and 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold Waste & Recycling Outcomes from and their packaging materials The majority of our products implementing that are reclaimed by category. are sold in bulk and do not Principles 8 and 9 require packaging material; therefore, this is not a material indicator for our operations. For the Fairmount Minerals products that do require packaging material, we are transitioning from traditional packaging to reusable and recyclable bulk bags. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant We comply with all Outcomes from fines and total number of nonenvironmental laws and implementing monetary sanctions for nonregulations. Principle 8 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental Energy & Climate Change Outcomes from impacts of transporting implementing products and other goods and Principle 8 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection We invested approximately Actions taken and expenditures and investments $800,000 in sustainability outcomes from by type. related programs and projects implementing in 2010. Principles 7, 8 and 9 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT DMA LA Disclosure on Management People, 2010 Bold Goals Actions taken to Approach LA implement Principles 1, 3 and 6 Employment Exceptional Workplace No specific COP element Labor/management relations Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Occupational health and safety Safety No specific COP element Training and education Training & Education No specific COP element Diversity and equal opportunity Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment Organization Profile No specific COP type, employment contract, and element region. LA2 Total number and rate of Fairmount Minerals has a 14% Outcomes from employee turnover by age turnover rate. We track and implementing group, gender, and region. report on the total number of Principle 6 employees by location and company retention rate. We do not break this data down by age group, gender and region due to the complexity of data compilation and the apparent satisfaction of our stakeholders with the current reporting level. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Exceptional Workplace No specific COP employees that are not element provided to temporary or parttime employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees Organization Profile Outcomes from covered by collective implementing bargaining agreements. Principles 1 and 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) We follow the minimum notice Outcomes from regarding significant operational periods specified by the WARN implementing changes, including whether it is Act whenever applicable. Principle 3 specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs We do not have any strikes or No specific COP exceeding one week's duration, lockouts to report. element by country. LA6 Percentage of total workforce Safety Outcomes from represented in formal joint implementing management-worker health Principle 1 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Safety Outcomes from diseases, lost days, and We report on several safetyimplementing absenteeism, and number of related metrics with the Principle 1 work-related fatalities by region. exception of absenteeism rate, which we have deemed immaterial to our report. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Health and Wellness Actions taken to prevention, and risk-control implement programs in place to assist Principle 1 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics Safety Actions taken to covered in formal agreements implement with trade unions. Principle 1 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per Although we do not currently No specific COP year per employee by track all types of training element employee category. provided to our employees, we can report that, on average, every Fairmount employee received 8 hours of safety training in 2010. As our tracking systems improve in the long-term, we will provide more detailed information on employee training. LA11 Programs for skills Training & Education No specific COP management and lifelong element learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees Training & Education No specific COP receiving regular performance element and career development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance Governance Outcomes from bodies and breakdown of We do not report on the implementing employees per category specific composition of our Principles 1 and 6 according to gender, age governance body as we group, minority group consider that to be proprietary membership, and other information. indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to As a private company, Outcomes from women by employee category. Fairmount Minerals does not implementing disclose any specific financial Principles 1 and 6 information, including sales, revenue, salary and bonus compensation. Social: Human Rights PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT DMA HR Disclosure on Management People, 2010 Bold Goals Actions taken to Approach HR implement Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 Investment and procurement Supplier Relationships No specific COP practices element Non-discrimination Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Freedom of association and Ethics & Diversity No specific COP collective bargaining element Child labor Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Forced and compulsory labor Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Security practices Not material No specific COP element Indigenous rights Not material No specific COP element Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Percentage and total number of Supplier Relationships Outcomes from significant investment We review our suppliers based implementing agreements that include human on a voluntary sustainable Principles 1, 2, 3, rights clauses or that have supplier checklist, which 4, 5, and 6 undergone human rights includes criteria pertaining to screening. human rights issues. We do not track the specific number of investments or purchases that undergo specific human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant Supplier Relationships Actions taken and suppliers and contractors that 100% of our suppliers are outcomes from have undergone screening on invited to complete a voluntary implementing human rights and actions sustainable supplier checklist, Principles 1, 2, 3, taken. which includes criteria 4, 5, and 6 pertaining to human rights issues. HR3 Total hours of employee We do not provide specific Outcomes from training on policies and training on policies and implementing procedures concerning aspects procedures concerning aspects Principles 1, 2, 3, of human rights that are of human rights. 4, 5, and 6 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of We do not have any incidents Actions taken and discrimination and actions of discrimination to report. outcomes from taken. implementing Principles 1, 2 and 6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which We do not have any operations Actions taken to the right to exercise freedom of in which the right to exercise implement association and collective freedom of association and Principles 1, 2 bargaining may be at significant collective bargaining are at and 3 risk, and actions taken to significant risk. support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having We do not have any operations Actions taken to significant risk for incidents of in which child labor presents a implement child labor, and measures significant risk. Principles 1, 2 taken to contribute to the and 5 elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having We do not have any operations Actions taken to significant risk for incidents of in which forced or compulsory implement forced or compulsory labor, and labor presents a significant risk. Principles 1, 2 measures to contribute to the and 4 elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security We do not employ security Outcomes from personnel trained in the personnel. implementing organization's policies or Principles 1 and 2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights MM5 Total number of operations We do not operate on or No specific COP taking place in or adjacent to adjacent to indigenous peoples' element indigenous peoples' territories, territories. and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. HR9 Total number of incidents of We do not have any incidents Actions taken and violations involving rights of to report. outcomes from indigenous people and actions implementing taken. Principles 1 and 2 Social: Society PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT DMA SO Disclosure on Management People, 2010 Bold Goals Actions taken to Approach SO implement Principle 10 Community Community Investment No specific COP element Artisanal and small-scale Not material No specific COP mining element Resettlement In our past No specific COP mergers/acquisitions, we have element not experienced resettlement action. There is no chance of resettlement at this time. Closure planning Strategy & Analysis No specific COP Every Fairmount location has element or is in the process of developing a site restoration plan, which take into account ongoing restoration activities leading up to the closure of any facilities. We also invest in long-life mines so that we do not enter and exit communities over a relatively short time frame. Grievance mechanisms and Stakeholder Engagement No specific COP procedures element Emergency Preparedness Community Investment No specific COP element Corruption Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Public policy Not material No specific COP element Anti-competitive behavior Ethics & Diversity No specific COP element Compliance Ethics & Diversity No specific COP Fairmount Minerals has formal element code of conduct guidelines. Our code of ethics is within these guidelines. Every employee is asked to review the guidelines and sign the code of ethics. Community SO1 Nature, scope, and Stakeholder Engagement No specific COP effectiveness of any programs Our stakeholder engagement element and practices that assess and practices help Fairmount manage the impacts of Minerals to develop siteoperations on communities, specific programs or projects including entering, operating, that address operational and exiting. impacts. We intend to increasingly provide more information about our impact assessments over the next five years. MM6 Number and description of We do not have any disputes No specific COP significant disputes relating to related to land use to report. element land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance We do not have any disputes No specific COP mechanisms were used to related to land use to report. element resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. Artisanal and small-scale mining MM8 Number (and percentage) or We do not operate any No specific COP company operating sites where artisanal or small-scale mines. element artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. Resettlement MM9 Sites where resettlements took We do not have any No specific COP place, the number of resettlements to report. element households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Closure planning MM10 Number and percentage of Strategy & Analysis No specific COP operations with closure plans. Every Fairmount location has element or is in the process of developing a site restoration plan, which take into account ongoing restoration activities leading up to the closure of any facilities. We also invest in long-life mines so that we do not enter and exit communities over a relatively short time frame. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Zero business units have been Outcomes from business units analyzed for anaylzed for corruption risks. implementing risks related to corruption. We provide all Fairmount Principle 10 Minerals family members with a copy of our Code of Ethics, which outlines our expectations relative to ethical behavior. We do not conduct specific analysis related to risks for corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees We provide all Fairmount Outcomes from trained in organization’s antiMinerals family members with a implementing corruption policies and copy of our Code of Ethics, Principle 10 procedures. which outlines our expectations relative to ethical behavior. SO4 Actions taken in response to We do not have any incidents Actions taken to incidents of corruption. to report. implement Principle 10 Non-discrimination SO5 Public policy positions and Our participation in public Actions taken to participation in public policy policy development occurs implement development and lobbying. through our involvement with Principles 1-10 trade associations, including the Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA). SO6 Total value of financial and inWe do not have any political Outcomes from kind contributions to political contributions to report. implementing parties, politicians, and related Principle 10 institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions We do not have any legal No specific COP for anti-competitive behavior, issues to report. element anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant We comply with all relevant No specific COP fines and total number of nonlaws and regulations. element monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2010 REPORT UNGC ELEMENT DMA PR Disclosure on Management Properity, Planet, 2010 Bold Actions taken to Approach PR Goals implement Principles 1 and 8 Materials stewardship Innovation, Superior Products No specific COP element Customer health and safety Superior Products No specific COP element Product and service labelling Superior Products No specific COP element Marketing communications Superior Products No specific COP element Customer privacy Not material No specific COP element Compliance Superior Products No specific COP element Materials stewardship MM11 Programs and progress relating Innovation, Superior Products No specific COP to materials stewardship. Our innovation process element includes a sustainable development product charter, which defines criteria assessing environmental and social impacts of our products and processes. Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which Innovation, Superior Products Actions taken and health and safety impacts of outcomes from products and services are implementing assessed for improvement, and Principle 1 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of We comply with all product Outcomes from non-compliance with regulations and voluntary implementing regulations and voluntary codes codes. Principle 1 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service We require and provide Actions taken and information required by Material Safety Data Sheets outcomes from procedures, and percentage of (MSDS) to ensure employees, implementing significant products and customers and emergency Principle 8 services subject to such personnel have the information information requirements. and procedures necessary for handling or working with substances in a safe manner. PR4 Total number of incidents of We comply with all regulations Outcomes from non-compliance with and voluntary codes implementing regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Principle 8 concerning product and service information and labeling. information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Stakeholder Engagement No specific COP satisfaction, including results of While we frequently engage element surveys measuring customer with stakeholders through satisfaction. various methods, we do not have customer survey data available at this time. We intend to provide customer satisfaction survey data in our 2011 report. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to While we do not have a No specific COP laws, standards, and voluntary specific program, we ensure element codes related to marketing that our marketing communications, including communications meet all laws, advertising, promotion, and standards and voluntary codes, sponsorship. especially as it pertains to sustainability claims. PR7 Total number of incidents of We comply with all regulations No specific COP non-compliance with and voluntary codes element regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing concerning marketing communications. communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated We do not have any breaches Outcomes from complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or data to implementing of customer privacy and losses report. Principle 1 of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant We comply with all laws and No specific COP fines for non-compliance with regulations concerning the element laws and regulations provision and use of products concerning the provision and and services. use of products and services. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU DEAR FAIRMOUNT FAMILY MEMBERS AND FRIENDS, Strategy/Profile Home Welcome to our fifth annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Strategy & Analysis Five years into our journey, we have learned, changed and grown a great deal. While Sustainability remains a key priority for our business, we encourage businesses to adopt sustainable strategies for within our industry and across the markets we serve. Our Organization Profile strong sustainability foundation has enabled Fairmount Minerals to chart a path for a Governance strong future. Collaborations Our core values guide who we are and what we do, and in 2010 Fairmount Minerals was Awards & Recognition delighted to focus on our celebration principle. The past year gave us many reasons to celebrate, chief amongst them our successes related to People, Planet and Prosperity 2010 Performance (3P’s). We grew our Fairmount family by approximately 20 percent to over 600, and their good work resulted in a 97.4 percent completion of our 2010 sustainability goals. In 2011 Bold Goals particular, we met a longstanding goal of our organization, with more than 500 family members participating in volunteer activity. Based on our January 2010 headcount, every Fairmount family member donated time and energy to a charitable cause. This represents DOWNLOAD REPORT one of the most significant and proud moments in our organizational history. Full Report We also celebrated the ways in which sustainable development adds value through Strategy/Profile Section enhanced prosperity. Since 2009, we have tracked data related to cost savings and revenue associated with sustainability efforts. From waste elimination to energy efficiency Only to wellness initiatives and more, we find that sustainable development pays. As a result Need Adobe Reader? of Fairmount Minerals’ unequivocal commitment to sustainable projects, we generated more than $9.3 million in value in 2010, which — while impressive — is but a supplement to the immeasurable intangible value our sustainability commitments create. SEARCH Our strength as a business is inherently linked to our sustainability strategy. This proved evident in 2010 when we sold a majority stake in our company to American Securities, a private equity firm that values long-term relationships with its investment companies. When we recognized a need to create liquidity for our retirement fund and longstanding shareholders, we sought out a partner that shared our commitment to sustainable development. Fairmount Minerals’ ability to proactively manage social and environmental risks and extract value from sustainability opportunities helped to position our organization as an attractive investment. For Fairmount Minerals, our new partnership with American Securities not only offers liquidity and diversification for shareholders, but it also presents access to an experienced management resource group and financial capital. As we prepare for growth in 2011, Fairmount Minerals will continue to explore the ways in which we can support sustainable solutions to global challenges. We are proud of the products we are bringing to market — products that support global water resources and products that support an industry bringing natural gas, a cleaner and abundant fuel source, to the domestic market. Over the next year, we will continue to build up capacity and expand R&D to ensure we meet our customers’ needs while, at the same time, increasing our participation in activities spanning all 3 P’s. This growth will be ushered in by a new generation of leadership who are sincerely committed to advancing Fairmount Minerals’ sustainable practices. We look forward to further engaging our stakeholders and introducing our newest Fairmount family members to Appreciative Inquiry at our summit in late 2011. Fundamentally, Appreciative Inquiry is about acknowledging the best in people and organizations and building upon strengths. We are rooted in a commitment to our people, our planet and our prosperity — and it is with deep gratitude that we look forward to a future made brighter, bolder, and stronger because of it. Sincerely, Chuck Fowler 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU STRATEGY & ANALYSIS Strategy/Profile Home Fairmount Minerals’ strategy for the future is rooted in the strength of our past. We are committed to delivering value in a way that addresses key sustainability issues Strategy & Analysis while improving our social, environmental and economic footprint. This strategy has Organization Profile proven effective as, in 2010, we were prepared to quickly and effectively respond when key markets rapidly rebounded beyond pre-recession levels. Governance Collaborations KEY IMPACTS Awards & Recognition 2010 Performance Fairmount Minerals recognizes the inherent social and environmental impacts we create as a mining and mineral processing company. We address the unique hazards of the mining industry through 2011 Bold Goals comprehensive policies and management systems in the areas of environment, health and safety, and stakeholder engagement. Our sustainable development team structure enables Fairmount Minerals to manage and leverage specific sustainability challenges as opportunities, including energy conservation, DOWNLOAD REPORT sustainable water use, waste reduction, and safety. Full Report Our industrial sand products contribute to broad societal needs addressed by the markets we serve. Over the past five years, Fairmount Minerals’ focus on sustainable development has elevated our perspective on Strategy/Profile Section opportunities related to global social and environmental needs. We have taken incremental steps to Only strategically position ourselves in the natural gas and water management industries, where our products and services enable efficient and sustainable production and use of these important resources. Need Adobe Reader? Fairmount Minerals represents a significant employer in many of the communities where we operate. Our strategic investments in long-life mines enable Fairmount Minerals to develop extensive site plans, taking SEARCH into account social responsibility, environmental stewardship and economic development within our local communities. At the same time, our operations create prosperity that drives economic growth and affords Fairmount Minerals with the opportunity to respond to social causes through our community investment activities. KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Fairmount Minerals’ progressive strategy for sustainability allows us to integrate environmental, social and economic analysis into our fundamental approach to business. This holistic perspective fosters a broader view of our key sustainability impacts, enabling Fairmount Minerals to proactively assess risks and opportunities in a way that creates sustainable value. In the future, we anticipate that growing global energy and water demand will strengthen the need for the sustainable products and services we offer. We are subject to compliance specifically related to risks within the mining industry, including environmental protection and safety. Changes in the regulatory environment have the potential to increase our costs or create operational delays. Fairmount Minerals proactively addresses these risks by monitoring the regulatory landscape and taking steps to go beyond compliance with today’s environmental and safety standards. Regulatory changes also present challenges and opportunities in the key markets we serve. Should proposed legislation calling for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and mandated disclosures pass, our downstream customers could see increased operational costs associated with natural gas production. Natural gas represents an increasingly important and abundant domestic fuel source that is cleaner than oil and coal. Should growing prosperity in developing countries increase global energy demand consistent with most forecasts, Fairmount Minerals will be well positioned within the natural gas market to maximize opportunities associated with this critical fuel source. On the water side, more stringent water quality standards proposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may drive growth in the water treatment and filtration market, which presents opportunities for our products. As demand for water emerges as an increasingly significant and complex global issue, we see opportunities to deliver solutions that support sustainable use of this precious resource. Like others within the mining industry, we understand our vulnerability to potential risks associated with climate change. Should extreme weather events become a more significant outcome of a shifting climate, our physical assets and human resources may be affected in a way that interrupts production. We have an opportunity to ensure our people and properties are prepared to deal with such challenges by continuing our emergency response training activities and expanding our disaster relief preparedness efforts. Furthermore, the effects of climate change regulation may create energy price volatility and security of supply challenges. To the extent that we can improve the efficiency of our operations and diversify our primary sources of energy, we have an opportunity to mitigate these potential challenges. Understanding and addressing the macro social and environmental issues affecting our business enables Fairmount Minerals to remain strong and competitive. Our strategy for sustainability helps frame the key issues where we can make a difference from a social, environmental and economic perspective — and this gives us a decisive advantage. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU ORGANIZATION PROFILE Strategy/Profile Home Fairmount Minerals is one of the largest industrial sand producers in the United States. We supply industrial sand and related products to a vast array of markets and Strategy & Analysis industries, including foundry, oil and gas, turf and landscape, water filtration, glass, Organization Profile construction, industrial, and retail markets. Governance Headquartered in Chardon, Ohio, Fairmount Minerals’ global operations include 18 mining, mineral Collaborations processing and manufacturing coating facilities and 6 administrative and R&D offices. In 2010, Fairmount Minerals’ ownership structure changed when New York-based private equity firm American Securities Awards & Recognition acquired a majority stake in the company. The transaction enabled Fairmount Minerals to diversify the holdings of our employee pension plan, provide liquidity for long-term investors and create opportunities for 2010 Performance future access to capital. 2011 Bold Goals In partnership wih our new investors, Fairmount Minerals will continue to serve our people — the roots of our success. The Fairmount Minerals family grew in 2010 to include more than 600 talented individuals who support and enable our continued growth. DOWNLOAD REPORT Full Report Strategy/Profile Section Only Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH MISSION AND PRINCIPLES Fairmount Minerals’ mission to exceed all expectations while fulfilling our economic, social and environmental responsibilities grounds everything we do as an organization. Our core principles — the guiding values that strengthen Fairmount Minerals — orient our vision for sustainability and provide the foundation upon which we make decisions that affect People, Planet and Prosperity. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU Strategy/Profile Home Strategy & Analysis Organization Profile Governance Collaborations Awards & Recognition 2010 Performance GOVERNANCE 2011 Bold Goals Fairmount Minerals is governed by a seven-person Board of Directors, with one executive, two independent and four shareholder members (three of whom are representatives from American Securities). Board members are selected based on an DOWNLOAD REPORT internal review process as well as feedback from independent business partners. The Full Report Board has three standing committees — Compensation, Audit and Executive — that Strategy/Profile Section provide strategic counsel and oversight to the company. Our Board members act in Only accordance with our conflict of interest policy, which has been in existence since the formation of our Board. Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU Strategy/Profile Home Strategy & Analysis Organization Profile Governance Collaborations Awards & Recognition 2010 Performance COLLABORATIONS 2011 Bold Goals Our partnerships and collaborations strengthen our ability to move toward a more sustainable future. As participants in the United Nations Global Compact, our actions are grounded in a set of universal principles — human rights, labor standards, the DOWNLOAD REPORT environment, and ethical behavior. We commit to supporting and following the core Full Report values espoused by the Global Compact in our operations as well as through our Strategy/Profile Section participation in industry and professional organizations. We are pleased to learn from Only and participate in the following organizations: Need Adobe Reader? American Chemistry Council Crystalline Silica Panel American Foundry Society American Institute of Chemical Engineers SEARCH American Petroleum Institute American Red Cross American Society for Quality American Society of Safety Engineers American Water Works Association Baldwin Wallace Institute for Sustainable Business Practice Business as an Agent of World Benefit Center Casting Industry Supplier Association Foundry Educational Foundation Geauga Growth Partnership Golf Course Builders Association of America Golf Course Superintendents Association of America Industrial Minerals Association of North America International Society of Mine Safety Professionals Marcellus Shale Coalition National Association of Manufacturers National Freight Transportation Association National Industrial Sand Association National Plasterers Council National Safety Council North American Rail Shippers Northwest and Southwest Michigan Sustainable Business Forums Saving Birds Thru Habitat Society for Human Resources Management Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration Society for Petroleum Engineers Synthetic Turf Council United Nations Global Compact U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development U.S. Chamber of Commerce Water Environment Federation Western Wisconsin Land Conservancy Wildlife Habitat Council 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU Strategy/Profile Home Strategy & Analysis Organization Profile Governance Collaborations Awards & Recognition 2010 Performance AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 2011 Bold Goals Fairmount Minerals’ commitment to sustainable development guides everything that we do. We are proud to be recognized for our efforts to fully express our mission and principles and are delighted to have received the following honors in 2010: DOWNLOAD REPORT Crain’s Leading EDGE Awards Full Report Fast Track 50 Strategy/Profile Section NEO Success Awards Only Weatherhead 100 (Centurion) Project Love: Malden Mills Corporate Kindness Award Need Adobe Reader? Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) Community Relations Award SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU Strategy/Profile Home Strategy & Analysis Organization Profile Governance Collaborations Awards & Recognition 2010 Performance 2010 PERFORMANCE 2011 Bold Goals Fairmount Minerals’ future strength is rooted in our ability to deliver on our sustainability commitments. In 2010, we met 97.4 percent of our sustainable development goals. From innovation sessions to waste reduction programs, we came DOWNLOAD REPORT together as an organization to successfully complete a wide range of activities that Full Report support our environmental, social and economic responsibilities. Strategy/Profile Section Only Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH We will be a leader in education and communication. DESCRIPTION SD GROUP PERFORMANCE TREND COMMENTS Further define opportunities for Business We signed a innovative collaboration. Develop Innovation license agreement one long-term partnership. and a four-year development project with two universities in 2010. Collaborate with academic or Clean Water We have partnered business partners to develop a with two academic new and unique water filtration or institutions to treatment technology. explore water filtration and pretreatment opportunities. Conduct communications survey to Communications Our Print Less. identify ideal communication Know More. vehicles. Campaign enabled us to identify potential communications vehicles that we can transition to electronic format in the near future. Ensure that 100% of Sustainable Communications All teams utilized Development teams will host at videoconference least one video conference. technology in 2010. Provide support to Case Western Communications Although we Reserve University as the completed a secretariat for the UN Global survey for the Compact. Global Compact in 2010, we continue to search for opportunities to enhance and strengthen its footprint in the United States. Create an online forum that tracks Eco-Efficiency Created intranet on-site solar energy production site that enables and offers education on clean employees to view energy and future projects. solar energy production in real time. Launch a talent development pilot Fairmount We developed an program. Minerals employee University orientation (FML U) program in 2010, which will be launched in early 2011. Partner with the HR department to Fairmount A partnership was enhance the talent management Minerals forged through program in the following areas: University participation in the talent acquisition, talent (FML U) CorpU-in-a-Box development, and learning and program, which will succession planning. be jointly created, enhanced and managed. Conduct benchmarking research to Fairmount Completed goal identify exceptional talent Minerals and worked with development and learning University external partner for programs and bring best practices (FML U) additional from those programs back to benchmarking Fairmount Minerals. survey and results information. Earn a minimum of one grant Quest Received $5,000 project related to the mission of the grant from IMA-NA QUEST Team. for Pine Creek restoration project. Conduct one environmental-related Quest Projects completed project per region. in every region. Achieve Wildlife Habitat and/or Quest We applied for and Saving Birds Thru Habitat received or certification at all FML sites by recertified more 2015. In 2010, 20% of FML sites than 20% of our will achieve WHC or SBTH facilities. certification. Promote waste reduction by Recover, Facilities in each of hosting community recycling Recycle, Reuse our regions hosted events in each FML region. (3R) community recycling events or activities this year. We will be a leader in health and safety. DESCRIPTION SD GROUP PERFORMANCE TREND COMMENTS Identify a partner to help support Clean Water Fairmount Minerals Aqua Clara's mission. continues to support Aqua Clara by identifying and pursuing mission-enhancing partnerships. Implement a company-wide Health and We launched our Children's Wellness Program. Wellness new Children's Wellness Program across all Fairmount facilities in 2010. Conduct a Fruit and Veggie Bowl Health and We tracked competition to encourage healthy Wellness 600,419 servings nutrition across organization. of fruit and Consume a total of 500,000 vegetables in servings of fruit and vegetables in 2010. 2010. Enhance the health and wellness Health and In 2010, we of our extended Fairmount family Wellness expanded our by increasing spouse participation wellness program in the FML Wellness Program to to cover Fairmount 60%. family members and their spouses. More than 54% of the spouses chose to participate in the first year. Our annual healthcare spend will Health and Fairmount Minerals be 10% below industry trend. Wellness has achieved an average trend increase of 7.38% compared to the industry average increase of 12.33%. Achieve one million consecutive Safety We achieved our safe work hours as a total longest period of company. safety performance with 811,338 consecutive safe working hours in 2010. Achieve a lower safety incident rate Safety Our safety incident than industry peers as a company rate is below that in 2010. of our industry. Expand our observation-based Safety Eighty-seven safety (OBS) program to all our percent of our US operating facilities in the United and Canadian States and Canada. facilities employ an observation-based safety program. Register FML to OSHAS18000 by Safety Twenty percent of 2015. In 2010, we will have 20% of our program is in the program in place. place. We will be a leader in the development of sustainable products and processes. DESCRIPTION SD GROUP PERFORMANCE TREND COMMENTS Create a Best Practice culture by Best Practices Developed and 2013. In 2010, the Best Practice delivered team will develop a list of criteria presentations on and techniques for the best practices to identification of Best Practices both sustainable internally and externally. development team leadership. 1) Conduct one innovation Business As a result of the assembly in each FML region and Innovation innovation track at least two projects through assemblies held in the innovation program structure. each region, we 2) Implement innovation center identified and concept. implemented two key projects in 2010. We also launched our new innovation center, bringing R&D and testing into one location. Work with Aqua Clara to develop a Clean Water We continue to reactor tracking system for new support Aqua and existing installations. Clara as it expands its presence in developing countries, where potable water resources are limited. Launch five new sustainable Environmentally We launched or products or processes in 2010. Responsible introduced more Products and than five products Processes and processes that improve our sustainable footprint. Register or achieve compliance Environmentally We added four with ISO14001 at all FML facilities Responsible facilities to our list by 2014. In 2010, we will have Products and of ISO14001 60% of the Fairmount facilities ISO Processes certified or 14000 registered or compliant. compliant locations in 2010. Implement a bulk bag reuse Sustainable We successfully program for 30% of 2009 bulk bag Supply Chain expanded the bulk volume shipped. bag reuse program to include customers in 2010. Nearly 23% of the bulk bag volume shipped included the reusable bags, and we intend to expand the reusable bulk bag program over the next year. Provide all FML facilities with a Sustainable We created a sustainable reference guide to help Supply Chain reference sheet for increase the quantity of purchases facilities to help from sustainable organizations. them identify and purchase from suppliers with high sustainability scores. 1) Provide all inventory suppliers Sustainable 1) We contacted with their current SD Index Score Supply Chain inventory suppliers and offer the opportunity to update to share their their information. score and request 2) Increase the percentage of updated inventory spend with sustainable information. suppliers by 10% versus 2009. 2) We increased 3) Deliver at least one purchases with sustainability training session for suppliers that meet our suppliers. our criteria for sustainable vendors. 3) We did not deliver a sustainability training session to our suppliers. We will invest our time, talents and treasure to enhance our communities, locally and globally. DESCRIPTION SD GROUP PERFORMANCE TREND COMMENTS Conduct a company-wide skills Corporate Social We conducted our assessment survey to help launch Responsibility employee skills a skill-based volunteerism survey and campaign. Target an employee received a 45% response rate of at least 50%. response rate. Expand our Disaster Relief Corporate Social We have created program by creating one new Responsibility Disaster Relief Disaster Relief Team in Southern Teams in our Region. major regions and focused 2010 charitable giving on emergency response organizations. Every facility will conduct a Corporate Social Every facility volunteer Day of Caring on or near Responsibility hosted a volunteer September 11, 2010. Day of Caring with activities including, blood drives, fundraising spaghetti dinners and clean-up projects. Our investments of time, talent and Corporate Social By our count, treasure will touch one million lives Responsibility Fairmount by 2020. In 2010, we will touch Minerals' 100,000 lives. philanthropic activities touched more than 700,000 lives in 2010. We will achieve 100% participation Corporate Social Every Fairmount in employee paid volunteerism. Responsibility family member (based on January 2010 headcount) participated in some sort of volunteer activity in 2010. We will reach 10,000 paid Corporate Social We logged more volunteer hours. Responsibility than 8,600 hours of volunteer time. We will optimize assets and conserve resources. DESCRIPTION SD GROUP PERFORMANCE TREND COMMENTS Corporate Best Practice Team will Best Practices Our best practice implement three projects in the teams completed areas of safety, quality and projects including production. improved downtime statistics, benchmarking tours with industry peers, and a loading enhancement initiative. Reduce paper-based mailings by Communications We decreased the 20% versus the 2009 baseline. number of printed mailings by 45% in 2010 over 2009 totals. Track all new motor purchases to Eco-Efficiency A motor ensure high-efficiency standards as replacement and defined by the FML motor repair policy was replacement initiative. developed and distributed to all facility maintenance and engineering personnel. Implement an alternative energy Eco-Efficiency We identified a project in 2011. In 2010, research second solar and identify an alternative energy energy project for project. Fairmount Minerals at one of our Wisconsin facilities and will strive to complete it in 2011. Support regional energy reduction Eco-Efficiency We have shared initiatives through best practice our lighting retrofit sharing by team members. experience at Chardon with other facilities that will implement energy efficient lighting projects in 2011. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Eco-Efficiency We reduced per unit of product sold by 10% of greenhouse gas 2009 levels by 2015. In 2010, we emissions by 7.5% will reduce greenhouse gas in 2010 compared emissions (normalized) per unit of to 2009 levels. product sold by 2%. One hundred percent of FMLEnvironmentally We continue to owned computers will meet internal Responsible phase in standards for environmental Products and computers that are responsibility by 2014. In 2010, we Processes more energy will increase environmentally efficient, recyclable friendly computers to 40%. and free of heavy metals than traditional equipment. Sequester all FML Scope 1 and 2 Quest Sequestered all greenhouse gas emissions in Scope 1 & 2 GHG 2010. emissions by planting more than 44,935 trees and 13 acres of grass. Reduce FML's disturbed land by Quest We restored 17 2.5%. acres in 2010. Develop an invasive species Quest Plans complete for removal plan by 2015. In 2010, Chardon, Wedron, 20% of FML Sites will have a WISC-Maiden completed plant inventory list and Rock, WISC-Hager developed a removal plan. City, Menomonie, Roff, and Wexford. Sequester all greenhouse gas Quest In 2010, we emissions (Scopes 1-3) by 2020. determined In 2010, establish Scope 3 methodology for greenhouse gas emissions levels calculating Scope at 20% of FML facilities. 3 greenhouse gas emissions from employee travel. More than 20% of the Fairmount family submitted mileage information relative to work commutes. Fairmount Minerals will be zero Recover, In 2010, we waste by 2015 through 20% Recycle, Reuse increased our total increments per year. recycled waste and reduced scrap sand. In the next year, we intend to establish a consistent method for tracking total waste and share best practices on waste elimination. Reduce demurrage at FML plants Transportation We implemented and terminals through improvements to improvements to inbound and improve logistics, outbound logistics. resulting in reduced demurrage. Update loading and unloading Transportation We reviewed and procedures to improve efficiency updated our and reduce costs. loading and unloading procedures in 2010. Identify, implement, and improve Transportation We implemented the economics of car cleaning car cleaning procedures for each loading procedures at facility. each loading facility and loading terminal. For those locations that still require outside assistance, we identified local cleaning sites to reduce mileage traveled for cleaning. Increase gross weights on rail for Transportation We found ways to at least 10% of all freight-collect increase the customers. amount of product on railcars to reduce the total number of railcars traveling and the associated emissions and fuel use. Collaborate with the Best Practice Transportation We put procedures Loading Team to improve loading in place at each practices at all facilities and reduce facility in fugitive dust and track-out sand. collaboration with Best Practice Loading Team. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY STRATEGY/PROFILE MENU 2011 BOLD GOALS Strategy/Profile Home Throughout 2011, Fairmount Minerals’ Sustainable Development teams will continue to advance our positive sustainability impacts. Together with Fairmount Minerals’ Strategy & Analysis Sustainable Development Advisory Council, our team leaders identified 44 goals for Organization Profile 2011 that build upon our strong history of sustainable performance and move us in the direction of a strong, positive future. Governance Collaborations 3R Awards & Recognition BOLD GOALS 2010 Performance Achieve zero waste to a landfill by 2015 through annual waste reductions of 20%. 2011 Bold Goals Hold one recycling event in each Fairmount Minerals region. DOWNLOAD REPORT Full Report Best Practice Strategy/Profile Section BOLD GOALS Only Improve downtime by 5% through identification and implementation of best practices. Need Adobe Reader? Improve appearance at facilities by 10% according to best practice criteria. SEARCH Business Innovation BOLD GOALS Expand innovation program to external stakeholders through at least one outreach activity quarterly. Explore and incorporate at least one innovation opportunity within our businesses and facilities that demonstrates SD Pays. Explore and develop at least four partnerships that support sustainable innovation. Clean Water BOLD GOALS Educate Fairmount family members on sustainable water use. Define water footprint process and implement at two manufacturing facilities in 2011. Identify potential partners to help address water solutions for natural gas production. Verify Aqua Clara’s performance on annual goals. Communications BOLD GOALS Reduce paper mailings by 45% over 2009 baseline. Design and launch the Fairmount Minerals Individual Sustainability Plan program. Eco-Efficiency BOLD GOALS Reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a per ton basis by 2% annually. Implement at least one alternative energy project at a Fairmount Minerals facility. Provide energy conservation education to Fairmount family members. ERPP BOLD GOALS Introduce five new sustainable products and/or processes. Achieve ISO14001 registration or compliance at two Fairmount Minerals facilities in 2011. Increase the number of computers that meet internal standards for environmental sustainability by 12% in 2011 (over 2010 numbers). Fairmount Minerals University (FML U) BOLD GOALS Test and then launch Fairmount family member onboarding program. Select a framework for FML U structure. Design and conduct 2011 AI Summit. Health and Wellness BOLD GOALS Implement new wellness program focused on health driven goals. Sixty percent of all wellness program participants will improve or maintain a healthy body composition. Host one kids activity day in each Fairmount Minerals region. Our annual healthcare spend will be 10% below industry trend. QUEST BOLD GOALS Seventy-five percent of all Fairmount Minerals locations will complete a plant inventory list and develop a removal/management plan by 2012. Offset 2010 Scope1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions. Hold one environmental event in every Fairmount Minerals region. Partner with transportation team to track and calculate Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Fifty percent of all Fairmount Minerals locations will be Wildlife Habitat Council or Saving Birds Thru Habitat certified in 2011. Safety BOLD GOALS Achieve one million consecutive safe work hours. Achieve a 10% lower safety incident rate than industry peers in 2011. Hold 10 Safety & Health Committee Meetings per facility incorporating: — Near miss reporting — Observational-based safety successes — Silicosis prevention Complete 40% of OHSAS registration project plan in 2011. Social Responsibility BOLD GOALS Achieve 100% completion of the total paid volunteer time pledge. Launch skilled volunteerism pilot program. Sustainable Supply Chain BOLD GOALS Increase participation in bulk bag recycling program by 10% in 2011. Explore and recommend inbound material transportation changes to improve our environmental footprint. Transportation BOLD GOALS Improve private car reloads by 25%. Improve accuracy of car number reporting by 25%. Establish a system to track carriers in compliance with CSA 2010. Plant Goals BOLD GOAL Established a total of 433 individual plant goals. SD Pays BOLD GOAL Each team and facility will calculate savings and ensure full value is captured. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU People Home Exceptional Workplace Training & Education Employee Awards & Recognition Safety PEOPLE Health & Wellness The strength of Fairmount Minerals today and tomorrow is fundamentally rooted in our Ethics & Diversity people and the relationships we create. We celebrate the 610 unique individuals who comprise the Fairmount family and enable our organization’s growth. To create an Community Investment engaging, thriving workplace, Fairmount Minerals makes safety, health and wellness, and community engagement management priorities. DOWNLOAD REPORT Full Report People Section Only Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU People Home Exceptional Workplace Training & Education Employee Awards & Recognition Safety EXCEPTIONAL WORKPLACE Health & Wellness Attracting and retaining the best people makes Fairmount Minerals strong. We strive Ethics & Diversity to build a gratifying workplace where Fairmount family members are respected and feel valued for their contributions. Fairmount Minerals provides compensation for our Community Investment family members that is competitive with relevant markets. We offer benefits to fulltime family members, including a medical and dental benefits package, 401(k), a wellness incentive program, safety bonus programs, and, often include, incentive DOWNLOAD REPORT bonuses. Full Report We believe our commitment to creating an appreciative culture contributes to our 86 percent retention rate, People Section Only which is higher than the 73 percent average for the manufacturing industry and 67 percent average for the mining industry. In 2010 we continued to build a best practice organization by developing a list of criteria Need Adobe Reader? and techniques for the identification of best practices in the areas of safety, quality and production. By creating an environment where excellence is valued, we help to foster an exceptional workplace. SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU People Home Exceptional Workplace Training & Education Employee Awards & Recognition Safety TRAINING & EDUCATION Health & Wellness The strength of our business even in times of economic volatility demonstrates the Ethics & Diversity resilience and expertise of our global workforce. Fairmount Minerals is committed to providing our people with opportunities to expand their skills, engage in unique Community Investment learning opportunities and excel in their work. Our management approach to talent development includes training sessions for key functional areas, professional certifications and tuition reimbursement for full-time Fairmount family members DOWNLOAD REPORT enrolled in undergraduate or graduate programs. Full Report The Fairmount Minerals University team partnered with human resources in 2010 to review and enhance People Section Only our talent development efforts. Employee orientation emerged as an area where Fairmount Minerals could leverage education to strengthen our culture and performance. We created a new orientation program to Need Adobe Reader? provide recent hires with an introduction to the Fairmount Minerals culture and developed a re-orientation presentation for current family members who want to refresh and update their Fairmount knowledge. An SEARCH employee engagement survey will enable us to monitor the effectiveness of the programs and allow our family members to provide feedback. We also focused on researching exceptional talent development and learning programs within other organizations. To further enhance our talent development practices, Fairmount Minerals will implement a corporate university program. Over the next year, we will work with a partner to develop a learning framework based on 12 dimensions of learning excellence. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU EMPLOYEE AWARDS & RECOGNITION People Home Recognizing exceptional performance is core to the Fairmount Minerals culture. Our talent can be distinguished by a sincere commitment to Exceptional Workplace excellence and a desire to acknowledge great work. Our award and Training & Education recognition program enables Fairmount family members to recognize one another for outstanding performance and celebrate their Employee Awards & achievements. Open nominations for distinction in sustainable Recognition development are accepted on a rolling basis. An external committee proposes finalists for the annual Fairmount Mineral’s Sustainable Safety Development Employee of the Year award. Our 2010 winners include: Health & Wellness Best Sand Company: Mike Anderson Bridgman Lake: Lee Stachurski Ethics & Diversity Bridgman Resin: Jason Alexander Wexford Sand Company: Norma Kangas Community Investment Technisand — Wedron: Kevin Cummings Lakeshore Sand Company: Mirsada Suljic Wedron Silica Company: Andy Mucci DOWNLOAD REPORT Technisand — Troy Grove: Richard Peradotti WISC — Menomonie: Michele Maxson Full Report WISC — Maiden Rock: Danielle Dahms People Section Only WISC — Hager City: Greg Buckner WISC — Bay City: Dave Townsend Need Adobe Reader? Technisand — Roff: Joe Gordon Technisand — Fresno: James Duncan Mineral Visions: Chris Harden SEARCH Corporate/Administration Group: Ellen Anderson Sales/Customer Service Group: Brenda Wright Technology Group: Robert Selzer Ottawa Innovation Center: Janice Abell Santrol: Nicole Rafferty Santrol Yixing: Rose Sun (孙湘红) BILL CONWAY FOUNDER’S AWARD The 2010 Founder’s Award winner, Richard Peradotti, is a long-time Fairmount Minerals family member from our Troy Grove, Illinois facility. Richard embodies the qualities of exceptional service and community commitment through his many volunteer activities and positive attitude. He demonstrates a special dedication to children, volunteering to build playgrounds and supports several March of Dimes fundraising projects that promote healthy babies and pregnancies. Richard also contributes his time when it comes to environmental efforts — whether it is an Adopt-a-Highway program or local river clean-up. We are delighted to recognize Richard Peradotti for his extraordinary community service and contributions to Fairmount Minerals. Congratulations, Richard! 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU SAFETY People Home Fairmount Minerals’ safety program is rooted in the belief that every single Fairmount family member deserves to work in an environment Exceptional Workplace that promotes and supports safety. We recognize that we are at our Training & Education best when our family members feel empowered and safe. Fairmount Minerals’ approach to safety follows a comprehensive program aligned Employee Awards & with the internationally recognized Occupational Health and Safety Recognition Assessment Series standard OHSAS 18001. By 2015, Fairmount Minerals will register all facilities to OHSAS 18001. Safety In 2010, Fairmount Minerals achieved our longest period of consecutive safe working Health & Wellness hours. With 811,338 consecutive safe working hours across all Fairmount facilities, we came closer to our goal of 1 million consecutive safe working hours than ever before. We Ethics & Diversity attribute this improvement to Fairmount Minerals’ continued focus on a proactive safety culture, with safety coordinators in every region and a strengthened observational-based Community Investment safety program. Our 3.1 safety incident rate — lower than the 3.3 industry average — also reflects Fairmount Minerals’ commitment to continue to create a culture of safety. On target with our goal, we rolled out a peer-based observational safety program at all DOWNLOAD REPORT Fairmount Minerals facilities in 2010. The no name, no blame approach encourages Full Report family members to seek out both exceptional and risky behaviors. In Chardon, for example, we recorded an observation of a shut-off process that involved standing on a People Section Only pipe to reach a valve. Family members devised a simple solution in response to the observation that created a safer way to reach the valve through the installation of an Need Adobe Reader? extension arm. With a goal to hold 10 safety and health committee meetings per facility per year in which observational-based safety successes and silicosis prevention SEARCH programs are shared, we hope that these solutions will become an everyday norm and enhance the safety of our family. We continue our Bringing Safety Home program because we value safety for our family members both on the job and at home. One way we worked to elevate safety awareness is through the creation of a calendar sent home to our families complete with safety tips and reminders. The calendar included an added element of creativity with drawings from our family members’ children about what safety means to them. In 2011, we hope to certify 100 percent of our family members in First Aid and CPR, which will extend value and usefulness of the Bringing Safety Home program. SAVING LIVES THROUGH SAFETY It was hard to sleep that night worrying about it, Carolyn Rich said as she recounted that fateful day. If I hadn’t installed that carbon monoxide detector when I did I could have found my son and his girlfriend dead in my home. I get goose bumps just thinking about it. Carolyn, a lab technician at our Roff facility, won the combination carbon monoxide and smoke detector in a raffle at a safety meeting a couple of months prior. One day, as her son and his girlfriend were unpacking groceries, the detector began screaming for them to get to fresh air. They quickly shut off the gas and ran outside. Immediately following the incident, they replaced a faulty heater, which was the source of the problem. After that day, the Roff plant manager provided all family members at the facility with a carbon monoxide detector, something Carolyn explains everyone should have. You might be able to see and smell smoke from a fire, but not carbon monoxide. It’s a silent killer, she said. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY HEALTH & WELLNESS PEOPLE MENU HEALTH & WELLNESS People Home Strong companies are comprised of healthy, productive employees. Our strength as an organization is a direct reflection of our family Exceptional Workplace members’ personal health and wellness. Because we understand that Training & Education personal health is affected by the overall health of families and friends, we have expanded our wellness program to more completely address Employee Awards & personal health and wellness. This proactive approach to health and Recognition wellness not only supports our productivity, but it also contributes to significant cost savings. Fairmount Minerals strives to maintain medical Safety plan costs that are below industry trend, while still providing an exceptional program at affordable employee participation rates. Over Health & Wellness the past seven years, Fairmount Minerals has achieved an average Ethics & Diversity trend increase of 7.38 percent compared to the industry average increase of 12.33 percent. The trend adjusted per employee costs Community Investment resulted in savings of $7,219 for the 2010 plan year. We expanded our voluntary wellness program this year to cover children of our valued family members. The program, which provides incentives, personalized care plans, DOWNLOAD REPORT smoking cessation tools, gym membership reimbursements, bi-annual physicals, and Full Report other health and wellness tools, recorded a 68 percent employee participation rate. Although this is a small drop from previous participation rates, we are taking steps to People Section Only educate new Fairmount family members about joining the wellness program and making Need Adobe Reader? changes to the program that we expect to drive engagement. We are excited to embark upon new wellness goals for 2011. We look forward to rolling SEARCH out a new wellness program with informative road shows and health fairs. The program will provide financial incentives for participation in nutrition, stress, weight and exercise management while offering more education and awareness. A new wellness website will enable Fairmount family members to track their progress every step of the way, making it easy and fun to stay active and healthy. To achieve our goal of promoting children’s wellness, we held children’s health fairs at all Fairmount Minerals U.S. and Canadian locations. Recognizing the importance of educating our children on making healthy, informed decisions, we designed the health fairs to include body mass index (BMI) testing, diabetes and asthma information, fun games, and general wellness education. The success of these fairs tells us that we are on the right track and enables Fairmount Minerals to make a difference for our families and communities. FRUIT AND VEGGIE BOWL Each year, we work to create a fun wellness challenge that helps to raise awareness of nutrition and exercise. In 2010, we conducted the Fruit and Veggie Bowl, a competition designed to encourage family members to eat at least five servings of fruits and vegetables per day. From swapping out snacks at meetings with healthy alternatives to bringing farmers market produce to our facilities, Fairmount Minerals’ family members recorded consuming an astounding 600,000 servings of fruits and vegetables, which was 120 percent above our goal. To put that in perspective, we consumed the equivalent of 1,000 cubic feet of fruits and veggies — enough to fill 37 average size dump trucks. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU People Home Exceptional Workplace Training & Education Employee Awards & Recognition Safety ETHICS & DIVERSITY Health & Wellness As our global footprint continues to grow in the future, Fairmount Minerals remains Ethics & Diversity firmly committed to our core values. We adhere to the laws and regulations of the countries and communities in which we operate and hold ourselves to standards that Community Investment often go beyond those requirements. Fairmount Minerals supports and respects human rights, labor practices and ethical behavior consistent with the United Nations Global Compact. Regardless of cultural norms, customs or the absence of laws and DOWNLOAD REPORT regulations, we continue to uphold the same high expectations and standards for Full Report practice that are outlined in our Code of Ethics, which is translated into the primary People Section Only languages of all Fairmount Minerals locations. Need Adobe Reader? As we seek to add new members to the Fairmount Minerals family, we make our decisions based on skills and experience to meet the requirements of current and potential future roles. We embrace an employee family that does not discriminate based on age, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion, or other SEARCH indicators of diversity. We do not employ forced, bonded or child labor. We are strengthened by the diversity of thought, skill and experience that makes up our Fairmount family, and we encourage collaboration across the organization as a means of enhancing our collective performance. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEOPLE MENU COMMUNITY INVESTMENT People Home Fairmount Minerals’ success is firmly rooted in the success of our communities. Our neighbors play an important role in our business — Exceptional Workplace they afford us the social license to operate, which contributes to our Training & Education prosperity and supports future growth. In turn, we take pride in sustaining and enriching our communities. Employee Awards & In 2010, we met a longstanding goal of our organization, with more than 500 family Recognition members participating in volunteer activity. Based on our January 2010 headcount, every Fairmount family member donated time and energy to a charitable cause. All Fairmount Safety Minerals locations hosted a volunteer Day of Caring, which helped provide opportunities for our family members to get involved. Throughout the year, Fairmount family members Health & Wellness donated in excess of 8,600 hours of volunteer time by participating in activities including blood drives, roadside clean-ups, assisting the elderly, and hosting local fundraising Ethics & Diversity dinners. To help support a skill-based volunteerism campaign and connect family members to specific volunteer opportunities, we also launched a company-wide skills Community Investment assessment survey. We believe that we can leverage the skills of our family to meet specific needs in our communities. DOWNLOAD REPORT Every year, we aim to find an area of focus for our volunteer activity and charitable giving. In 2010, we focused on contributions to emergency services in every Fairmount Full Report Minerals community, donating more than $700,000 to local hospitals, fire departments People Section Only and emergency response teams. We also trained several Fairmount family members on disaster response protocol and local emergency management. Need Adobe Reader? Fairmount Minerals invested 1.55 percent of our pre-tax, pre-equity earnings to community organizations in 2010 and exceeded our goal of touching 100,000 lives. In SEARCH 2011 we hope to focus on education and give back to our communities through learning opportunities. REMEMBERING 9/11 In the decade following September 11, 2001, we have seen the profound effects of that tragic day. To memorialize the heroes of Flight 93 and those who lost their lives as a result of the terror attacks, Fairmount Minerals has partnered with The National Park Foundation to donate $10,000 to the Flight 93 National Memorial Fund. This gift will enable the Foundation to plant 150,000 new trees near the memorial in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Most of the trees planted will be part of a restoration effort on the site of a former coal mine, but a select few will be part of the memorial’s design and visible to an estimated 250,000 annual visitors. The Foundation is also exploring strategies to treat acid mine drainage for use as nonpotable gray water and transform retention ponds into natural habitats as part of its overall commitment to environmental stewardship. The memorial will be dedicated in September 2011, and Fairmount Minerals will be proud to attend the ceremony. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PLANET MENU Planet Home Energy & Climate Change Air Quality Clean Water Waste & Recycling PLANET Land Restoration Our business revolves around our ability to extract and utilize resources as sustainably as possible. Our strength is inherently tied to the environment. Fairmount DOWNLOAD REPORT Minerals makes environmental stewardship a fundamental element of the way we Full Report operate not only because it is critical to our prosperity, but because we haven’t inherited this earth — we’re borrowing it from our children. Planet Section Only Fairmount’s Sustainable Development Advisory Committee oversees a variety of volunteer-based teams Need Adobe Reader? that lead important projects involving land restoration, recycling, energy conservation, and water filtration, to name a few. Our approach to environmental responsibility is governed by a robust environmental management system aligned with the universal ISO 14001 standard. This system ensures Fairmount SEARCH Minerals maintains or exceeds compliance with environmental standards and regulations. In 2010, we added three new facilities to our list of ISO 14001 certified locations and one additional location achieved compliance. We will register or achieve ISO 14001 compliance at all Fairmount Minerals facilities by 2014. Our ISO 14001 certified or compliant locations include: Best Sand Bridgman Resin Bridgman Lake Fresno WISC — Bay City WISC — Maiden Rock WISC — Menomonie Technisand Roff Technisand Troy Grove Technisand Wedron Wexford Sand 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PLANET MENU ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE Planet Home Fairmount Minerals is committed to operating in a way that exceeds expectations in our social, environmental and economic responsibilities. Energy & Climate Change We know that energy use has global implications on all aspects of sustainable development, so taking action to improve our carbon Air Quality footprint supports not just the planet, but people and prosperity, too. As global economic growth drives increased energy demand and Clean Water associated greenhouse gas emissions, we have an opportunity to act in a way that helps our world follow a more sustainable course. Waste & Recycling Through alternative energy, Fairmount Minerals is finding ways to improve our Land Restoration environmental footprint. We are delighted to announce that our first solar panel installation went live at our Chardon facility in 2010, and we have plans to install a solar array at a second location in 2011. This reduces our dependence on electricity from coalDOWNLOAD REPORT fired power plants and enables us to take advantage of a renewable, clean fuel source. To keep our family members engaged with and informed about the benefits of alternative Full Report energy, we created an internal website where they can track solar energy production and Planet Section Only see its benefits. Need Adobe Reader? Even more significant in terms of energy impact are Fairmount Minerals’ energy efficiency efforts. In the past year, we implemented several projects to reduce our total energy consumption. By sharing best practices across Fairmount facilities, we successfully made SEARCH improvements in the following areas: Purchased 61 high efficiency motors to replace older, less efficient models Conducted a high efficiency lighting retrofit in Chardon that resulted in a 75 percent lighting energy reduction (will be implemented at other facilities in 2011) From a technology perspective, we also have opportunities to improve our impacts. As part of our goal to have 100 percent of our computers meet internal standards for environmental responsibility by 2014, we began to replace old laptops with new models that meet EPEAT Gold certification. This means that our computers are more energy efficient, recyclable and mercury-free. We think that is better for the environment and our family members. We also transitioned to thin client technology for our desktop computers, which reduces the need for multiple servers at every location and saves the associated heating and cooling costs — an estimated $110,000 in savings alone this past year. Another way that Fairmount Minerals addresses our carbon footprint is by considering our transportation impacts. We have identified and implemented best practices to improve the loading times of our trucks that come in and out of our facilities in order to reduce idling time. We are also working to reduce travel through several methods, including: Implementing a local rail car cleaning process to eliminate mileage from transporting cars to cleaning facilities Enhancing logistics to increase gross weights on rail by 10 percent to reduce the total number of rail cars used Increasing use of teleconferencing and videoconferencing technology to reduce workforce travel One of Fairmount Minerals’ ongoing commitments is to offset our carbon emissions on an annual basis. The QUEST team was successful once again in sequestering all Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by purchasing and planting trees at all Fairmount Minerals locations and making donations to the Arbor Day Foundation, American Forest Foundation and the National Park Foundation. We planted a total of 44,835 trees and 13 acres of grasslands. Although we have focused on Scope 1 and 2, we continue to look at ways that we can more fully measure and address Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions levels. In 2010, we successfully reduced our greenhouse gas intensity by 7.5 percent over the previous year. FUEL USE BY TYPE FUEL 2008 2009 2010 1% biodiesel (gallons) 0 52,080 81,010 10% biodiesel (gallons) 0 52,755 96,584 20% biodiesel (gallons) 190,377 157,964 89,823 5% biodiesel (gallons) 157,252 70,678 49,275 Diesel #2 (gallons) 374,003 276,422 438,647 Electricity (kW-hr) 83,040,306 74,801,633 94,066,443 Fuel #400 (gallons) 294,242 337,702 373,122 Gasoline (gallons) 24,622 30,243 29,756 Liquid Propane (gallons) 1,740,253 1,463,558 1,834,299 Natural Gas (MCF) 951,450 821,549 1,029,318 TOTAL FUEL USE BY FACILITY FACILITY 2008 TOTAL 2009 TOTAL 2010 TOTAL ENERGY ENERGY ENERGY (MMBTU) (MMBTU) (MMBTU) Best Sand (Chardon, OH) 185,984 141,638 157,933 Best Sand Southern 2,236 2,300 1,728 (Beaver, OH) Bridgman Lake 62,819 67,847 65,111 (Bridgman, MI) Fairmount Water N/A N/A 961 Solutions (Newbury, OH) Lakeshore Sand 44,123 26,613 23,636 (Hamilton, Ontario) Mineral Visions 25,947 8,343 5,252 (Ottawa, IL) Santrol de Mexico 6,340 13,533 34,074 (Monterrey, Mexico) Santrol Yixing Proppant N/A 3,708 18,320 (Yixing, China) TechniSand Bridgman 17,988 15,543 30,684 (Bridgman, MI) TechniSand Fresno 9,726 8,035 28,066 (Fresno, TX) TechniSand Roff 46,731 35,257 38,201 (Roff, OK) TechniSand Troy Grove 55,015 43,831 56,180 (Troy Grove, MI) TechniSand Wedron 33,229 55,377 97,400 (Wedron, IL) Wedron Silica 738,603 552,637 635,560 (Wedron, IL) Wexford Sand 68,001 65,347 85,990 (Harrietta, MI) WISC Hager City/Bay 46,012 86,600 125,412 City (Bay City, WI) WISC Maiden Rock 134,554 114,344 153,314 (Maiden Rock, WI) WISC Menomonie 23,617 91,743 115,137 (Menomonie, WI) Total 1,500,925 1,332,696 1,672,959 WISCONSIN FACILITY EARNS LEED GOLD In 2010, Fairmount Minerals’ Wisconsin Industrial Sand facility in Menomonie, Wisconsin, earned Gold Certification through the U.S. Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Green Building Rating System. The building is the first structure located on an active aggregate mine site to receive LEED certification, and it is one of only a handful of LEED-certified structures in western Wisconsin. The main design themes of the project, Earth and reclamation, have a special meaning for Fairmount Minerals, which makes biodiversity and land restoration a major focus of our operations. An automated geothermal system assists in heating and cooling the building and reclaimed materials are found throughout the structure. Interior doors were salvaged from a demolition site in Madison, while the lab features countertops made from construction site scrap wood. One beautiful and unique element of the building interior includes the use of recycled wine barrels, which have been converted into a conference table, reception desk and accompanying furniture. The design elements of the building improve its energy efficiency by 58 percent and reduce water consumption by 49 percent. Seventy-five percent of the construction waste from the project was recycled, while automated lighting, no-irrigation landscaping and a pair of heat exchangers in the maintenance shop help to improve its operational footprint. The Menomonie facility is a shining example of Fairmount Minerals’ ongoing commitment to sustainable development, and it is the new standard when it comes to new construction for the organization. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PLANET MENU AIR QUALITY Planet Home Our longstanding focus on improving air quality in and around Fairmount Minerals’ facilities strengthens our commitment to environmental responsibility. Energy & Climate Change The resins we use in many of our products result in air emissions. For the last five years, Fairmount Minerals has identified hazardous air pollutant (HAP) reductions as a key element of our sustainability Air Quality efforts. Through the use of technology developed at Fairmount Minerals, we have made significant progress improving our HAPs impacts. Our investments in thermal oxidizer technology at several facilities Clean Water have enabled our teams to further drive down air emissions. In 2010, the installation of a thermal oxidizer at our TechniSand Fresno facility helped to reduce our overall HAPs emissions by 5 percent on a per unit Waste & Recycling basis over 2009 totals. Land Restoration DOWNLOAD REPORT Full Report Planet Section Only Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PLANET MENU CLEAN WATER Planet Home As global water demand increasingly outpaces supply, we must, as environmental stewards, do everything in our power to ensure Energy & Climate Change sustainable use of this resource. Water is critical to Fairmount Minerals’ operations, and we proactively address our water footprint by working Air Quality to measure water inputs, outputs and use. In areas where our operations represent a more significant draw on local water supplies, Clean Water we work to reduce overall consumption and recycle water through a closed-loop process. In the near term, we intend to focus efforts on Waste & Recycling water footprint data to better assess our operational water impacts. Land Restoration Fairmount Minerals’ newest subsidiary, Fairmount Water Solutions, is focused on improving global water supply through filtration services for surface water, ground water, and municipal and industrial waste. In 2010 we began collaborations with the University DOWNLOAD REPORT of Waterloo and University of Northern Iowa to explore and develop technologies that address current water treatment needs. These efforts will directly improve water by: Full Report Reducing phosphorus and nitrate in North American lakes, rivers and streams Planet Section Only Reducing cryptosporidium in municipal and commercial pools Need Adobe Reader? Recycling water used in oil and gas drilling Over the next year, our internal focus will be on water education. We plan to initiate an SEARCH analysis of our water cycle processes in Wisconsin to better understand the full spectrum of our impacts. In addition, Fairmount Minerals will participate in the American Waterworks Association’s sustainability committee. The Association’s mission, one that Fairmount Minerals supports, is to unite the water community to protect public health and to provide safe and sufficient water for all. In addition, we will continue to support and assist Aqua Clara International in its effort to provide clean, safe water to homes throughout the developing world. ENTREPRENEURS SUPPORTING LOCAL WATER NEEDS When post-election violence in Kenya displaced his family, Benson Nyandusi was left with no land and no livelihood. Desperate to find a way to support his family, Benson attended an Aqua Clara water filtration training session in the hopes of getting work. Aqua Clara, a valued Fairmount Minerals partner, trains people in water stressed regions to build simple water filters and drive economic development based on building and selling the filtration units. The training gave Benson the opportunity to create a sustainable business that not only provides for his family, but enhances the quality of life in the Kisii community. Aqua Clara supports communities in Kenya, Mexico and Nicaragua by creating and supporting a network of water filtration entrepreneurs. Fairmount Minerals is a proud supporter of the Aqua Clara mission and has provided technical expertise, volunteers and financial resources to expand the benefits of Aqua Clara’s work to regions around the world. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PLANET MENU WASTE & RECYCLING Planet Home Fairmount Minerals’ focus on waste elimination provides us with an opportunity to look at the core of our operations and find ways to strengthen productivity. Our zero waste Energy & Climate Change goal drives efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle. Beyond our own operations, we seek to promote effective waste reduction strategies by holding community recycling Air Quality events and making recycling opportunities available to our neighbors. This year Fairmount Minerals launched the Print Less. Know More. campaign to reduce the amount of Clean Water printed materials we create. This campaign directed Fairmount family members to a web landing page with an online form that gave them choices for receiving communication materials in electronic format. We will Waste & Recycling be using the information gathered to assess a transition to electronic-based materials. In addition, moving from a printed report to an online CSR report last year helped us to reduce paper-based mailings by 20 Land Restoration percent. We see more opportunities across our value chain to improve Fairmount’s waste impacts. With both DOWNLOAD REPORT suppliers and customers, we continue to expand our bulk bag reuse program, which eliminates cardboard packaging and promotes reusable and recyclable packaging. In 2010, we diverted 272,000 pounds of Full Report waste through this program. Additionally, we partnered with one of our suppliers to enhance both Planet Section Only environmental and economic impacts through a by-product synergy effort. By replacing a traditional raw material with one of our supplier’s off-grade materials, we helped to reduce a waste stream and overall Need Adobe Reader? material costs. Within our own facilities, optimization projects help to improve Fairmount’s waste impact. One significant SEARCH example in 2010 involves a process optimization effort at our Roff facility in Oklahoma. For years, our Roff facility has switched between two separate product lines each day. In evaluating the process, we found that the product line switch was taking up to four hours, increasing downtime and creating more than a ton of waste every time we swapped lines. We determined that extending lead times on one of the product lines could reduce the switchover from once daily to once a month. This has resulted in an 18 percent boost in production and a significant improvement in total waste. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PLANET MENU LAND RESTORATION Planet Home The strength of our business is fundamentally tied to the resources we can sustainably source from the land. A strong approach to restoring, Energy & Climate Change preserving and supporting biodiversity across the 4,400 acres of Fairmount Minerals property is a critical element of our sustainable Air Quality practices. Fairmount Minerals is committed to restoring our mining sites to an environmentally preferable condition. Although land restoration Clean Water requirements vary by state, we hold ourselves to a standard that often exceeds those mandated by state law. Waste & Recycling The QUEST Team led numerous reclamation and education efforts in 2010. Through our Land Restoration ongoing partnership with Saving Birds Thru Habitat, we connected with the Conservation Resource Alliance to plant 4,700 native trees. In addition to planting trees, shrubs and native grasses, we created an invasive species removal plan to help these habitats DOWNLOAD REPORT flourish. Full Report Every Fairmount Minerals QUEST site team participated in an environmental education project to enhance our awareness of biodiversity impacts. Our teams engaged in several Planet Section Only different activities, including: Need Adobe Reader? Building barn swallow bird boxes and a native plant educational exhibit Creating a pollinator garden SEARCH Partnering with a local nursery to plant native grasses Conducting a town planting project Beyond our internal education efforts, we aim to help raise awareness of biodiversity and land management through our participation with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC). Eight Fairmount Minerals locations renewed or received a new WHC certification in 2010 while four facilities achieved Corporate Lands for Learning status. This means that we create learning opportunities for the local community using our habitat as a tool to explore ecological concepts and the human role in conservation. In addition, Saving Birds Thru Habitat awarded nine Fairmount facilities with land certification in recognition of our efforts to establish or preserve habitats benefitting native wild birds. INDUSTRY SUPPORT FOR RESTORATION PROJECTS The Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA), in cooperation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, granted $5,000 to Fairmount Minerals in 2010 to enhance and restore wildlife and native plant habitats on properties where industrial minerals have been mined or processed. The terms of the grant included technical support from the Service to develop habitat restoration projects on lands identified as having high biodiversity value. Fairmount Minerals will use this grant to advance our work in Wisconsin on the Pine Creek restoration project. Now entering our third year of work, the Pine Creek restoration aims to improve the effects of stream bank erosions to support healthy trout reproduction and habitat quality. Fairmount Minerals is delighted to have the support of our industry association, the IMA-NA, and the Service in our efforts to help restore Pine Creek. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PROSPERITY MENU Prosperity Home Economic Impact Supplier Relationships Innovation Superior Products PROSPERITY DOWNLOAD REPORT Fairmount Minerals’ financial success is rooted in our ability to identify and respond to Full Report key social and environmental issues. Our approach to sustainable development Prosperity Section Only affords us with a social license to operate and helps to drive innovation and growth. Need Adobe Reader? While, as a private company, we choose not to disclose particular financial data, we do report on the ways in which we balance short-term profitability with our ability to deliver long-term prosperity to our stakeholders. SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PROSPERITY MENU ECONOMIC IMPACT Prosperity Home As a business, Fairmount Minerals’ profitability creates prosperity for our shareholders and employees while contributing to economic development in our communities. As Economic Impact we have seen some of Fairmount Minerals’ chief markets, in particular the oil and gas Supplier Relationships industry, grow rapidly over the past year, we see opportunities to invest in our key geographic areas, including the United States, Mexico and China. The revenue we Innovation generate as a business is translated into employee wages, investor earnings, supplier payments and taxes to governments. The stronger our bottom line, the more positive Superior Products direct economic impact we can make. DOWNLOAD REPORT Full Report Prosperity Section Only Need Adobe Reader? SEARCH 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PROSPERITY MENU Prosperity Home Economic Impact Supplier Relationships Innovation Superior Products SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS DOWNLOAD REPORT We value strong, transparent relationships with our suppliers. Fairmount Minerals Full Report remains committed to communicating our supplier code of conduct, which describes Prosperity Section Only our social and environmental standards and expectations, to those within our supply Need Adobe Reader? chain. We also continue to listen to our suppliers and customers to ensure we live up to their expectations and standards. SEARCH To help increase the quantity of purchases we make from sustainable organizations, we provided all Fairmount facilities with a sustainable reference guide. As a result, we increased the percentage of our inventory spend with sustainable suppliers by 10 percent over 2009. We also continue to make contact with the top ten suppliers to each Fairmount facility to inform them of their results on our sustainable supplier survey. Over time, we hope to see our key suppliers practicing sustainability in a way that is consistent with our core values. We recognize that our supplier relationships can significantly impact our sustainability performance; therefore, Fairmount Minerals seeks to engage with our valued suppliers to listen, learn from and share best practices. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PROSPERITY MENU Prosperity Home Economic Impact Supplier Relationships Innovation Superior Products INNOVATION DOWNLOAD REPORT Sustainable innovation drives the success of our business. In recent years, we have Full Report seen Fairmount Minerals’ commitment to sustainable development influence the focus Prosperity Section Only of our product offerings, pushing us to innovate and develop products that support the Need Adobe Reader? advancement of cleaner fuels and address global water demand. Innovative thinking at Fairmount Minerals prompted the successful development of our new innovation center. This center now houses our R&D group and serves as a design and testing SEARCH facility. In addition to contributing to innovative top-line growth, the innovation center also enables us to bring testing in-house, which delivered nearly $90,000 in savings in 2010. Gathering our family members around innovation is crucial to our future growth. Leveraging the bright minds of our family members, we conducted innovation assemblies in each Fairmount region. We developed a process following the Appreciative Inquiry methodology to help uncover innovative ideas and, ultimately, the creation of 11 promising projects and opportunities. One idea that has already been implemented involves a new mobile bagger unit in Wedron, Illinois. The system takes waste sand from our facility and creates sandbags that can be used in emergency flooding situations or other natural disasters. In 2011 we hope to inspire more innovative ideas through engagement with our internal and external stakeholders at our Appreciative Inquiry Summit. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals HOME ABOUT REPORT STRATEGY/PROFILE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PROSPERITY MENU SUPERIOR PRODUCTS Prosperity Home Fairmount Minerals develops products and solutions that strengthen sustainable options for our customers and for society at large. Economic Impact We seek to enhance the sustainable attributes of our products by utilizing sustainable Supplier Relationships materials, such as “green” resins or recycled content, and ensure we appropriately label and market these products in a way that is in compliance with relevant regulations and Innovation codes. In 2010 we exceeded our goal of launching five new sustainable products or processes, focusing on projects that reduce energy and waste; enhance sustainable Superior Products water use; and, support growth in the domestic natural gas market. We launched our new SpectraQuartz Turf product in 2010 to help consumers in high drought residential areas make sustainable lawn choices. The sand product, used with DOWNLOAD REPORT artificial turf lawns, is coated with an environmentally friendly polymer. It eliminates the Full Report need for water, while also reducing the environmental impact of fertilizer and fuel associated with caring for grass lawns. Prosperity Section Only The Fairmount Water Solutions team improves the world's water by developing and Need Adobe Reader? providing media technologies associated with particle filtration. In addition to traditional sand, gravel, anthracite and activated carbon, we manufacture Macrolite®, an SEARCH engineered ceramic filtration media that improves water quality and increases efficiency for municipal drinking water, municipal wastewater and industrial wastewater. Applications include pretreatment for membrane desalinization, surface water filtration, and specific contaminant reduction such as arsenic, phosphorus and nitrate. Serving the oil and gas industry, Fairmount Minerals’ Santrol subsidiary manufactures and markets hydraulic fracturing products that improve well stimulation and reservoir productivity. Our recently released PowerProp is a patented technology that offers an alternative to the ceramic proppants used in the oil and gas industry. As unconventional shale gas plays increasingly become an important domestic fuel source, the need for proppants with the strength of a lightweight ceramic and the diagenesis resistance of resin-coated sand will grow. PowerProp represents a solution that can serve the unconventional natural gas market, helping to improve the viability of a fuel source that emits half as much carbon as coal when burned to generate the same amount of electricity. By leveraging our intellect and advancing technology, we are able to create better products that represent our commitment to sustainability. WHAT IS HYDRAULIC FRACTURING? Hydraulic fracturing is a process for developing natural gas that involves a fluid mixture of 99 percent water and sand, along with a small amount of specialpurpose additives, pumped into underground formations to enable natural gas recovery. Fairmount Minerals’ industrial sand products are a common component in hydraulic fracturing fluid. In 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency launched a study into hydraulic fracturing to better understand its life cycle impacts. Utilized in natural gas development for over 60 years, hydraulic fracturing uses less water per BTU on average than the processes associated with producing coal, oil and bio-fuels. Natural gas, the product of the hydraulic fracturing process, emits half as many greenhouse gas emissions as coal when burned to generate the same amount of electricity. As part of Fairmount Minerals’ commitment to sustainable development, we actively seek out alternative, renewable and clean energy sources for our own operations. Natural gas represents an economically viable and scalable fuel source that enables the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and supports a clean energy future. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Home | About Report | Strategy/Profile | People | Planet | Prosperity © 2011 Fairmount Minerals
