Corporate Social Responsibility Communication On Progress 2010 to United Nations Global Compact CEO Statement Contents It is with the 2 4 CEO statement Introduction greatest pleasure 6 Business Ethics that I present 8 Employees 10 Safety you with 12 Environment FLSmidth’s first 16 Supply chain Corporate Social 18 Community 20 Overview Responsibility progress report We became signatories to the UN Global Compact in November 2008, and originally planned to release this report in November 2010. A subsequent decision to align CSR reporting with our financial reporting cycles, however, led to a revised launch date of February 2011. When we look back at 2010, we see a year in which FLSmidth rose from the financial crisis that had made the going tough for nearly two years. With our organizational restructuring, acquisitions and efforts to bring all FLSmidth entities around the world together under one brand, we have now emerged as a more unified company than ever before. In our perception of ourselves as a single large global corporation also lies our commitment and duty to act responsibly as a global citizen. We have always considered FLSmidth to be a company that strives to do business honestly, responsibly and with a sense of common decency guiding our choices. Today, however, our customers, business partners, employees and the world at large expect a more communicative, transparent approach to corporate responsibility. Taking a more structured approach to CSR and ensuring its integration into our business procedures is an effort that takes time. We are firmly committed to living up to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, and to considering the areas where FLSmidth can 2 COP report 2010 really make a difference. In other words, our effort is also about The challenge of global climate change affects our business in determining which issues that are more closely linked to our busidifferent ways. Many of our customers in the cement and mineral ness strategy, our operations and the needs and concerns of our industries are focusing on more sustainable and environmentally stakeholders. friendly solutions at their plants. As an equipment and processes supplier to both industries, we want to continue meeting the needs It is our conviction that we can make the biggest influence when for solutions that can help our customers overcome tomorrow’s aligning CSR activities with our business strategy. Therefore, the environmental challenges. We believe that innovation is the future, areas we have chosen to prioritize, which are also the contents and that our significant investments in R&D underscore our comof this progress report, are safety, employees, business ethics, mitment to being part of the solution to global climate change responsible sourcing and environment. and other environmental challenges. Safety has always been and remains our top priority at FLSmidth With our global presence around the world, we want our customand it is therefore with great regret that we had to report four ers, employees, investors and other stakeholders to experience fatalities in 2010. In spite of these unfortunate accidents, our FLSmidth as the responsible company and partner we strive to be. global activities maintain better average safety statistics (LTI) than There is a learning curve when taking a more business-driven European industry standards. and communicative approach to CSR, but we are committed to continuously integrate Corporate Social Responsibility into our We have many employees travelling around the world, some strategic thinking and business operations. working on construction sites and others operating and maintaining plant equipment. No matter where our employees work or We hope you will find this progress report a valuable source of what their jobs are, they deserve a safe working environment, and information about what we achieved in 2010 in the area of we are continuing to improve safety awareness and training and Corporate Social Responsibility. also providing support to our customers in their operations. Jørgen Huno Rasmussen Group CEO, FLSmidth COP report 2010 3 Introduction FLSmidth Governance overview and csr In 2010, important steps were made towards a more structured and visible management of our CSR activities One of the initiatives in 2010 has been to formalise our CSR approach with a separate organisational CSR function. The CSR function is now heading the global coordination of all CSR activities with the purpose of strengthening the existing FLSmidth commitment to incorporate considerations of more social and environmental parameters in the way we operate. Again in 2010, another step to a more visible CSR commitment from our top management was made clear, when it was decided to establish a CSR Board. The decision was made both to support our CSR commitment and also to have a forum to discuss and decide on CSR matters across the different organisational functions and business areas. Group CEO, Jørgen Huno Rasmussen, and management of different functions and businesses areas are represented on the CSR Board. FLSmidth & Co. A/S is a global engineering company listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange, Copenhagen What We Do FLSmidth is the leading supplier of equipment, systems and services to the global cement and minerals industries. FLSmidth supplies everything from single machinery to complete cement plants and minerals processing facilities including services before, during, and after construction. FLSmidth is a global company employing around 11,000 people worldwide and with local presence in more than 40 countries. With headquarter in Valby, Denmark, FLSmidth has major project and technology centers in USA, Germany, Denmark, and India. 4 COP report 2010 FLSmidth focus areas One Company, One Source, One Responsibility In recent years, FLSmidth has had a clear strategy of becoming ONE SOURCE of excellence by being a complete solutions supplier to the cement and mineral industries. The strategy of being perceived as one, unified global company also includes the requirement for all members of the group to act in a uniform manner. Therefore, together with our focus on and investments in a strategic alignment of the company, we are also working on having our CSR activities aligned on a global level. In 2008, FLSmidth signed up for the UN Global Compact with the aspiration of being more explicit about our CSR commitment, both in our actions and in our communication. The purpose of joining the UN Global Compact is to show our support of the 10 principles and to adopt a recognized reporting framework. CSR contains a very broad field of opportunities; to FLSmidth it is about focusing on what is important to our company and our stakeholders, while also keeping focus on our business. With respect to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and FLSmidth’s operations, the main priority of our CSR strategy and Engaging with local communities is also an important aspect of activities are the following areas: doing business with and working for FLSmidth and is regarded as an integrated part of our local management operations and con• Business Ethics siderations. • Human Resources • Health and Safety Initial Status Report • Environment This report is our first COP report and will be both an introduction • Supply Chain and a status report on our existing policies and activities, which are covered under the areas of Business Ethics, Human Resources, Health & Safety, and Environment. Additional information is provided on the subjects of Supply Chain and Community. An overview of how the focus areas of FLSmidth’s CSR initiatives are comparable with the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles is given at the end of this report. COP report 2010 5 Business Ethics A uniform code The FLSmidth Code of Business Management System Since the introduction of the Code of Business Conduct in 2008, Conduct was introduced in 2008 it has been the obligation of all managers to oversee compliance to the entire organisation. Through by their respective employees, including assisting employees who the Code of Business Conduct our may raise questions or concerns in respect of the Group’s Code of long-lasting commitment to business Business Conduct. ethics and integrity was formalised Since 2008 it has also been the procedure to introduce all new and communicated to all managers employees to the FLSmidth Group’s CSR Policy, including the Code and employees as the applicable of Business Conduct. standard that everyone working for Dealing with Reported Incidents FLSmidth is obligated to adhere to Although every effort is made to avoid violation of the Code of Business Conduct, non-compliance or suspicion thereof may occur. 6 COP report 2010 “Since the introduction of the Code of Business Conduct in 2008, it has been the obligation of all managers to oversee FLSmidth has established a procedure whereby all employees may compliance by their report violations or suspected violations directly to their superior manager or, at the employee’s discretion, to the FLSmidth’s Group respective employees, General Counsel and/or Global HR Manager. Reported incidents including assisting are being investigated internally by the Group General Counsel – where possible – under full confidentiality. employees who may raise questions or concerns in If investigations confirm violations, they will be reported to Group Executive Management, who will decide on the appropriate sanctions. respect of the Group’s Code of Business Conduct.” Looking Ahead 2011 The two key focus areas in 2011 in relation to the Code of Business Conduct will be to extend our business ethics to our key suppliers by way of introducing a Responsible Supply Chain Management program and to put further emphasis on continuous awareness training of our employees in business ethics. For further details about the intended Responsible Supply Chain Code of Business Conduct (abstract) Management program, see section “Supply Chain” on page 16. The Code of Business Conduct is the FLSmidth commitment to business ethics, integrity, credibility and preservation of our In relation to awareness training of our employees in the existence, long term reputation and brand, defining what is expected of understanding and application of the Code of Business Conduct, the FLSmidth Group’s employees at all levels in ONE globally we will be working towards introducing training through e-learning applicable framework. as a suitable and powerful tool to be used for reinforcement of the Code of Business Conduct on a global scale. The Code of Business Conduct covers three main areas of our operations: FLSmidth considers its Code of Business Conduct a relatively static policy that expresses the Group’s basic values and expectations in Compliance with local laws and regulations, such as financial relation to its employees and business partners, which should thereaccounting and reporting, anti-corruption regulations, compefore not be changed on a frequent basis. However, as society and tition/anti-trust laws, export control and trade restriction laws. the surrounding environment are not static, the Code of Business Conduct may need to be revised from time to time. As part of the Business practices and behaviours covers areas such as preparations of a training program in 2011, FLSmidth will be conflicts of interest, bribery, extortion, corruption, facilitation reviewing the current Code of Business Conduct with an aim to payments, gifts and entertainment and anti-competitive make such changes, – if any may be required due to changed practices, contracting with third-parties, intellectual property circumstances. rights, government relations and lobbying, and cultural, religious and political tolerance. With FLSmidth’s presence in more than 40 countries, and ongoing activities in even more countries, we acknowledge the need for Company assets and financial integrity concerns the standards making the Code of Business Conduct available in numerous langfor accurate and complete data, records, reporting and accountuages in order to ensure efficient implementation. Consequently, ing, protection of assets, IT policy and record management. as part of the preparations in 2011 of an e-learning program, priority in 2011 will also be given to translation of the Code of For more details visit Business Conduct into more languages than the present eight in www.flsmidth.com which it is currently available. COP report 2010 7 Employees An attractive workplace The concept of being a global company is central to the FLSmidth Employee Development HR Policy, and the HR vision is to be seen as an employer of choice, Each year, FLSmidth allocates the amount of resources necessary no matter where in the world we operate. In our HR and Health for relevant employee development programmes, as it is considered & Safety Policy, we endeavour to set the scene for our employees imperative to stay ahead of the competition and to employ the and their working conditions around the world. right people with the right qualifications. The focus on employee development is also considered an important parameter in attractManagement System ing and retaining the most talented employees. The responsibility of enforcing the HR Policy lies with the global HR organization and the management teams around the world. In 2009, considerable efforts were made to strengthen our HR They are responsible for monitoring and ensuring compliance with systems and processes. The Learning Management System was FLSmidth’s focus on employees and employee conditions. introduced to handle the internal management of employee training and development activities. The work continued in 2010 Annual Review with introduction of our Workplace Learning Toolbox, providing A formal dialogue between each employee and his or her manager guidelines for continued focus on learning and development, and takes place at least once a year in the form of the annual PDR to be used jointly by employees and managers, ensuring knowl(Performance and Development Reviews), focusing on perforedge sharing. mance assessment and continuous professional and personal development. Development of Talent In 2010, more explicit investments in employee development have The PDR also provides the employees with an opportunity to been dedicated to specific groups of employees and career tracks; evaluate the working environment, their direct manager and to Line Management, Specialists, and Project Management. influence their own personal development. From 2007 through 2010, two groups of employees have taken Efforts to improve the PDR procedures were intensified in 2010 part in the Global Talent Program. This is a 2-year pre-leadership and these developments will continue in 2011. development initiative which enables the company to identify its leaders of tomorrow. It ensures the necessary competencies to continue the growth and success of the company and offers development opportunities for the employees. HR Policy (abstract) In recent years, FLSmidth has put great focus on specialist career FLSmidth’s most valuable asset is our employees and the HR opportunities in acknowledgement of the need to continuously Policy outlines the commitment to provide our employees an develop and offer career paths which also embrace the needs of attractive place to work and to ensure that employees share more specialised knowledge and competencies. Consequently in the commitment to conducting business according to the 2010, the first Lead Specialist Forum was conducted with particiFLSmidth standards. pants from the global FLSmidth organisation. The HR Policy covers areas such as diversity, equal opportunities, The Lead Specialist Forum will be held again in 2011 to continue employee development and training, healthy and flexible the focus on the specialist career path in FLSmidth. Also, a new working environment, competitive employment conditions and flexible Project Management training programme was implemented pay, and recognition of the right to be organised and bargain in 2010 and continues in 2011. collectively. Finally, it supports human rights, including refraining from any use of forced labour and respect of the UN Convention Performance Review on use of child labour. Employee Survey In 2008, the first global employee engagement survey was carried For more details visit www.flsmidth.com out and in the autumn of 2010, the second employee engagement 8 COP report 2010 “The responsibility of enforcing the HR Policy lies with the global HR organization and the management teams survey on global scale was repeated with questions very comparable around the world.” to the ones used in 2008. The survey enabled all employees around the world to give their view of FLSmidth as an organisation, the competences of their compliance both with current local laws and regulations and direct management and top-management, as well as the company with the company policies. culture and values, including FLSmidth’s corporate responsibility capabilities. Emphasis has since been on collecting the information and on outlining and implementing improvement activities. The 2010 survey was translated into 17 different languages and distributed to all employees in the global FLSmidth Group. One of the topics for the compliance review was to verify to what extent CSR training had taken place in the individual FLSmidth The 2010 employee survey was completed with a high response entities. In most cases, training had been conducted, and in the rate of 88 %, and presented an overall satisfaction of 71 points few entities where training had not taken place, the employees for the FLSmidth Group which is 2 points lower than the 2008 received training and information subsequently. employee survey. The benchmark satisfaction, however, shows a score of 64 points. Looking Ahead 2011 The goal for 2011 is to conduct a new compliance review with a Following the 2008 survey, a total of 1,742 actions were reported. continuing focus on compliance within policies and legal requireFor the survey conducted in 2010, the action points have not yet ments and also within the areas of Safety & Health and CSR in been concluded. general. Compliance Review Related to the annual employee review (PDR), the HR infrastructure In 2008, FLSmidth conducted a compliance review with the is being improved. In 2011, the target is to get improved access to purpose of ensuring that the global organisation operates in information about employee competences and job roles. Human resource data Geographical Age distribution Length of service Education distribution <30 [25%] <5 [56%] Engineers [33%] Denmark [13%] 30-39 [33%] 5-14 [29%] Technicians [29%] USA [15%] 40-49 [22%] 15-24 [9%] Administrative [17%] India [29%] 50-59 [15%] >24 [6%] Other [21%] Other [43%] >59 [5%] COP report 2010 9 Safety Being safe The FLSmidth health and safety actions and initiatives are about Safety Attention and Training ensuring that our work and operations are conducted in ways that One of the main focus areas from 2009, which continued in 2010, provide the right conditions for a safe and healthy working environhas been addressing safety in all locations by providing an increased ment for all our employees, partners, and the end-users of our number of safety training programs for technical advisors and other products and services. employees travelling to construction and manufacturing sites. Management System Follow up on Injuries A more structured management and reporting system was impleAt FLSmidth we are committed to continuously making improvemented in 2008/2009 and the strong effort continued in 2010, ments and strong focus is given to safety, with the clear target of headed by the global safety organisation keeping work accidents and injuries to a minimum. Regional health and safety departments exist in the main project cenIn order to secure continued attention within the organization, tres in Denmark, USA and India, with supporting functions in other incidents from the FLSmidth group entities are reported on a quarrelevant locations to ensure the local integration of the safety policy. terly basis to the global safety organization, located in Denmark. That procedure allows follow-up on the trend in injuries and that The global health and safety organisation is responsible for setting necessary actions are taken in order to maintain the low level of and implementing the global standards and guidelines, including injuries from previous years. All units within Operation and Mainconducting safety training and auditing the FLSmidth production tenance (O&M) and production have targets for the number and locations and site activities. severity of their injuries. In 2010, despite our efforts to enhance safety, we unfortunately Health & Safety Policy (abstract) experienced four fatalities among FLSmidth employees. FLSmidth The H&S Policy is the FLSmidth commitment to provide our started safety reporting with the “Annual Report 2007” and in the employees with a healthy and safe working environment and period of 2007-2009, we experienced 1 fatality (a traffic accident). address the responsibility of all managers and employees to All fatalities are highly regrettable and we want to make sure that ensure the same. we learn from each incident. Consequently, an extra effort is put into analysing the cause for the incidents and implementing corThe H&S Policy covers areas such as complying with laws and rective actions. regulations, following standards and procedures, proactively assessing and striving to reduce occupational injuries, aiming at The number of injuries for 2010 shows a negative development continual improvement, implementing documented management compared to 2009 alone, while compared to the period 2007systems, providing appropriate training, and taking measures 2009, the result remains positive and stays well below the Danish and evaluating security risks related to travel and working abroad. Industry level within the frequency and severity rates of the injuries. The H&S Policy also addresses the health and safety conditions related to products, technologies, services and instructions. For more details visit www.flsmidth.com Case story: Safety training in India In India, the safety organization and training was strengthened in 2010, and the safety training conducted in India now also includes training at the management level. By the end of 2010, 42% of all senior management in India had undergone safety training. 10 COP report 2010 The development in severity rate, which indicates how seriously the injuries are (measured in number of lost working hours per 1000 Case story: Safety training in Egypt working hours), was not satisfactory in 2010 and consequently Safety on site is of key importance to our business. For our this is an area where extra focus will be seen in 2011. employees operating and maintaining cement plants in Egypt, safety training has been top priority on the agenda in 2010. Looking Ahead – 2011 Going forward, safety always ranks high for FLSmidth, both for our Evaluation of local needs and requirements has been importown employees and also for customers and other stakeholders. ant to consider, when developing authentic safety training. With the objective of further developing the local health and Attention in 2010 was on strengthening the global safety organisafety culture, mandatory safety training has been conducted zation with local responsibility and implementation. In 2011, the throughout 2010 and continues to be a part of the local plan is to add more local safety organizations and representatives operational procedures. to support worldwide functions, including offices and production facilities, and/or O&M activities. Especially the O&M business reIn Egypt, an important aspect of developing a culture that quires attention, due to both the growing number of operations prioritizes a safe working environment has been to apply an and employees and the need to ensure a high safety standard. In interactive learning concept that involves the employees. 2011 a strengthened O&M safety organization will be established. During the training sessions, the safety manager interacts with employees on why safety is important and why injuries A part of strengthening the global safety organisation is implehappen, in order to increase employee engagement and menting common standards and procedures, and the target for awareness. 2011 is working towards more structured working procedures and compliance. However, the safety training that is undertaken must also ensure that the employees know and understand the hazards Safety training will continue to be our top priority and conseat a cement plant, the safety standards, and applicable proquently the goal is further development of training and a backlog cedures at the specific site. Examples are the local safety plan, of training material. work permit policy and guidelines, and specific procedures for machine shut down. Being represented on many different sites around the world, it is important that FLSmidth is able to support and advise our customThe safety training conducted on one site in Egypt has proers on safety matters, whenever needed, for instance by advising duced a significant improvement in safety performance and and offering training to customers. the ability to incorporate safety planning and procedures. Work-related injuries Number of lost Lost time injuries Lost time injuries Number of injuries time injuries frequency rate* severity rate** 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 Technology, sales, projects and administration 45 34 45 44 18 9 19 10 1,3 0,6 1,5 0,9 0,3 0,2 0,3 0,3 Production units 90 107 135 157 44 51 68 62 9,0 7,3 11,7 12,5 2,0 0,8 1,9 1,1 Operation and Maintenance 17 na na na 6 na na na 1,9 na na na 0,3 na na na Cembrit 49 35 41 40 43 24 36 33 23,2 14,8 22,1 22,3 3,9 3,9 4,7 6,0 FLSmidth Group 201 176 221 241 111 84 123 105 4,7 3,6 6,0 5,9 1,0 0,6 0,8 1,0 * Number of injuries causing absence per one million working hours ** Number of working hours lost due to injuries per 1000 working hours COP report 2010 11 Environment Environmental concerns FLSmidth is committed to Research Management Customer dialogue and alignment with what is important to our contributing to environmental customers, are initiatives that have been integrated into our R&D sustainability in the areas management procedures. Dialogue with customers and keeping where we can significantly ourselves updated is imperative when deciding the main trends in contribute to climate and the markets and industries we supply to. environmental protection Increasing focus on carbon emissions, energy costs, recycling of water, and increasingly stringent emission standards give us even more reason to direct our research and development activities toward finding solutions that may help our customers meet new Our possibilities of making a difference within the environmental requirements. In FLSmidth, therefore, a considerable amount of R&D area are considered strongest in the fields of products, processes, investment is allocated to research that generates new knowledge and systems related to plants and equipment sold to customers. and technologies, including environmental considerations. The other part of our environmental effort is to look at internal Research Focus Areas energy usage, i.e. the carbon footprint of the global organization. The environmental focus of FLSmidth’s products and processes can be seen from the research focus areas from 2010: Technology Environmental concerns and considerations will undoubtedly play an • Cement products (e.g. SCM) important role in the future of the cement and minerals industries, • CO2 and energy efficiency and thus these issues are high on FLSmidth’s agenda. • Harmful gaseous emissions • Fuels and combustion The declared strategy of FLSmidth is to be the preferred partner and • Comminution the leading supplier to the global cement and minerals industries • Materials and wear processes – and that requires strong focus on more environmentally friendly • Minerals liberation equipment and solutions. • Phase separations • Filter processing All focus areas are agreed on by the R&D steering committee, Environmental Policy (abstract) represented by top-level management. The Environmental Policy covers areas such as compliance with environmental regulations for products and services and – in accordance with expectations and requirements for new sustainable equipment – gives consideration to the full life cycle of products and services. Focus is on reducing consumption “Environmental concerns of energy and natural resources, and, to the extent possible, and considerations are, on reducing or eliminating emissions. without doubt, part of the Further, FLSmidth has committed itself to ascertain its own direct future for both the cement environmental impact by collecting data on energy consumption and setting goals and creating action plans. and the minerals industries” For more details visit www.flsmidth.com 12 COP report 2010 Product Development Research in eco-friendly cement Environmental concerns and considerations are, without doubt, part based on local raw materials of the future for both the cement and the minerals industries, and The SCM (Supplementary Cementitious Materials) Project is an consequently also high on the FLSmidth agenda when releasing example of how FLSmidth strives to enhance the environmennew products. tal sustainability of the cement industry through a dedicated research and development focused on creating and applying In 2011, innovation continues to have high priority, with R&D as a new knowledge in designs of novel manufacturing processes main driver, in order to fulfil our target of delivering new and for the industry. more environmental friendly products to our markets. The SCM project is financially supported by the Danish National Advanced Technology Foundation and is undertaken in cooperation with 3 external partners: Aarhus University, iNANO Filter press technology (interdisciplinary nano science centre); Aalborg University, Dept. FLSmidth has invested in the development of large, innovative, of Energy Technology and Aalborg Portland. filter press technologies, which now enable a mine to achieve the maximum recovery water for re-use in the process. The purpose of the project is to develop advanced process Additionally, the remaining cake can be dry stacked, thus technology for producing high-quality environmentally friendly eliminating the need for tailing ponds and promotes ongoing cement in the future. reclamation and re-vegetation of the surrounding landscape. The project focuses on developing new types of reactive Supplementary Cementitious Materials (SCM) and on the Latest cross-bar cooler takes clinker necessary process technology for large scale production and cooling technology to new level use of such materials. The process technology is being develThe new FLSmidth Cross-Bar™ clinker cooler is an example of how oped for sale to the global market and will be centred around one of our innovative deliverables in 2010 is in alignment with the manufacture of SCM materials, based on locally available FLSmidth’s environmental focus in new product development. raw materials. The whole process will be tailor-made for specific cement plants. The new cooler is a refinement of already proven FLSmidth technology, and presents an even more economical and flexible Want to read more about the project? solution that allows it to be adopted in more cement plants Link SCM Project around the world. Compared to previous generation coolers, thermal efficiency and power consumption with the FLSmidth Cross-Bar™ cooler can be improved by 50% or more. And even compared to FLSmidth’s own Cross-Bar cooler predecessor, there is opportunity for additional efficiency gains. Sustainability is more than direct energy use. In the maintenance of the FLSmidth Cross-Bar™ cooler, fewer wear parts with significant overall lower weight means less manufacturing and transportation of material. With its modular design, the cooler has the further benefit of being transported in standard shipping containers, which takes up less space. COP report 2010 13 Environment Case story: Emission regulations The American NESHAP rule (National Emission Standards for and developed a new technology for reducing mercury emissions, Hazardous Air Pollutants) proposed by EPA, became law in called the Mercury Roaster, to meet the new NESHAP rule for September 2010. For FLSmidth and cement producers in the US, mercury. This new technology has successfully been patented the NESHAP rule covers emissions of mercury, HCl (hydrochloric in the US. acid), THC (total hydrocarbons), and particulates on not only new kilns but also on all existing kilns. One of the challenges with the new NESHAP rule for the US cement producers has been to determine if and what kind of In September, 2010, EPA released a new law for the NSPS (New emissions reductions were required. To support this need, FLSmidth Source Performance Standards) rule. The NSPS rule covers only created an emissions test rig that was portable and could be new or modified kiln systems and covers emissions of SO2, NOX, used to make the needed measurements. The cement producers and particulate. have welcomed FLSmidth with the new test rig, and selling emissions testing services to our customers has been a success. In response to the new rules, FLSmidth has formed the Emissions Business Development Group, which is a group of employees However, it has not only been about sales. In FLSmidth we have dedicated to work with the challenges of emissions and the been dedicated to working with our customers and assisting new regulations. The group includes employees from different them in determining the right technology for their individual divisions across FLSmidth and with participation from both plants to achieve compliance with the NESHAP rules. FLSmidth is Denmark and USA. a leader in the industry on emission know-how and we have been putting our knowledge to use to help our customers, Further, in response to the strengthened environmental regulations even in cases where that help may not lead to direct sales in the American market, FLSmidth has taken up the challenge for FLSmidth. 14 COP report 2010 Carbon Footprint Although by far our largest sphere of influence is incorporating environmental sustainability into our products, processes and systems, we still want to bring environmental considerations into our daily business operations. Environmental Reporting and Performance In 2009 and 2010, FLSmidth started collecting and officially report on its own carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Having primarily office buildings and relatively few manufacturing sites, FLSmidth considers its main consumption of resources to be related to energy. Consequently, the first phase of the environmental reporting has been on CO2, CO2e and other green-house gases. The total footprint in 2009 was 73,000 tonnes CO2 reported in scope 1 (direct) and 2 (indirect), see CDP Report submitted 2010. FLSmidth’s carbon footprint from 2010 equals to a total amount of 76,000 tonnes CO2 reported in scope 1 and scope 2. The number for 2010 shows a slight increase in the amount compared to 2009, and is coherent with increased activities during 2010. 36,000 tonnes CO2 out of the total amount is derived from Cembrit’s production of fibre cement which in 2009 was equal to 34,000 Minerals Technology Center tonnes CO2. FLSmidth will in 2011 submit our carbon footprint opened in Salt Lake City reporting for 2010 to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Environmentally and technologically advanced The core and shell of the two buildings are LEED approved Scope 3 content is currently being considered for the 2012 (a green building certification under the Leadership in Energy FLSmidth reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project. and Environmental Design programme), something that is highly unusual in a building designed for industrial laboratories. Looking Ahead 2011 Part of the effort to achieve this certification was to specify a The commitment of collecting and reporting on FLSmidth’s carbon three-stage air conditioning unit for office space that takes footprint has prompted a more detailed review of the procedures advantage of ambient air, evaporative cooling, and refrigerated for collecting data and setting targets and action plans in 2010 air to minimize energy consumption while maintaining a with consideration of what is of relevance to FLSmidth. comfortable environment. Because of the specialized use of individual laboratories, each is equipped with its own heating, Detailed action plans and other means for lowering the internal ventilating, and air conditioning system. energy consumption are yet to be developed and will be work in progress for 2011. Additional energy saving features were provided, including motion sensing lights where practical, sky lights in the pilot lab and warehouse, and the ability to energize lights in stages so that it is not necessary to use all lights at all times. The physical plant includes central vacuum, compressed air, and de-ionized water for the laboratories. COP report 2010 15 Supply Chain Continuous assessment FLSmidth is an engineering-based company with limited in-house of the production sites is carried out by our inspection force that manufacturing sites, and consequently most production of equipvisits our main suppliers on a regular basis. ment is outsourced to external sub-suppliers. If and when unacceptable working conditions or other intolerable With suppliers around the world and our own minor production circumstances are recorded, the procedure is to report to the facilities in various locations, Responsible Supply Chain Managerespective procurement or inspection department so they can ment (RSCM) has been one of the focus areas for 2010, continuconsider the necessary actions. ing into 2011. Responsible Supply Chain Management Assessment and evaluation of our supply-chain is not a new eleBeing one global company is a strong incentive for having a conment in our procurement and inspection procedures. However, sistent assessment procedure when dealing with suppliers around the more structured approach to the task has been under evaluathe world. tion and development during 2010. Quality and cost are very important parameters when looking for Management System sourcing opportunities; however they cannot stand alone. IncorThe existing practice in FLSmidth on how to assess suppliers is porating the aspects of health and safety, labour standards and incorporated into our procedures for purchasing, while supervision environmental concerns are imperative for doing business today. 16 COP report 2010 “Being one global company is a strong incentive for having a consistent assessment procedure when dealing CSR assessment is considered yet another parameter to strengthen with suppliers around the FLSmidth supply chain and the deliverables. the world.” In 2010, the focus in FLSmidth has been on reviewing our current methods and procedures for handling and assessing new and existing suppliers. A project under the headline of Responsible Supply Chain ManageCase story: Informing suppliers ment was officially started in 2010. The project is dedicated to the The overall procurement and sourcing strategy in FLSmidth is global procurement and inspection force in FLSmidth, and due to its being implemented under the headline of “The Way Forward”. complexity it is expected to continue throughout 2011 and beyond. When introducing the new procurement strategy, a part of the implementation phase has involved the suppliers. The elements of the project vary from risk-assessment and evaluation of our existing supplier base, criteria for evaluation in alignment On 14 September 2010 a large group of FLSmidth key suppliers with the UN Global Compact, and evaluation of potential new where gathered in Copenhagen, Denmark, at the FLSmidth suppliers to designing in-house training material and training Supplier Conference 2010, which was the first of its kind. The sessions for employees. purpose of the conference was to give the key suppliers an opportunity to enhance their knowledge of FLSmidth, including business strategies and key focus areas. The conference was a great opportunity for FLSmidth to present its focus on CSR and its current progress, including the focus on our supply chain. 90 key suppliers were represented at the conference and were consequently informed of our CSR policies and activities, which also have implications for their operations and working procedures. The number of suppliers present at the supplier conference represented 30 % of our total purchasing spending in 2010. Dialogue about our initiatives is of importance to FLSmidth when working with CSR. Having a conference with so many suppliers gathered at the same time has been a great learning experience for us, and encouraged us to continue the open dialogue about CSR initiatives and business in general. Following the conference, specific information was sent to the same 90 suppliers about FLSmidth’s stance on Responsible Supply Chain Management, including basic respect of human rights, labour standards, environmental standards and business ethics. The feedback has been positive. As a second step, CSR requirements are being implemented in our General Conditions of Purchase as of January 2011. COP report 2010 17 Community Making a difference For FLSmidth, presence in many Case story: The FLSmidth different local communities is Helwan Cement Institute essential to our business and to In 2010, a partnership between FLSmidth and Helwan the diversity of our workforce University was made official, resulting in the establishment of the FLSmidth Helwan Cement Institute in Cairo, Egypt. With business entities and units in more than 40 countries worldThe reasons for the partnership are many. The strong Egyptian wide, we emphasise a sustainable approach to community cement industry which is forecasting growth in the next 3-5 engagement, and continually assess how FLSmidth can make years and FLSmidth’s historic strong position in the market are a difference. essential factors. Through our Operation & Maintenance operations, we are often Additionally, FLSmidth’s strategically important operation and present in a country for many years and depend highly on our maintenance (O&M) operations have a specific connection to good relationship and co-operation with the local community and Egypt, since the first O&M contract was signed in Egypt in 2007. its citizens. We believe that training and education is a good way Since then, other O&M contracts have been signed in Egypt, to use our know-how and expertise to create high value to the and the recruitment of qualified personnel is of vital importance. benefit of developing countries and emerging markets. Although the cement industry in Egypt has strong traditions, the industry, with its high demand for personnel, is facing challenges because of the shortage of qualified personnel. The idea behind the FLSmidth Helwan Cement Institute is to help alleviate this problem by creating a graduate-level cement institute that can bridge the educational and qualification gap for engineers graduating from the university and prepare them adequately for a potential career in the cement industry. Before establishing FLSmidth Helwan Cement Institute, FLSmidth solved the educational and qualification gap with extensive internal training and education; however by investing in a partnership with a local university, we will secure a longterm change in the local educational system to serve the cement industry and the local community. Our belief is that the partnership with a local partner from the community will “We emphasise a strengthen the future pool of potentially qualified candidates sustainable approach to and increase local hiring. community engagement, The solution of investing not only money, but also time, and continually assess resources and knowhow, is a more demanding approach for FLSmidth than merely donating money to the universities. how FLSmidth can make However, it is a much more sustainable solution, through a difference.” which we attempt to make a long-term difference, not only for our own employees but also for the general competence level in Egypt. 18 COP report 2010 COP report 2010 19 Overview The UN Global Compact principles UN Global Compact Focus Policies Principle 1: Respect of: Human Resources (HR Policy) Businesses should support and respect UN Declaration of Human Rights Code of Business Conduct (COC) the protection of internationally UN Convention the Rights of the Child proclaimed human rights with respect to any use of child labour Refraining from any use of forced labour Principle 2: Competitive and good employment Make sure that they are not complicit conditions in human rights abuses Equal opportunities The right to be organized and bargain collectively Healthy and safe working conditions Principle 3: Respect of: Human Resources (HR Policy) Businesses should uphold the freedom of UN Declaration of Human Rights Health & Safety (H&S Policy) association and the effective recognition UN Convention the Rights of the Child with Code of Business Conduct (COC) of the right to collective bargaining respect to any use of child labour Refraining from any use of forced labour Principle 4: Competitive and good employment The elimination of all forms of forced conditions and compulsory labour Equal opportunities The right to be organized and bargain Principle 5: collectively The effective abolition of child labour Healthy and safe working conditions and environment Principle 6: Safety training The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Products and services in compliance with Environmental Policy Businesses should support a precautionary applicable environmental regulations approach to environmental challenges Energy and environmental consideration in life cycle of products and services Principle 8: Design of equipment in accordance with Undertake initiatives to promote greater sustainability expectations and environmental responsibility requirements for new equipment Measurement of internal Principle 9: carbon footprint Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Compliance with applicable laws and Code of Business Conduct (COC) Businesses should work against requirements corruption in all its forms, including Complying with anti-competition and extortion and bribery export control regulations Refraining from any use of corruption in business practices, including bribery, extortion and kickbacks, and from participation in any kind of money laundering 20 COP report 2010 Actions Measure Performance Page HR development programs 2010 HR statistics Page 9 Responsible Supply Chain Project EES2010 (employee survey) Page 8 (RSCM project) Compliance Review Page 9 Code of Business Conduct Informing suppliers of RSCM Page 17 introduction/information HR development programs 2010 H&S statistics Page 11 HR annual review (PDR) HR statistics Page 9 H&S training 2010 Informing suppliers of RSCM Page 17 Responsible Supply Chain Project EES2010 (employee survey) Page 8 (RSCM project) Compliance Review Page 9 Code of Business Conduct introduction/information R&D research focus Products developed and launched with Page 12-14 Product development environmental aspect Internal carbon footprint with reporting Internal carbon footprint Page 15 to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Introduction to the Code of Business Dealing with incidents Page 6 Conduct Compliance Review Page 9 Responsible Supply Chain Project Informing suppliers of RSCM Page 17 (RSCM project) COP report 2010 21 FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 DK-2500 Valby Denmark Tel: +45 3618 1800 Fax: +45 3644 1146 E-mail: corppr@flsmidth.com CVR No. 58180912 www.flsmidth.com
