2009 2010 FISCAL YEAR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 3 _SCOPE This report corresponds to the fiscal year between August 1, 2009 and July 31, 2010. Part I of the report contains the declaration made by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of KRETZ s.a., embracing and supporting the company’s commitment to the Global Compact Principles, and a description of the company profile. Pat II of the report contains the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) actions carried out in the company in alignment with our company philosophy and design philosophy. It details the systems implemented from the CSR policy and the activities carried out through the company’s CSR programs, all of which reflect their compliance with the Global Compact Principles. Part III of the report contains the outcomes achieved in the 2008-2009 fiscal year, presented through Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators and their relation with the Global Compact Principles. P. 4 _TABLE OF CONTENTS Part I: • P7 Chairman’s Letter • P9 Company Profile • P10 Our History • P12 Our People • P13 Our Commitment • P13 Our Design • P13 Products • P13 Our Markets • P14 KRETZ Product Catalogue • P14 Supermarkets Line • P15 Commercial Line: Price Computing Scales • P16 Commercial Line: Weight Scales • P17 Industrial Line • P19 Printer Line • P19 Analytical and Laboratory Line • P20 Awards Part II: • P22 Commitment: How do we understand CSR in KRETZ? • P22 CSR is a core value of the company philosophy • P22 Our mission • P22 Our vision • P22 Our values • P23 Commitment through our products • P24 Our “sphere of influence” • P25 Systems: The company CSR policy • P26 Programs implemented • P27 Impact Matrix • P29 Activities: description of the actions carried out in the programs • P31. KRETZ Culture • P33 Decent Employment • P35 Integrated Management System • P37 Increased Knowledge • P39 Sustainable Company • P41 Value Chain • P43 Service Excellence • P45 Company, State and Community Part III: • P47 Chart of Global Compact Principles, GRI indicators and their corresponding outcomes CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 7 _ CHAIRMAN’S LETTER At this time we submit the KRETZ s.a. third annual Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. This report encompasses the economic period ending July 31, 2010 and advances our social balance criteria which allow us to systematically evaluate our activity in terms of transparency, social, environmental and working parameters. We continue to connect our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy with the Global Compact principles. This effort has contributed to an alignment of company policies with improved company objectives in internal communications, as well as with business spheres, institutional and community relationships. In our third report we point out how our CSR policy has fostered increasing commitments to our community and to the environment, strengthening our prior and territorial strategy of expanding educational activities. In accordance with this policy and within the framework agreement signed in 2008 by the National University of Rosario, KRETZ, as a member of the University Board of Advisors, promoted the creation of GTEC. GTEC is a master’s degree technology career program that began in June, 2010 in our Pueblo Esther location. The program grants a specialized Management in Innovation and Technological Connections degree that has been approved by the Science Department, National Productive Technology Department, and Innovation Department of the National University of Rosario. It ranks comparably with programs at The National University of Rosario, The National University of Entre Rios, The National University of Northwest Province of Buenos Aires and The National Technological University regional campuses oat Rosario, Venado Tuerto and San Nicolas. To reinforce our commitment to fostering education, KRETZ has made a loan of property located in the city of Rosario to the National University of Rosario. We take great pleasure and pride in the Engineer Daniel Kretz loan of this building which was originally the home of our founder, Carlos Kretz, and where in 1963 the KRETZ company was begun. Chairman of KRETZ s.a. In order to further our company’s commitment to the Kaisen philosophy, this past year we instituted the KRETZ QUALITY AWARD. This award is given to the best of three competing teams exemplifying the Kaisen philosophy of a team working together to achieve continuous improvement. The award ceremony took place in November, which is Quality Month in Japan. To further align the KRETZ company’s actions with the ten principles of the Global Compact, we state within the Strategy Plan that it is our goal to promote the Global Compact Practices. Our business philosophy, based on the values of integrity and compromise, manifests itself in responsibility. It is demonstrated with quality products, employee development, environmental preservation, full compliance, and the development of relationships with institutions from our community. P. 8 We have initiated a redefinition of our current business plan that will consolidate our vision as a technological company. During the past year we have steadily progressed with projects and personnel training to enable KRETZ to expand into the cash register market. KRETZ will become the first Argentine company to develop, produce and then market cash registers and fiscal printers. Our new products and business solutions will complement each other and enable our customers to better refine their business operations. The Arts and Craft House in Pueblo Esther created by KRETZ and staffed by KRETZ volunteers, has exceeded the expectations of the commune and the company. It provides training courses and many art activities. I would like to thank, on behalf of all at KRETZ, the people and organizations that have helped us establish and sustain relationships of mutual benefit and growth of our moral capital. We renew our commitment to disseminate and promote the principles of the Global Compact in order to further necessary progress toward a society in harmony with nature and the planet. KRETZ s.a. Ruta Nac .Nº9, Km 276 Pueblo Esther, Santa Fe, Argentina +54 341 4927400 KRETZ s.a is a corporation governed by the laws and regulations of the Argentine Republic. www.kretz.com.ar ventas@kretz.com.ar Our forty-seven year experience in the design of technological solutions for industry and commerce has helped KRETZ become the Argentine leader in Daniel Kretz development and marketing of electronic scales. Our growing presence in President Latin America has driven us to search for new markets and to research new KRETZ s.a. products to keep our progress constant. Throughout the years KRETZ has maintained the same values that have driven us from the start: integrity and leadership. That is the origin of our philosophy, based on enthusiasm for teamwork, devotion to excellence, commitment to the client, respect for the environment and passion for the development of new solutions. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2004 we opened our 13,650 sq. ft. state-of-the-art industrial plant on Our History a 13 acre parcel strategically located on the main access highway to RosaCarlos Kretz, Company Founder, Main building, industrial plant. in 1963. rio. The plant has been designed to integrate harmoniously with the The company has been developing innovative technological applications surrounding natural environment, creating an ideal working environment since 1963. The initial project by our founder, Engineer Carlos Kretz, has in accordance with KRETZ’s commitment to social responsibility. turned the company into one Argentina’s leading businesses in the technology industry, as well as a remarkable exporter. In November 2007 KRETZ joined the Global Compact with the purpose of generate and disseminate an ethic compromise ensuring its legal 1981 was a landmark year in the company’s history with the developcompliance to all parties interested worldwide. ment of its first electronic weighing product. This would, in time, help the company strengthen its industrial profile. In November 2008 the first Communication on Progress was presented. Its context grouped the initiatives and actions carried out by the company In 1985, the first set of commercial scales was launched and, by 1996, from previous years until July of that year whit the purpose of institutionathe company had achieved a remarkable position in the market of lize them and then reporting the progress of the periods 2008-209 and electronic scales in Argentina. Our growth capacity and our skills to adapt 2009-2010. ourselves to market demands have permitted us to maintain leadership in the industry. Today there are promising prospects for future expansion This year, KRETZ presented its third annual Communication on Progress toward other segments of the technology sector. report highlighting significant impacts generated by KRETZ’s sphere of influence. REPORTE DE RESPONSABILIDAD SOCIAL EMPRESARIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 13 Our Design KRETZ’s design philosophy is based on the human understanding of technology and the enhancement of the quality of life. Thus, we strive for inclusive and sustainable solutions through a search for synthesis, simplicity, harmony and structural rationality. Our mission is to help our clients run and manage their businesses. To achieve this mission, our professionals in the R&D Department work to meet the requirements of our clients. Each of our products combines functionality, aesthetics, and innovation in order to exceed the expectations of our clients. Our Products KRETZ´s constant search for innovation and functionality has allowed us to develop a wide variety of products and solutions for both retail and industry, including our supermarket, commercial, and industrial lines. All our design, manufacture, control and after-sale processes are ISO 9001 certified. With more than 250,000 scales sold in South America and Central America, we are ready to launch our operations into other markets. Our objective is to have a strong technological platform and to have the company achieve the highest international standards; therefore, we have adopted the SAP/R3 management system. This Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software provides one of the most comprehensive, flexible and scalable solutions worldwide. We have the infrastructure, the people, creativity and determination to continue leading Our People ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS the electronic weighing market and to extend to new sectors in the technology industry. KRETZ believes that excellence can only be achieved through ongoing 18001 standards certification. training and teamwork. To achieve this it is necessary to generate a harmonious working environment, a place where communication channels are always open and where creativity, cooperation and responsibility govern actions. Our Markets One of our core values is our commitment to the company and its people. The Company trades in the following countries: All KRETZ employees know the role they play, and contribute their individual efforts to achieve the goals of the company. Our relationship with our customers is governed by the same attitude. We are committed to helping • Bolivia • Colombia • Mexico • Peru them in their businesses through a courteous and friendly relationship, and • Brazil • Costa Rica • Panama • Uruguay the availability of 24-hour assistance. • Chile • Guatemala • Paraguay • Venezuela Our Commitment Our commitment to product quality is reflected in our ISO 9001 certification; however, KRETZ’s interest extends beyond this field. We are also concerned about the environment. This concern is reflected in the ISO 14001 certification for environmental management, as well as in the creation of a decent and harmonious work environment, through the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Safety and Health specification. P. 14 _ KRETZ PRODUCT CATALOGUE Supermarket Series NOVEL DATA and NOVEL DATA COM The Novel Data Com price computing scale can store up to 1000 product look-up (PLU) memories. It meets the most usual needs, such as direct retail and pre-packaging operations. It can be connected to KRETZ printers to generate tickets or barcode labels. Operation from a PC requires ABM-Quick Management software developed by KRETZ. REPORT The Report model is a price computing scale that features a robust thermal printer. Ideal for shops, with weighing and labeling requirements, its two versions, bench display and pole display, help to meet space limitation needs. REPORT NET The Report Net model is a label printer price computing scale specially designed for iTegra SOFTWARE Commercial Series | Price Computing Scales self-service shops, retail shops, supermarkets, hypermarkets and general retailing. •Software developed by KRETZ, 100% Java language NOVEL The Report Net technology features network management of up to 99 scales. Its intercon•Multi-platform (can be used with Windows and Linux, among nection requires no additional interfaces or network cards, since the necessary hardware This price computing scale with elevated pole readout is others) ideal for bakeries, butcher shops, greengrocers, self-service is built-in. The network is managed through iTegra management software, purpose•KRETZ Multi-equipment. It allows data management of all the developed by KRETZ. Depending on the model, the communication is established through shops, etc. models in the KRETZ networkable equipment. (Example: RS 232/485 protocol, TCP/IP, or wirelessly, IEEE 802.11b. This gives great flexibility and Report, Report NX, “Advanced” weight digital display and adaptation to the technology required by the customer. DELTA Plura) This price computing scale has a bench display specially •Allows controlled access to the system (through Username and designed for various applications in bakeries, butcher shops, Password) greengrocers and self-service shops. It is ideal for counterREPORT NX •Can be adapted to each shop’s specific management software top use, easy to operate, highly accurate and it enhances The Report NX line is a new generation of KRETZ scales, meant to meet the needs of the business performance. PLURA most demanding markets for weighing, labeling and data management capabilities. The PLURA price verifier is designed to meet the demands of CENIT self-service and other retail shops for real-time product data This hanging price computing scale is ideal for shops with verification. limited counter space and/or greengrocers, butcher or fishmonger shops. PLURA MM This version of PLURA counts with a True Color video screen that allows video reproduction with stereo sound. It also displays prices, promotions and sales information. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 16 Commercial Series | Weight Scales SINGLE This scale displays weight only and was developed to measure the weight of incoming goods. It is mainly used in the food industry, post offices, ice-cream parlors, hardware stores, offices and warehouses. ELITE This model caters to the same client segment as the SINGLE model. Nevertheless, its versions and characteristic features were developed to meet each client’s specific needs. The ELITE model can be connected to a PC or a cash register. STYLO This model has been designed for clients who wish to track incoming and outgoing goods by weight. It is ideal for ice-cream parlors, the food industry, hardware stores, postal offices, etc. Fully manufactured in stainless steel, it features two versions: one with tower front and rear display and the other with a platform front and rear display. It has features such as communication to computer, cash register, POS and printer, which make this scale the ideal product for points of sale in any business with checkout weighing requirements. PIVOT industrial Series | Weight Scales The PIVOT model is used in the same type of industry as the DIXIE COMET model, as it also has incoming check-weighing and DIXIE R This model features a suspended scale well suited for shops with limited counter space and piece count functionalities; however, it features greater This scale has been designed to provide solutions for meatfor street vending. It is widely used in retail shops. It is a heavy-duty scale with watertight weighing capacity as well as a tower display for the custoprocessing plants. It is highly functional in weighing electronic pieces (not easily damaged by an aggressive environment e.g. fluids and dust). mer and a platform display for the operator. The tare hanging meat. It also features shockproof and overloading protection. function permits subtracting the container weight in the • Two displays, one for the operator and one for the custosample. mer COMET • Heavy-duty hook The COMET model features technology that maximizes work performance, providing GALA • Tare function weight control and piece count functionalities. This versatile scale can be used in hardware GALA is designed as a medical scale to check an individual’s • Zero and Tare indicators stores and grocery shops and where incoming goods are to be controlled. Ideal for counter weight. use. This scale is ideal for pharmacies, gymnasiums and hospiRIELERA (Rail-Mounted Scale) tals, where precision and durability are essential. It features This model is the ideal solution for industries with weight an easy-to-read adjustable-tilt display. checking needs during operation. Perfect for meatprocessing industries, as weight decrease is determined in VET the quartering and freezing process. Ideal to weigh sides of Designed for veterinary offices, VET is perfect for weighing beef. Designed to withstand aggressive environments. animals. This scale features a large platform and a digital display capable of being counter or wall mounted or placed according to customer needs. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 18 5640 WEIGHT INDICATOR • Ideal to implement electronic balances or conversion kits • Adjustable-tilt ABS housing • Its base is perfect for wall, table or tower mount • Zero, tare and print button and indicators • Programmable capacity and minimum readability • Serial port communication (RS232) 5660 WEIGHT INDICATOR • Watertight stainless steel housing • Zero, tare and print buttons and indicators • Programmable capacity and readability • Shows number of weighings and accumulated total weight • Serial port communication (RS232) “ADVANCED” PROGRAMMABLE WEIGHT INDICATOR • 10-character alphanumeric display • 6-digit weight display • 5000 product look-up (PLU) memories • 99 operators • Serial port communication (RS232/ RS485) compatible with KRETZ scales Printer Series Analytical and Laboratory Series • Output suitable for Mara and Koala printers MARA Due to its experienced position in the scale market, MINI MASTER | MASTER Alphanumeric thermal printer with barcode capabiliKRETZ s.a. has obtained the right to officially repreties for scale connection sent the analytical and laboratory scales of SHIMAD• Weight digital indicator with adjustable display angle mounted on an 80 cm. tower ZU CORPORATION of Japan. SHIMADZU products • Optionally, indicator can be ordered with wall or desk support MARA PC are aimed at specific markets such as: pharmaceuti• Zero, tare and print buttons Alphanumeric thermal printer with barcode capabilical laboratories, doctors, food quality control agen• Zero, tare and movement indicators ties for computer connection cies and agribusinesses. • Serial port communications (RS232), for KRETZ computer or printer connection • 520 x 440 mm (20.47 x 17.32 in.) stainless steel platform PANDA • Optional: Bag holder Matrix printer for self-adhesive labels which connects to Novel and Novel Data scales KOALA Alphanumeric matrix printer for continuous paper to connect to Novel, Novel Data and Cenit scales KOALA PC Alphanumeric thermal printer for continuous paper to connect to Novel, Novel Data and Cenit scales CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL LATIN AMERICA GLOBAL • Adherence to the United LATINOAMÉRICA • 55% of Argentina’s • Adhesión al Pacto Global de • 55 % de las exportaciones Nations Global Compact. weighing exports. Naciones Unidas. de pesaje de Argentina. • ISO 9001, ISO 1 4001, • US $ 33,000 per exported • Certificación de normas ISO • U$S 33000 de valor por OHSAS 1 8001 standard ton. 9001, ISO 14001 y OHSAS tonelada exportada. certifications. • 240% export growth in 4 18001. • 240 % de crecimiento de • SAP/R 3 Management years. • Sistema de gestión SAP/R3. comercio exterior en 4 system. • Auditoría contable de nivel años. • International accounting internacional (HORWATH). audit (HORWATH). ARGENTINA SANTA FE • ARGENTINA 800 active clients. SANTA FE • 75% suppliers from the • 800 clientes activos. • 75 % de proveedores de la • 45% market share. Province of Santa Fe. • 45 % de participación en el Provincia de Santa Fé. • Product certification • Participation in Rosario mercado. • Participación en el Plan ratification by the National Strategic Planning. • Homologación de productos Estratégico Rosario. Bureau of Domestic Trade por Dirección Nacional de and the National Institute for Comercio Interior e InstiIndustrial Technology (INTI). tuto Nacional de Tecnología • National network of technical Industrial. service providers. • Red nacional de servicios INDUSTRIAL PLANT • PLANTA INDUSTRIAL Situated on the Buenos Aires-Rosario motorway. • Ubicada sobre autopista Buenos Aires-Rosario. • 13 acre parcel with 92% forested area. • Predio de 5 hectáreas con el 92% de la superficie • 13,650 sq. ft. state-of-the-art energy efficient facility. parquizada. • Waste-recycling program. • Edificio inteligente de 3800 m2 que optimiza el consumo energético. • Programa de reciclado de materiales. Awards Industrial plant strategic location. KRETZ s.a. has received the following awards, which have encouraged us to seek future challenges: • Honorable Mention to Competitiveness 2004, granted by “Fundación Mediterránea” • “Smoke-Free Company” recognition, granted by Municipality of Rosario • “Santa Fe Exports 2007” award, granted by the Province of Santa Fe Administration • “Technological Company of the Year Indice 2007 Award” • “Small and Medium-Sized Business of the Year Indice 2008 Award” (organized by PuntoBiz, a specialist magazine, and selected by Rosario Region businesses) • Company selected to participate in the study of Corporate Social Responsibility and the promotion of Human Development, carried out by the United Nations Development Programme, 2008 and 2009 P. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 23 _ COMMITMENT How do we understand CSR at Kretz? Leadership: • Involvement with the company and its people CSR is a core value of the company philosophy: • Committing to the company’s goals and objectives • Contributing our individual effort to achieve collective goals The company is forty-seven years old and has always focused on the search for technological solutions. In the past few years, KRETZ’s key mission has been to help customers successfully run and manage their This model has been designed to meet the company’s specific needs, to increase its value businesses. KRETZ works from a philosophy based on the consideration of customers and their clients as and outcomes. It is also a key aspect for individual development, since it directs the efforts the main factor in decision-making. This management idea should ideally reach all company of employees toward the expected work performance. departments. This model applies to all stakeholders: our workforce members and their families, our Our vision: clients, suppliers, shareholders, and users, the community and its institutions and administrations. “Our vision is to be recognized internationally for our design of innovative technological solutions, supported by our people’s excellence.” These stakeholders constitute our sphere of influence. We influence the players directly linked to the company operations, the workplace, the supply chain and the market. Our influence then extends to our interaction with the community, its institutions and public Our mission: policies. “Our mission is to help our customers run and manage their businesses.” Commitment through our products Our values: “KRETZ intends to create an enjoyable working environment, openness in the face of change and, above KRETZ’s CSR culture is evident from the first stages of our product design to the experience all, commitment to the company, its goals and its people. KRETZ seeks to maintain open communication of the user of the product. Our Design Philosophy establishes a concept that guides the channels to enhance this environment and to facilitate the flow of relevant information.” research and development of all our new products and solutions. The company’s foundation is based on two principles: integrity and leadership. These core values rule Continuity of design inspires our new models. With instantly recognizable characteristic company life. features in every product line, we seek to define a corporate image that communicates our company spirit. Integrity: Our Design Philosophy is focused on the individual as end user. The functionality and shape • Behaving ethically and responsibly of our designs are the result of creation and experimentation leading to the best solutions • Encouraging and exercising solidarity and cooperation for the individual and his/her needs. • Establishing new internal and external relations on the basis of trust, honesty and respect • Keeping our promises • Recognizing other people’s initiatives and achievements CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 25 _ SYSTEMS The Kretz CSR Policy The KRETZ CSR policy is based on three main concepts: • Quality, as the basis of the company competitiveness • Knowledge, as the basis of ongoing innovation • Commitment, as the basis of ethics, integrity and leadership We believe that the combination of these three dimensions is the basis of our company responsibility: responsibility to the clients and consumers by providing quality products; responsibility to progress by adding value through constant innovation; and responsibility to stakeholders by performing our activity on the basis of values. Therefore, our CSR policy’s overall goals are: • Strengthening dependable relations within the company and between the company and stakeholders • Encouraging actions which include a wide scope of social, institutional and environmental goals (supplementary to the company financial goals) as key components of a comprehensive company • Promoting education and innovation as key pillars to become an “Increased Knowledge” company • Contributing to society’s cultural change, through the promotion of technological and organizational excellence The programs implemented Our CSR policy is mainstreamed through eight programs, which include all the company areas. Each program consists of specific actions. KRETZ’s sphere of 1. KRETZ Culture: this program seeks to consolidate values and improve the environment These concepts are meaningful when the scope of commitment within our influence. of reliability within the company. It aligns with principles 1, 2 and 10 of the Global Comsphere of influence is defined. Thus, KRETZ developed an after-sales service pact. that includes over 700 technical service representatives throughout the country, as well as in the countries where we export our products and 2. Decent Employment: this program seeks to promote working conditions within the solutions. Additionally, we have implemented a 24/7 technical assistance company that create a decent and stimulating work environment, to promote access to service to give timely installation and operation support. information and freedom of association, to ensure professional development and employability, and to guarantee worker health and safety standards. It aligns with principles 3, 4, One of KRETZ’s main policies is the standardization of processes to ensure 5 and 6 of the Global Compact. a constant level of customer satisfaction. To such aim, we are committed to management, quality, care for the environment, and worker safety to guarantee the sustainability of the organization and its stakeholders. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 26 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES KRETZ PROGRAMS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 KRETZ CULTURE 2 DECENT EMPLOYMENT 3 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 4 INCREASED KNOWLEDGE 5 SUSTAINABLE COMPANY 6 VALUE CHAIN 7 SERVICE EXCELLENCE 8 COMPANY, STATE AND COMMUNITY 3. Integrated Management System: this program seeks to create the necessary conditions for the ongoing enhancement of the productive, organizational, managerial and relational processes within the company. It aligns with principles 4 to 10 of the Global Compact. 4. Increased Knowledge: this program seeks to consolidate the company according to knowledge and innovation as a competitive variable. It aligns with principles 1 and 9 of the Global Compact. 5. Sustainable Company: this program seeks to promote a culture of environmental responsibility, to raise education and environmental awareness, and to manage the impact of the products on the environment and the lifecycle through design modification. It aligns with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. KRETZ’s sphere of 6. Value Chain: this program seeks to promote the values of Corporate Social Responsibility influence. and the Global Compact principles in the company supply chain. It aligns with the 10 princiIn order to link the commitments made and the programs implemented ples of the Global Compact. under the Global Compact principles, we have developed an impact matrix. Vertically, this matrix shows the impact of the programs on the organization and on stakeholders. Horizontally, it shows the impact on performance 7. Service Excellence: this program seeks to establish excellence criteria in client and consuand culture. mer assistance. It aligns with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. The matrix reflects every CSR program, how each contributes to better performance within the company and between the company and its value 8. Company, State and Community: this program seeks to promote a good relationship chain, and how each contributes to the promotion of values and a new with the surrounding community, to encourage voluntary work, action and social initiatiethics concept in the community. ves, and to build partnerships for development with institutions and governments. It aligns with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. P. 28 P. 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT _ ACTIVITIES Description of the actions performed in the programs In November 2007, KRETZ s.a. endorsed the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary network of organizations, agencies, unions and non-governmental organizations which embrace the 10 universal principles. These principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development of the United Nations Environment Program. By endorsing the United Nations Global Compact, CSR at KRETZ is mainstreamed and structured according to the universal principles. The following charts illustrate the company’s CSR programs, their link to the Global Compact principles, the stakeholders involved, the actions performed and the outcomes achieved. The company’s CSR policy was formulated in 2004. The following charts illustrate the actions performed since then. Part 3 of this report highlights the outcomes achieved, specifically in the fiscal year 2009-2010, for each Global Compact principle. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 31 Starting and ending date: 2004 to present Stakeholders: shareholders, workforce members, families of workforce members, suppliers, clients, civil servants, yacht clubs, the company management, the local community, artists, sportspeople Actions and instruments: • Second Social Balance Presentation • CSR Kaizen renewal of workers’ participation • CSR internal workshop training continuity • Relaunch of CSR actions, communications and proposals reception lunch • Proposal for CSR • First electronic Kaizen bulletin • Family Day for socializing and recreation. Theme: GAUCHO • End of year party, celebrating 46 years • CSR action presentation and dissemination to all assistants • Integration event: “Soccer World Cup 2010” • Reader N°250 Award from the KRETZ Library • Internal contest “Mom’s/Dad’s Job Award”: Company tour • $2400 annual investment to buy books for the KRETZ Library Main Picture: CSR 1 2 traininign 1. Lunch with CSR Kaizen representatives 2. Family’ s Day 2009 3. End of the Year Party 2009 KRETZ 47th birthday 4. Soccer World Cup 2010 3 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 33 Starting and ending date: 2004 to present Stakeholders: shareholders, workforce members, suppliers and clients Actions and instruments: • Outsourcing counseling on Health, Hygiene and Working Safety • In-company paid lunch • Renewal of seasonal uniforms to all personnel • Staff transportation charges paid by the company • Plant medical assistance and staff vaccination annual campaigns (vaccinations for tetanus and flu) • Staff Christmas gifts • Intensive training of defibrillator use • Maternity and paternity leave extension Main Photo: Operator 1 2 at work 1. Soccer match at the company campus 2. Defibrillator and its cabinet 3. Medical Room 4. Primitive verification 3 4 Robot de CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 35 Starting and ending date: 2004 to present Stakeholders: Directors, workforce members, external consultants, regulation and control agencies, suppliers, clients Actions and instruments: • Permanent incorporation of quality systems and programs • Quality norms implementation • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 • IRAM norms • INTI • Permanent personnel training • Company’s Strategic Plan Presentation for the next 5 years • 2009 KRETZ Quality Award for continuous Kaizen improvement • Semi-annual Internal Audits • Publication of the 2009 Progress Report on the UN Website • KRETZ Quality Annual Award 2010 Main photo: Inventary control 1 2 at .the warehouse 1. Communication of KRETZ’s strategic plan 2009 2014 2 & 4. KRETZ Quality Awards 2009 3. Furoshiki Training 3 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 37 Starting and ending date: 2005 to present Stakeholders: Managers, workforce members, suppliers, universities Actions and instruments: • Mutual Cooperation Agreements with the National University of Rosario • Loan of property to UNR for use in its Master’s Degree in the Technology Career Program • Internal educational background (37% of the staff have university degrees and 60% have technical education degrees) • Tracking and controlling of measuring instruments • Internal auditors training • Global Compact Chair assistance from UNR visit • Launching of GTEC career joint with UNR, UNNOBA, UTN Y UNER • “FUROSHIKI” workshop (cloth wrapping) within INTI JICA framework • Red Cross First Aid Training for all employees •Donation of a digital weight indicator to the Technology and Manufacturing Chair of the UNR Main photo: R&D intern 1 2 1. KRETZ and UNR sign agreement of GTEC 2. Presentation of UNR GLOBAL COMPACT CHAIR 3. Commencement of 3 4 GTEC Program 4. Company Learning Day CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 39 Starting and ending date: 2004 to present Stakeholders: Directors, workforce members, families, suppliers, clients, government Actions and instruments: • Reforestation year 2010 • Sown recreation areas (soccer field) • Waste recycling (separation and recycling of aluminum, stainless steel, carbon iron, copper, plastic, paper and cartons) • Paper consumption control regulations • Battery recycling • Non-smoking company • Hazardous waste destruction • Final disposition of Electric/Electronic devices • Water chemical and bacteriological analysis • Sterilization of Pathogenic wastes • 55% reduction on waste disposal 1 2 Main photo: Forestation of the industrial plant 1. Sown recreation areas 2. Forestation 3. Waste Classification 33 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 41 Starting and ending date: 2007 to present Stakeholders: shareholders, workforce members, suppliers, clients, directors Actions and instruments: • Training workshops to stakeholders • Development of a contractor’s manual and regulations for anyone visiting the company • Internal and External auditing to suppliers • Circulation of Global Compact Principles to interested parties • Presentation of 2009 Progress report to interested groups • KRETZ inclusion to the first United Nation PNUD Publication “Contributions to human growing in Argentina” • The promotion of recreation activities • Control processes automation • Reception of two Technical Schools from Misiones in order to spread the action of CSR and make people aware of it Main photo: 1 2 Familiarization of workforce with the Global Compact Principles 1. Perito Moreno School Visit 2. Presentation of 2009 Communication on 3 Progress 3 3. Bunge Argentina Visit 4. ONU Presentation in which KRETZ Appears CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 43 Starting and ending date: 2007 to present Initiators and responsible people: Managers and workforce members Stakeholders: Workforce members, clients, consumers, suppliers Actions and instruments: • Expansion of the Domestic Technical Service Network countrywide • 24 hour technical telephone assistance • Participation in domestic and foreign shows • Official technical support and dealer training on KRETZ’s technological developments • Reaching out to our consumers through a new technical support system in Rosario • Warranty extension from 6 months to 1 year Main photo: Operators 1 2 interacting with clients 1. 2010 National Retailer Convention 2. Dealers training 3. Rosario Ice Cream Chamber Visit 3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P. 45 Starting and ending date: 2004 to present Stakeholders: shareholders, workforce members, suppliers, clients, institutions, government, community Actions and instruments: • Encouragement of legal and contributory commitments between interested parties • Implementation of a donation system for periodicals • Collection and donation of toys to Pueblo Esther Commune by KRETZ families • Donation of tools to School N°299 Ceferino Namucurá • Donation of clothes, school supplies and two stoves to The Batea School of Cordoba. Clients and suppliers participated. • Participation in public and private initiatives • Scale donation to the Roque Saenz Peña Hospital Neonatal Unit • Participation in benefit dinner for the Rosario Neurological Rehabilitation Foundation • Sportswear donation to the 2010 Category of the Alvear Social and Sportive Club • Scale donation to Conin Net – Entre Ríos • Joint social projects planning with the Community Head of Pueblo Esther • Donation of flags for public bicentennial commemoration • Financial contribution and donation of furniture to the Arts and Craft House of the Pueblo Esther Community Main photo: Rosario’s 1 2 Major, Miguel Lifschitz, visits the industrial plant . 1. Local Children’s Soccer Team Sponsors 2. Donation of educational supplies to 4 the Batea Community, Córdoba. 3. Donation of Scale to the Roque Saenz Peña Hospital 3 4. Donation of Argentinean flags to the Pueblo Esther Community P. 47 Chart of Global Compact Principles, GRI indicators and their corresponding outcomes. Referencies: EC: Economic aspects EN: Environment LA: Labor practices HR: Human rights SO: Society PR: Responsibility for products ÁREAS GC PRINCIPLES APPROPRIATE GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR DEGREE OF JULY 2009 JULY 2010 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE HUMAN PRINCIPLE 1− EC5: Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Range and average of ratios of wages n/a 1,79 Av erage: Av erage: 1,85 RIGHTS Businesses should compared to local minimum wage at significant for direct employees. (1: Collective Lowest: 1,48 Lowest: 1,43 support and locations of operation. bargaining agreement, <1: higher at Highest: 2,22 Highest: 2,10 KRETZ, >1: Higher in the collective respect the bargaining agreement protection of internationally LA4Percentage of employees covered by Percentage of employees covered by 43,3 % 42,11 % proclaimed human collective bargaining agreements. collective bargaining agreements. rights. LA6Percentage of total workforce represented in Percentage of total workforce 0,111 % 9,50 % formal joint management-worker health and represented in formal joint safety committees that help monitor and advise on management-worker health and occupational health and safety programmes. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Lost days 1 8 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. Minor accidents 1 2 Major accidents 0 0 LA8Education, training, counselling, prevention, Wo rk garments and uniforms $ 28.800 $ 52.873 and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community Transportation for the workforce member s $ 360.000 $ 416.353 members regarding serious diseases. Implementation of ergonomic s/d $ 7.343 elements Food for the workforce members $ 221.000 $ 308.000 LA9Health and safety topics covered in formal Health care at the plant $ 14.400 $ 14.400 agreements with trade unions. Vaccination campaign $ 2.025 $ 2.264 HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and Visits to suppliers 77 visits y 19 45 visits y 3 contractors that have undergone screening audits audits regarding human rights and actions taken. HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 44 hours 608 hours. and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4Total number of incidents of discrimination To tal number of incidents of 0 0 and actions taken. discrimination and actions taken. HR9Total number of incidents of violations To tal number of incidents of 0 0 involving rights of indigenous people and actions violations involving rights of taken. indigenous people and actions taken. SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 13 public policy development and lobbying. organizations HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 240 hours and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. P. 48 HR4Total number of incidents of discrimination To tal number of incidents of 0 0 and actions taken. discrimination and actions taken. GINI Index HR9Total number of incidents of violations To tal number of incidents of 0 0 involving rights of indigenous people and actions violations involving rights of taken. indigenous people and actions taken. 100% 100% Cumulative Share of Income earned SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 public policy development and lobbying. organizations PR2Total number of incidents of non-compliance To tal number of incidents of 0 0 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning non-compliance with regulations and health and safety impacts of products and services voluntary codes concerning health 80% during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. e PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance To tal number of incidents of 0 0 Lin 68,06% with regulations and voluntary codes concerning non-compliance with regulations and n product and service information and labelling, by voluntary codes concerning product 60% rib type of outcome. and service information and labelling, ut io by type of outcome. tD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Client satisfaction average weighted 8.3 out of 10 s/d ist including results of surveys measuring customer index fe c satisfaction. Pe Market research investment $ 14.000 s/d 40% r 41,39% Decrease in delivery time Decrease of s/d 10 % PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance To tal number of incidents of 0 0 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning non-compliance with regulations and marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcome. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 24,43% advertising, promotion, and 20% sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8Total number of substantiated complaints To tal number of substantiated 0 0 10,84% regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses y complaints regarding breaches of of customer data. customer privacy and losses of customer data. 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Monetary value of significant fines for $0 $0 noncompliance with laws and regulations noncompliance with laws and concerning the provision and use of products and regulations concerning the provision services. and use of products and services. Cumulative Share of Workforce members PRINCIPLE 2 − HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and Visits to suppliers 77 visits 45 visits y 3 Businesses should contractors that have undergone screening y 19 audits make sure they are regarding human rights and actions taken. audits not complicit in human rights abuses. HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 44 hours 608 and procedures concerning aspects of human hours rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4Total number of incidents of discrimination To tal number of incidents of 0 0 AREAS GC PRINCIPLES APPROPRIATE GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATO JULY JULY DEGREE OF and actions taken. discrimination and actions taken. 2009 2010 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE E HR9Total number of incidents of violations To tal number of incidents of 0 0 involving rights of indigenous people and actions violations involving rights of LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 − LA1Total workforce by employment type, To tal workforce 90 97 taken. indigenous people and actions taken. Businesses should employment contract, and region. uphold the freedom of SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 association and the By employment type, C.b.agreemen t 39 43 public policy development and lobbying. organizations effective employment contract recognition of the Out of c.b. 51 54 right to collective agreemen t bargaining. and region. Rosario / 73/4 75/10 Pueblo Esther Rest of 13 2 Argentina The following chart shows income distribution in the company. Line X represents the LA4Percentage of employees covered by Percentage of employees covered by 43,30% 42,11% collective bargaining agreements. collective bargaining agreements cumulative share of workforce members, divided into five segments. Line Y represents the cumulative share of income earned. Thus, 20% of the workforce members earn LA5Minimum notice period(s) regarding Minimum notice period(s) regarding 3 meses 2 meses significant operational changes, including whether significant operational changes, 9.26% of the income, 40% of the workforce members earn 20.82% of the income, and it is specified in collective agreements. including whether it is specified in collective agreements. so on. This reflects an acceptable curve of income distribution in the company HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and Visits to suppliers 77 auditorías 45 77 auditorías visits an d contractors that have undergone screening on y 19 visitas y 319 audits visitas human rights and actions taken. HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 240 hour s and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 13 public policy development and lobbying. organizations. P. 50 contractors that have undergone screening on 19 audits P. 51 human rights and actions taken. HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 44 608 and procedures concerning aspects of human hours hours 0,81 0,79 rights that are relevant to operations, including IT the percentage of employees trained. Manteinance N/A 0 SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 public policy development and lobbying. organizations. HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and Visits to suppliers 77 visits 45 audits contractors that have undergone screening on 19 audits 3 visits human rights and actions taken. PRINCIPLE 4 − LA10 Average hours of training per year per Av erage hours of training per year 18,19 14,12 Businesses should employee by employee category. uphold the HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 44 608 elimination of all HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and Visits to suppliers and procedures concerning aspects of human hours hours 77 visits 45 audits forms of forced contractors that have undergone screening on 19 audits 3 visits rights that are relevant to operations, including and compulsory human rights and actions taken. the percentage of employees trained. labour HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 44 608 HR4Total number of incidents of discrimination To tal number of incidents of 0 0 and procedures concerning aspects of human hours hours and actions taken. discrimination and actions taken. rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 public policy development and lobbying. organizations SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 public policy development and lobbying. organizations AREAS GC PRINCIPLES APPROPRIATE GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR JULY JULY DEGREE OF PRINCIPLE 5 − HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and Visits to suppliers 77 visits 45 audits 2009 2010 INTERNAL Businesses should contractors that have undergone screening on 19 audits 3 visits ACCEPTANCE uphold the human rights and actions taken. effective abolition Environment PRINCIPLE 7 − EN30Total environmental protection expendiGreen spaces $4.905 $2.299 of child labour. Businesses should tures and investments by type HR3Total hours of employee training on policies CSR training 44 608 support a Wa ste classification and recycling $1.315 $2.577 and procedures concerning aspects of human hours hours precautionary rights that are relevant to operations, including approach to Urban solid waste collection $519 $618 the percentage of employees trained. environmental challenges. Destruction of hazardous waste $243 $153 SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 Final disposure of Electronic Apparels N/A $42 public policy development and lobbying. organizations Chemical and bacteriological analysis $0 $62 of water PRINCIPLE 6 − EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Percentage of locally-based suppliers 83% 88% $318 $428 Pathogenic waste sterilization Businesses should on locally-based suppliers at significant locations compared to internationally-based uphold the of operation. suppliers SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 elimination of public policy development and lobbying. organizations discrimination in LA2Total number and rate of employee turnover Rate of employee turnover 0,48 0,24 respect of by age group, gender, and region. employment and PRINCIPLE 8 − EN1Materials used by weight or volume. Aluminium (Kg) 37.103 35.532 occupation. Businesses should undertake Cardboard (Kg) 30.651 30.477 LA13Composition of governance bodies and Percentage of women Management 50% 50% breakdown of employees per category according per position initiatives to Plastic (Kg) 38.732 39.839 to gender, age group, minority group memberpromote greater Adminis36,40% 45% ship, and other indicators of diversity. environmental Electronics (Equip. Units) 63.417 64.156 tration and responsibility. Financ e Cardboard 735 763 EN2Percentage of materials used that are Trad e 11,80% 11% Plastic 59,50 82 recycled input materials. Purchase s 16,55% 17% Metals 108,92 0 Hazardous waste 1,99 3 Qualit y 0% 25% Batteries 10,58 0 Manufacture 23,25% 80% EN3Direct energy consumption by primary Direct energy consumption by primary 4.600KW 4.600 KW Service 0% 0% energy source. energy source annual annual Electric power R& D 8,33% 8% EN5Energy saved due to conservation and Electric power 0 0 efficiency improvements IT 66,70% 50% EN8Total water withdrawal by source. To tal water withdrawal by network. 900m3 /year 900m3 /year Maintenance 0% 0% EN14Strategies, current actions, and future plans Percentage of afforestation 92% 92% for managing impacts on biodiversity. LA14Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Ratio of salary of men Management 1,30 1,22 employee category. to women EN22Total weight of waste by type and disposal Urban solid waste (annual kg.) 7.400 kg 3.380 kg Adminis1,94 1,40 method. Financ EN28Monetary value of significant fines and Monetary value of significant fines $0 $0 total number of non-monetary sanctions for and total number of non-monetary Trade 2,52 1,23 noncompliance with environmental laws and sanctions for noncompliance with regulations. environmental laws and regulations. Purchase 1,21 0,86 EN30Total environmental protection expendiGreen spaces $0 $0 Quality N/A 0,80 tures and investments by type. Wa ste classification and recycling $4.905 $2.299 Manufacture 1,18 0 Urban solid waste collection $1.315 $2.577 Service N/A 0 Destruction of hazardous waste $519 $618 R&D 2,04 1,31 Chemical and bacteriological analysis of water $243 $153 n/a 0.81 0 type of outcomes. Information requirements. and service information and labelling, Destruction of hazardous waste $243 P. 53 Chemical and bacteriological analysis of water SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 public policy development and lobbying. organizations RP4Total number of incidents of non-compliance To tal number of incidents of 0 0 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning non-compliance with regulations and product and service information and labelling, by voluntary codes concerning product type of outcomes. Information requirements. and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PRINCIPLE 9 − EN2Percentage of materials used that are Cardboard 735 763,00 Businesses should recycled input materials. encourage the Plasti c 60 82,00 development and Metal s 109 0,00 environmentally friendly EN5Energy saved due to conservation and Electric power 0 0 technologies. efficiency improvements. EN30Total environmental protection expendiGreen spaces $4.905 $2.299 tures and investments by type. Wa ste classification and recycling $1.315 $2.577 Urban solid waste collection $519 $618 Destruction of hazardous waste $243 $153 Chemical and bacteriological analysis $0 $62 of water SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ 13 10 public policy development and lobbying. organizations AREAS GC PRINCIPLES APPROPRIATE GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR JULY 2009 JULY 2010 DEGREE OF INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE ANTI− PRINCIPIO 10 − CORRUPTIO N Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO5Public policy positions and participation in Participation in employers’ public policy development and lobbying. organizations 13 10 SO6Total value of financial and in-kind To tal value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, $ 30.572 $ 14.929 contributions to political parties, politicians, and politicians, and related institutions by related institutions by country. country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for Legal actions identified for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, $0 $0 monopoly practices and their outcomes. and monopoly practices. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Late Filing of Ta x Affidavits $181,00 $200,00 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Note: Indicator SO5 shows participation in ten employers’ organizations, as detailed below: 1. Chamber of Manufacturers of Weighing and Measuring Instruments (CAFIPEM) 2. Chamber of Foreign Trade of Rosario 3. Chamber of Exporters of Rosario 4. Chamber of office Machines (CAMOCA) 5. Industry and Commerce Federation of Rosario 6. Rosario Stock Exchange _Planta Industrial _Oficinas 7. Argentine Renewable Energies Chamber 8. Rosario-Italian Chamber Pueblo Esther Rosario 9. Argentine-Mexican Chamber of Commerce Ruta Nac. n 9 km. 276 Pasco 1884 10. Argentine–Chilean Chamber of the Littoral Region 2126 | Santa Fe S2000ECL | Santa Fe Argentina Argentina Tel: +54 (0341) 492-7400 Tel: +54 (0341) 482-6049 Fax: +54 (0341) 492-7410 Fax: +54 (0341) 482-5945
