Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 CONTENTS Page 1. MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 06 2. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE AND RATING 08 3. REPORT BOUNDARY 10 4. CR MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND BUSINESS CASE 12 5. UNGC PRINCIPLES 14 6. ACHIEVEMENT OF STATED TARGETS IN 2009 15 7. TRENDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 16 8. RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS (INTEGRAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY) 18 9. CUSTOMER RELATIONS 20 10. PRESERVING OUR PLANET 23 11. COMMUNITY RELATIONS 29 12. OUR PEOPLE 34 13. MAINTAINING ECONOMIC EQUILIBRIUM 41 14. DIALOG AND DEVELOPMENT (OUTREACH CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY) 44 15. THE CHANGE TRUST FUND AND PHILANTHROPY 50 16. TARGETS FOR 2010 53 17. GRI CONTENT INDEX 54 18. GLOSSARY 57 19. LIST OF TABLES, CHARTS, DIAGRAMS AND BOXES 57 Welcome to our second Sustainability Report, for the financial year enables the organisation to elicit comparable information on the ended 31 December 2009. This Report underscores and reaffirms nexus between economic, social and environmental performance the organisations realisation that sustainable dividends to all legitiof the Company. mate stakeholders of the Company are delivered when Corporate Responsibility/Accountability is integrated, in an unfeigned manner, Our progress against targets and other aspects of our TBL perinto core business strategy and its operations. formance is subject to independent external assurance by Det Norske Veritas AS and is based on the AA1000 AS (2008) AsThis Report outlines Dialog's Triple Bottom Line (TBL) performance surance Standard2. in 2009, and illustrates the building blocks of sustainability across all levels of our core ‘Operations’ as well as our performance in At Dialog Telekom PLC, we believe that Corporate Responsibility terms of value creation towards ‘Development’ goals. This Report interpreted and delivered in this manner is a compelling managealso reiterates Dialog's commitment to engage proactively with all ment ethos that enables the organisation to access new markets, its legitimate stakeholders, by providing a balanced and transparnew partnerships and product/service innovations that generate ent account of its TBL performance on all agendas of value and value and development that is sustainable, for the organisation as materiality. Dialog benchmarks its reporting process against the well as the environment and stakeholders within which it operates. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Guidelines1. Monitoring of material performance indicators according to the GRI G3 guidelines For more information: www.dialog.lk/home/responsibility • Further information to that provided within the scope of this report on Dialog Telekom's CR thrust • Additional information from external websites on assurance standards used in this report • Further reading on CR and Sustainability CAUTIONARY STATEMENT This report contains forward-looking statements characterised ever changing macro-environment and is subject to uncertainties by the use of words and phrases such as “anticipate”, “project”, that could cause actual results to differ from those reflected in the may”, “believe”, “predict”, “expect”, continue”, “will , “estimate”, forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the expecta“target” and other similar expressions. Our business operates in an tions of the Group and may or may not turn out as predicted. 1 For full explanations of the indicators or for more information on the GRI, please refer the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines document or visit the GRI website (http://www.globalreporting.org/Home). 2 http://www.accountability.org/ Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM REPORT PROFILE This report covers the activities of Dialog Telekom PLC for the As sustainability principles have been integrated within the Dialog financial year ending 31 December 2009. Initiatives and activiTelekom Group, certain GRI standard disclosures are included ties undertaken prior to this period have been mentioned where in specified pages of the Annual Report3, rather than duplicatrelevant so as to provide clarity on context. Dialog aims to align its ing information in this report. These are clearly indicated in the TBL management and reporting with the principles of the AA1000 GRI index table and will not be found in the body of this report. AS (2008) standard, to ensure that the aspects of materiality, Readers may enhance their judgment on the issues included in this inclusiveness and responsiveness are addressed and factored. report by supplementing their understanding through information provided in the Dialog Telekom PLC Annual Report of 2009 . The structure of this Sustainability Report does not strictly adhere to the order of the indicators as included in the GRI G3 SustainThis report has been compiled by the Dialog Telekom Group ability Reporting Guidelines; rather, the report composition uses an Corporate Responsibility unit, with input from the Dialog CR Group assemblage of related indicator clusters in a meaningful way to the Leadership Committee, selected internal stakeholders, divisional organisation, to enhance readability. The indicators are therefore experts in identified topics and 'indicator owners'. Any queries grouped accordingly to highlight Dialog’s holistic approach to Corregarding the report or content can be directed to the E-mail porate Responsibility through its (integral and outreach) focus. The address: responsibility@dialog.lk. Further information to that proGRI content index found on page 54 of this report also allows easy vided within the scope of this report on Dialog Telekom’s CR thrust navigation to the relevant pages of the report that contain details maybe found at the website. pertaining to the aforementioned disclosure. www.dialog.lk/about/responsibility CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS REPORTS Where assumptions are used about data presented or any restatefrom the Dialog Group Leadership Committee, Group Corporate ments of information (from the previous Sustainability Report Communications, selected internal stakeholders, divisional experts issued by the Company) are made, they are clarified in the relevant in identified topics and ‘indicator owners’. section of the Report. The Report has been compiled by the Dialog Telekom Group Corporate Responsibility unit, with input REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL Dialog Telekom PLC’s Sustainability Report is in accordance with Annual Report for a complete representation of GRI core indicator the Global Reporting Initiatives G3 Guidelines. This report has information. This report also serves as Dialog’s UN Global Compact been verified independently by Det Norske Veritas AS, and carries COP (Communication on Progress) Report for the 12 month period a GRI Application Level of A+ (Third party checked) rating. This ending 31 December 2009. Report should be read along with Dialog Telekom PLC’s 2009 2002 In Accordance C C+ B B+ A Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked In 2008, Det Norske Veritas AS provided feedback in their assurits materiality assessment approach and developed performance ance statement on potential areas of improvement to Dialog's TBL metrics for material issues. Dialog will also take in to consideration management. Dialog responded to these suggestions positively by the feedback received from DNV with regard to extending stakeimplementing a robust internal review and auditing process for inholder consultation and communication, specifically on the sustainternal data management systems. Dialog also further strengthened ability context, to a wider range of stakeholder groups in 2010. 3 The Dialog Telekom Group Annual Report can be accessed on line at http://www.dialog.lk/about/investors/financials/annual-reports/ DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM DIALOG AT A GLANCE DIALOG MOBILE DIALOG BROADBAND NETWORKS Dialog Telekom PLC (The Company) is Sri Lanka’s flagship telecomDialog Broadband Networks (Private) Limited (DBN) is a fully munications service provider, which operates Dialog Mobile – the owned subsidiary of the Company, and is a key player in Sri country’s largest mobile network. Dialog is a subsidiary of Axiata Lanka’s ICT infrastructure sector, providing backbone and transGroup Berhad (formerly TM International). Dialog has spearheaded mission infrastructure facilities and data communication services. the mobile industry in Sri Lanka since the late 90’s, propelling it DBN also operates a fixed wireless telephone service based on to a level of technology on par with the developed world. The CDMA technology. DBN was also the first service provider in Sri Company operates 2.5G, 3G, and 3.5G mobile services, supporting Lanka to introduce high-speed broadband internet services based the very latest in multimedia and mobile internet services as well on WiMAX technology. as international roaming across more than 200 destinations. Dialog Telekom accounts for up to 50% of Sri Lanka’s mobile subscribers. INTERNATIONAL SERVICES DIALOG TELEVSION In addition to its core business of mobile telephony, the Company Dialog Television (Private) Limited (Dialog TV), a subsidiary of operates a wide portfolio of international telecommunications Dialog Telekom PLC, operates Dialog Satellite TV, a Direct-to-Home services, including but not limited to, retail and wholesale interna(DTH) Satellite TV service. Dialog TV supports a broad array of tional voice and data services, based on cutting edge International international and local television channels. Gateway infrastructure. Dialog Global, the international arm of Dialog Telekom, provides state-of-the-art gateway facilities through partnerships with ‘Tier 1’ international carriers. OUR VALUES TOTAL COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS PROFESSIONALISM AND ACCOUNTABILITY: Dialog Telekom, being one of the largest service organisations in We believe in maintaining professionalism in everything we do. We Sri Lanka is committed to providing best-in-class services to every maintain strict business ethics at every level of our organisational single one of its customers. Our customer-centric business focus pyramid in order to ensure that we deliver the best service to has earned us many accolades in the sphere of service delivery our customers at all times. Being accountable for our actions has and above all, has won us the trust of millions of Sri Lankans from enabled us to learn from our experiences and emerge successful in across all segments of society. At Dialog we operate with the every new step we take. understanding that the customer is our greatest asset and the very life blood of our business organisation. TEAMWORK While we recognize and promote the individual accomplishments DYNAMIC AND HUMAN-CENTRED LEADERSHIP of each and every employee in our organisation, we also believe in the power of team work. It is the team spirit at Dialog and the Dialog’s leadership has inculcated a human-centric business culture collective efforts of our dedicated work force that has transformed within the Company. As a result, all aspects of our business operathe Company into one of the most successful and respected busitions are guided by the principles of respect and support for huness entities in the country. man rights. The Company is also dedicated to nurturing the talents and skills of its employees in order to best serve its customers and the communities we operate in at large. FOREMOST RESPECT FOR CONCERN AND CARE Dialog strongly advocates a multi-cultural work environment. Our COMMITMENT TO TASK & EXCELLENCE employees come from diverse religious and cultural backgrounds. Dialog is synonymous with excellence in the ICT sector in Sri At Dialog we work as one team where no employee is discriminatLanka. We are committed to achieving excellence in all we do. In ed based on their gender, religion, cultural or other individual differorder to better our own industry benchmark, Dialog employs and ences. The rich diversity of our employees gives us the opportunity strongly advocates a learning environment within the organisation to cater to varied demands of our customers in an effective and in order to help employees excel in their respective spheres. meaningful manner. UNCOMPROMISING INTEGRITY Integrity is a virtue we value and live by at all times. At Dialog we uphold the principles of honesty and truthfulness in all our business transactions with our stakeholders. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE “The future heralds a new era for Sri Lanka, and Dialog is well placed within this environment of opportunity to play a pivotal role in shaping the future of citizens and enterprise alike through the delivery of inclusive and empowering ICTs” The year 2009 was one fraught with a multitude of business chalstrategy for the year under review. Dialog’s balanced and translenges on the backdrop of global and domestic economic misforparent engagement with its stakeholders is demonstrative of our tunes, which the Company faced with determination and resolve. aspiration to engage with respect to the material issues likely We however remained steadfast to our commitment to internalize to confront Dialog in the future. Going forward, we will build on sustainability objectives in particular and Corporate Responsibility this stakeholder feedback to refine corporate strategies, which in general within our business strategies as well as in daily operaunderpin our Triple Bottom Line focus, and sustainability agenda tions. Corporate Responsibility at Dialog is founded on managing for 2010. the core operations of our organisation in a manner which delivers sustainable value creation, whilst simultaneously leveraging the In 2008, I alluded to the potential of information societies and pervasive attributes of ICTs to leapfrog developmental challenges their significance in terms of delivering social change and sustainand opportunities confronting our society and nation at large. able development dividends. Dialog, in its pursuit of enabling This holistic manifestation of Corporate Responsibility has enabled an information society, embarked on multiple integral corporate Dialog to pursue responsible value creation paradigms, based on responsibility initiatives during the year under review. We deployed agendas of materiality to our stakeholders, albeit in the backdrop an array of innovative integrated ICT solutions aimed at addressing of adverse macro economic conditions prevalent in 2009. national developmental challenges that promise to deliver parity dividends to Sri Lankans at large, across multiple sectors such as We believe that CR delivered in this business integral form is education, agriculture, trade and banking sectors in the country. singularly receptive to stakeholder interests and hence sustainable. These multi-sector ICT interventions were designed to leapfrog Throughout 2009, we aggressively pursued several socially innovalegacy infrastructure and capacity deficiencies in the country using tive agendas, using as a cornerstone the inclusive and developthe pervasive and enabling attributes of ICTs. We are optimismental attributes of ICTs. We believe that our work has spurred tic that the combined outcomes of these inclusive solutions will new thinking in the spheres of inclusive education and environcontribute towards a quantum change in the way all Sri Lankans mentally sensitive technology deployment in particular and ICT4D access education content, banking services, commodity prices in general. In the sequel, we rationalised our altruistic outreach CR and market information. Pluralisation of access to these and other initiatives on the back of adverse macro economic conditions and forms of knowledge, utility and information resources will ultimateinternal cost optimisation strategies. ly result in the improved empowerment of all citizens. We regularly sought out feedback from our stakeholders which ICT innovations which deliver parity access underscore Dialog’s in turn, framed the ‘material issues and opportunities’ for Dialog’s conviction that wireless technologies are inherently inclusive and sustainability agenda and provided alignment to our holistic CR that these technologies are capable of delivering revolutionary Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM social outcomes that contribute manifold to economic growth in better align with dynamic and challenging external environments terms of consumer surplus. These innovations frame our public and operational realities, In this respect the Company invited policy positions on key development issues with respect to parity employees to participate in a voluntary resignation scheme which access to education, e-readiness, economic empowerment and included attractive separation benefits to employees who opted to poverty reduction. We believe that through the digital empowerleave the employ of the organisation. ment of citizens and thereby the proliferation of information societies, we would be contributing in some part to the flattening of We will persist in our efforts to return to a position of singularly empowerment and socio-economic gradients while also delivering profitable operations thereby delivering on the 'economic develdividends to the environment. Our ICT4D initiatives and innovaopment' pillar of our sustainability focus. We will also continue to tions are also underpinned by robust business rationale thereby strengthen our leadership position in the communications sector making them integral to and sustainable within Dialog’s socially in Sri Lanka as well as in terms of our referral position with respect sensitive business strategies and operations. to delivery on Corporate Accountability ideals. We are happy to report appreciable progress with respect to our stated sustainIn 2009, we reaffirmed our commitment to ensuring that the ability targets in 2009. We will continue to address residual and environmental footprint of our business operations was managed emerging issues proactively whilst ensuring we focus our attention in a responsible manner through the integration of the precautionon opportunities and challenges presented to us. ary and 'polluter pays' principles, across our core operations. The Company made significant progress with respect to reducing its The future heralds a new era for Sri Lanka, and Dialog is well carbon footprint through energy optimisation programmes across placed within this environment of opportunity to play a pivotal role its operations, while simultaneously making active investments in shaping the future of citizens and enterprise alike through the in renewable energy solutions. We will continue to ensure that delivery of inclusive and empowering ICTs. Our Corporate Responenvironmental stewardship features high on our business agenda sibility ethos, within this context, will focus primarily on integral CR particularly in the areas of energy optimisation, emission reduction business practices and ICT based social innovation initiatives. Our and developmental impact going forward. CR strategy will continue to delineate philanthropy from integral CR. In 2009, Dialog Telekom reinforced its support to the UN Global compact principles and the Millennium Development Goals. We “Our CR strategy will continue to delineate also released our second communication on progress with respect to the said ideal, to the United Nations Global Compact. As a philanthropy from integral CR ” member of the United Nations Global Compact Sri Lanka Steering Committee, we will continue to uphold and manifest the ideals of Socially responsible corporate decision-making at Dialog will range the UN Global Compact within Sri Lanka’s ICT sector, while simultafrom investment decisions all the way to innovation opportunineously showcasing the commitment of our sector to sustainable ties which challenge us to minimize adoption costs and to deliver development to the global community. In 2009, we also reaffirmed lowcost multi-sensory connectivity to the base of the economic our support for the Coalition for HIV AIDS in Sri Lanka as well as pyramid. We are unwavering in our conviction that CR professed for the Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse, championed by in this manner will be an integral, sustained and valued component the GSMA. We will continue our allegiance to these interest groups of our strategies designed to restore Dialog to a state of profitable in 2010. operations going forward. In 2010, we will optimize our CR strategy through an iterative “Inthrough 2010, we will optimise our CR strategy an iterative process. In particular we process. In particular we will listen to our stakeholders and shape accordingly, our decision-making and operational impact along will listen to our stakeholders and shape actriple bottom line dimensions. In parallel, we will evolve our CR cordingly, our decision making and operational model to seize pragmatic opportunities that have the potential to impact along triple bottom line dimensions ” deliver value creation and sustainable outcomes to the business and community at large. During the course of 2009, the Company made significant progress with respect to the restructuring of its business and cost environments towards the achievement of a return to profitability. The re-engineering of processes, systems as well as the revisiting Dr. Hans Wijayasuriya of corporate priorities was singularly challenging but has resulted GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE in the definition of a business formulation which is sustainable in 1st March 2010 the context of the much transformed business environment. In line with process re-engineering and automation, it was also necessary to rescale and right size the Company’s human resource base to DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE AND RATING Introduction Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Dialog Telecom PLC (‘the Company‘) to carry out an assurance engagement on the Company’s 2009 Sustainability Report (‘the report’) in its printed format against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (G3), using the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (‘AA1000AS’). Dialog Telekom PLC is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information within the report. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of Dialog Telecom PLC only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and true. This statement is intended for the management and broader stakeholders of Dialog Telecom PLC. Scope of Assurance The scope of work agreed upon with Dialog Telecom PLC included the following: • External verification of the entire report covering economic, environmental and social indicators for the period 1st January 2009 to 31st December 2009, and prepared using the GRI G3 guidelines; • Evaluation of the report’s adherence to the three Accountability principles (Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness) and the reliability of specified performance information, as required for a Type 2, Moderate Level of assurance, accord ing to AA1000AS. • Evaluation of the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality, as set out in DNV’s Protocol for Verification of Sustain ability Reporting. • The boundary of the report covers all strategic business units (SBUs) under Dialog Telecom PLC, Colombo including subsidiaries Dialog Broadband Networks (Pvt.) Ltd (DBN) and Dialog Television (Pvt.) Ltd (DTV); • Confirmation of adherence to the requirements for GRI Application Level “A+”; • The verification was carried out in February 2010. Verification Methodology Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting1. As part of the verification we have challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. For example, we have: • Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to us by Dialog Telekom PLC. • Visited the Head-Office and SBUs including subsidiaries located in and around Colombo (i.e. Corporate Finance, Human Resource Management & Development, HR Operations, Dialog Academy Corporate Planning, Corporate Development, Quality Systems, Management Information Systems, Risk Management, Network Planning, Site Acquisition and Proj ects, Legal & Regulatory Affairs,DTV, a switching station and an e-waste storage site). • Conducted interviews with key representatives (including data owners and decision-makers from different divisions and functions) of the Company; • Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the Company’s own sustainability-related poli cies, as described in the report, and for determining material issues to be included in the report; • Performed sample-based audits of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualita tive data included in the report; • Reviewed the process of acquiring information and economic data from the financial data presented in the 2009 certi fied consolidated balance sheet. Conclusions In our opinion, the report is an accurate and fair representation of the Company’s sustainability-related strategies, management systems and performance, and the Company’s application of the AA1000 Accountability Principles. The Company has self-declared that it meets the GRI Application Level “A+”, and we confirm that the GRI Application Level “A+” has been met. We have evaluated the report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: AA1000AS (2008) principles Inclusivity: Good. The Company engaged in dialogue with selected stakeholders during the year through different channels. The material issues emerging from the stakeholder engagement were collected, prioritised and the results are reflected in the report. We recommend that 1 www.dnv.com/services/assessment/corporate_responsibility/services_solutions/sustainabilityreporting/order/ 2 the issue-based stakeholder engagement process may further be formalised and structured whereby frontier expectations are also mapped from a range of stakeholders for developing long-term sustainable business strategy. 4 www.dnv.com/services/assessment/corporate_responsibility/services_solutions/sustainabilityreporting/order/ Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Materiality: Acceptable. The Company has improved its materiality determination process to bring out issues of significance, and these issues are addressed in the report. Responsiveness: Acceptable. We consider that the Company has adequately responded to key stakeholder concerns through its policies and management systems, and this is fairly reflected in the report. Reliability: Good. In accordance with Type 2, Moderate Level assurance requirements, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the report are generally reliable. The report contains data that is both measured and estimated, and this is explained to the reader. The Company has improved its own data management system (CR Navigator) for capturing and reporting its sustainability performance. Additional principles Completeness: Good. The report covers performance against the GRI G3 core indicators that are material within the Company’s reporting boundary, and the reasons for exclusions of core indicators which are not applicable are explained. Neutrality: Good. The Company has reported sustainability issues, including corporate governance performance, in a balanced manner, in terms of content and tone. Challenges and limitations are fairly presented with commitments to future improvements. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported back to the management of Dialog Telekom PLC. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the report, and they are indeed generally consistent with the management objectives already in place. • Expand the materiality assessment approach to identify issues which go beyond the GRI indicators (including the GRI Telekom Sector Supplement), and develop performance metrics for material issues, to enable wider benchmarking with sector peers. • Evolve an issue-based, multi-stakeholder engagement process to completely map the expectations and needs and incorporate these as inputs as part of the strategic planning process. • Progressively extend the boundary of the report to include the supply chain and develop a process to Identifying risk (if any) due to human rights issues in its supply chain. DNV’s Competence and Independence DNV provides sustainability risk management services through qualified specialists worldwide. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartiality towards people interviewed during the assignment. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this Assurance Statement. For Det Norske Veritas AS Vadakepatth Nandkumar Dr Helena Barton Lead Verifier Service Area Manager: CR Report Verification Det Norske Veritas AS, India Det Norske Veritas AS Bangalore 18-03-2010 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 REPORT BOUNDRY Effort has been made to ensure completeness of the report with ferred to as the 'Group'), derived from a consolidation of Company regard to dimensions of scope and boundary for the reporting performance with those of its subsidiaries Dialog Broadband Netperiod. This report covers the performance of the following entiworks (Pvt) Ltd (DBN), and Dialog Television (Pvt) Ltd (DTV). The ties for the reporting period January 1st to December 31st 2009. 2009 report boundry also includes our significant suppliers and For the entity Dialog Telekom PLC (hereinafter referred to as the captures the work we have done to engage with them on issues of “Company”) and for the Dialog Telekom Group (hereinafter remateriality and accountability. REPORT SCOPE AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS In 2009 Dialog actioned its key material issues raised in the formal stakeholder engagement process which concluded in December 2008. We also used three new dimensions to evaluate our progress on the most material issues and carried out specific stakeholder engagement with significant stakeholder groups, such as employees and customers. This engagement in 2009 resulted in a few changes to the materiality rating of certain issues. We applied an Enhanced Engagement model (diagram 02) that assigned weighted scores to the materiality matrix developed by Dialog to arrive at a more refined net score for broad issues identified. The Stakeholder Segments studied for the purpose of reporting included: Customers, Employees, Shareholders, Regulators and Government, Business Partners, Communities, NGOs, Media and Pressure Groups as well as Opinion Leaders (comprising Professionals and Academics) to lend their voice on behalf of the wider community. Low Mid High The selected research agency shared their findings of the study relavant indicators Issue # on 2nd December 2008 with members and representatives of the Dialog CR Group Leadership Committee. The findings provided insightful stakeholder perspectives that contributed to determining the most material issues that the Group should focus strategically in terms of CR practice in 2009, thereby ensuring relevant stakeholder perceptions are factored in to Dialog's Sustainability agenda. Market research requirements consisting of strategic understanding, idea development, mix evaluation, market activation and market monitoring provided the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders consulted for market research purposes. In 2009, Dialog also carried out a special stakeholder engagement with employees on the backdrop of the voluntary resignation scheme to ensure we respond to their feedback proactively in 2010. The stakeholder feedback process was conducted by an independent research agency in late 2008, in order to ensure impartiality. This played a part in avoiding any bias that could have arisen had Dialog Telekom representation been present during the interactions. The study was conducted in accordance with the AA1000(2008) assurance standard in order to be compliant with the globally accepted Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, which provides the basis for this sustainability report. Diagram 01. Materiality Rating Test 5 5 For GRI key performance indicator codes refer page 54 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM In addition to the stakeholder consultation carried out for the purpose of the report as mentioned above, the Group also engages with stakeholders encompassing Investors, Dealers & Distributors, Corporate entities, Customers and Employees, for these research purposes. The table below indicates the type of engagement carried out for research purposes. Information on surveys conducted by Dialog Telekom to gain accurate insight in to customer perceptions of service provided is covered under PR5, in the Product stewardship section of this report. Further details pertaining to engagement with investors can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. In 2010, Dialog will also develop stakeholder engagement action plans based on material issues in order that the organisation proactively engages with relevant stakeholders to improve our performance in this area. The issues covered in the report are the most material issues to Dialog Telekom in the context of sustainability. Parameters such as short Term risks to the Group, impact on strategic objectives, impact on stakeholders, proximity to best practices and effect on social norms were used to determine materiality, in accordance with the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement guidelines. Issues raised during stakeholder engagement were rated and ones with the highest ratings were identified as appropriate to be given prominence in reporting. In order to ensure a balanced and reasonable representation of the organisation’s performance, this materiality determination was used to select the depth of content covered. Diagram 01 illustrates the selection of material issues and methodology of giving prominence to associated standard disclosures in this report. Diagram 02. Enhanced Engagement Model for 2009 Stakeholder Engagement 2008 Enhanced engagement in 2009 Type of Stakeholders Sub categories Engagement/Research Engagement/ Research Customers Retail customers, Brand Health Track – ATP (Advance Tracking Program) Brand Health Track – ATP (Advance Tracking Program) Corporate customers Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Satisfaction Survey Understanding Sustainable Performance Indicators Youth Panel Shareholders Axiata Investor Forums Investor Forums Other Share Holders Workforce Direct employees (4000+) Understanding Sustainable Performance Indicators Employee survey on sustainability performance Suppliers Local Foreign General public Other stakeholders Government & Regulatory Distributors & Retail network Trade Needs, Trends & Satisfaction Tracking Study Media Media Feedback Communities Understanding Sustainable Performance Indicators Table 01. Engagement with main group of stakeholders DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 CR MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND THE BUSINESS CASE The CR definition pursued today at DTP was coined five years ago, Dialog's Integral CR performance is pegged against a best practice in response to findings arising out of a gap analysis that was asderived CR performance management scorecard that records the signed pursuant to DTP's initial public offering in 2005. The model organisations KPI’s against the GRI and other indicators relevant prescribed that Dialog should accredit its enabling and positive to the organisation. In 2009, Dialog further strengthened its impact on society primarily through its core ‘integral operations’ or data capture and reporting framework by implementing a fully business footprint and secondly through its ability to ‘reach out’ to fledged CR Navigator and KPI dashboard. Fulfillment of sustainnational development goals through its role as a corporate citizen. ability KPI data compilation is linked to personal performance These two underlying features of the Company’s application of appraisals through the performance management process of the organisation. In 2009, Dialog included a trend analysis section in CR across Dialog; frames a balanced dual-pronged approach. The the Sustainability Report that tracks comparative data against its Company’s holistic delineation of CR at that juncture drew a distriple bottom line baseline data collated in 2008, which enhances tinction between philanthropy and the nascent aspect of integral our stakeholders understanding of our performance across the CR. Dialog's outreach CR thrust (philanthropic and flagship) is carcore areas of environment, social and economic parameters. ried out under five thematic aspects at present. These 5 areas are Pertinent management information derived from the CR navigaas follows: tor has helped to underscore the overall relevance of applying CR management checks and balances to the operations of the organisation. Findings from the CR metrics have enhanced existing Diagram03: Five Thematic aspects currently pursued under outreach CR at Dialog performance management processes that help to proactively mitigate potential risks and identify opportunities proactively. Dialog’s Outreach CR, along these 5 themes, focuses on projects Our distinctive combination of external community related projects that impact the community positively. Some of these projects and internal business relevant systems ensure that we abide by a which are altruistic in nature, do not have a strong strategic fit with ‘philosophy of inclusion’, which means that we strive to reach out the organisation's business model; and many of the smaller projto all segments of society regardless of disproportionate social ects are undertaken as philanthropic initiatives under the Change divides to provide affordable, accessible, applicable value proposiTrust Fund. As a Company operating in the Global South there is tions arising out of multi-sensory connectivity. Our CR philosophy compelling stakeholder pressure exerted on Dialog to support such is based on our commitment to ensure that the pervasive nature initiatives. and enabling potential of ICTs reach all local communities within which we operate. Dialog has always ensured that its outreach Notwithstanding the above altruistic reach, outreach CR also initiatives are structured within multi stakeholder and publicpriconstitutes a handful of strategic flagship projects that are directly vate partnership frameworks. In 2009, Dialog's Outreach and linked to the organisation's core competencies, which have the Integral CR activities were carried out in collaboration with various potential to create a strong competitive advantage. Several of entities including the Government of Sri Lanka and relevant line these flagship projects are also aligned with Integral CR since they Ministries pertaining to Social Services, Environment, Education, have the potential to add tangible value to the organisation's botHuman Rights, Health and Nutrition, and other entities such as the tom line whilst empowering and enriching society. The Company’s International Finance Corporation (IFC) etc. The overall engageintegral CR constitutes our efforts to measure our impact across ment model employed by Dialog in its management approach is the triple bottom line (TBL) i.e economic, social and environmental depicted below. performance. The CR stress inward falls on ‘how we do business’, as a responsible organisation, that pervades into our business ‘operations’. Traditionally this emerged as a form of measurement against compliance, but progressive organisations, have found it prudent to use CR as a management tool to identify opportunities to reinvent their organisations value propositions and to invigorate new business models that promote sustainable development whilst achieving bottom line targets. Dialog follows the global de facto guideline used to streamline and measure TBL performance known as the G3 guidelines espoused in the Global Reporting Initiative. The G3 is a set of protocols and indicators that help the organisation to monitor, measure and improve its performance against globally accepted norms, benchmarks and voluntary standards across the three broad pillars of sustainable development. There is a close synergy between enterprise risk management and corporate governance with integral CR, since they all support the precautionary principle in the Company’s operations directly and indirectly. Diagram 04. Dialog's approach to coporate responsibility Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM The Company has two key forums that engage in the strategic ADOPTION OF PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE management of CR across the organisation. The Integral and In 2009, we continued to shape our operations in accordance with Outreach activities are tracked on the CR navigator and presented the precautionary principle where necessary steps were taken to the Corporate Responsibility and Public Policy Group Leadership to mitigate potential adverse environmental and social impacts Committee who in turn escalate pertinent matters to the Dialog in consultation with the ERM Operating Committee (ERMOC). Telekom PLC Board of Directors. CR operations are managed by a Representation from the Group CR unit at the ERMOC ensures the core team of CR professionals whose main tasks include the delivprecautionary principle is considered when evaluating risk arising ery of the overall strategy and business model within the integral from the operations and developing action plans. The ERMOC in and outreach domain. The framework depicted in diagram 05 enturn reports to the Board through the Board Audit Committee. ables the organisation to evaluate and measure its CR policies and practices as a matter of course. Consequentially, this information is Dialog is also guided by the values and Corporate Responsibility used to engage the highest governing body of the Group. Policy of its parent Company Axiata Group Berhad. It also recieves invaluble support across all integral and outreach CR initiatives Integral CR operational responsibility at Dialog is decentralised from Axiata. across line management and strategic business unit Chief Executive Officers. The ERM Operating Committee (ERMOC) in particular has representation from the Group CR unit who ensure that the precautionary principle is considered when evaluating risk arising from the operations and development of investment action plans. The ERMOC in turn reports to the Board through the Board Audit Committee. Diagram 05. Dialog's management approach to ensuring CR principles Dialog Telekom ensures that all its operations across Economic GOVERNANCE Investments, Environmental Management, Product Responsibility, As stated in the 2008 Sustainability Report, good Governance Labour and Human Resource Management, Human Rights, and is considered key to achieve and maintain the highest standards Society are managed, based on the aforementioned rigorous manof business integrity, professionalism and ethical values at Diaagement processes. Targets and Goals for our Corporate Responlog Telekom. The 2009 Dialog Telekom Annual Report contains sibility/Sustainability commitments for the 2010 reporting period a separate section dedicated to Corporate Governance, which are stated on page 53 of this report. encompasses the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function and Dialog is also a member of the Steering Committee of the United mechanism of the group as well. Disclosures related to Governance Nations Global Compact Sri Lanka Chapter as the representawith regard to Sustainability can also be again found in the Group tive within the telecommunications sector. The Company is also a 2009 Annual Report, with the relevant area mentioned in the GRI signatory to the HIV AIDS coalition in Sri Lanka and is a member of content index. the Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual abuse spearheaded by the GSMA. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Dialog Telekom PLC has issued two previous Communication On the UNGC as demonstrated in this report. The 2009 Sustainability Progress (COP) reports6 to the UNGC as an institutional stakeholdReport also serves as Dialog's third COP report to the UNGC. er. The Company has internalised the ten principles espoused by Issue Areas GC Principles Relavant GRI Indicators Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of LA4, LA6 – 8; LA13 – 14, internationally proclaimed human rights. HR1, HR2, HR4-7, SO5, PR1, PR8 Human Rights Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human HR1, HR2, HR4-7, SO5 rights abuses. Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the LA4 – 5, HR1,HR2, SO5 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR1, HR2, SO5 Labor compulsory labor. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. HR1, HR2, HR6, SO5 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in EC7, LA2, LA13 – 14, HR1, respect of employment and occupation. HR2, HR4, SO5 Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to EC2, EN26, SO5 environmental challenges. Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN1-EN5, EN8, EN11-EN12, Environment environmental responsibility. EN16-EN17, EN19-EN23, EN26-EN28 , SO5, PR3 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of EN2, EN 5,EN 18, EN 26 environmentally friendly technologies. – 27,SO5 Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, SO2 – SO4 Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery. Table 02. Cross Reference of GRI G3 indicators with UN Global Compact Principles www.unglobalcompact.org 6 Dialog's previous COP reports could be found on http://64.22.127.124/participant/2901-Dialog-Telekom-LtdSustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM ACHIEVEMENT OF STATED TARGETS IN 2009 LINK TO MATERIALITY / KEY DELIVERABLE IN 2009 Status Comment GOAL Procurement Policy to be developed and implemented across Work in progress to Extending Dialog's sphere of inGroup be completed in 2010 fluence across upstream supply chain to ensure fair trade Formal process to be implemented to screen contracts with all significant suppliers and contractors with regard to human Done rights A system of monitoring to be developed and implemented Ensuring best practice over and covering relevant laws and regulations, including Health & Work in progress to above legal compliance concernSafety, the provision and use of products & services as well as be completed in 2010 ing Health and Safety aspects environmental assessment for significant products and service categories, across the Group. Develop and an Implement Environment Management Programme for significant areas of environmental impact including Work in progress to Mitigate Group environmendiesel consumption, energy consumption and management of be completed in 2010 tal footprint across input and e-waste and related products output impacts caused by our business Develop monitoring system and implement paper reduction More than 40% initiative to achieve a reduction in overall paper consumption by reduced 5% in 2009 Implementation of a Base Station siting guideline and establishImplemented from ment of monitoring system April 2009 Mitigate Group environmental footprint across input and output impacts caused by our Up to 10% energy saving from Dialog office sites Energy saving 15% business Increase internal paper recycling up to 30% of consumption Target achieved Improve Health and Safety PerProcess to capture and monitor occupational disease rate to be Work in progress to formance introduced and establish a base line against desired levels be completed in 2010 Work in progress to Implement Whistle Blowing Policy for Group be completed in 2010 Strengthen Existing anti corruption processes Awareness Programmes on Code of Business Ethics for all Work in progress to employees be completed in 2010 Enhance product responsibility Implement the Code on Marketing and Advertising throughout Implemented by norms the Dialog Group and develop system to monitor progress February 2009 Launch the Disaster & Emergency Warning Network (DEWN) in Launched January Q1. 2009 Provide Social dividends using ICT’s using inclusive business Tradenet and Nenasa models Introduce two Base of the Pyramid ICT for Development proProjects launched in grammes that enhance access to the poor 2009 Done Work in progress Table 03. Achievement of targets in 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 TWO YEAR PERFORMANCE DATA 2008 2009 GRI FINANCIAL AND OPERATING EC6 Amount paid for Local suppliers (%) 62% 59% Amount paid for foreign suppliers (%) 38% 41% EC7 Local personel in Senior Management 19 14 Foreign personel in Senior Managemnt 1 0 ENVIRONMENT EN1 Paper purchased (Tonnes) 382.5 44.17 Cartridges purchaced 2,403 1,043 EN3 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 72,224 33,065 EN4 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 345,821 365,675 EN5 No. of full-time generator operated sites 90 31 EN8 Amount of water purchased 82,218 54,106 EN11 Sites near/in high bio-diversity areas (protected areas) 4 4 EN12 Area of high bio-diversity land covered for operations (km2) 0.0025 0.0025 EN16 GHG emissions for direct energy7 (tonnes) 6,367 2,945 GHG emissions for indirect energy (tonnes) 8 43,990 41,979 EN17 GHG emissions for other operations 9 4,250 5,273 EN22 Discarded e-waste units 186 302 Recycled paper (Tonnes) 92.5 54.5 EN23 Significant spills None None EN28 Fines and sanctions for environmental non compliance None None EMPLOYEES AND OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY LA1 Total work force 4,406 3,435 LA2 Normal attrition rate 17% 23.90% Volantary resignition attrition rate 9.72% LA6 Percentage of representation in H & S committees 100% 100% LA7 Injury rate 2% 1% Lost day rate 0.12% 0.01% Absentee rate 2% 2% No. of fatalities 2 0 LA10 Average training hours for the year per employee 26.77 8.56 SUPPLY CHAIN HR2 No. of significant vendors 82 107 Percentage screened for human rights 25.61 28.97 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR8 Complaints of Cx information divulging per customer 0.003% 0.003% Positive Neutral Negative 7 Using data of GHG protocol website: http://www.ghgprotocol.org.calculation-tools 8 Calculation as per CDM mechanism “Coconut shell charcoaling and power generation at Badalgama Sri Lanka 2008 project information 9 Fleet Emissions and air travel emissions calculated using the GHG protocol website. http://www.ghgprotocol.org.calculation-tools : www. webflyer.com site used to calculate air distances. Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM TRENDS AND INTERPRETATION FINANCIAL AND OPERATING In 2009, from the total purchase orders directed to suppliers, 62.37% was placed in favour of suppliers with local presence and 37.63% for suppliers without local presence, which amounted to approximately LKR 5 billion and LKR 3 billion respectively. The purchase order value of supplies from the former, has seen an increase from 2008 which augurs well for local suppliers and the local economy. (more on page 41) Year 2008 Year 2009 ENVIRONMENT The total amount of paper purchased by Dialog in 2009 was 44.17 Tonnes. A decrease from the quantity purchased in 2008 which was 382.5 Tonnes. The reduction in the amount of paper consumed and recycled in 2009, demonstrates the effectiveness of the Company’s internal paper efficiency initiatives. In 2009, Dialog consumed a total of 365,674.72 GJ of indirect energy from the national grid as against the consumption of 345,820.98 GJ in 2008. This increase is attributable to rapid network expansion operations across the country. There has been a considerable reduction in direct energy consumption of the Company in 2009 owing to energy optimisation steps taken at Base Station sites and reduction of the use of full time generators. Accordingly total direct energy consumption from diesel power in 2009 was 33,065GJ a significant decrease compared to 72,224GJ in 2008. The total value of direct emissions of the Company for 2009 was 2,945 Tonnes, a significant reduction from the value of 6367 Tonnes in 2008. Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases resulting from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, or steam for 2009 add up to 41,979 Tonnes in comparison to 43, 990 Tonnes in 2008. (more on page 23) EMPLOYEES AND OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY In 2009, Dialog was engaged in an aggressive programme of cost rescaling, Company rightsizing and business and revenue growth. During the course of 2009, the Company launched a range of cost reduction programmes and applied focus on restructuring its work processes in terms of efficiency, productivity and automation. With respect to the latter dimension of performance optimisation, the Company embarked on a journey of aligning its human resource base to business requirements through the implementation of a Voluntary Resignation Scheme in April, 2009. Due to this event the attrition rate over the two year period shows a steep increase. In 2009, the Company recorded an absentee rate of 2.01% and 2.32% during the first and second half of the year respectively. The injury rates for the same period were 2.22% and 2.17% respectively for the first and second half of the year, marginally up from 2008 figures. (more on page 34) SUPPLY CHAIN A total of 107 suppliers were identified as significant suppliers and contractors to the Group during 2009, in comparison to the total of 82 in 2008. Out of this 28.97% of contracts with these suppliers and contractors have included criteria or screening on human rights. (more on page 41) PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our internal management systems and procedures have enabled us to protect customers from possible privacy intrusions as reflected in the relatively low percentage of customer complaints recorded in 2009 which was .003%, unchanged from the previous year. (more on page 20) DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Responsible Operations INTEGRAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility (CR) is an embedded element of Dialog’s day-to-day business operations. At Dialog, we constantly strive to create economic, environmental and social value as part of our daily business functions in order to deliver sustainable long-term benefits to all our stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 CUSTOMER RELATIONS In this section we review our customer relations and the measures implemented to align our business strategies to meet their expectations. We also discuss several key social issues that are important to them and our organisation from a sustainability standpoint. These include an insight into our marketing policies, customer privacy protection measures, commitment to introduce green products, health and safety concerns and about the measures we’ve taken to promote responsible content. CUSTOMER PERCEPTIONS PRIVACY PROTECTION At Dialog, meeting our customers’ expectations is our foremost In order to protect customers from privacy invasions, The Compriority. Dialog's journey to becoming the flagship telecommunicapany has implemented strict laws and regulations with respect to tions Company in Sri Lanka would not have been possible if not for customer information. Dialog's internal management systems and the support and encouragement of the customers. In order to conprocedures have enabled us to protect customers from possible tinue this long-standing relationship between Dialog and one of its privacy intrusions as reflected in the relatively low percentage of most important stakeholder groups, the customers; the Company customer complaints related to privacy recorded in 2009 which ensures that they enjoy the best telecommunications service in Sri was .003%. In addition, our mobile subsidiary was successful in Lanka every time they use Dialog's products and services. introducing several value-additions in relation to customer privacy protection. Dialog Locked SMS is one such service which safeAnother important element of Dialog's service delivery is that it guards mobile text messages from unauthorised persons through encourages customers to provide feedback on their service expassword protection. More information on Locked SMS is available perience. This has enabled the Comopany to improve the service at delivery in line with customer expectations. Dialog's customer satisfaction surveys are a conduit for customers to express how they http://www.dialog.lk/personal/mobile/features-and-vas/messagfeel about its services including areas which need improvement. ing/locked-sms/ These may consist of both qualitative and quantitative surveys developed in-house as well as outsourced ranging from methods ENSURING HEALTH AND SAFETY such as email among group customers to face-to-face household surveys; In 2009, Dialog continued to talk to its customers in order As a service provider, there is no strict requirement for Dialog to to understand their perspective on its products and services. conduct an in-depth analysis of the health and safety aspect of These customer satisfaction studies have shown that customers its products and services. In 2009 however all our ICT for Dehave a positive perception towards the Company’s current apvelopment and Research and Development programmes have proach to business. been vetted against health and safety impacts as a precautionary measure. These are captured in the concept papers presented to MAINATINING CLARITY IN OUR COMMUNICATIONS the management at the outset of the development process. In addition, Dialog ensures that all base stations (BTS) adhere to the The Company does not market any unlawful products or services exacting standards set out by the Telecommunications Regulatory across the entirety of its mobile, internet and satellite TV busiCommission of Sri Lanka, with regards to health and safety aspects nesses. Dialog ensures its services are based on the foundations when setting up and operating BTS sites. of sound ethics and transparency principles in order to maintain a strong customer relationship which transcends beyond commercial SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS short term gain. As a Company operative in the service industry, our negative enThe Company's marketing unit employs diverse marketing channels vironmental and social impacts are considered to be very minimal. and mediums to promote the Company’s multitude of prodHowever, irrespective of the nature of the organisation we have ucts and services. While this has proven to be a success for the taken several precautionary measures to reduce harmful environCompany in terms of retaining market share in the face of tough mental impacts by implementing proper environmental managecompetition, it also created the need for the Company to formument programmes based on the ‘Design for the Environment’ (DfE) late a proper Marketing Policy which would serve as a guideline for concept. For example the value added service of eZ Insurance all its marketing activities. As proposed in last year’s Sustainability provides a mechanism for issuing Insurance Policies based on moReport, the Company was successful in implementing a comprebile phone platforms. hensive marketing policy during 2009 in order to help mitigate customer complaints with regard to the lack of clarity at certain times in Dialog's communications. Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Dialog Broadband Networks introduced a new service for its customers in 2009 titled Website Filtering. This service was launched with the objective of promoting a safe online environment for children by filtering websites that contain explicit and damaging content Dialog was also the first Company in Sri Lanka to introduce a PROTECTION OF MINORS mobile waste take back initiative in 2007 to minimise the harmful effects of electronic waste on the environment. Demonstrating the Company's continued commitment to protect children from online exploitation, Dialog Broadband Networks, a The Company also ensures that its products and services do not subsidiary of Dialog Telekom, introduced a new service for its cushave any negative social influences. In order to achieve this, Dialog tomers in 2009 titled Website Filtering. This service was launched makes sure that its communications do not contain any statewith the objective of promoting a safe online environment for ments or visual presentations which can be considered as offensive children by filtering websites that contain explicit and damaging in its widest context. The Company also does not condone any content such as pornography, gambling, violence and drug-related form of discrimination including those based upon race, religion, material. More information on website filtering Is available at gender, age etc. Although none of the services provided by the Company are viewed as harmful to human beings, Dialog ensures it http://www.dialog.lk/news/dialog-broadband-to-protect-childrenprovides ‘User Guides’ for most of its services in order to increase in-cyberspace/ customer awareness on the respective products and services. The Dialog GSM Post-paid starter pack and the eZ Pay starter pack are As mentioned in last year’s report Dialog is Sri Lanka’s sole partner examples of how Dialog’s service offering is aligned with customer to the GSM Association’s Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual safety. Abuse. As part of this membership and the Company's ethos of promoting responsible business practices; Dialog holds the distinction of being the first telecom operator in Sri Lanka to implement necessary steps to prevent mobile users from accessing child sexual abuse content through mobiles in association with the National Child Protection Authority (NCPA). Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM PRESERVING OUR PLANET As discussed in the business case, environmental management plays a central role in the Company’s business operations. The Company is committed to inventing innovative methods to mitigate negative environmental impacts. This section of the report provides an insight in to how we’ve delivered on our pledge to preserving our planet for future generations as an environmentally responsible business entity. Some of the key areas that are highlighted in the following sections include our efforts to minimise material depletion and emissions, protecting biodiversity and averting environmental degradation in the country at large. Proper management of electronic-waste plays an integral part in reducing the damage to the environment and we are extremely pleased to partner with Dialog Telekom in executing this environment friendly waste management plan, which would minimise hazardous M-waste material reaching landfill sites, The m-waste management programme is the first of many such projects that would be implemented island-wide, utilising the funds collected under the Environment Conservation Levy,” Hon. Minister of Environment, Patali Champika Ranawaka. 19-July 2009 As pledged in 2008, The Company was successful in launching the “The m-waste programme initiated by Dialog Telekom, Sri Lanka’s first phase of its Environmental Management Plan (EMP) during largest telecommunications service provider is one of the best 2009 where it assessed its environmental impacts in terms of new examples of how corporates can contribute towards preserving site acquisitions and hazardous waste streams. Dialog is commitour environment through responsible business practices. Proper ted to transforming its EMP into a fully-fledged programme in 2010 management of electronic-waste plays an integral part in reducwith the objective of causing minimal damage to the environment ing the damage to the environment and we are extremely pleased in which it operates. to partner with Dialog Telekom in executing this environment friendly waste management plan, which would minimise hazardMATERIAL MANAGEMENT ous M-waste material reaching landfill sites, The m-waste management programme is the first of many such projects that would be The Company's m-waste take back initiative which was launched in implemented island-wide, utilising the funds collected under the 2007 has grown into a large scale waste management programme Environment Conservation Levy,” Hon. Minister of Environment, with well-established collection systems, transportation, storage Patali Champika Ranawaka. and exporting mechanisms which are in line with the regulatory requirements as well as international obligations on management of electronic-waste. Dialog also collects and stores all its hazardous wastes such as florescent tube lights, UPS batteries and lead acid batteries instead of sending these waste streams to landfill sites. In an effort to implement this programme on a nationwide scale, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Central Environment Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka in July 2009 where an agreement was reached between the two parties to expand the existing waste collection network of Dialog and identify suitable locations to install waste collection centres and improve collection mechanisms. During 2009 we collected 1,500 m-waste units which will be stored and shipped for recycling. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 CONTROLLING PAPER CONSUMPTION In 2009, a total of 9.5 Tonnes of cardboard, 0.9 Tonnes of newspaper and 45.1 Tonnes of paper were collected and sent for recycling in comparison to 76.5 Tonnes of paper sent for recycling in 2008. The reduction in the amount of paper consumed and recycled in 2009, demonstrates the effectiveness of the Company’s internal paper efficiency initiatives. The total amount of paper purchased by the Company in 2009 was 44.17 Tonnes a significant decrease from the amount of paper purchased in 2008 which was 382.5 Tonnes. In 2009, the Company also purchased 1,043 units of cartridges whereas 2008 it was 2403. Further in terms of the Company’s material waste management plan, the Company was able to exceed its target of 83.33% in cost reduction on paper consumption with actual figures for the year 2009 calculated at (Tonnes) 235.62% (Units) E-BIILS AND SUMMARY BILLS Graph 01. Material consumption During 2009, stringent cost cutting initiatives were implemented for material management. The Company's electronic and summary bill paper saving initiative, which was launched in 2008 for mobile bills saw significant results over a period of just one year. The total amount of paper saved from the introduction of summary bills was 94.798 Tonnes for 2009. As planned in 2008, Dialog converted all postpaid bills to summary bills and provided detailed bills only for those customers who requested for one. The total number of summary bills that were subscribed for by customers as at December 2009 was 140,485, a clear increase from 48,449 in 2008. The e-bills initiative which was launched as an internal project was extended to our external customer base in 2009. This was also well embraced by them as reflected in the number of customers who registered for e-bills in 2009 which is 35,977 as against 4,326 in 2008. The total amount of paper saved from ebills adds up to 0.56 Tonnes. Graph 02. Percentage of e-bill and Summery bill Cx EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS TO GOING GREEN At Dialog employees are encouraged to join environmental conservation efforts. The Company educates them and creates awareness within the Company about the importance of individual contributions towards conserving the environment. As a result, Dialog has managed to reduce paper consumption and wastage within the organisation through the reuse of paper whenever possible and by using emails and the intranet for employee communications. Dialog does not have an active packaging claiming process. ENERGY SAVING The energy demands of running a telecom network has become a significant issue for the industry. Increasing energy costs have prompted operators to increase the energy efficiency of their network operations and also to look at renewable energy as an Graph 03. Diesel consumption in full time generator operated BTS sites of Dialog alternative energy source. At present a majority of Dialog's operations are powered by the National grid. Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Labeling the switches, making employees conscious of their positive contribution towards energy optimisation of the Company. A significant reduction in the electricity bills of office sites were noted from the 4th quarter of 2009. However the Company is also in the process of exploring the possibilities of using renewable energy for our base stations with the support of the GSMA Development Fund. The establishment of Green Base Stations in the country would also provide off-grid populations with new employment opportunities while contributing to energy saving and environmental conservation. POWERING OUR OPERATIONS In 2009, The Company consumed a total of 365,674.72 GJ of indirect energy from the national grid for our operations as against the consumption of 345,820.98 GJ in 2008. This increase could be attributable to our rapid network expansion operations across the country, especially in the Northern and Eastern parts of the (GJ) island. There has been a considerable reduction in direct energy Graph 05. Comparison of total energy consumption consumption of the Company in 2009. This is directly attributed to factors such as energy optimisation steps taken at base station sites and reduction in the use of full time generators. The data capturing mechanism of the Base Station sites was also improved and the current system provides a more accurate method of data collection. The Company's direct energy production is mainly utilised for the diesel powered BTS sites. Accordingly, Dialog's total direct energy consumption from diesel power in 2009 was 33,065GJ a significant decrease compared to 72,224GJ in 2008. Graph 04 shows the overall direct energy consumption for the year. ENERGY OPTIMISATION Graph 04. Percentage of direct and indirect energy consumpAs explained in the previous year’s report, Dialog's internal energy tion for Dialog operations optimisation project continued through 2009 mainly in its operational sites and was successful in achieving 15% of energy savings due to temperature adjustments to the Company’s Air Conditions (A/Cs). These adjustments were made in 624 sites where temperature was maintained at 28 Celsius. Dialog also identified that the Company could save as much as 70% of the energy consumption by replacing the air conditioners with fans. Accordingly Dialog took measures to replace A/Cs where possible with DC fans. A total of 197 such replacements were made in 2009 alone. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Dialog also aimed at reducing the Company's energy consumption by 30% through installing an energy efficient hybrid system. So far Dialog has converted 13 BTS sites to FCB as part of a larger energy optimisation plan. In the beginning of 2008, there were more than 90 full-time generator operated sites. By the end of 2009, this number was reduced to 31 sites. The Company is looking at setting up Green Base Stations with the use of renewable energy. Dialog's interest in this endeavour was further fueled when the Company was selected for the GSMA’s Green power trial from amongst many telecom operators from around the world. Accordingly two hybrid Green Base Stations were constructed Weerarawila and Randenigala which are powered by solar, wind and grid energy. Dialog's aim is to construct 10 Green Base Stations in various parts of the country during the next few years with three such base stations already completed. GREEN HOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS As alluded to the 2008 Sustainability Report, Dialog follows a centralised approach in calculating the Green House Gas (GHG) emissions. By finalising the energy consumption in the EN3 and EN4 indicators, the GHG emission factors are then later calculated using different techniques. Since Dialog's energy consumption occurred in more than 2,000 locations in 2009, a centralised approach was selected as a practical methodology for the calculation. (Co2 Tonnes)12 (Co2 Tonnes)11 The direct emissions of greenhouse gases from all sources owned or controlled by the organisation include emissions arising from the Graph 06. Direct and indirect GHG emission for energy generation of electricity, heat, or steam. The total value of direct emissions of the Company for 2009 was 2,945 Tonnes, a significant reduction from the value of 6,367 Tonnes in 200810. The indirect emissions of greenhouse gases resulting from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, or steam for 2009 add up to (Co2 Tonnes) 41,979 Tonnes in comparison to 43, 990 Tonnes in 200811. During 2009, as part of Dialog's internal energy efficiency plan and to encourage the concept of carpooling a project was launched in 2008 amongst employees, where the Company's fleet management process was redesigned to reduce the number of vehicles used for employee transportation within the Group. This was applied to both Company owned vehicles as well as hired vehicles. However, the CO2 emissions related to transport has seen an increase despite the reduction in the number of vehicles used due to the enhancements to the organisation’s data capturing mechanism which now provides data on emissions of hired vehicles as well as Graph 07. Other indirect GHG emissions data on employee fuel allowance. The total indirect GHG emissions resulting from fire drills, air travel, and transport for 2009 was 5,249 Tonnes12. 10 Using data of GHG protocol website: http://www.ghgprotocol.org.calculation-tools 11 Calculation as per CDM mechanism “Coconut shell charcoaling and power generation at Badalgama Sri Lanka 2008 project information 12 Fleet Emissions and air travel emissions calculated using the GHG protocol website. http://www.ghgprotocol.org.calculation-tools : www. webflyer.com site used to calculate air distances. Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Hybrid powered base stations with solar and wind power, provide a prelude to the future carbon neutrality approach of the Company. OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES Dialog does not produce or export any Ozone Depleting substance. In keeping with the Company procurement policy for CFC gases and Sri Lanka’s commitment to the Montreal Protocol, Dialog does not import any CFC 11 or CFC 12 emitting equipment. All A/ C’s that are currently used within the Group are HCFC 22 (R-22) models which are considered as low ODP sources. Dialog's contribution to atmospheric pollutants is almost insignificant. However, the calculation of the Sulphate and Nitrate pollutants would be included in the Phase III of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) of Dialog. As alluded to the previous year’s report, Dialog does not use water in any of its productions or services. Hence the only water discharge the Company has, is the sewage discharge from office Graph 08. Discarded Electronic waste sites and discharge from the cooler of the Company’s Head Office central A/C. Similarly there have been no incidents of significant spills of chemicals, oils or fuel during 2009. In 2009, 196 computer monitors, 59 CPUs, and 47 other computer hardware units were amongst the e-waste discarded during the year. These are currently stored in the warehouse and will be disposed/sent for recycling as per the directives of the EMP. The Company also collected 38 tyres, 1330 Kgs of vehicle maintenance waste for the purpose of re-selling and, 1 barrel of waste oil was identified and collected under the category of solid waste material. WATER CONSUMPTION In 2009, Dialog’s operations consumed 54,106 kl of water from the municipality at office sites. Although Dialog operates in a non water intensive operation industry, The Company will implement more robust data capturing mechanisms to arrive at a more representative calculation of its water consumption in 2010. 2008 2009 Graph 09. Discarded vehicle waste Graph 10. Recycled solid waste DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Dialog is committed to exploring opportunities to provide new technologies, products and services to address challenges related to climate change alongside its Green Power Trial with the GSMA Development Fund PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY The Company takes pride in being one of the few selected networks for the GSMA Green Power trial, which in itself is a signifiAs discussed in the previous year’s report, the Company currently cant achievement for the Group. operates four sites within the confines of protected areas13 with high biodiversity value. These four sites are operational solely for In terms of risks due to physical changes associated with climate the purpose of transmitting radio signals and the physical impact change, renewables at 10 sites are currently being trialed to test pertains only to the geographical footprint occupied by the actual diminishing value threshold for scalability which include impacts tower which amounts to .00252 km2 which is the total of four sites of modified weather patterns and heat-related illness. At present no substantial data material on possible impacts has been identieach covering 0.00063 km2 . With deforestation reaching alarming fied but this issue is represented by way of the CR presence at the rates the world over, Dialog is committed to employing strict cauERMOC meetings of Dialog Telekom. tion with respect to expanding our geographical footprint in places identified as areas of high biodiversity. At present Dialog has not identified any regulatory risks with regard to climate change. As a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, The Company adopts best practices when acquiring sites for the Sri Lanka is a tier 3 country that has no emission caps. However, construction of base stations in order to minimise its impacts on Sri Dialog is committed to exploring opportunities to provide new Lanka’s biodiversity and the environment at large. The Company technologies, products and services to address challenges related did not set up any new base stations within protected areas in to climate change alongside its Green Power Trial with the GSMA 2009 thereby causing minimal disturbance to the natural environDevelopment Fund. The Company is also in the process of carrying ment and its habitats. out a study on Clean Development Mechanisms and carbon credits redemption schemes. CLIMATE CHANGEA GROWING CONCERN As the debate on climate change continues to heat up the world over, Dialog's focus on this growing concern has also seen a significant increase in the last year. The following narrative indicates Dialog's position on this global issue and the opportunities and challenges it presents. GREEEN BASE STATIONS The establishment of Dialog's green base stations in Weerawila and Randenigala in collaboration with the GSMA Development Fund demonstrates the Company's keenness to address this issue in Sri Lanka as an environmental conscious business entity. Despite Dialog's concerns on the subject, the issue of climate change is still not deemed material by Dialog, but has been highlighted as an opportunity to pilot and experiment the advantages of Green Base Stations in the country. 13 http://earthtrends.wri.org/pdf_library/country_profiles/bio_cou_144.pdf Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM COMMUNITY RELATIONS Dialog always strives to identify its community impacts in order to As a result of implementing preventive measures, no significant deliver value to those directly or indirectly affected by its business. issues were raised in 2009, in terms of Dialog's community impact Even though Dialog's community impacts are relatively low due to due to lightening. the non-extractive nature of the business, the Company continues dialogue with local communities in order to acquire a clear underEMPOWERING OUR RETAIL NETWORK standing of how its socio-economic and environmental impacts influence their lives and livelihoods. While managing community and environmental impacts, The Company also stives to empower its retail network which is an Dialog community impacts are mainly at site level where the important element of the Company’s downstream supply chain. Company engages local communities to develop and expand its Dialog has identified that retail empowerment initiatives can play network infrastructure. The Company does not have a formal Soan important role in its rural expansion efforts considering the cial Impact Assessment (SIA) to measure its community impacts at reach and breadth of the retail network. As mentioned in our 2008 present. This is covered primarily from a risk angle by the EnterSustainability Report, Dialog has always supported the efforts of prise Risk Management (ERM) function as well as by the CR funcsmall and medium scale entrepreneurs, providing them with knowltions within the organisation. Dialog's community impacts are also edge and training that enhance business development opportuniportrayed in conjunction with its community development projects ties and eventually contribute to the development of Sri Lanka’s which will be discussed later in this report. rural communities. The community consultation programmes when base station sites Dialog’s Viyapara Diriya workshop project which was launched in are selected for network scaling is the only impact management 2007 continues to empower Sri Lanka’s SMEs with free business programme run formally by Dialog. This is done with the Telecommanagement information and training in areas such as accountmunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (TRCSL), the ing and finance, business planning, human recourses, marketing, Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Central Environment Authority sales, operations and information technology. The Company also (CEA) agencies. manages a special website called ‘SME toolkit’ in collaboration with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to support small and In terms of managing community involvements, The Company has medium scale entrepreneurs for their business development. More been able to achieve appreciable success in this area with respect details on this project can be found at to constructing new base stations across the country. Nevertheless there are occasional incidences of community dissatisfaction over http://www.srilanka.smetoolkit.org/ perceived health and economic risks associated with site acquisition for new base stations. Feedback from the community is escalated at the ERMOC where they are discussed and addressed. Furthermore feedback from the community is captured through formal research and fed into planned business strategy and product/service strategy formulation. Dialog's Tradenet initiative, Green Base Station trial and the mobile waste take back initiatives are some of the outcomes of this strategy. This training was very helpful to me, and I take this opportunity to thank Dialog Telekom, IFC and BDC for presenting it to me. Before I participated in this training, I never kept any records of the business, actually what we did was just buying and selling but today, I’m planning sales by considering the seasonal sales patterns and according to my customers’ requirements. H. A. Asanka Niroshan No 730, Main Street, Kaduruwela DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM In addition to the SME project, in 2009 Dialog Telekom launched Dialog tradenet is a repository for national-level market informatradenet, an innovative service that delivers spot and forward tion built on a suite of digital technologies. The service is currently agricultural commodity price information via mobile phones. Dialog available to Dialog’s 6 million-plus subscriber base from across all tradenet creates sustainable business models for the agricultural nine provinces of Sri Lanka. Affordable and inclusive access price sector in Sri Lanka and provides parity empowerment particularly information from all three economic centres is set to provide a roto farmers and traders. bust information bridge providing parity empowerment to farmers, traders and consumers alike. Information on the Tradenet platform is disseminated via multiple digital communication technologies DIALOG TRADENET such as SMS, Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) via mobile phones, web and a dedicated call centre. In December 2009, Dialog Telekom partnered with Govi Gnana Seva (GGS) to launch yet another first-of-its-kind service in Sri Continuous instability of vegetable prices due to unplanned cultivaLanka, with a view to making meaningful relevance of Information tion leading to farmer poverty, demonstrated the critical imporand Communication Technology (ICT) particularly to the bottom of tance of linking cultivation with sale, and the initiative to provide the pyramid segments of society. This new venture aims at deliverforward bids and offer prices as the first step to bridging this gap. ing spot and forward agricultural commodity price information via This innovation can be deemed as another concrete step taken mobile phones, thereby paving the way towards sustainable ecoby Dialog in the contribution of ICT, across a broader spectrum of nomic development through the use of Dialog’s core competence, socio-economic development. digital technology. This service is based on Dialog’s tradenet platform and has identified three Dedicated Economic Centres at Dambulla, Meegoda and PUBLIC POLICY Narahenpita from which it derives on-line agri-produce price information. More sites and sectors have been identified to be added in Dialog works closely with policymakers from both Government and the future. GGS plays the lead role in collecting and disseminating Non-Governmental agencies in order to ensure that the national spot prices of agricultural produce at the Dambulla Dedicated Ecovision for the telecom industry in Sri Lanka emulates the vision set nomic Centre operated under the aegis of the Ministry of Trade, forth for the organisation. The Company also holds membership Marketing Development, Cooperatives and Consumer Affairs. In in many national and international associations where it plays an partnership with Dialog’s tradenet platform this benchmark price active role in influencing the legislation and regulations concerning information is now made available to farmers scattered around the the telecom sector. island, on their mobile handset. SHAPING SUSTAINABLE POLICIES “ Dialog is a long-standing member of the GSMA, its Mobile Alliance It brings us a great sense of pleasure and pride to be Against Child Sexual Abuse Content, the National Child Protecpart of this pioneering endeavour that would no doubt tion Authority (NCPA) and Social Services Ministry of Sri Lanka. transform the lives and future of the country’s agriculBy being involved with these organisations the Company aims to ture sector. Through the partnership between Tradenet work towards creating a safe digital environment for children in the and GGS we are in effect connecting the end consumer backdrop of increasing internet crime through the mobile phone. and the major dedicated economic centres with the The Company holds the distinction of being the first Company in farmer, and we are presenting them real-time, actual inSouth East Asia to join the GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child formation that would serve to boost trade opportunities Sexual promoting responsible business practices in Sri Lanka. Acand remove the numerous obstacles that have continued cordingly, Dialog has subscribed to a set of commitments and have to protract their growth. Agricultural development and implemented these measures in collaboration with the National farmer empowerment is an integral part of our governChild Protection Authority of Sri Lanka. This association is a clear ment’s national economic agenda, and we welcome this manifestation of the Company's commitment to sustainability technology innovation as a key means to achieve that ” through product responsibility end. Bandula Gunawardena Minister of Trade, Marketing Development, Cooperatives and Consumer Affairs 22 December 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM INFLUENCING INDUSTRY WHITE PAPER PARTNERING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP The vision 2020 document is a Government-led white paper to The Company plays a strong role in furthering public policy posidevelop an industry roadmap leading up to 2020. The paper is imtions with regard to environmental stewardship in partnership with portant since it will form a key reference document for the growth key environmental organisations operative in the country. Dialog and evolution of the industry in Sri Lanka and thereby affect has always taken steps to maintain fruitful partnerships with local Dialog's role within this framework. The Company was invited to authorities and its association with the Central Environmental Aucomment on the paper and provide input based on its long-term thority (CEA) in conducting the m-waste (mobile waste) project is business plan in order to advance its objectives in local governone such example where we joined hands with local policymakers ment and public affairs. Further by aligning the white paper with for the implementation of sustainable business solutions. the organisation’s vision, Dialog was able to ensure a triple bottom line focus is factored into the vision statement for the industry, thereby contributing directly to the sector's enabling impact on society. ENABLING AN INFORMATION SOCIETY THROUGH DISTANCE EDUCATION Influencing Sri Lanka’s education sector, Dialog's national level distance education bridge ‘Nenasa’ is to be gazzetted and made a permanent feature in the education curricular of the country which is viewed as a significant achievement of the Company. The Company has invested heavily in creating a satellite TV platform to broadcast distance education content in collaboration with the Ministry of Education in Sri Lanka. A formal policy bringing distance education in to the mainstream will be critical in making the programme and the investment sustainable. Dialog believes that technology is a great leveler and as a result this policy position will empower school administrators to fully reap the benefits of the interventions put forward by the Company. As a General Purpose Technology (GPT), ICT’s have great potential to leapfrog developmental challenges. Distance education is one such example of how this is could be achieved. PROVIDING BANKING SERVICES TO THE UNBANKED Dialog believes that banking the unbanked will enable people to improve their livelihoods and lifestyles due to the consequential benefits derived from a banked population. Currently, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has disallowed the creation of casual banking points via mobile wallets due to fiscal policy positions. A positive revision will mean the Company could use its reach and technological expertise to bring large unbanked communities into the banking domain. Mobile banking/wallet is another example as to how ICT’s have great potential to leapfrog developmental challenges in developing countries. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 OUR PEOPLE As stated in the introduction to the Company values, Dialog's leadership is guided by the understanding that the Company is formed of a dynamic network of relationships which are essential to its existence. This section discusses the Company's commitment to securing the wellbeing of its employees who are the driving force of the organisation. Log number OUR TEAM. OUR STRENGTH As of December 31, 2009 Dialog had a workforce strength of 3,435 a significant reduction in comparison to the figure of 4,406 the previous year. This is attributable to the high employee turnover resulting from the Company’s Voluntary Resignation Scheme (VRS) introduced in April 2009. The total strength of the Company's workforce is given in Graph 11. With a network presence in all nine provinces of the country the Group has a geographic dispersion of employees across Sri Lanka. The distribution of employees by region is given in Table 04. In addition to these employees, Dialog Telekom also creates Graph 11. Total workforce Graph 12. Diversity in employee categories employment at multiple levels across the country through its franchise operations, dealer and sub dealer network, as well as its extensive retail network covering most of the country. SELECTING THE BEST Dialog adopts HR best practices with regard to employment recruitment polices as spelt out in its recruitment policy for hiring personnel to the Group. All senior managers in the Company, which add up to 14, were local employees in 2009, as opposed to the local and foreign ratio of 19:1 in 2008. EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY An organisation’s success and competitiveness depends upon its ability to embrace diversity and the benefits it entails. In keeping with this belief, Dialog employs a diverse workforce that helps the Company to adapt to fluctuating markets and customer demands by utilising diverse collection of employee skills and experiences. Graph 13. Permanant & Contract Basis Emp. Graph 14. Male & Female diversity The diversity of our business organisation helps us to meet busiin Snr.Management ness strategy needs and the needs of customers more effectively leading to higher productivity, profits, and return on investment. SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2008 2009 The Senior Management team which is a diverse group of proffesColombo 89% 88% sionals has a representation from both minority groups as well as Outstation 7% 9% different age groups. Graph 14 illustrates gender representation in Not updated 3% 3% the Senior Management team. Table 04. Employees based in Colombo & Outstation Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM PROMOTING EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE The diversity of our workforce is an indication of the equal opportunity provided by the Group to individuals from different backgrounds and social strata. Discrimination of any kind is not accepted within the Group. Policies and procedures such as the Code of Business Ethics and recruitment practices have ensured that Dialog adopts an unbiased philosophy irrespective of gender, cast, creed, ethnicity or any other differences. Gender is not a deciding factor in determining the remuneration package under any circumstance. In 2009, out of the total workforce, 77% were males and 23% were females as shown in Graph 16. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Despite an unstable economic climate in 2009, Dialog was resolute Graph 15. Age diversity in Snr.Management Graph 16. Gender ratio of workforce to its commitment of providing employees with facilities and payments that were above the minimum legal requirement. An employee’s basic salary is determined by taking into consideration the role along with the qualifications, experience and the competency level required by the candidate into account. Employees are also given the freedom to join welfare societies; which facilitate the social interests of the employees and is also 2009 2008 extended to their immediate families subject to limitations as per Bhurger 0% 0.0% benefit portfolio. Employees are eligible to participate in the ComMalay 0% 0.0% pany Share Trading Scheme subject to seniority in the Company and procedure governed by ESOS by-laws. Muslim 7.14% 10.53% Tamil 7.14% 5.26% Furthermore, a formal ceremony is organised annually to recognise Table 05. Ethnic diversity in Senior Management and reward employees who have been in service for minimum of 05 years in the organisation. Employee recognition at divisional level is carried out annually alongside the performance appraisal. The Company also provides employees with state-of-the-art facilities at work to enhance performance in their job roles. Employees EMPLOYEE TURNOVER AND RETIREMENT PLANS In 2009, the Company recorded an employee turnover rate of 34.64% inclusive of both ECM and non ECM staff. As mentioned in the earlier sections of this topic, the high employee turnover is a result of the Company’s Voluntary Resignation Scheme (VRS) which was introduced in April 2009. The total employee turnover from 2007 to 2009 is shown in the Graph 17 below. Graph 17. Total turnover DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM During the course of 2009, Dialog was engaged in an aggressive to meet the demands of today’s highly competitive marketplace. programme of cost rescaling, Company right-sizing and business These training sessions are conducted by experts in the respecand revenue growth. It launched a range of cost reduction protive fields, who inspire both personal and professional growth. grammes, increased its competitive strength in the market place, Table 0614 denotes the number of training hours allocated for staff enhanced its customer service levels and also applied focus on across different levels of our organisational structure for 2009. restructuring its work processes in terms of efficiency, productivity and automation. With respect to the latter dimension of performance optimisation, Dialog embarked on a journey of aligning its human resource base to business requirements through the implementation of a VRS in April of 2009. Dialog also extended postPeriod Category 2009 200814 VRS training and career guidance to employees who opted for the Q1 Senior Management 0.92 3.85 VRS as a measure to assist them with securing new employment. Middle Management 0.63 11.91 Executive 3.41 21.97 While the results of the Company's various initiatives to date are Non executive 2.47 11.32 encouraging, the journey of improvement is clearly an ongoing Q2 Senior Management 1.66 2.26 one. Given the demanding business environment within which the Company operates, re-scaling and/or enhancing its operations Middle Management 0.70 8.97 along all the dimensions mentioned above, will require on-going Executive 0.53 19.20 attention and continuous optimisation. In line with the above and Non executive 0.88 4.63 in tandem with several other major business/corporate initiatives Q3 Senior Management 1.09 3.85 planned Dialog will need to address the alignment of its human Middle Management 1.89 11.91 resource base with projected business requirements as an iterative Executive 2.16 21.97 process. Non executive 1.31 11.32 Q4 Senior Management 3.36 2.26 The Company uses general resources to pay the obligations to Middle Management 2.22 8.97 retired employees. In relation to the Employee Provident Fund/EmExecutive 2.62 19.20 ployee Trust Fund (EPF/ETF) Dialog contributes a fixed percentNon executive 2.71 4.63 age of remuneration of employees to an external fund, details of which are given in the Financial Statement of the Dialog Telekom Table 06. Training hours per employee per category PLC Annual Report 2009. However, it must be noted that there is no liability on the Company’s side at the time of termination of the employment contract. Our retirement plans are designed in accordance with the following In addition to the stipulated training hours for the Company’s employee Acts. workforce, Dialog also provided special training sessions to those Gratuity Act of 1983 employees who left the Company through the VRS in 2009. A Employee Provident Fund Act of 1958 total of 45 hours were dedicated for this purpose with 9 employEmployee Trust Fund Act of 1980 ees from Executive to Assistant Manager level being trained at these sessions. The Company also provided training to non-Dialog staff mainly consisting of dealers, sub-dealers and franchise service personnel. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Further to Dialog's internal training and development programmes, Dialog strongly believes in investing in the development of skills the Company also supports further studies and Professional and competencies of our workforce. The Company believes that Membership, encouraging employees to actively develop thememployee training not only increases safety and productivity but selves independently, to add to their current competences and also leads to higher job satisfaction and better corporate perfurther prepare them to take on additional responsibilities for the formance. The Company's comprehensive training programmes future. Group Human Resources Management Team as part of the enable employees to enhance their own skills and capabilities while ‘Knowledge Alliance Programme’ continued to partner with a large achieving excellence in their respective job roles. number of reputed education institutions in Sri Lanka to present Dialog Telekom employees the opportunity to develop themselves As mentioned in the previous report, the Company's dedicated by offering selected courses at discounted rates. training centre, The Dialog Academy was established to provide high quality training and development solutions to the workforce in line with their performance evaluation recommendations. The Company's trainings encompass multiple topics ranging from communications, soft skills to customer service enabling employees 14 Restated figure from the 2008 Annual Sustainability Report: Enabling and Information Society DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Safety aspects are always given priority in Dialog office sites. Employees are trained on evacuation procedure and other safety practices in fire drills carried out for all new recruits. ENSURING EMPLOYEE SAFETY sues and concerns to the management at any given time in a fair and transparent manner. The Company ensures that it creates a safe work environment for all employees. This is not only limited to the physical wellbeing but The Company practices an open work environment which facilialso the emotional and spiritual aspects. In order to help employtates both upward and downward communications in order to ees with their health concerns at work, Dialog has established a achieve constructive solutions with regard to any issues that may First Aid and Health and Safety team as well as a Risk Management arise in relation to work. Divisional level staff meetings are held on team within the Group to assess the safety concerns of employees. a frequent basis too, for the dissemination of information. The First Aid and Heath and Safety teams which operated as two separate teams in 2008 have now been amalgamated under one team with a workforce representation of 100% in 2009 as was 2009 2008 the case in 200815. This team which operates instantly within the Injury rate 2.20 0.82 group is responsible for monitoring and advising on safety proLost day rate 0.0074 0.12 grammes for employees. The Risk management Team has a 100% Absentee rate 2.17 2.07 workforce representation, as does health and safety things. Fatalities 0 2 Having recognised the importance of employee counseling in enTable 07. HSE performance hancing employee productivity, Dialog conducted special counseling sessions for employees who needed psychological intervention. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING At the end of 2009, the Company recorded an employee absenDialog employees are given the freedom to associate as groups tee rate of 2.01% and 2.32% during the first and second half of the and individuals and raise their opinion to the betterment of staff, year respectively. The injury rates for the same period were 2.22% organisation and community. As mentioned in the previous year’s and 2.17% respectively for the first and second half of the year Sustainability Report, the Company does not oppose collective (Table 07). It must be noted that there were no fatalities in 2009 bargaining and formation of Trade Unions. However the Company with respect to both internal employees as well as independent does not have any registered Trade Unions at present but is a contractors who worked for the organisation, demonstrating the registered member of the Employers Federation of Ceylon (EFC) Company’s success at ensuring employee safety. who advises on social harmony to make employees more efficient and quality conscious. Dialog's association with such organsaThe occupational disease rate has not been calculated for the tional bodies contributes towards maintaining a healthy work reporting year but plans are in place to implement this measure in environment for employees in accordance with globally accepted 2010. employee protection laws. EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS The Company’s commitment to establishing and maintaining freedom of expression is manifested in the risk assessment study Dialog is committed to safeguarding the fundamental rights of carried out by the Group in which no violations of freedom of exits employees, as stated in the Company's values. As a result all pression or any other human rights abuses were reported. employees are given the opportunity to exercise freedom of expression at their workplace at any given time. Internal employee communication mechanisms enables employees to raise their is15 Restated figure from the 2008 Annual Sustainability Report: Enabling and Information Society Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Dialog also practices the open door policy in the Group where the The appointment of the Ombudsman has been initiated and is immediate supervisors and employees are empowered to discuss expected to be finalised within the first quarter of 2010. An internal and settle on amicable solutions in case of clarifications, concerns whistle blowing policy has also been approved at Dialog and will and grievances. be implemented during the course of 2010. Dialog understands the importance of informing employees on All employees in the Company have signed the Code of Business new developments in the Company. Therefore, adequate notice Ethics and the Non Disclosure Agreement. During the year 2009, as required, is provided to employees prior to the implementation 167 new recruits signed both the CBE and the NDA. of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. Since there is no tripartite collective bargaining involved, the PREVENTING CORRUPTION IN THE WORKPLACE Company permits employees to consult or negotiate on a case by case basis, which is fair, legally acceptable and done within the A total of six Strategic Business Units (SBUs) and twenty four corporate legal framework of Sri Lanka. Shared Services Units (SSUs) of the Company were analyzed for organisational risks related to corruption during the reporting COMPLIANCE TO LABOUR LAWS period. The assessment was carried out by the three divisions; Finance, Supply Chain Management and SAP. The Company does not employ any under-aged individuals as part of its workforce. Similarly, as per the disciplinary records of In order to minimise the possible risks of corruption within the Dialog, no complaints have been received from any employee with organisation, employees are expected to sign a Non Disclosure respect to forced labor. Further in the interest of employee safety, Agreement (NDA) and Code of Business Ethics, which covers antiDialog does not employ female employees between 8.00 pm to corruption. The Code of Business Ethics is available on the intranet 6.00 am of the following day. for easy reference as necessary. As explained in the 2008 Sustainability Report, all related policies /procedures of the Company, comply with the related labor laws of the country and no amendments to this have been made in the year in review. Employees’ Letter of appointment/terms and conditions/working hours are decided in accordance with the Shop & Office Employees Act 19 of 1954, including the regulations and the subsequent amendments. Dialog is a member of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (federation for Employers) and all employment related documentations/transactions/payments and amendments are done based on the guidance and advise received by industrial advisors/counselors, in allignment with International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) standards/requirements. PROMOTING BUSINESS ETHICS There were no incidents of discrimination in any form during 2009. As demonstrated in our Company values, Dialog places good business practice amongst its top priorities. As a result, the Company takes strict disciplinary measures with those who violate the Code of Business Ethics, which outlines our Company’s values and ethics. While this code serves as an internal guideline for employees, the law of the land and its accounting policies form the ultimate policy framework for the organisation. While an awareness programme on business ethics was implemented within the organisation as discussed in the 2008 Sustainability Report, Dialog has also recognised the importance of designing a better system to address such matters. This will be done by way of formally announcing the Ombudsman process and reinforcing the concept of transparency and honesty. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM MAINTAINING ECONOMIC EQUILIBRIUM This section of the report reviews Dialog's operations in terms of the organisation’s financial performance, its key drivers including supplier transactions, Government agreements and compliance to policies and ethics. Issues on Human Rights with respect to the Company’s operations and its implications are also discussed here. However it must be noted that information relating to the Company’s financial performance, is not duplicated here but is mentioned in the 2009 Annual Report which should be referred to along with this report. SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RIGHTS, COMPLAINCE AND ETHICS Suppliers are an important stakeholder group of a Company. When Dialog has not yet developed a fully-fledged process to identify selecting suppliers for the Group, Dialog took steps to identify their the human rights aspects in relation to mergers and acquisitions. values and policies as well as to convey to them the Company's However no such significant investment agreement has been expectations, which in turn nurture long-term partnerships. finalised since 2008. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS In 2009, the Company continued to maintain a good track record with regard to compliance to the relevant laws and regulations Suppliers are evaluated broadly based on price, quality, supply/ across all our business units. However, the Company was charged service ability, observation of deadlines, responsiveness, flexibility, by the Sri Lanka Customs for the violation of Section 47 and Secstrategic fit and end-user satisfaction. In addition, compliance with tion 107 of the Customs Ordinance when importing a licensed health, safety and environmental protection aspects are taken into software product. The Sri Lanka Customs imposed a mitigated forconsideration during the profiling process. feiture of Rs. 13.7 million against the Company. The Company has appealed the said order by way of a Writ to the Court of Appeal. SUPPLIER POLICIES Apart from this incident the Company has not been subject to any other sanctions or fines in relation to regulatory infringements with As discussed in the previous year’s report a procurement policy regard to our business operations in the said reporting year. for the Company was initiated in 2009 detailing Dialog's recommendations on quality expectations, health and safety concerns; FINANCIAL AGREEMENTS WITH THE GOVERMENT and social and environmental responsibilities. This initiative will be implemented under the directives of Dialog's parent Company, AxiAs a result of the Company's agreement with the Board of ata Group Berhad, in 2010 in order to help align supplier relationInvestment of Sri Lanka (BOI), the main source of income of the ship management function in accordance with our sustainability Company is exempt from income tax for fifteen years (initial tax policies. exemption period of seven years was extended to fifteen years as per the amendment made to BOI agreement on 17 April 2003) In 2009, from the total purchase orders directed to suppliers, commencing either from the year in which it first makes a profit, or 62.37% was ordered to suppliers with local presence and 37.63% in the fifth year subsequent to the start of commercial operations, for suppliers without local presence which amounted to approxiwhichever is earlier. mately LKR 5 billion and LKR 3 billion respectively. The purchase order value of supplies from the former, has seen an increase from The Company commenced commercial operations during 1995 and 2008 as indicated in the below Table 08. profits were first recorded during the year ended 31 December 1998. Accordingly, the tax exemption period commenced from 1 A total of 107 suppliers were identified as significant suppliers and January 1998 and the Company is currently liable to pay income contractors to the Group during 2009, in comparison to the total tax only on the interest income earned from fixed and call deposits of 82 in 2008. Out of this 28.97% of contracts with these supplimaintained in Sri Lanka Rupees. ers and contractors have included criteria or screening on human rights. Criteria integrated for screening on human rights broadly 2008 2009 include work hours and employee remuneration, freedom of association, preventing workplace discrimination, child labour and Amount LKR (Bn) % Amount LKR (Bn) % compulsory employment. Local 5.0 62% 10.1 59% Foreign 3.0 38% 7.0 41% Table 08. Procument from local and foreign vendors DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Dialog & Development Empowering Sri Lankan Life through Sustainable Innovation DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 OUTREACH CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Dialog's sustainability goals go beyond responsible management of social and environmental impacts to transforming Sri Lankan lives through the contribution to sustainable development in the country. As an ICT service provider, the Company possesses the power to bridge the gap between the connected and unconnected through the utilisation of the Company's competency in digital technology. The following narrative illustrates a glimpse of the Company's journey into achieving sustainable development in Sri Lanka and the life transforming landmarks Dialog has crossed along the terrains of Information Communication Technology. Engineers of the Dialog – University of Moratuwa Mobile Communication Research Laboratory work on different research projects related to development of mobile communications. Dialog's community investment activities for 2009 were carried ing the frontiers of mobile communications technologies through out in collaboration with various entities including the Government Research and Development pertaining to initiatives of national and of Sri Lanka and relevant Ministries pertaining to Environment, regional significance Education, Human Rights, Health and Nutrition, The International Finance Corporation (IFC), In 2009, the Company continued to This is the first fully industry-sponsored research laboratory to be contribute to national development across five thematic spheres established in a University in Sri Lanka, and it is also the country’s mentioned below, in addition to its principal philanthropic drive-The first laboratory for research and development in mobile comChange Trust Fund. munications.As part of the work carried out in 2009, ‘eleAlert’ an Elephant Intrusion monitoring system to mitigate the human-elephant conflict was launched in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Wildlife Conservation Society. ICT FOR DEVELOPMENT Another landmark innovation by the Dialog – University of MoraICT plays a pivotal role in the growth and development of a nation. tuwa Mobile Communications Research Laboratory is the Disaster The ICT4D arm of the group’s CR thrust focuses on using technolEmergency Warning Network (DEWN) alarm Device which too was ogy in a commercially viable manner to meet the development officially launched in 2009. More information on the Dialog – Unineeds of emerging markets. Dialog's goal is to make technology versity of Moratuwa Mobile Communications Research Laboratory affordable and accessible to all segments of society in Sri Lanka in can be found at the website http://www.ent.mrt.ac.lk/dialog/ order to create social equality and inclusion. Dialog's community investments are also in line with the United Nations Millennium SRI LANKA’S FIRST MASS ALERT EMERGENCY WARNING NETDevelopment Goals (UNMDG) and requirements specific to the naWORK tion. In 2009, the Company continued to harness the potential of ICTs to leapfrog traditional development barriers. The Disaster Management Centre (DMC) of Sri Lanka, together with Dialog Telekom launched Sri Lanka’s first mass alert warning THE DIALOG – UNIVERSITY OF MORATUWA MOBILE COMMUNIsystem – the Disaster & Emergency Warning Network (DEWN) CATIONS RESEARCH LABORATORY in January 2009, under the patronage of the Minister of Disaster Management and Human Rights. DEWN was developed by Dialog The Dialog – University of Moratuwa Research Laboratory initiated Telekom in collaboration with the Dialog-University of Moratuwa in 2004, is a tri-party industry academic partnership between Mobile Communications Research Laboratory and Microimage, Dialog Telekom, University of Moratuwa, the country’s pioneer Enfollowing research and development undertaken after the tsunami gineering University, and Uni-Consultancy services. It is one of the disaster of 2004. Company's key flagship initiatives set up with the aim of advancSustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM The Disaster Management Centre (DMC) of Sri Lanka, together with Dialog Telekom launched Sri Lanka’s first mass alert warning system – the Disaster & Emergency Warning Network (DEWN) in January 2009, under the patronage of the Minister of Disaster Management and Human Rights DEWN is controlled by the DMC and is a Corporate Responsibility alerts will be issued only when a threat is adequately verified. In initiative by Dialog Telekom of national significance with potential addition to alerts received on mobile phones, specially designed to transform the mobile phone into a life-saving device during DEWN remote alarms will also be used to alert nominated emeremergency situations. This entirely non-commercial undertaking is gency personnel. a wonderful example of multi-sector entities pooling strengths to develop a high-quality product. International and Local Recognition DEWN has received a number of accolades, both international “ Since the 2004 tsunami the whole world is aware of the importance of disaster management. DEWN in Sri Lanka as well as local, for the concept and design. These include Commendation at GSM Global Awards 2007, National Best Quality attempts at providing a solution towards the safety of Software Awards 2006, The National Awards for Science and our people. DEWN is an excellent example of the private Technology 2006 and the Vodafone ‘World Around Us’ Worksector joining hands with the government for the benefit shop in Cairo 2006. of the nation, and all parties involved in this great initiative deserve praise for the amount of hard work put in With the mobile phone becoming increasingly affordable, mobile over the past years to develop a world class product. networks will link more and more people across all sectors of sociI urge the people of Sri Lanka to educate themselves ety. Generally, the marginalised segments of society suffer most as on appropriate ways to react to emergency situations, a result of high-magnitude natural disasters. However, an affordable which can play a big part in successfully mitigating damand accessible mobile network has the potential of transcending age in potential disaster scenarios. ” Hon. Mahinda Samarasinghe, existing boundaries. The ability to receive early warnings of potential disaster situations through the mobile phone can be an additional benefit that can help save many lives at a time of disaster. Minister of Disaster Management and Human Rights More information on DEWN can be found at the website www.dialog.lk/dewn DEWN is a system that is being tested by the DMC to alert Dialog Mobile users of potential disasters via a method called ‘Cell broadTHE DIALOG NBRO LANDSLIDE EARLY WARNING NETWROK cast’. Users only need to configure area information reception settings on their Dialog Mobiles to receive the alerts issued. Every year a considerable number of deaths are reported from various parts of the country as a result of landslides. The United How Dewn Works Nations Development Programme, National Building Research organisation (NBRO) and Dialog Telekom collaborated to monitor The Emergency Operations Centre of the DMC has been given and disseminate vital information from five weather stations across access to the secure DEWN alerting interface. When information vulnerable geographic locations in the island to monitor precipitais received by the DMC, the information is verified and alerts can tion and landslides during 2008. Dialog, as the principal technolbe issued. The DMC takes responsibility to adequately verify any ogy partner to the project, continued to support this cause in emergency situation and issue alerts. 2009 with the objective of averting the damages caused to both In a potential disaster scenario, the DMC will first use DEWN to man and property in five landslide prone Divisional Secretariats in alert emergency personnel on their individual phones, and public Rathnapura. DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM SUPPORTING EDUCATION Delivering on Dialog's pledge of enabling an information society in Sri Lanka, the Company achieved a remarkable milestone in 2009 in the sphere of education through the launch of NenasaSri Lanka’s first satellite-based Distance Education Programme. Nenasa is a fine example as to how ICTs could be utilised for the benefit of rural communities in an innovative and enriching manner. While extensive investments were made on the development of Nenasa, Dialog continued to invest in the growth of Sri Lanka’s education sector through numerous other initiatives such as our Annual Scholar Programme. DIALOG TECHNOLOGY SCHOLARSHIPS ‘NENASA’NEW VISTA IN ACCESS TO EDUCATION FOR SRI LANKA’S STUDENT POPULATION As the premier telecommunications service provider in the country, with a vision to enrich and empower Sri Lankan lives, Dialog identified the need to fuel the intellectual capital of the country’s future “ “It gives me immense pleasure to be part of this event founded on the principle of rural empowerment, which is generations towards a knowledge-based economy. In realising its an integral focus of our Government as spelt out in the potential to contribute to nurturing Sri Lanka’s future generations, Mahinda Chinthanaya. Sri Lanka Government is making the Company commenced its scholarship program in 2003 with every effort to harness the potential of rural Sri Lanka, the aim of helping children across the island to have access to parwith special emphasis on enhancing educational facilities ity education irrespective of differences in geographical location, in remote regions including the newly-liberated areas in gender, class, ethnicity, age, religion and physical disabilities. the North and East. With 2009 being declared as the Year of English and IT, ‘Nenasa’ is the gateway towards The programme supports interaction between the scholars and our achieving an empowered society in our march towards employees, which facilitates mentoring, internships and soft skills the future as one nation. I take this opportunity to comdevelopment to prepare these scholars for a position of commumend Dialog Telekom for its sincere commitment to nity leadership and service. create a knowledge-based society through its pioneering technology and for its laudable gesture in gifting The local Scholarship Programme is extended to students who excel at the Ordinary Level and Advanced Level examinations ‘Nenasa’ to the people of Sri Lanka. ” and elect to pursue their higher education in the Physical Science H.E. the President of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapaksa stream. Selection of students is by the Ministry of Education of Sri Lanka and is based on the best results in each of the 25 administrative districts. Additionally, in the previous years, scholarships In keeping with the Company’s vision of empowering and enrichhave also been extended to approximately four differently able ing Sri Lankan lives, Dialog took a step further in giving wings to scholars each year. Sri Lanka’s future generations through the launch of ‘Nenasa’, a state-of-the-art Digital Satellite Television based Distance EducaDialog Telekom has also awarded fully sponsored scholarships to tion Bridge. This educational channel which is a joint initiative by Sri Lankan scholars, to pursue a BSc Telecommunication EngineerDialog, the Ministry of Education and the National Institute of Eduing Degree, at Multimedia University (MMU) Malaysia, acclaimed as cation (NIE), was launched in July of 2009 under the patronage of one of the most technologically advanced universities in the World. His Excellency President Mahinda Rajapaksa. Whilst being manThe following table indicates the total number of scholarships aged by the MoE and the NIE, ‘Nenasa’ is completely dedicated awarded to students at different levels from 2003 to 2009 to broadcasting educational programmes and caters primarily to the students in the Ordinary Level and Advance Level Grades, in all three languages. Year Total O/L A/L MMU ‘Nenasa’s’ key focus is to make up for the shortage of teachers in 2003 59 30 27 2 areas where schools lack sufficient teachers for the G.C.E Ordinary 2004 118 30 27 2 Level and Advanced Level classes, as these Examinations are two 2005 175 30 27 0 important milestones in a student’s academic career. 2006 234 30 27 2 ‘Nenasa’ aims to connect 1,000 rural schools in Sri Lanka to high2007 292 30 27 1 quality rendition of the national curriculum, developed by the NIE 2008 349 30 27 0 over a digital satellite television broadcast medium. The content 2009 406 30 27 0 developed by the NIE, will be broadcast by Dialog to the 1,000 identified schools that are connected to the network. Table09. Dialog Technoloy Scholarship holders DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 The official launch of the NENESA project was held at Ranjan Wijerathne Maha Vidyalaya in Pelwatta Moneragala with the participation of HE the President of Sri Lanka. The programmes disseminated via Nenasa are produced by inKey Achievements Of Nenasa In 2009 house technicians at the NIE, with experienced teachers conA total of 100 schools were connected to the ‘Nenasa’ network ducting the lessons. Apart from the lessons on syllabus content, and 100 television sets and set top boxes were donated to these documentary-type programmes will also be produced with onschools. A training programme was organised for ‘Nenasa’ operalocation filming. Additional programmes will be sourced from extertional staff in India, which was conducted by the Commonwealth nal sources where possible. In addition, teacher-training and skills Educational Media Centre for Asia. The programme was partly development would also be included in the programme line-up. funded by Dialog. The National Institute of Education and Dialog Telekom took part in this Training Programme. More information on The lessons are supplemented by a Learning Management System Nenasa can be found at the website. (LMS) which was developed by the Dialog-University of Moratuwa http://www.dialog.lk/about/responsibility/outreach-cr/digital-bridge/ Mobile Communication Research Laboratory through which the interactive element is facilitated. The LMS and Nenasa are part of the Digital Learning Bridge initiative which seeks to minimise disparity in education for rural students. EMPOWERING DIFFERENTLY-ABLED The LMS also enables children who have access to the internet The Company believes in creating value for all segments of society, to download educational material on Nenasa from the internet with special emphasis on delivering equal opportunities to marvia www.nenasa.lk, which will effectively be the first time the Sri ginalised communities. In line with this inclusive approach, Dialog Lankan educational curriculum would become available on the incontinued to use its competence and expertise in digital connecternet. As part of this initiative, Dialog also facilitates the reception tivity technologies in 2009 to empower the differently abled in the equipment and audio visual devices for connection to the Nenasa country. The Company applies specific focus on assisting those network, by donating 1,000 Dialog TV setup boxes, 900 Televiwith hearing, speech, visual and cognitive impairment. sion units, and 100 projectors to the rural schools identified by the Ministry of Education, dispersed equitably across the country. RATMALANA AUDILOGY CENTRE The Formal Launch The Ratmalana Audiology Centre is yet another milestone initiaThe broadcast was launched by His Excellency the President tive of Dialog’s Community Outreach thrust. The Centre, which is together with Minister of Education, Susil Premjayantha, from a constructed on the premises of the Ceylon School for the Deaf, classroom in a rural school in the Moneragala district – opening a has been operational since it’s opening for public in June 2007. It is new vista in access to education to students in grades 9, 10 and 11 Sri Lanka’s first digitally-equipped, state-of-the-art hearing centre, at the Ranjan Wijerathne Maha Vidyalaya in Pelwatta Moneragala, created for testing and treating children and adults who suffer from and simultaneously to an estimated 500,000 other students achearing difficulties and is a gift by Dialog to the Ceylon School for cessing ‘Nenasa’ from across Sri Lanka, including the Northern and the Deaf. Eastern provinces of the country. Recognition Dialog Telekom received an Excellence award at the 2008 Asian CSR Awards in the ‘Concern for Health’ category for the Ratmalana Audiology Centre, Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM The Rathmalana Audiology centre consists of a clinic equipped with technologically advanced diagnostic equipment and offers a wide range of tests, providing management and after care services for the hearing impaired Services Offered The centre consists of a clinic equipped with technologically advanced diagnostic equipment and offers a wide range of tests, and provides management and after care services for the hearing impaired such as speech therapy, counseling and a hearing aid repair unit. The key services offered at the centre include Audiological Testing, Speech Language Assessments & Therapy, sale of hearing aids & ear moulds and accessories and ENT consultation. The graph 18 indicates the total number of hearing units provided to patients from 2007-2009, while graph 19 indicates the total number of patients treated and the amount of free consultation hours provided to them from 2007-2009. More information on the Ratmalana Audiology Centre can be found at the website www.giftofsound.lk Graph 18. Number of hearing units given SUPPORTING THE WELFARE OF DISABLED SOLDIERS Dialog Telekom, paid tribute to the nation’s war heroes, presenting a sum of Rs. 25 million to the Ministry of Defence in support of the Ranaviru Retreat Centre in Attidiya, Sri Lanka in 2009. The funds donated were drawn from Dialog’s pledge to donate Rs. 100/per ‘Ranaviru Recharge Card’ towards the welfare of war heroes. The Ranaviru Retreat, a brain child of Defence Secretary, Gotabhaya Rajapakse, is an expansive centre for disabled armed forces personnel. The centre, which is still under construction, will provide state-of-the-art treatment facilities to assist the mental and physical empowerment of seriously disabled service personnel. The Ranaviru Retreat will initially house 250 servicemen and women. Dialog’s contribution will be utilised alongside other donations towards the completion of the complex. Graph 19. Number of patients treated DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 PROVIDING MEDICAL FACILITIES TO WELFARE CAMPS THE CHANGE TRUST FUND/ Dialog Telekom PLC together with the Directorate for IDP HealthHUMANITARIAN INITIATIVES care of the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition presented a Primary Healthcare Centre for residents at Menik Farm in Cheddikulam, The Dialog Change Trust Fund, established in 1999 is one of the in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka in November 2009. pioneering formal and institutionalised CR volunteerism efforts in Sri Lanka by a corporate entity. Under the programme, subscribThe semi-permanent building is constructed in zone 05 in the ers donate half a percent (0.5%) of their Dialog bill to the fund, Kadirgamar village and serves a populace of about 17,500. The which is matched one to one by the network. Initiatives under the centre is well equipped with a pharmacy, OPD ward, doctor’s room fund range from a spectrum of needs-based community projects and doctor’s rest room, replacing the former makeshift tent in focusing on requirements of the underprivileged, consistent with which treatment operations were carried out. The Primary HealthDialog’s CR ambition to empower and enrich Sri Lankan lives. The care Centre facilitates the medical treatment of thousands of pertrust is a powerful reminder of how corporate entities can empowsons residing within the zone, particularly vulnerable communities er and usher parity dividends to all Sri Lankans and improve the such as pregnant women, elderly persons and children. quality and equality of life. SUPPORT OF DIFFERNTLY-ABLED SPORTSPERSONS Another important element of this project is the concept of volunteerism. The Change Project ensures that employees in crossThe Company has once again proven its commitment to delivering functional departments are actively involved in driving ‘Change’ equal opportunities to all segments of society, by continuing to be projects. Following this end, departmental nominees are allowed the main sponsor of the Disabled Sports Festival for the 4th conto select projects of interest from the proposed list of projects to secutive year in 2009. This was a key event that showcased the be carried out in the next year and independently administer the sporting talents of Sri Lanka’s disabled war heroes. Dialog takes projects with guidance from the CR unit of the Company. This has pride in powering these exceptional men and women to achieve helped foster volunteerism across the Company at different levels new and greater sporting heights both locally and internationally. and facilitated buy in and commitment from employees towards the effort to initiate real changes in the community. The end result SMS BLOOD has been a hardwired approach to CR by employees of the ComSMS Blood is an SMS-based blood donor management system pany spanning different levels and areas. launched by Dialog in collaboration with the National Blood Transfusion Service, Sri Lanka. This service aims at facilitating more Out of the 15 projects carried forward from the previous year, donors to add to the national blood supply system and help the Sri 14 projects were completed in 2009, 01 project was abandoned Lankan public. SMS Blood enables mobile users to register as blood (Ananda Samarakoon Vidyalaya) and was replaced with a Healthdonors through SMS. They will be supported by the project staff care Centre project for the persons in the Menik Farm IDP Camps at the National Blood Transfusion Service till the point of donation. in Cheddikulam, Vavuniya. The graph below illustrates the number National Blood Transfusion Service also maintains a database of of projects carried out by the trust across multiple sectors includthe donors and will contact them when necessary. ing education and healthcare in 2009. The service was later re-launched in 2008, with World Health Organisation (WHO) directives being incorporated in the process as well as the system architecture. This service is made available for Dialog Post-paid as well as Pre-paid customers. Dialog Mobile users 5 can register for this service by sending an SMS with ‘Blood’ as the 6 message to 7777. At the end of the reporting year, In excess of 5000 people have registered on the system. The SMS Blood service thereby provides needy recipients more chance of receiving blood of the required type by expanding the supply base through 2 making the donation system more convenient. 1 Awards This application won ‘The best use of Wireless for Emergency Situations’ award at the GSM World Congress in Cannes, France in 2003 in recognition of its contribution to establish an efficient blood supply and transfusion network in the country. The service has led to a significant improvement in the quality of health services in the country and the overall safety of patients. Graph 20. Number of humanitarian projects Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Project Description Statistics Setting up a Computer Laboratory at the Sri Dharmodhaya Daham Pasala Direct Impact/ Output in Hingurakgoda Fully fledged and furbished computer centre for rural students inclusive of 05 Computers. Sri Dharmodhaya Daham Pasala (Sunday School), Hingurakgoda was established in 1971 in a village called Hatamuna with 300 families in the North Central provReach ince of Sri Lanka. The objective of this project was to provide dividends arising Approximately 125 Students in the village of Hatamuna. out of IT literacy to rural village children and to build a good rapport between villagers and the temple. The Company also endeavored to develop the beneficiary Volunteers children’s computer literacy that could help them take advantage of opportunities Employees from the Dialog Supply Chain Management arising in an information society. team Outcomes Giving children in rural areas an opportunity to be computer literate and opportunities arising out of these interventions. Establishment of a Computer Center at Blumendhal Vidyalaya in Direct Impact/ Output Colombo 14 One Fully fledged and furbished computer centre for students inclusive of 05 Computers and peripherals. Blumendhal Vidyalaya (school) is situated within the city limits of Colombo and consists of children from underprivileged homesteads, with disproportionate eduReach cational facilities. Classes range from grade 0111 and the students did not have Approximately 445 Students in Colombo 14 prior exposure to IT and computers. The school was unable to carry out computer Volunteers classes according to the new General IT syllabus due to a lack of basic computer Employees of the Dialog Group Service Delivery laboratory. Dialog was able to carry out a comprehensive needs assessment prior Management team to the establishment of a fully fledged and furbished computer center. Outcomes Giving children an opportunity to be computer literate and opportunities arising out of these interventions. Facilitating Computer Education and providing basic classroom equipment Direct Impact/ Output to Sri Arahanna Maliyadewa Viharaya in Polgahawela Computers, peripherals and furniture for village students attending the Sunday school Whilst providing Dhamma education to children in the area, the monks at Sri Arahanna Maliyadewa Viharaya, have also shown great interest in helping children Reach from low income families around the temple gain access to better educational Approximately 45 Students facilities. The objective of this project was to provide IT education and improved Volunteers class room facilities, thereby enabling rural children access to equal opportunities Employees from Group Finance and Revenue Operain current social settings. tions Outcomes Offering children from disadvantaged families an opportunity to acquire computer literacy. Setting up a computer centre at Kaloogalla Tamil Maha Vidyalaya in PusDirect Impact/ Output sellawa A fully equipped Laboratory inclusive of 05 computers for the School Kaloogalla Tamil Maha Vidyalaya, a school situated in the hilly tea estate in Pussellawa was started in 1908. Classes in the school range from Grade 01 – 08 and Reach comprises of 08 teachers. As per the new school curriculum, Computer education Approximately 200 Students from the Kaloogalla has been included as a compulsory subject starting from grade 08 upwards. AlEstate though situated in a rural locality the school administration has realised the need Volunteers to provide quality IT education to their students due to the demand for computer Staff from Group Quality Systems and Process Engiliterate individuals in society. Dialog supported the school by establishing a fully neering equipped computer laboratory. Outcomes Giving children of the estate community an opportunity to be computer literate and opportunities arising out of these interventions Upgrading facilities at the computer training centre at Sunflower Village in Direct Impact/ Output Mulleriyawa 03 additional Computers and a printer for the existing computer training centre Sunflower Village is a government-approved charity initiated with the objective of setting up a self-sufficient facility for the differently able. A few years ago, Dialog Reach Telekom assisted them with facilities requested for their computer center followed Approximately 205 differently able residents at the by a training programme in April 2007 by the Dialog scholars of the Moratuwa Sunflower Village in Mulleriyawa University Engineering faculty who volunteered to come forward to provide Volunteers advanced IT training to the inmates at the centre. This year Dialog offered further Employees from Fixed Telephony & Broadband support to the computer unit with the objective of encouraging differently able Services persons to become self sufficient individuals in society. Outcomes Providing access to computer literacy for differently able individuals and encouraging self-sufficiency. Constructing a playground for the Rambodagama Vidyalaya in Ramboda Direct Impact/ Output Play area inclusive of 07 playground items for the Rambodagama Vidyalaya, a school providing primary education to children in the Rambodagama Vidyalaya Rambodagama vicinity has a student population of 100 children. However, the school receives minimal support for development of facilities and functions with Reach only a standalone building where classes are held. Being a primary school the Approximately 100 students in Rambodagama education curricular necessitates basic play area for students. The main purpose Volunteers of this project was to fulfill this very key requirement. Staff members of Group Enterprise Contact Management Services Outcomes Promoting sports and well being of children Table 10. Change Trust Fund projects completed in 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Project Description Statistics Library facilities for Pannapitiya Sir Razak Fareed Vidyalaya, Karandeniya Direct Impact/ Output A fully equipped Library Pannapitiya Sir Razak Fareed Vidyalaya is a 62 year old school in Karandeniya comprising approximately 185 students from grade 01 – 13. Most students come Reach from impoverished Muslim families. Although a building had been allotted for a Approximately 185 students in Karandeniya library the school lacked sufficient funds to obtain necessary resources needed to Volunteers setup a suitably equipped library. Therefore the current library space was being Employees from Group Enterprise Resource Planning used to conduct school assemblies .Having carried out a comprehensive needs Services assessment Dialog upgraded facilities and established a fully equipped library area. Outcomes Promoting knowledge amongst students Medical camp for “World Down’s Syndrome Day” in together with the Direct Impact/ Output Kosala Dullewa Foundation Medical camp for differently able children Dialog together with the Kosala Dullewa Foundation organised a medical camp Reach for differently able children to mark the World Down Syndrome day on 21st March Approximately 150175 Children 2009. This initiative was a great success with the participation of more than 150Volunteers 175 children affected by Down’s syndrome along with their parents, guardians, as Group Software Engineering Services well as well wishers totaling around 1,000 participants. The Medical Clinic for the Down syndrome affected children was overseen by a dedicated Team of SpecialOutcomes ist Volunteer doctors in the areas of Pediatric, Eye, Dental, ENT, Dermatology, Supporting low income parents of differently able Occupational therapy, Speech therapy and Physiotherapy. children Upgrading a female ward at the National Cancer Hospital in Maharagama Direct Impact/ Output Refurbishment of a female ward with beds, cupboards. Dialog has been associated with the National Cancer Hospital for a long period of time and has offered support with various requirements from time to time. This Reach year when the Company decided to take aboard another project with the Hos14 Patients per day pital, attention was drawn towards the new wards that lacked some of the very Volunteers basic needs such as beds, bedside cupboards, bed linen etc. The objective of this Group Core Network Development Services project was to facilitate comfortable accommodation for patients. Outcomes Support on wider family of donee Refurbishment of a male ward at the Mental Hospital in Angoda Direct Impact/ Output Refurbishment of a male ward Mental institutions always have a tendency to be overshadowed by other health needs. The Mental Hospital in Angoda is a place which many people suffering Reach from different mental ailments from diverse social backgrounds, ages & genders Approximately 50 – 60 patients at the Mental Hospital share together. As human beings no one deserves to be neglected, that’s one of Volunteers the main reasons why Dialog decided to take up this project. Dialog undertook Group Loyalty Services to refurbish one male ward of the hospital giving a new look enabling a pleasant environment for the patients. Outcomes Pleasant environment for patients, doctors , caregivers Continuation of support for Varam youth Self-employment Direct Impact/ Output Youth Self Employment Varam is an organisation founded by Prof. Harendra De Silva which is dedicated to protecting children under threat of abuse in coastal areas of Sri Lanka. Dialog and Reach Varam Sri Lanka joined hands in a youth self-employment initiative at Varam Wel100150 Children fare Centers in Hikkaduwa, Dadella and Galle in 2007. The Welfare Centers provide Volunteers job skills training for young people and also includes a paper recycling operation Group Facilities and Support Services which was funded by Dialog. In 2009 Dialog provided further assistance to enhance facilities for the paper recycling project. Outcomes Help change the lives of children who are vulnerable to abuse and/ or affected by the tsunami Providing SMATV system and DTV connections to Lady Ridgeway Hospital Direct Impact/ Output Television cabling network and DTV connection Lady Ridgeway hospital is the largest children’s hospital in Sri Lanka treating approximately 3000 children per day from across the country. A large number Reach of young children come for OPD treatment to the hospital. As a result volunteers Approximately 3,000 patients and hospital staff realized that patients have an extensive amount of time to wait to be consulted Volunteers by a doctor. Therefore, dialog took up a project to install sets of televisions with Staff from New Technology and Convergence cable networks and satellite receivers outside OPD clinics Outcomes Facilitating recreation for patients, families, doctors Setting up a Primary Healthcare Centre in zone 05 of the Menik Farm IDP Direct Impact/ Output camps in Cheddikulam Temporary medical clinic/ health care facilities for persons in Zone 05 of the Menik Farm As part of the relief work carried out for the internally Displaced Persons in the Menik Farm IDP camps, Dialog responded to a request by the Directorate for IDP Reach healthcare of the Ministry of Healthcare & Nutrition by facilitating the construction 17, 500 Persons of a temporary medical clinic to treat the families in the Zone 05 of the camp. Volunteers Team at Corporate Responsibility Distribution of Safe Lamps in partnership with the Safe Bottle Lamp FounDirect Impact/ Output dation Minimise usage of unsafe bottle lamps in rural areas This project was carried out in collaboration with the Safe Bottle Lamp FoundaReach tion. The Founder Dr. Wijaya Godakumbura, with help from a committee of ten 5,000 Families designed a safe bottle lamp which has approval from the WHO. Dialog was particVolunteers ularly interested in supporting this project and promoting usage of safe lamps due Staff from International Roaming & Marketing Channels to the high number of home burn accidents taking place as a result of dangerous usage of Kerosene Oil Lamps. 10,000 safe lamps were distributed to 5000 Outcomes families in villages with no electricity in the Attanagalla Dambulla, Welamitiyawa, Minimising home burn accidents in Villages Alawwa, Mahaoya, and Kurunegala areas. Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Targets Brought Forward from 2008 Report LINK TO MATERIALITY / GOAL KEY DELIVERABLES IN 2009 Extending Dialog's sphere of influence across upstream supply Procurement Policy to be implemented across Group chain to ensure fair trade Ensuring best practice over and above legal compliance conA system of monitoring to be developed and implemented covering cerning Health and Safety aspects relevant laws and regulations, & use of products & services as well as environmental assessment for significant products and service categories, across the Group. Mitigate Group environmental footprint across input and outDevelop and an implement an Environment Management Programme put impacts caused by our business for significant areas of environmental impact including diesel consumption, energy consumption and management of e-waste and related products Improve Health and Safety Performance Process to capture and monitor Occupational disease rate to be introduced and establish a base line against desired levels Strengthen Existing anti corruption processes Implement Whistle Blowing Policy for Group Awareness Programmes on Code of Business Ethics for all employees Table 11. Targets brought forward from last year's In our 2008 Sustainability Report we undertook to deliver on key areas of materiality during the course of 2009. All these tasks have been initiated and are at varying stages of completion. Progress made with regard to these tasks has been recorded on page 15 of this report lucidly. The tasks that are still work in progress have been brought forward as tasks for 2010 and will be reported in the 2010 report, to ensure that progress is tracked up to 100% completion of each task. The Company has also made a commitment to pursue new targets arising out of our stakeholder engagement process and triple bottom line road map. Dialog will report back on these stated targets in its 2010 Sustainability Report. Targets For 2010 from the 2009 Report LINK TO MATERIALITY / GOAL KEY DELIVERABLES IN 2009 Benchmarking of Key indicators Performance indicators to be benchmarked with other reports/country standards Sustainability Reporting improvements to include GRI TelecomGRI sector supplement for Telco sector to be included in the reportmunication sector suppliment indicators. ing structure All additional GRI performance indicators to be screened for materiality and most material ones to be reported Capturing material consumption Thorough screening of the material consumption of Dialog in 2010 and all relevant material to be reported Capturing water consumption Analysis of pertinent water consumption measurement indices and develop proper data capturing mechanism Environmental Management Plan Phase 2 implementation Environment Management Plan to be documented and the processes to be mapped Legal indicators Develop processes for capturing risk related to compliance to environmental, social and product related legal issues. Health and Safety Improvements Capturing of Occupational diseases, Employee training on H & S issues to be developed Diversity of Governance bodies Capturing diversity in governance bodies and other operational committees Human Rights indicators Process to identify risks due to Human Rights violation issues, in Company and down the supply chain. Revised anti-corruption practices to be implemented accross Whistle Blowing Policy to be implemented the Group Code of Business ethics to be modified and a training on anti corruption to be carried out for all staff Table 12. Targets for 2010 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 GRI Content Index Please note that the Indicator descriptions on the index table are abbreviations of the GRI Indicator descriptions. Information Standard Disclosure availability/ Page # 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) 1.1 Page 06 about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Page 12 2. Organisational Profile Dialog Telekom 2.1 Name of the organisation. PLC Introduction in AR 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. (Page 01) 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. -DoColombo Sri 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Lanka 2.5 Number and name of countries where the organisation. Only Sri Lanka Public Quoted 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Company Business Review 2.7 Markets served. in AR (Page 22) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. -Do2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. -Do2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. None 3. Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period Page 03 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Page 03 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 03 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 03 Report Parameters Report Scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. Page 10 3.6 Boundary of the report. Page 10 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Page 10 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities Page 10 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculation Page 12 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and reason. Page 37,38 Report Parameters Report Scope and boundary 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods. Page 10 Report Parameters GRI context index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Page 55 Report Parameters – Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Page 08 4. Governance Corporate Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 Governance in AR specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. (Page 41) Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function 4.2 -Dowithin the organisation’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body 4.3 -Dothat are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance 4.4 -Dobody. Table 13. GRI content index Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM 4. Governance Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental -Doperformance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. -DoProcess for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding 4.7 -Dothe organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 -Doenvironmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or -Docompliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 Page 12 environmental, and social performance. Commitments external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of the precautionary approach or principle addressed Page 13 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 Page 14 organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organisations Page 14 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 Stakeholder consultation Page 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. Page 10 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Page 10 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has 4.17 Page 10 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Management Approach and Performance per category Economic, Environmental & Social. Economic performance indicators Financial Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 Statement in AR donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. (Page 60) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change Page 28 Financial EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Statement in AR (Page 94) EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Page 41 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Page 41 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of EC7 Page 34 significant operations Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through EC8 Page 44 commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagements. Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Page 24 EN2 % of materials used that are recycled input materials. Page 24 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Page 25 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Page 25 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Page 25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Page 27 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity EN11 Page 28 value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of EN12 Page 28 high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Page 26 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Page 26 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Page 27 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009 Environmental performance indicators EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Page 27 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Page 27 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Page 27 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Page 27 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Page 23 EN27 % of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Page 27 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Page 41 environmental laws and regulations. Social performance indicators : Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and by region. Page 34 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. Page 35 LA4 % of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Page 35 LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Page 35 % of workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and LA6 Page 38 advice on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. Page 38 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their LA8 Page 38 families, or community regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Page 37 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, LA13 Page 35 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Page 35 Social performance indicators : Society Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of SO1 Page 29 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2 % and total number of business units analyzed for risk related to corruption. Page 39 SO3 % of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Page 39 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Page 39 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Page 39 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and SO8 Page 41 regulations Social performance indicators : Human rights % and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone HR1 Page 39 human rights screening. HR2 % of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Page 41 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Page 39 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at HR5 Page 38 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the HR6 Page 39 elimination of child labor. Operations identified as having significant of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the HR7 Page 39 elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Social performance indicators : Product responsibility Life cycle stages in which H&S impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and % of significant PR1 Page 20 products and services categories subject to such procedures. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and % of significant products and services subject PR3 Page 20 to such information requirements. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Page 20 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 Page 20 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Page 20 Monetary value of significant fines for non compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of PR9 Page 41 products and services Sustainability Report 2009 DIALOG TELEKOM Glossary BDC – Business Development Center ICT – Information and Communication Technology BTS – Base Station Site ICT4D Information and Communication Technolog CBE – Code of Business Ethics IDP – Internally Displaced Personal CEA – Central Environmental Authority IFC – International Finance Corporation COP – Communication On Progress ILO – International Labour Organisation CR – Corporate Responsibility KPIKey Performance Indicator CxCustomer LMS – Learning Management System DBN – Dialog Broadband Network NCPA – National Child Protection Authority DEWN – Disaster Early Warning Network NDA – Non Disclosure Agreement DfE – Design for Environment NGO – Non Government Organisation DMC – Disaster Management Center NIE – National Institute of Education DTPDialog Telekom PLC OPD – Out Patient Department ECM – Enterprise Contact Management SBU – Strategic Business Unit EMP – Environment Management Plan SIA – Social Impact Assessment ENT – Ear Nose Throat SME – Small & Medium Enterprises ERM – Enterprise Risk Management TBL – Triple Bottom Line ERMOC – Enterprise Risk Management Operation Committee TRCSL – Telecommunications Regulation Committee of Sri Lanka GGS – Govi Gnana Seva USSD – Unstructured Supplementary Service Data GHG – Green House Gas VRS – Voluntary Resignition Scheme GPT – General Purpose Technology for Development GSMA – GSM Association List of diagrams, tables and graphs Diagrams Diagram 01. Materiality Rating Test5 Page 10 Diagram 02. Enhanced Engagement Model for 2009 Page 11 Diagram 03: Five Thematic aspects currently pursued under outreach CR at Page 12 Diagram 04. Dialog's approach to coporate responsibility Page 12 Diagram 05. Dialog’s management approach to ensuring CR principles Page 13 Tables Table 01. Engagement with main group of stakeholders Page 11 Table 02. Cross Reference of GRI G3 indicators with UN Global Compact Principles Page 14 Table 03. Achievement of targets in 2009 Page 15 Table 04. Employees based in Colombo & Outstation Page 34 Table 05. Ethnic diversity in Senior Management Page 35 Table 06. Training hours per employee per category Page 37 Table 07. HSE performance Page 38 Table 08. Procument from local and foreign vendors Page 41 Table 09. Dialog Technoloy Scholarship holders Page 47 Table 10. Change Trust Fund projects completed in 2009 Page 51 Table 11. Targets brought forward from last year’s Page 53 Table 12. Targets for 2010 Page 53 Table 13. GRI content index Page 54 Graphs Graph 01. Material consumption Page 24 Graph 02. Percentage of e-bill and Summery bill Cx Page 24 Graph 03. Diesel consumption in full time generator operated BTS sites of Dialog Page 24 Graph 04. Percentage of direct and indirect energy consumption for Dialog operations Page 25 Graph 05. Comparison of dirct energy consumption Page 25 Graph 06. Direct and indirect GHG emission for energy Page 26 Graph 07. Other indirect GHG emissions Page 26 Graph 10. Recycled solid waste Page 27 Graph 09. Discarded vehicle waste Page 27 Graph 08. Discarded Electronic waste Page 27 Graph 11. Total workforce Page 34 Graph 12. Diversity in employee categories Page 34 Graph 13. Permanant & Contract Basis Emp. Page 34 Graph 14. Male & Female diversityin Snr.Management Page 34 Graph 15. Age diversity in Snr.Management Page 35 Graph 16. Gender ratio of workforce Page 35 Graph 17. Total turnover Page 35 Graph 18. Number of hearing units given Page 49 Graph 19. Number of patients treated Page 49 Graph 20. Number of humanitarian projects Page 50 DIALOG TELEKOM Sustainability Report 2009
