3rd Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact September 2011 Cover picture: Bergen Surveyor operating offshore Greenland (Gary Epple) Paris, September 2011 United Nations Global Compact New York United States of America Dear Sir / Madam, The urge for a complete integration of sustainable development and social responsibility concerns and practices in the management of corporations is at the root of United Nations Global Compact initiative. The turmoil and various industrial disasters that the world has witnessed during the past months are clear demonstrations of the need for the industry to progress further in this direction. From its start, 80 years ago, CGGVeritas has been developing and implementing cutting edge geophysical technologies to solve the challenges of an increasingly complex geological context and contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of oil and gas exploration and production, while striving to maintain a balanced approach to economic development, social progress, and responsible environmental management. Proclaiming our duties under the Global Compact in 2007 was therefore a confirmation of our commitment to our stakeholders at large and an ambitious call to overcome new challenges. Each year, we progress in materializing our commitments into sustainable practices and integrating further the concerns of our stakeholders at large in the conception and deployment of our products and activities. This year, Human Rights issues were one of our focuses, and we developed tools and procedures to better anticipate and control our potential exposure to any offense to Human Rights, including through our contractors and suppliers. Since this year as well, a specific Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility chapter is integrated in all our extensive Health, Safety, and Environment audits. With these measures, we ensure that any concern is reviewed at the right level of our organization. We also continued our efforts in other domains of ongoing progress. We are proud of CGGVeritas employees’ enthusiasm for contributing their time and effort to social and environmental causes; our new Sustainable Development Think Tank is a great tool for materializing their innovative spirits and further promoting a Sustainable and Socially Responsible culture. We are pleased to renew the commitments of CGGVeritas under the Global Compact founding principles and present hereafter the initiatives and action plans that we implemented in recent months. Yours faithfully, Jean-Georges Malcor Chief Executive Officer CGGVeritas Compagnie Générale de Géophysique Veritas Corporate Headquarters Tour Maine-Montparnasse 33, avenue du Maine 75015 Paris, France Tél. : +33 1 64 47 45 00 Fax : +33 1 64 47 34 31 Société Anonyme au Capital de 60 739 960 € N° 969 202 241 RCS Paris Code TVA UE : FR 16 969 202 241 APE : 7112B Siège social : Tour Maine-Montparnasse 33, avenue du Maine 75015 Paris France cggveritas.com Pacte MondialGlobal Compact Deuxième communication Third sur Communication le progrès on Progress Table of Contents Page 5 I. CGGVeritas in 2010 Page 6 II. Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility at CGGVeritas Page 6 II.1. Policies Page 6 II. 2. Objectives Page 6 II. 3. Organization Page 8 II. 4. SD Think Tank Page 8 II. 5. Non-Financial Rating Agencies Page 9 III. Sustainable Development Issues Page 9 III.1 Contribute to the Sustainable Management of Natural Resources Page 10 III.2 Promote Social Progress Page 10 III.2.A. Key Figures Page 10 III.2.B. Our Responsibilities Page 10 III.2.B.1. Human Rights Page 11 III.2.B.2. Security Page 12 III.2.B.3. Recruitment Page 13 III.2.B.4. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining Page 13 III.2.B.5. Non Discrimination Page 13 III.2.B.6. Training Page 14 III.2.B.7. Health and Safety Page 15 III.3 Maintain Fair Practices Page 15 III.3.A. Long-term Partnerships Page 15 III.3.B. Local Employment Page 15 III.3.C. Local Purchasing Page 15 III.3.D. Community Relations Management Plan Page 16 III.3.E. Fighting Against Corruption Page 16 III.3.F. Promoting Trade Compliance Page 16 III.4 Be Involved in the Community Page 16 III.4.A. Involvement in the Industry Convention: Progresses against United Nations 10 Principles will be marked with Page 16 III.4.B. Involvement in the Society the Global Compact logo and the text of the concerned principle. Page 19 III.5 Reduce our Environmental Footprint Page 20 IV. Outlook and Priorities for the Future Page 21 Appendices 4 Third Communication on Progress September (September 2011 2010) I. CGGVeritas in 2010 Resulting from the merger between Compagnie Générale de Géophysique and Veritas DGC in 2007, CGGVeritas has more than 7,200 employees worldwide. The holding Company is incorporated in France and listed on the New York and Paris Stock Exchanges. We operate through more than 70 offices and field locations worldwide. We maintain our leadership position through our people and technology and in close partnership with our clients. I.1. Five Divisions The activities of the Group are organized in five Divisions. I.1.A. Equipment Division Sercel is the leading provider of seismic acquisition equipment and technology. Sercel develops and markets geophysical equipment, including high-tech, integrated electronic recording systems, cables, sensors, streamers, vibrators, and seismic sources for exploration in land, transition zone, ocean bottom, marine, and downhole environments. From its 20 offices and premises around the globe, Sercel is in the leading position to satisfy the industry’s needs for seismic acquisition equipment. I.1.B. Land & Marine Divisions Acquisition of geophysical data either at sea (“Marine”) or on land or in shallow water (“Land”). With a fleet of 19 seismic vessels, including 15 3D high-capacity vessels, and specialized land and shallow water crews, the Group is recognized for its worldwide expertise in conducting highly complex projects in sensitive environments and in full respect for all stakeholders. I.1.C. Multi-Client & New Ventures Division Over the years, CGGVeritas has developed its own data library which is licensed to multiple clients, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, and the North Sea (“Multi-Client”). I.1.D. Data Processing & Imaging Division CGGVeritas operates a broad network of more than 40 processing centers around the world, of which 15 are dedicated to specific clients. I.2. Functional Supports The Divisions are supported by six Functions: • Geomarkets & Global Marketing • Technology • Finance & Strategy • General Secretary • Human Resources • Global Operational Excellence The CGGVeritas website (www.cggveritas.com) contains additional information regarding the Group’s activities and its key figures. Third Communication on Progress 5 Global Compact Third Communication on Progress September 2011 II. Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility at CGGVeritas We detailed in our Second Communication on Progress, published last year, the Sustainable Development & Social Responsibility (SD/SR) organization put in place to meet our goals. We will describe here the adjustments made during recent months. II.1. Policies Early 2011, CGGVeritas has renewed and updated its policies to take into account new issues such as: • The Rights of Indigenous Peoples as defined by the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (Sustainable Development Policy – attached – Appendix 4) • The use of the recommendations laid down in the “Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights” (“Volprin”), the “OGP Fire Arms and Use of Force” and the “IMO guidance regarding piracy and armed robbery against ships” (Security Policy – attached – Appendix 8) • The Trade Compliance Policy (Appendix 11) applying to goods which are imported and exported and the services which are delivered and made available to countries in compliance with applicable laws and regulations (such as export controls, embargo sanctions, and antiboycott laws). II.2. Objectives Each year, the Group sets objectives to address some key SD/SR issues. Line managers are in charge of mobilizing their organization towards the achievement of these objectives and are kept accountable for their performance. The main objectives for 2011 are: • Improve definition, coordination, and monitoring of our Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility (SD/SR) actions by closely associating the Divisions and Functions to the SD/SR Steering Committee • Support, on a priority basis, SD/SR initiatives that demand practical employee involvement or require our Company objectives • Review regularly the risk of association with violation of Human Rights and implement measures to minimize such risks • Implement, where relevant, Community Relations Management Plans • Include an SD/SR chapter in all HSE audits of our sites and operations • Conduct, when necessary, specific audits focused on our suppliers and contractors • Reduce energy consumption and plane travel by increasing the use of videoconferencing The full Objectives are attached in the Appendices. II.3. Organization The SD/SR Steering Committee headed by the Group General Secretary has been adapted to reflect the new Group organization and now includes the Executive Vice President of the Geomarkets Function. Furthermore, in early 2011 the CGGVeritas Board decided to create a dedicated Health, Safety, Environment (HSE), and Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility (SD/SR) Committee, whose mandate is given here below: • Determine the principal areas for continuous improvement of the Group’s HSE & SD/SR performance and regularly compare our progress with that of other companies in the industry • Review proven or unproven incidents (High Potential Incidents) whose consequences were assessed as serious; examine the analysis of the causes and corrective measures • Monitor any major crises in the HSE & SD/SR field and the measures taken to resolve them 6 Third Communication on Progress • Keep the Board informed of the measures taken by the Group in terms of HSE and SD/SR and the initiatives relating to sustainable development This Committee, which includes the CGGVeritas CEO, meets at least twice per year, provides directions, and reviews the progress of the Company in the HSE & SD/SR domain. The SD/SR organization is now structured and consistent with the Group’s organization: Board of Directors HSE & SD/SR Committee CEO SD/SR Co Commitee Secretary General Secreta ary Divisions Divisio ons & Geomarkets & HSE SD/SR Geomarket Department Managers Local correspondents within Divisions • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour and • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery Internal HSE audits, which are conducted extensively across the Company, have been complemented with an SD/SR chapter that includes the main Social Responsibility topics with the aim of systematically identifying potential deviations and reporting these deviations to the right level of management for review. Such deviations generate corrective actions and, if needed, specific SD/SR additional audits to address the issue (see audit checklist form in Appendix 15). Third Communication on Progress 7 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progresssur le progrès September 2011 SDThinkTank II.4. SD Think Tank This is how the process works: The CGGVeritas SD Think Tank, launched in April 2011, is an interactive forum which can be reached by all employees through the CGGVeritas intranet (“InSite”) to submit and debate ideas on how to improve sustainability in the places we live and work. The best ideas are reviewed through a set process and, when accepted, the employee gets the opportunity to participate in bringing the idea which they have championed to life. The SD Think Tank was created as a follow-up to the forward-thinking Energize your Future forum in Paris attended by a group of young CGGVeritas professionals. The motivation and enthusiasm raised by the event led this group to promote the creation of the Think Tank, which was validated by the CGGVeritas Executive Committee. 1. If an employee sees or thinks of something in their everyday work that could make a difference – big or small – in our sustainability, the employee submits the idea on-line to the SD Think Tank. 2. The idea is debated and voted on by colleagues, resulting in the best ideas ‘floating’ to the top. 3. Moderators watch the discussions and the most popular ideas are invited to advance to the next level, i.e. create a business case for why the Company should do it. This is critical because employees do not just submit an idea and walk away; they may actually get to participate in making it happen. 4. If the business case is solid and feasible, the idea passes to the next stage: a project proposal and presentation to the relevant entity for decision-making. 5. If an idea/plan passes this final stage, the project will be funded and the employees will be invited to participate in bringing the idea to reality. Since the release of the SD Think Tank on April 2011, employees have generated and discussed more than 30 ideas, including: • Promotion of organic food in CGGVeritas cafeterias • Protection of the sea turtle in the Gulf of Mexico • Ways to improve the disposal of offshore waste • Reduction in water consumption • Ways to recycle batteries II.5. Non-Financial Rating Agencies • ”CGGVeritas has been selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register from VIGEO (see www.ethibel.org) since July 6, 2010 and is being monitored regarding its CSR profile VIGEO is an independent consultant and rating agency for Socially Responsible Investment. Its quality label is granted for socially responsible and ethical investments. • CGGVeritas has also been selected to be included in the ASPI Eurozone ® index from VIGEO since September 17, 2010 The ASPI Eurozone is made up of listed companies of the Euro zone achieving the best performances based on Sustainable Development and Social Corporate Governance. 8 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) III. Sustainable Development Issues III.1. Contribute to the Sustainable Management of Natural Resources Population and income growth will be powerful driving forces in the demand for energy in the decades to come. Despite the rise in alternative energy sources, (which will progressively become a greater part of the overall energy mix), fossil fuels, including oil and gas, are predicted to remain dominant energy sources. Supply will struggle to keep pace. As custodians of these finite energy resources, governments and oil & gas companies have an obligation to ensure that these resources are efficiently managed and that the exploration, development, and production process is undertaken in a socially responsible and sustainable manner. As a service provider to oil and gas companies, CGGVeritas has an important role to play in support of these objectives, as well as an obligation to conduct its own activities in accordance with sustainable development principles. In order for the oil & gas industry to meet predicted demand and compensate for declining production in existing fields, an estimated 67 million barrels per day of new capacity between 2010-2035 needs to be added according to IEA (International Energy Agency) forecasts. The need to replace production at declining fields and the decline of easy-to-access oil will have a huge impact on the exploration, development, and production needs of oil and gas companies. III.1.A. Exploration Over recent years, new discoveries have not kept pace with production. In 2008-2009 for example, new discoveries replaced only one out of every two barrels of oil produced. This implies that more exploration effort is needed. This need is compounded by trends in the size of new discoveries. Although some giant fields have been found, the average size of fields being discovered continues to fall. As a consequence, exploration efforts are likely to intensify over the coming years, and exploration is likely to take place in more complex geological settings as well as more remote, hostile and environmentally sensitive areas, including deep offshore and the Arctic, which will require specialized capabilities. As a global leader in the seismic industry, CGGVeritas has an important role to play. Through the manufacture of equipment and acquisition, processing, and imaging of seismic data, CGGVeritas provides oil and gas companies with an image of the subsurface geology which enables them to identify potential exploration prospects and is key to de-risking the exploration process and improving its sustainability. Through specialized capabilities to operate in remote, hostile and environmentally sensitive areas, acquisition methods and equipment designed to the specific geological needs, and improved imaging accuracy, CGGVeritas provides a sustainable alternative to drilling-only and helps to significantly decrease the risk of drilling non-producing wells. Drilling is an energy-intensive process compared to seismic. Seismic can drastically help increase the efficiency of energy use in the exploration process and reduce the environmental footprint through reducing the number of wells needed to be drilled and significantly reducing the number of dry holes drilled. III.1.B. Development Once a field has been discovered, it needs to be developed as sustainably as possible. With discoveries and fields likely to become smaller and more complex to develop, pressure is on the seismic industry to further improve penetration of the reservoir and resolution of images through technology and methodology improvements. Imaging some sedimentary basins remains obscured through basalt, carbonates, and salt. Capabilities to improve imaging and resolution for specific geological contexts need to be enhanced. Through its research and development efforts, CGGVeritas is at the forefront of these challenges and is a recognized leader in the seismic processing and imaging domain. III.1.C. Production Maximizing recovery of oil and gas from existing fields will be a key driver in the sustainable management of finite oil and gas resources. Seismic is becoming an increasingly attractive way of assessing the reservoir through its whole life cycle. High-density repeatable (4D) surveys requiring specialized capabilities will continue to grow as will The Oceanic Vega, the first new X-BOW® vessel in the CGGVeritas fleet. alternative ocean-bottom methods and non-seismic complementary methods. Third Communication on Progress 9 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 III.2. Promote Social Progress III.2.A. Key Figures III.2.A.1. Employees As of December 31, 2010, the CGGVeritas Group included 7,264 permanent employees of more than 90 different nationalities, a reduction compared with the 7,509 permanent employees at the end of 2009, following restructuring of the Marine fleet. Processing centers and manufacturing sites mainly employ local staff: in India, 96% of the staff is national, 93% in Argentina, 83% in Brazil, 82% in Mexico, and more than 90% in China. In 2010, 629 new employees joined the CGGVeritas Group worldwide and 874 left. The higher departure rate is related to the Marine fleet restructuring. Most departures are voluntary departures as part of a global plan. The turnover of personnel is 11%. III.2.A.2. Gender Distribution At worldwide level, 25% of personnel are female. Due to the environment and work conditions on the seismic acquisition crews, women represent only 5% of the field prospectors and around 10% of the personnel in the Land and Marine Divisions, although the percentage of women in the other Divisions and Functions is substantially higher. III.2.B. Our Responsibilities In 2010 our focus and actions were particularly in support of human rights. III.2.B.1. Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour and • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery Our policies have been reinforced to better highlight our responsibilities: • to respect Human Rights as proclaimed by the Universal Declaration of the United Nations • to respect the Rights of Indigenous Peoples as defined by the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples • to use the recommendations laid down in the “Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights” (“Volprin”), the “OGP Firearms and Use of Force” and the “IMO guidance regarding piracy and armed robbery against ships” • To allow line management and country managers to adequately assess the risks and take measures to minimize them, we have ranked the countries based on five fundamental criteria: • Child Labor • Forced Labor 10 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Rights of indigenous, tribal and native people • Corruption Each country is assigned a low, medium or high risk for each criteria; each country is assigned a global ranking resulting from the combination of the five criteria. This assessment is based upon the figures and analysis issued by the UN agencies (such as the International Labor Organization), the United States Governmental sources, and/or reputable international Non Governmental Organizations (such as Transparency International or Human Rights Watch). The assessment will be reviewed yearly, or more frequently in the case of a sudden change of geopolitical situation in a country. The line management and country managers are in charge of implementing specific controls based upon this assessment: preventive and control actions vary in accordance with the risk associated with the country of operation or the country of origin of a given partner or contractor: • For low risk, no specific action is required • For medium risk, a particular focus on these issues while conducting operations or dealing with a partner or contractor and a yearly self evaluation of performance against a check list covering the five fundamental selected criteria are required • For high risk, general compliance audits or specific partner or contractor audits are required. A broad list of best practices, largely inspired by the guidelines for Social Audit 8000, has been drawn up and distributed to our local managers to help them ensure compliance and detect deviations. Training packages aiming at raising the awareness of all personnel on these subjects are under preparation for roll out in 2012. III.2.B.2. Security • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The security of our personnel and assets may be a concern in certain areas of activity. We are committed to providing a secure working environment to protect our employees, and support from security forces may be necessary to reach this objective. Such forces are preferably provided by the local authorities, often under a general agreement with our client. Where or when state security forces are unavailable, private security providers may be employed. A specific selection process is in place to review the background, skills, integrity, and professionalism of these companies and their individual personnel. Our Security Policy has been amended in 2011 to reflect our endeavors to implement the recommendations of the “Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights” (“Volprin”, internet www.voluntaryprinciples.org), the “OGP Firearms and Use of Force” (www.ogp.org.uk) and the “IMO guidance regarding piracy and armed robbery against ships” (www.imo.org). These principles apply both to the cases of state and private security forces. Accordingly, we have set up a standard contractual agreement for our Security providers compliant with such rules, stating that: • The Security provider should observe the CGGVeritas policies regarding ethical conduct and human rights; the law and professional standards of the country in which we operate; emerging best practices developed by industry, civil society, and governments; and promote the observance of international humanitarian law. • The Security provider should maintain high levels of technical and professional proficiency, particularly with regard to the local use of force and firearms. Third Communication on Progress 11 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progresssur le progrès September 2011 • The Security provider warrants that its personnel are adequately trained to respect the rights of employees and the local community. • CGGVeritas shall be entitled to review the Security provider’s personnel files (including but not limited to: CV, criminal records, training certificates, military/police service record, firearms possession and use authorizations from the home and host countries, result of stress tests and exercises), to the extent that such information may be legally reviewed by Security provider. • The Security provider and its personnel must act in a lawful manner. • They must act with restraint and caution in a manner consistent with applicable international guidelines regarding the local use of force, including: » the UN Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials; » the UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials; » the “Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights”; » the “OGP Firearms and Use of Force” » as well as the rules and regulations established by the public authorities. • The Security provider must have policies regarding appropriate conduct and the local use of force (e.g. rules of engagement). Their performance must be regularly monitored and audited against these principles by CGGVeritas or third parties. Such monitoring should encompass detailed investigations into allegations of abusive or unlawful acts; the availability of disciplinary measures sufficient to prevent and deter; and procedures for reporting allegations to relevant local law enforcement authorities when appropriate. • All allegations of human rights abuse by the Security provider must be recorded and reported to CGGVeritas. Credible allegations should be properly investigated. In those cases where allegations against the Security provider or its personnel are forwarded to the relevant law enforcement authorities, CGGVeritas should actively monitor the status of investigations and press for their proper resolution. • Consistent with its function, the Security provider should provide only preventive and defensive services and should not engage in activities that are the exclusive responsibility of state military or law enforcement authorities. CGGVeritas should designate services, technologies and equipment capable of offensive and defensive purposes as being for defensive use only. • The Security provider shall notify CGGVeritas in the case that support from governmental security forces would be required and if such services need to be paid for. The Security provider shall keep accurate records of all such payments and transmit copies of these records to CGGVeritas. • The Security provider should (1) not employ individuals known to be implicated in human rights abuse to provide the Services; (2) use force only when strictly necessary and to an extent proportional to the threat; and (3) not violate the rights of individuals with respect to that right to exercise freedom of association and peaceful assembly, to engage in collective bargaining, or other related rights of CGGVeritas employees as recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. • In cases where physical force is used, the Security provider should properly investigate and report the incident to CGGVeritas. The Security provider should refer the matter to local authorities and/or take disciplinary action where appropriate. Where force is used, medical aid should be provided to injured persons, including to offenders. This model of agreement is being deployed for all new providers and progressively implemented as we renew existing contracts. III.2.B.3. Recruitment In order to fulfill recruitment needs, the Group takes part in numerous events and keeps close connections with schools and universities where the required talents are sourced. Thanks to its participation in educational programs organized by the SEG (Society of Exploration Geophysicists) and the EAGE (European Association of Geoscientists & Engineers), CGGVeritas also contributes to the promotion of Geosciences in the world of education, schools, and universities through the sponsorship of school projects for students studying in Earth and Geosciences Universities. CGGVeritas is the main contributor to SEG “Geoscientists without Borders” program, which sponsors geophysical projects with a socially responsible content, carried out by students all over the world. Taking into account the international growth of our Group, a specific effort has been made to recruit talented personnel in the various countries where we operate. 12 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) CGGVeritas University organized several cross-cultural awareness training sessions in its various centers worldwide, acknowledging the diversity within the Company and promoting a better understanding and awareness of specificities among employees. This proactive approach starts from early pre-employment stages in the form of a dynamic policy for internships (work-study programs, CIFRE contracts, etc.). In this scope, 45 students carried out internships periods exceeding four months in the different branches of the Group. In addition, a recruitment campaign targeting very talented and high potential young staff, implemented in 2007, was continued and led in 2010 to the hiring of additional persons. These managers, strong from a solid international experience and having demonstrated in the past their aptitude to manage businesses, will help us, after an initial one-year period of induction and training, to strengthen our succession plans. III.2.B.4. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining More than 50% of CGGVeritas worldwide permanent staff are covered by collective agreements on working conditions in our seismic acquisition and processing Divisions (France, Norway, and CGGVeritas International, Switzerland). Around 50% of its worldwide employees are represented by active and formal bodies or delegates. We therefore underline the importance of these matters in our SD/SR commitments, as a main part of Human Rights. We advocate the representation of our employees by unions or similar organizations or, where freedom of association is locally restricted by law, by employee-elected representatives. In all countries, we develop discussions with our employees regarding work conditions and materialization of employer/employee agreements through collective bargaining agreements or employee handbooks edited after consultation with the employees and their representatives. III.2.B.5. Non-Discrimination • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Respecting diversity and promoting non-discrimination when hiring is a permanent concern for CGGVeritas. Our principles in this respect are formalized in the Group Code of Ethics (see Appendix 2), Business Code of Conduct (see Appendix 3), and Sustainable Development Policy. A campaign aimed at raising awareness of the subject and providing trade-specific training has also been pursued in order to better formalize and improve what already existed elsewhere in the Group. Hence the topic of non-discrimination has been included in Human Resources Seminars and the “Governance and Performance” training organized by CGGVeritas University for senior management. This awareness campaign will be continued in 2011. A Human Resources Policy issued at the beginning of 2011 states our principles for recruitment of personnel, excluding all discrimination (see Appendix 10). III.2.B.6. Training Training policy, which takes into consideration individual development and professionalization of the employees, is a key structural driver of the Group. In line with Group orientations, CGGVeritas University joined efforts for the deployment of new Technology Centers in Calgary, Al-Khobar, Luanda and Brazil. CGGVeritas University has followed up with our integration policy for new hires through the GeoRise program aimed at providing training with respect to the Company’s techniques and assisting new talents at the beginning of their careers. Since the launch of the program in September 2006, twelve sessions have been organized in the three main training centers (Massy, Houston, and Singapore). CGGVeritas University also implemented new training programs for the deployment of geovation, our new processing software that will be used throughout the Group in the future. Technical programs are a key part of the CGGVeritas University offerings and ten geophysical lectures are also organized in the training centers for continuous education. The training kits required for the software convergence plan were finalized in December 2010. Management programs offered by CGGVeritas University evolved at several levels. The modules for managers were strengthened so as to Third Communication on Progress 13 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 better integrate the Group’s vision and leadership model, while supporting the personal development programs for individuals across the Group. Priority was also given to specific mandatory programs that address the subjects of Financial Security, QHSE, and Management training. The concept of “Learning for Development” has been formalized and developed on the basis of a reaffirmed and shared vision. This idea meets both the need for training and the desire to train employees on an ongoing basis with respect to both technological and organizational changes. The CGGVeritas University team continues to develop programs in the areas of training and learning that have been developed internally in various branches of the Group over the past few years in order to spread best practices and successful models of learning throughout the Group. A total of 17,826 training days were offered within CGGVeritas University in 2010 (among which 7,161 training days in France) including: 3,936 training days dedicated to management programs; 13,863 training days dedicated to technical programs of which 1,644 days for external clients; and 1,711 training days dedicated to specific health, safety, and environment programs. III.2.B.7. Health and Safety Health and Safety matters are the responsibility of the line management of each entity or activity. The Divisions rely on specialized professionals located in their organization and reporting to a functional manager. For example, a Group medical doctor is in charge of medical and health matters (occupational diseases, epidemiology, and assessment of the risks abroad) and relies on correspondents based in the crews. The management HSE recommitment program was extended in 2010 from the Land to the Marine Division, where a two-year training program was rolled out according to projected plans. Our Behavioral Program TOP (Task Observation Program) was extended within the Marine Division, contributing to improving personnel awareness and commitment, as demonstrated by the doubling of our leading indicators during the year (number of hazard reports, HSE toolbox meetings, and TOP reports per million man-hours). The program was also tested in the Land Division for further implementation in 2011. The HSE training programs for our field personnel were continued and enhanced with additional video and online training, in particular for our Marine Acquisition personnel. Vehicle transportation continued to be the activity with the highest risk profile. The transport program launched in 2007 was continued in 2010 with a focus on contracted and subcontracted vehicles, mainly in Land Acquisition activities. Continued focus on reducing exposure to road traffic by elimination of vehicles where possible (use of buses for example), installation of speed limiting devices (SLDs), and rollover protection (ROP), ongoing improvements in the In Vehicle Monitoring Systems (IVMS), and continued driver training and education contributed to reduce the Motor Vehicle Crash Rate (MVCR) further down at 0.92, from 1.40 in 2008 and 0.96 in 2009. As a large part of our personnel is exposed to extensive worldwide travel, a new HSE Travel Guide was introduced. This Guide was shared with the geophysical industry and adopted by the IAGC. A total of 43 internal audits, more than 50 external audits, and thousands of inspections were conducted across all parts of the Company with remedial and corrective actions identified. Proactive Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) continued to be captured throughout the Company to gauge progress towards meeting and exceeding goals and targets for HSE. High-potential events were systematically identified and root cause analysis conducted and presented to the Company’s Executive Committee and Board; the implementation of corrective actions was tracked and recommendations from the events were incorporated into Company practices. CGGVeritas is an active and involved participant for HSE matters in the International Association of Geophysical Contractors (IAGC) board and subcommittees and a participant in a number of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) workgroups. The GoCare program for regular medical checkups was also implemented for CGGVeritas International employees. Thanks to this program, each employee of CGGVeritas International now has access to recognized medical centers worldwide, as well as a centralized tracking of their medical records through an internationally recognized partner. The roll out of our Non-Smoking Policy was continued and awareness programs were conducted in various sites; treatment for employees willing to give up smoking was endorsed by the Company. Ergonomics and workplace wellness awareness programs were conducted on several sites. 14 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) The Company standardized its approach to field medical services, including facilities, pharmacy, and the specified level of medical training, based on a risk assessment approach. Joint training for contracted and in-house field medical specialists was conducted to harmonize practices and share best practices across our operation sites. III.3. Maintain Fair Practices III.3.A. Long-term Partnerships CGGVeritas has always promoted long-term partnerships with local companies. Some partnerships, such as ARGAS, in Saudi Arabia, have been initiated and sustained for more than 50 years. In 2010 and the first part of 2011, CGGVeritas announced the setting-up of significant joint-ventures, with entities such as: • PT Elnusa Tbk, Indonesia (already a CGGVeritas partner for land and shallow water seismic data acquisition) for a joint venture in 2D/3D marine acquisition focused primarily on Indonesia • Gardline Group Ltd. for marine acquisition and site surveys • Geotech Holding, Russian Federation, for a joint venture in 2D/3D marine acquisition in Russian and CIS waters • PetroVietnam Technical Services Corporation (PTSC), Vietnam, for a joint venture in 2D/3D marine acquisition mostly in Vietnamese waters Partnerships with local companies allow development of local employment and skills, business opportunities, and contribution to long-term economic development. This approach also leads to fair trade and revenues for the different stakeholders in the communities nearby our operations (local staff, suppliers, contractors). III.3.B. Local Employment CGGVeritas operates in all regions of the world and in many countries which are considered good generators of skills where we recruit locally at an increasing rate. More than 90% of our employees in our Equipment manufacturing plants and offices are local employees. The nature of CGGVeritas land seismic acquisition activities and our operations in various geographic areas provide job opportunities for local communities. Local employment enables the sharing of skills and know-how. Cooperation between local and international staff is further reinforced by the training programs provided by the Company. III.3.C. Local Purchasing Whenever and wherever possible, CGGVeritas encourages local purchasing in order to participate in the local economy, thus contributing to the well-being of the communities with which we work. The Purchasing Code of Conduct has been reviewed and a “Responsible Purchasing Training Program” has been drafted and distributed. III.3.D. CRMP (Community Relations Management Plan) • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility To better manage its relations with the communities and stakeholders surrounding its operations, CGGVeritas has drawn up a management plan to assist project managers in: • making a comprehensive site or crew social diagnosis • identifying the positive or negative impact of CGGVeritas activity on communities and social mitigation measures • identifying the various stakeholders to implement a stakeholder consultation process including an understanding of their expectations and levels of satisfaction Third Communication on Progress 15 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 • assessing, monitoring, and controlling performance in relations with communities and for management of grievances This tool is both a guidebook, with appendices such as “Guideline for Fishery Activities Management”, “Guideline for Permitting Activities” or “Guideline for Implementing an SD/SR Initiative”, a step-by-step help for project planning, and a log-type document to record the life of a project. III.3.E. Fighting Against Corruption According to the details published in our second Communication on Progress (www.cggveritas.com) CGGVeritas continues to apply its policies, procedures, and good practices to minimize the risks of corruption (audit and selection of commercial consultants, segregation of duties, and internal control). Furthermore, when mapping fundamental human rights (see III.2.B.1), CGGVeritas identifies direct or indirect exposure to corruption practices as crucial issues as well as Child Labor, Forced Labor, Freedom of Association/Bargaining Agreement, and Indigenous/Native People Rights. Corruption has been given the highest weight amongst the five criteria for building the global rating of each country. Prevention and control of country-related risks of corruption is triggered on the same basis as described in III.2.B.1. These actions are mainly based on existing internal tools (procedure to select, appoint, and monitor commercial agents, segregation of duties, internal control, etc.) already described in our Second Communication on Progress and further illustrated in the Best Practice guideline mentioned in III.2.B.1. III.3.F. Promoting Trade Compliance In compliance with the regulations which apply to its equipment, CGGVeritas has reiterated its commitment through its Trade Compliance Policy (Appendix 11). Such policy ensures that the equipment is imported and exported and services delivered and made available in compliance with the laws and regulations regarding export controls, embargo sanctions, and anti-boycott laws. Trade Compliance is now part of the Global Operational Excellence (GOE) Function; the Trade Compliance team reports to the Executive Vice President of GOE who is a member of Group Executive Committee. III.4. Be Involved in the Community III.4.A. Involvement in the Industry The Society of Exploration Geophysicists (“SEG”) is an international organization of individual members with interest in the field of economic geology. They are representatives from the industrial, academic, and governmental institutions. The geophysicist community considers that they “have the tools needed to affect positive change in communities facing environmental hardship and natural hazards, like severe weather shortages and threats of earthquakes and tsunamis” (www.seg.org). The Society of Exploration Geophysicists (“SEG”) has therefore set up a foundation “Geoscientists Without Borders®” (“GWB”) to promote projects using applied geophysics to benefit people and the environment around the world. CGGVeritas has joined the GWB foundation and participates in its financing as one of the main sponsors. III.4.B. Involvement in the Society Other actions and projects, directly linked to CGGVeritas stakeholders (employees, local communities, etc.) in the fields of education, healthcare, or international solidarity, were initiated last year (see 2nd Communication on Progress) and continued in 2010, for example: • Education: Supporting Universities and allowing them free access to our processing software. Our partnerships include more than 60 universities in France, USA, UK, Norway, China, Nigeria, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, Turkey, Germany, Poland, Hungary, Switzerland, South Africa, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Italy, Tunisia, Egypt, Belgium, Portugal, Austria, The Netherlands, Czech Republic, and Ukraine. • Education: “Gol Del Letra” foundation for education in Brazil and the “Muktangan school” in India 16 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) • Social insertion: “Fondation de la deuxième chance” in France, « Casa Hogar » in Mexico • Healthcare: “Life Bus” initiative, “MS150 cycle challenge”, ‘Race for Life’, “Mumbai Marathon” • Participation of employees in charities: “Calgary Inter-Faith Food Bank”, “Habitat for Humanity”, “Action Against Hunger”, • “Planète Urgence” for “Solidarity Leaves” All of these actions have continued this year and our partners and employees testify their enthusiasm and involvement. Focus on some projects GDL, established ten years ago by the famous Brazilian soccer players Raí and Leonardo, aims to bring sport, education and culture into the lives of young Brazilian children and adolescents who have little opportunity of developing in these areas by themselves. GDL is recognized by UNESCO as a global model for adolescent assistance in socially difficult environments. The foundation’s model works alongside local schools, with its primary aim being to help young Brazilian children and adolescents further their education. “The Gol de Letra Foundation is an organization acting for more than ten years and with brand and educational practice acknowledged by the Third Sector. Having CGGVERITAS, a leading Company, as a sponsor of our projects will help in extending this partnership. We believe the joining of these two brands will consolidate both reputations and reinforce the values Gol de Letra Foundation built, including the dignity, transparency, commitment, reliability, competence, and work focused in social and educational efforts with socially vulnerable communities.”(Gol del Letra) “It is gratifying to collaborate with an internationally recognized Non-Governmental Organization such as this which so well connects with our priorities” (George Uller, Brazil HSE) Jean-Georges Malcor talks to some of the 1,200 youngsters given new hope by the GDL. “Solidarity leaves” give the opportunity to our employees to spend their vacation applying their work and human skills to good use in a large range of activities (education, training, group organization, finance, economics, management, accounting, computer science, office automation, environment, and manual work). CGGVeritas finances 2/3 of their plane ticket and the totality of their mission costs. From Benin to Patagonia to Madagascar and from remedial courses for hospitalized children to environmental protection actions, employees of the Group were involved in the field in SD/SR actions and extremely rich human experiences: “I decided to take part in a solidarity leave mission because I wanted to experience solidarity in another way than a simple financial donation. I deeply believe that the solidarity leave concept is interesting thanks to the skills exchange. To take part in this kind of mission, you have to feel like sharing with other people.” Mireille LETHIMONIER (R&D Software Engineer, Sercel) tutoring for hospitalized children in Benin. “To take part in this kind of mission, you have to set out with an open mind. First, it is important to arrive there without any type of preconceived ideas. Furthermore, you have to remain very humble and not to forget that these missions are based on mutual exchange.” Tamila KHELIL (Senior Research Analyst): school support in a school village in the Bénoué national park (Cameroun). The French Foundation for a 2nd Chance (F2C) (the website www.deuxiemechance.org in French only) fights social exclusion by supporting people who despite finding themselves in very vulnerable situations after experiencing serious ‘knocks’ or difficulties in their lives show a genuine desire to bounce back. F2C offers them its support which includes financial sponsorship, to achieve a realistic and long-term employment plan. This plan might involve starting up or taking over a Company or gaining a professional qualification. The Foundation is a registered charity that ‘lends a helping hand’ to two people every day. Applications are received and assessed by a network of 60 ‘relay sites’ run by over 2,000 volunteers all over France. CGGVeritas became a financial sponsor of F2C last year and stepped up its support at the end of June by offering its Massy site as a ‘relay site’ for the Essonne administrative region of France. Claire Lejeune, in charge of Sustainable Development & Corporate Social Responsibility for the Company, is its site manager. Third Communication on Progress 17 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 Around fifteen employees, including both active and retired senior staff, are already acting as ‘sponsors’ to accompany successful candidates in carrying out their plans. This support, either by telephone or face-to-face, is both personal (listening, coaching, networking, etc.) and technical (consultancy and expertise). Edith Vino, a new volunteer with F2C, had no hesitations about taking part: “When I attended the meeting about F2C and found out more about how we could help people in this way, I wanted to commit to it straight away. All the more so when you consider that by doing this through CGGVeritas, you’re not on your own: all the volunteers are given training and ongoing support.” “13,000 cyclists moving across 180 miles of Texas roads from Houston to Austin: for Texas one of the major events of the year.” The BP MS150 is a two-day charity bicyle ride ranging from 150 to 180 miles from Houston to Austin, Texas to help fight multiple sclerosis (MS). The funds raised go to support national multiple sclerosis research as well as local programs and education for individuals in the area affected by MS. Each year CGGVeritas ranks as a top fundraiser for the BP MS150. Contributions by CGGVeritas include funds allocated to match 50% of contributions made by CGGVeritas employees to Team CGGVeritas riders and pay for a large tent and cots to house riders at the overnight stop; food and supplies to support the riders at both the halfway point as well as at the finish line; team riding jerseys; and “goodie bags”. The estimated number of riders for Team CGGVeritas is around 80 with just as many volunteers in place for the entire weekend. This event has become a tradition at CGGVeritas over the years (since 2002) and many family members and friends get involved as riders, volunteers, or both. The Team CGGVeritas riders leave Houston at the break of dawn on Saturday morning, riding 100 miles to LaGrange for an overnight stop, then on to Austin (another 80 miles) on Sunday. Volunteers travel on Friday night to the halfway point (LaGrange) to set up the tent and other supplies, and then help unpack riders’ overnight bags which are trucked to LaGrange early on Saturday morning. When riders begin arriving into LaGrange after completing the first 100 miles, volunteers direct them to the team tent, assist with bikes and food and drinks, and then assist with dinner that evening and breakfast the next morning. “When I was first asked to volunteer to support the logistics of our riders, I thought it sounded like a fun challenge. Six years later, I have come to the immensely satisfying realization that every drop of sweat that I, my fellow volunteers and countless riders have shed is for “Creating the World Free of MS.” We truly believe that if the money we raise helps one person live a more fruitful life, then all of our hard work will have been well worth it. I am proud to be part of an organization that supports this worthy cause.” (Kathy Pounds, CGGVeritas) 18 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) III.5. Reduce our Environmental Footprint • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies CGGVeritas, as a global participant in the oilfield services industry, considers that concern for the environment and quality of life is an integral part of the way in which we conduct our business. Our public commitment, defined within our environmental policy, means that we are committed to reduce our environmental footprint and strive to continually improve our environmental performance. The report of our energy consumption and GHG emissions and the description of the environmental initiatives and progress undertaken in our activities is detailed in Appendix 16. Following the plan designed in 2009, normalized environmental metrics were evaluated in each Division in 2010, aiming at setting quantified performance targets in 2011. Because the Land Division is exposed to a highly variable range of activity profiles, it was not possible to select a consistent metric. For Marine, the Fuel Consumption Efficiency, measuring the quantity of linear seismic data acquired per cubic meter of fuel consumed (HFO + MDO) was chosen (CMP km/m3), with a 2010 performance of 45.33, showing an improvement over 2009 (31.8). A target of 50 was set up for 2011. For Data Processing & Imaging, the Power Usage Effectiveness (Total Facility Power/IT Equipment Power), being a widely recognized metric, was chosen. This indicator has been followed up for our major centers in 2010 and will be extended to most of our other centers in 2011. CGGVeritas is committed to participating in sustainable development initiatives by helping to protect the environment and complying fully with applicable environmental regulations in the countries in which we operate throughout the world. « Green office » initiatives have been taken locally by site managers and their personnel. Our Crawley site in the UK has been distinguished by the local authorities with the Carbon Trust Certification as a result of their commendable efforts to measure, control, and reduce GHG emissions and road traffic in its region. Moreover, in 2010, we conducted an awareness campaign, the “Green Campaign”, by publishing each month, from July to December, a newsletter providing our employees with good practices and behaviors to reduce their consumption of energy or water whether at home or at the office. The Green Campaign was completed by a Children’s Drawing contest, a quiz in which more than 100 employees participated and the publication on our Intranet of an Eco Guide, summarizing good practices and tips for work and home. In addition to the above initiatives and as part of our SD/SR objectives for 2011, we have launched work groups to promote the reduction of our travel by plane and energy consumption in our main premises. These programs include: developing and favoring various technological options such as visio-conferencing as a substitute for travel; improving our behavior at work; and improving the energy efficiency of our facilities in a customized manner for each site. In July 2011, the CGGVeritas headquarters in Massy (France) moved to a new building that qualifies for the HQE (High Environmental Quality) standard. Taking advantage of this opportunity, CGGVeritas cooperated with the city authorities and the other companies located in the same area to: improve public transportation (more buses and trains and better service at peak hours); take steps to provide dedicated facilities for bicycles in the city; and organize and promote carpooling for all employees working in the area. Before moving, “Cleaning Days” were organized to allow employees to bin their old archives and equipment and ensure in a Company-wide effort that all material was sorted for recycling. Third Communication on Progress 19 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progresssur le progrès September 2011 In the Equipment Division (Sercel): • In the manufacturing facilities, we continue to look for ways to reduce energy consumption through the use of timers, purchase of more efficient equipment, and the fitting up of high-speed doors to reduce heat loss. • Following ISO 14062 recommendations, and starting in 2011, Sercel will introduce Sustainable Development as a consideration in its Product Development Guide. This new step in project definition will help to define the environmental objectives of each product, the impact of the use of the product in the field, and the product composition and specification with regards to sustainable development. • Packing rules have been fine-tuned, and good practices have been identified. • For transportation, rules on green transportation have been internally distributed (including calculation of CO2 emission per transportation means) favoring sea freight over airfreight as much as possible. The green transportation requirement is sent to our carriers, and we encourage the usage of carriers’ green programs where possible. • Sercel takes seriously the disposal of its products and the reduction of the impact on the environment when a product reaches the end of its life. Therefore, Sercel is now offering its customers recycling capabilities in Marine and Land by offering them the opportunity to have the product recycled or safely disposed of in a Sercel location (mainly for Marine products) or with a referenced specialized Company in the country in which it operates. IV. Outlook and Priorities for the Future Initiatives currently underway will be continued and new initiatives will be launched in 2011, with a particular focus on environmental issues (Principles 7, 8 and 10): IV.1. Monitoring and Auditing of Activities • Extension of SD/SR audits • Monitoring of corrective actions IV.2. Environment • ISO 14001 certification in our Crawley/Redhill processing center as our pilot entity before future deployment of this certification in other sites • Improvement in the robustness of our environmental reporting, taking advantage of the full deployment of our PRISM reporting system in all our activities and sites • Based on this baseline reporting and a diagnosis of the possible savings or optimization, we will define targets for reduction of our consumption and emissions IV.3. Reinforcing SD/SR Integration by our Suppliers and Contractors • Development of an awareness campaign for our purchasing department, suppliers, and contractors around SD/SR issues • Integration of SD/SR risk criteria on the subcontractors’ score card and associated selection and control steps 20 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) APPENDICES Appendix 1: Group Vision and Values Appendix 2: Code of Ethics Appendix 3: Business Code of Conduct Appendix 4: Sustainable Development Policy Appendix 5: HSE Policy Appendix 6: Environment Policy Appendix 7: Health and Wellness Policy Appendix 8: Security Policy Appendix 9: Financial Security Policy Appendix 10: Human Resources Policy Appendix 11: Trade Compliance Policy Appendix 12: Quality Policy Appendix 13: HSE Objectives Appendix 14: SD/SR Objectives Appendix 15: Audit checklist form Appendix 16: Environmental Indicators – Extract of the Financial Annual Report (AMF) Third Communication on Progress 21 APPENDICES 1 & 2: Group Vision and Values, Code of Ethics Our Mission Our Values Our Ethics Insert in the notch Fold up Imaging tomorrow what cannot be seen today Focus on Performance The development of the CGGVeritas Group is constructed > We operate with a long-term view and deliver on the foundation of its values and ethics. This represents > Provide our clients with the ability to visualize superior results. a commitment by CGGVeritas to its clients, its shareholders, the subsurface through geophysics. > We focus on the customer, pursue excellence and its employees and its partners to comply with laws and > Drive the advance of geophysics through continuously improve. regulations and to respect the principles of its code of innovation and integration of leading > We are individually committed to company-wide success. business conduct. technologies. > We deliver quality in a sustainable, safe and > We contribute individually and collectively to the environmentally responsible manner. continued improvement of the health, safety and > Effectively implement these technologies security of our working environment. with competent personnel working in a Passion for Innovation > We respect environmental standards and strive to learning environment. > We believe innovation is core to our Company. minimize the impact of our activities. > Create superior value for our stakeholders in > We say what we think and know that being > We protect the Group’s assets and we fulfil our a sustainable, safe and responsible manner. challenged is essential to progress. obligations concerning confidentiality. > We delegate and empower people to make decisions > We avoid conflicts of interest, especially in our and encourage initiative. relationships with our clients, suppliers, competitors Insérer dans l’encoche > We drive the advance of technology. or partners. We keep our commitments to them Repliez Our Vision and we base our relationship on fair business practices. To be the international leading partner in Powered by People > We comply in all circumstances with rules controlling developing natural resources through geophysics > We strive to excel and have a passion for what we do. insider trading. > We recognize and reward individual commitment and > We do not receive or give gifts or invitations, > Be the industry benchmark. performance. which do not conform to good business ethics and > Deliver breakthrough technologies and > We believe teamwork is our driving force and value we reject any form of corruption. innovative solutions. global diversity. > We are attentive to the quality of human relations > We seek and provide opportunities for personal within our work places and we comply with > Attract, develop and recognize talent. development and professional advancement. regulations which seek to combat discrimination or harassment. > Promote a culture of performance creating long-term value. Delivered with Integrity > We produce financial statements that reflect the > We lead by example. company’s situation fairly, and we communicate in a reliable, open and transparent way. > We take responsibility for our actions, are accountable, and honor our commitments. Any difficulty in applying these rules must be brought to > We build trust through listening, being open, honest the attention of the Ethics Committee. and consistent—we do what we say. Insert in the notch > We support and apply decisions once they are made. Fold up Jean-Georges Malcor, Chief Executive Officer The world’s leading Our focus on performance and passion A commitment to clients, international geophysical company for innovation are powered shareholders, employees 11O-CC-326-V1 by people and delivered with integrity and partners Appendix 3: Business Code of Conduct Business Code of Conduct Business Code of Conduct Commitment Ethics Respect Compliance Transparency Protection Security Prevention Secur Transparency Commitment Commitment Ethics Respect Compliance Transparency Protection Security Prevention Commitment Transparency Compliance Trans Protection Prevention Transparency Commitment 2 Letter from the Chairman Security Dear Colleague: Strong values are the foundation for all good decisions. This statement rings true and it is on this basis that we present you with an updated CGGVeritas Business Code of Conduct. Much of our business is based on our integrity. Because our success is so closely related to our reputation, it’s up to each one of us together to protect that reputation. It influences how customers feel about our products and services, and how shareholders perceive us as an investment. We have seen many examples in recent years of great companies with once solid reputations tarnished forever by unethical actions of a few people or even just one person. ity Acting with integrity is about more than our Company’s image and reputation, or avoiding legal issues. It’s about sustaining a place where we are proud to work. Ultimately, it’s about each of us knowing that we have done what’s right. Conducting our business as true professionals, treating each other and our customers with respect and assuming our responsibilities: simply put, this means doing our job properly. The Business Code of Conduct is our guide to appropriate conduct. Our intent is that this Code of Conduct, together with our other company guidelines, such as our mission, vision and values, will help guide each of us as we work towards delivering our products and services with integrity. Keep the Code with you and refer to it often. If you have questions, ask for guidance. With your help, our reputation as a company of high integrity that delivers consistently strong performance will endure far into the future. Thank you for your support and your personal engagement. Sincerely, Jean-Georges Malcor, Directeur Général parency 3 Business Code of Conduct Contents I. ComplIanCe wIth laws and regulatIons............................................ page 10 General principles Rules relating to the fight against corruption Compliance with rules regarding insider trading Compliance with antitrust laws and regulations II. preventIon of ConflICts of Interest ..................................................... page 11 Ties with a competitor, client or supplier Fair trade Remuneration, gifts and benefits Public activities III. respeCt for persons and the envIronment .................................... page 12 Health, safety and the environment Promotion and implementation of the fundamental principles and rights at work Iv. proteCtIon of group assets .......................................................................... page 13 Truthfulness and protection of information Protection of the Group’s property and resources Use of information technology v. fInanCIal seCurIty and transparenCy ................................................. page 14 vI. Internal verIfICatIon and the role of the Internal audIt department................................................................................................................... page 15 vII. arChIvIng......................................................................................................................... page 16 vIII. CreatIon of an ethICs CommIttee ............................................................. page 17 4 Introduction Why does CGGVeritas have a code of conduct? inconsistent behavior by these third parties. In joint operations, The code is not entirely new – it updates, revises and summarizes, where we are the operator, we will apply our code principles in one universal framework, CGGVeritas’ standards for employee directly; where we are not the operator, we will seek to influence conduct, helping us to act consistently with group values. our joint venturers to adopt similar principles. If the code is violated, disciplinary or legal action may need to be taken. The code is a reference to important information you need to know – including where to get additional help. However, the code cannot address every situation. Nor does it serve as a substitute for your The duties of those who supervise others individual responsibility for exercising good judgment and common Those who supervise others have additional responsibilities under sense, so that your actions never damage CGGVeritas’ hard-earned the code. They must: reputation for integrity. • Promote compliance and ethics by example – in other words, show by their behavior what it means to act with integrity Does the code explain all the standards I need to know? • Make sure that those who report to them understand the code’s requirements and have the resources to meet them. Organize The code is a starting point. The code cannot describe every appropriate training if necessary law, regulation or CGGVeritas policy that may apply to you. The company has additional standards, instructions and processes to • Monitor compliance and ethics of the people they supervise further implement the principles in the code. Make sure you know • Use reasonable care to monitor third parties acting on behalf of the rules that do apply to you. You can find more on InSite under CGGVeritas to ensure that they work in a manner consistent with Policies and Procedures. the code • Enforce the code consistently. What about different laws in different countries? • Support employees who, in good faith, raise questions or CGGVeritas is a global company, and that means our employees are concerns. subject to the laws and regulations of different countries. Each of us is responsible for knowing and following the laws that apply to us where we live and work. Your personal commitment to doing what’s right The code establishes principles for business conduct applicable This code represents a commitment to doing what is right. throughout the group, regardless of location. Where differences By working for CGGVeritas, you are agreeing to uphold this exist as the result of local customs, norms, laws or regulations, commitment. Understand the requirements of the code and the you must apply either the code or local requirements – whichever standards, instructions and processes that apply to your job – sets the highest standard of behavior. If you have any questions, and always follow them. Those who fail to follow the code put you may seek guidance from management or our Ethics Committee themselves, their co-workers, and CGGVeritas at risk. members. Asking questions and raising concerns Who must follow this code? You must report any breaches or potential breaches of CGGVeritas’ All employees must adhere to the principles and requirements compliance and ethics commitments of which you become aware – contained in this code and should consult the code for guidance whether these relate to yourself, direct reports or others. You must when acting on behalf of CGGVeritas. similarly seek advice if you are ever unsure about the proper course of action. If you are in any doubt about whether to speak up, ask Employees must not use a contractor, agent, consultant or other yourself some simple questions: third party to perform any act which conflicts with this code. • Is the action you are concerned about legal? Employees who engage third parties such as contractors, agents or consultants to work on behalf of CGGVeritas must seek to ensure • Does it comply with the CGGVeritas code of conduct? that these parties are made aware of the code and should seek their co-operation in adhering to the code – including, where • Is it in line with CGGVeritas’ company values? possible, a contractual requirement to act consistently with the • Does it expose CGGVeritas to any unacceptable risks? code when working on our behalf. You must report any breaches or 5 Code of Conduct Introduction • Does it match our commitments and guarantees that we have made to others? • What would others think about this action – your manager, colleagues or family? • How would this look if reported in the newspapers? • Does it feel right? It may seem easier to keep silent or look the other way. But our commitment to integrity means we must never ignore a legal or ethical issue that needs to be addressed. Where to go for help Your line management is usually a good place to start with a legal or business conduct issue. You may also get help or advice from: • Your HR representative. • CGGVeritas legal department However, if you are ever uncomfortable using one of these resources, you may also contact the CGGVeritas Ethics Committee or ethics hotline, as described below. The CGGVeritas EthicsAlert line If you ever feel unsure about where to go for help, or are uncomfortable using one of the other resources identified in the code, CGGVeritas has the Ethics Committee and an additional resource that can help – ‘EthicsAlert’. The purpose of EthicsAlert is to answer questions and respond to concerns about compliance, ethics and the requirements described in this code. The EthicsAlert telephone line is operated by an independent company that helps businesses respond to questions and concerns about compliance and ethics. Please keep in mind that the ethics line is limited to SOX (financial, accounting and banking) and corruption matters and that calls for other matters will be re-directed to the Ethics Committee. All other issues should be brought directly to the Ethics Committee. The line operates 24 hours a day/seven days a week and also has translation services available at all times. A full list of local telephone numbers can be accessed below and on InSite at http://insite/ethics The Ethics Committee’s email is: ethicscommittee@cggveritas.com First dial the appropriate ATT Service Access Code for your country of residence, shown in the table below, then the following toll-free number: 800-736-0460 The call is free of charge and is not recorded. 6 Country ATT Service Access Code Toll-free number Angola 808-000-011 800-736-0460 Argentina 0-800-555-4288 800-736-0460 0-800-222-1288 800-736-0460 Australia 1-800-551-155 800-736-0460 1-800-881-011 800-736-0460 Austria 0-800-200-288 800-736-0460 Brazil 0-800-890-0288 800-736-0460 Bolivia 800-101-110 800-736-0460 800-101-111 800-736-0460 Canada 800-736-0460 China South 108-10 800-736-0460 China 10-811 800-736-0460 North, Beijing 108-888 800-736-0460 Columbia 01-800-911-0010 800-736-0460 France 0-800-99-0011 800-736-0460 0-805-701-288 800-736-0460 Germany 0-800-225-5288 800-736-0460 India 000-117 800-736-0460 Indonesia 001-801-10 800-736-0460 Italy 800-172-444 800-736-0460 Kazakhstan 8-800-121-4321 800-736-0460 Malaysia 1-800-80-0011 800-736-0460 Mexico 01-800-288-2872 800-736-0460 01-800-112-2020 800-736-0460 Norway 800-190-11 800-736-0460 Peru 0-800-50-288 800-736-0460 0-800-70-088 800-736-0460 Russia 8-10-800-110-1011 800-736-0460 Moscow 755-5042 800-736-0460 Singapore 800-011-1111 800-736-0460 800-001-0001 800-736-0460 South Africa 0-800-99-0123 800-736-0460 Spain 900-99-0011 800-736-0460 Switzerland 0-800-890011 800-736-0460 Thailand 1-800-0001-33 800-736-0460 U.A.E. 0-800-121 800-736-0460 U.S.A. 800-736-0460 United Kingdom 0-800-89-0011 800-736-0460 0-500-89-0011 800-736-0460 0-800-013-0011 800-736-0460 Venezuela 0-800-225-5288 800-736-0460 7 Code of Conduct Introduction • Continuously assesses compliance risks and ensures that internal What happens when I call EthicsAlert – can I call controls are responsive to these risks. anonymously? • Provides support to help employees comply with the code of conduct EthicsAlert is operated by an independent third party company. If and applicable laws. you call EthicsAlert the independent operator will listen and make a detailed summary of your call. The person taking your call will then • Provides and oversees compliance training and communications. forward your question or concern, with strict confidentiality, to the • Oversees internal investigation processes. appropriate individual within CGGVeritas to look into the matter, as described below. Concerns will be addressed by the CGGVeritas Ethics • Reviews and promotes consistent disciplinary procedures for Committee members who act independently to ensure a fair and breaches of the code and the incorporation of compliance and ethics consistent approach. If you wish, your call to EthicsAlert can be made into performance appraisal processes. anonymously. Of course, giving your name can often help investigators • Provides independent reports on compliance performance to the look into the matter, and as explained below, CGGVeritas has an Group’s Chief Executive Officer and board committee. unwavering policy against retaliation for raising a good-faith concern under this code. Contact information for Every effort will be made to give your call a quick response and to deal the Ethics Committee can be accessed at: with your question or concern promptly, especially when circumstances make it time critical. The Ethics Committee oversees the integrity of ethicscommittee@cggveritas.com, or individually: the EthicsAlert program by monitoring responses to questions and concerns to ensure these are handled fairly. Jonathan Miller – jonathan.miller@cggveritas.com Retaliation will not be tolerated Pascal Rosset – pascal.rosset@cggveritas.com Any employee, who in good faith seeks advice, raises a concern or Raymond Basset – raymond.basset@sercel.com reports misconduct is following our Code of Conduct – and is doing the right thing. CGGVeritas will not tolerate retaliation against that person. Luc Schlumberger – luc.schlumberger@cggveritas.com We take claims of retaliation seriously. Allegations of retaliation will be investigated and appropriate action taken. Anyone responsible for reprisals against individuals who report in good faith suspected misconduct or other risks to the business will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal. If you suspect that you or someone you know has been retaliated against for raising a compliance or ethical issue, immediately contact the Ethics Committee. What is the role of the CGGVeritas Ethics Committee? CGGVeritas has established an Ethics Committee composed of senior managers who act independently. Making sure the code of conduct is followed is the overall responsibility of CGGVeritas’ leadership and of each individual employee. The Ethics Committee requires the commitment and support of everyone who works for CGGVeritas – to ensure that the code of conduct lives and breathes in everything we do. • Seeks to prevent unlawful or unethical business conduct and to detect it if it occurs. 8 Commitment Ethics Respect Compliance Transparency Protection Security Prevention Securit Transparency Commitment Commitment Ethics Respect Compliance Transparency Protection Security Prevention Commitment Transparency Compliance Transp Protection Prevention Transparency Commitment 9 Business Code of Conduct I Compliance with laws and regulations general prInCIples changes in shareholding or management team, transactions affecting the company’s capital, dividends, or the unexpected emergence or Given its presence in numerous countries around the world, CGGVeritas settlement of a dispute, etc. is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. Each Employee or Representative must comply with applicable laws and regulations A list of permanent insiders is regularly updated by the office of the under all circumstances, specifically with regard to the environment, Chief Financial Officer. In addition, a list of insiders is prepared for competitive practices, trade practices and taxes and contributions. each specific project, and each person appearing on the list will be required to sign an agreement requiring him or her to maintain the In addition, since CGGVeritas is listed on stock exchanges in both confidentiality of information relating to the project in question and to France and the United States, it must ensure compliance by each of comply with rules and regulations applicable to insiders. its component entities with the rules to which it is subject as a listed issuer, regardless of the country in which the entity in question is located. Each Employee or Representative is asked to acquire the necessary understanding of the mandatory rules that must be observed as part of his or her job responsibilities and, if there is any uncertainty, to consult his or her supervisors, who will indicate the course of action to be taken. In addition, each Employee or Representative is required to carry out in good faith and comply with any commitment made in the course of his or her relationship with clients, suppliers or other CGGVeritas partners. He or she must treat these partners and suppliers fairly, based on criteria of objectivity and transparency. rules relatIng to the fIght agaInst CorruptIon CGGVeritas rejects corruption in all its forms. In particular, CGGVeritas pledges that it will never resort to corruption ‘in order to obtain Consequently, relevant personnel must refrain from taking any or retain business or other improper advantage in the conduct of action with regard to CGGVeritas securities either directly or via an international business’, in accordance with the terms of the OECD intermediary before this information has been made public. Failure to convention on combating bribery of foreign public officials and related comply with applicable legislation in this regard is punishable by both national legislation (including the Foreign Corrupt Practises Act of the civil and criminal penalties. Only after this information has been made USA) and Principle 10 of the UNGC. For more information on the OECD public are these individuals once again free to act. convention, refer to www.oecd.org. ComplIanCe wIth antItrust laws ComplIanCe wIth rules regardIng and regulatIons InsIder tradIng Most countries have laws and regulations designed to encourage fair Legislation governing financial markets where CGGVeritas is listed competition and prohibit certain practices that could restrict the strictly regulates the right to trade in the market by employees who, in development of trade (such as unlawful agreements between suppliers). the performance of their professional duties or responsibilities, obtain Group Employees and Representatives must know and observe these privileged information regarding the current financial situation or laws and regulations; failure to do so could have serious consequences prospects of the CGGVeritas Group. Information is normally considered for the Group as well as for the entities in question. These laws significant on the basis of its impact on the financial results of the and regulations are often complex, and in the event of uncertainty, listed company. Significant information may relate to sales, the order Employees should obtain more information from the personnel within book, the financial or budgetary outlook, investments, acquisitions or the Group who are knowledgeable in this area. disinvestments, technological developments (e.g. patent applications currently being prepared), possible restructuring or reorganization, the introduction or withdrawal of products or services, significant 10 II Prevention of conflicts of interest faIr trade CGGVeritas Employees or Representatives should abide by the rules of fair trade, particularly with regard to clients and suppliers, to the mutual benefit of all parties. Such a policy will ensure an atmosphere of trust that is conducive to a long-term relationship. Our relationship with our customers and our ability to satisfy their needs are a cornerstone of our Group culture. We are committed to providing our clients with state-of-the-art technological products and services that provide the best value in terms of price, quality, delivery time, safety and respect for the environment. remuneratIon, gIfts and BenefIts No Employee or Representative may accept or offer gifts, remuneration or other benefits to a client, supplier or competitor. Only gifts or benefits of small value not paid in cash and consistent with accepted tIes wIth a CompetItor, ClIent or supplIer practices and with provisions relating to the fight against corruption may be accepted or offered. A situation of conflict of interest arises when the private interests of an Employee or Representative or those of his or her friends or Employees and Representatives should contact their direct supervisor if relatives interfere or could interfere directly or indirectly with the there is any uncertainty. interests of CGGVeritas or a client or supplier of CGGVeritas. Under no circumstances may an Employee or Representative solicit a Consistent with these principles, constitute a situation of conflict of gift or other benefit. interest : puBlIC aCtIvItIes • The fact of conducting private transactions with clients, suppliers, partners or competitors unless they have notified CGGVeritas respects the right of its employees to express themselves and received approval from the proper personnel. and voice their opinions and their right to participate in public life as • The fact of having financial interest in or conducting citizens. private transactions with clients, suppliers, partners or competitors unless they have notified and received approval Solely in order to avoid any conflict of interest, Employees or from the proper personnel. Representatives shall refrain from involving the Group in their public or political activities, from committing the Group’s resources in support of • The fact of having relationships that yield privileged information political candidates or parties and from taking part in any decision by or entail the use of influence, notably in the following cases: a public agency or other government body regarding the Group. (i) The direct or indirect holding of shares issued by a client, supplier, partner or competitor. (ii) The acceptance or solicitation of loans, advances, guarantees or other services provided by a third party outside the Group in order to influence a decision by the Group. (iii) Work conducted for a Group supplier, client or competitor simultaneous with working with the Group. 11 Business Code of Conduct III Respect for persons and the environment health, safety and the envIronment Respect for environmental laws, regulations and norms, minimizing impact of the Group’s activities on the environment, and effective Health and safety waste management must be taken into account in the decisions and The health and safety of Employees and Representatives is a priority actions of each Employee and Representative and must be integrated for the CGGVeritas Group. Each Employee and Representative has from conception in the management of our projects. the right to work in a safe environment and under healthy working conditions as well as a responsibility to contribute to such an CGGVeritas encourages its suppliers and subcontractors to manage environment through responsible behaviour. The Group’s policy in this environmental matters in the same way, with liability and area applies to all Employees or Representatives and subcontractors accountability. Moreover, CGGVeritas expects its suppliers and and relies on a system of health, safety and environmental subcontractors to make efforts to reduce their consumption of water, management that incorporates a preventive approach to risk energy and natural resources. management. This policy must be supported without exception by every Employee and Representative through exemplary behavior and promotIon and ImplementatIon of the shared vigilance. fundamental prInCIples and rIghts at work Security CGGVeritas recognizes the benefits of working in a positive The CGGVeritas Group is committed to providing a secure working environment. CGGVeritas therefore adheres to the principles of the environment by mobilizing resources and implementing procedures International Labour Organization and expects its subcontractors and designed to protect its Employees and Representatives, its assets and suppliers to respect the same principles. its operations from the risk of accidents, loss or damage resulting from criminal, hostile or malevolent activity. Each employee and affiliate is responsible for ensuring that security-related risks in his or her environment are properly identified. Environment As part of our commitment to sustainable development, CGGVeritas has implemented an environmental policy and management processes for conducting its activities. These processes include protecting biodiversity, waste management, prevention of oil spills and discharges, and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and water treatment. 12 IV Protection of Group assets truthfulness and proteCtIon of InformatIon proteCtIon of the group’s property and resourCes In order to ensure the protection of the Group’s assets, Employees or Representatives must, within the scope of their responsibilities, As part of their duties, CGGVeritas Employees and Representatives have assure the accuracy and reliability of information they transmit to access to the use of assets belonging to the Group. These assets must authorized recipients. Moreover, they must take the necessary steps be managed for the sole benefit of the Group. In addition, CGGVeritas to protect the confidentiality of information to which they have access Employees and Representatives must protect these assets against as part of their professional duties and responsibilities. Employees deterioration, loss or destruction. and Representatives must comply with the obligation to refrain from disclosing confidential information either orally, in writing Specifically, these goods and resources include intellectual property or by electronic means without the express authorization of their rights such as trade secrets, patents and trademarks as well as the supervisors. This obligation remains in force even after the Employee Group’s installations, facilities, equipment and financial resources. or Representative’s departure from the Group. The obligation of confidentiality applies both to information that CGGVeritas receives from its clients and to information that belongs to CGGVeritas itself. As a general rule, CGGVeritas must maintain the confidentiality of any information that it receives from its clients and any information of which it is apprised as a result of its relationship with its clients. Confidential CGGVeritas information such as: (i) Proposals or projects regarding new products (ii) Unpublished or trademarked information regarding product design and performance, research, development, manufacture, distribution, marketing and sales (iii) Information provided to clients, sales, purchase orders and use of InformatIon teChnology sales terms and conditions Unlicensed software may not be used on the Group’s computers. (iv) Principal contracts Employees and Representatives are prohibited from downloading information from the Internet that has no bearing on their (v) Proposed acquisitions or joint ventures professional activity. (vi) The contents of files pertaining to legal actions, and in A General Instruction, available on the CGGVeritas intranet, defines the particular legal actions relating to intellectual property. rules for proper use of computer resources. constitutes an essential advantage that must be preserved and protected by all Employees and Representatives within the Group. This information is the property of CGGVeritas and may be used only with appropriate authorization in the performance of the employee’s or affiliate’s duties and responsibilities. Similarly, Group Employees and Representatives must refrain from disclosing any confidential information belonging to a former employer. 13 Business Code of Conduct V Financial security and transparency French law and current US regulations require that CGGVeritas provide, in accordance with a fixed timetable, complete, impartial, accurate and intelligible information regarding the Group’s financial situation in the reports and documents that it files with France’s securities regulatory agency, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF), or with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as in any public communication that CGGVeritas may make. Each Employee or Representative involved in the recording of accounting transactions must assure that these transactions are honestly reported in the accounts of Group entities in accordance with current accounting principles and procedures. In addition, financial information transmitted for the purposes of financial reporting must offer a basis for making a precise and pertinent assessment of the financial situation of the relevant entity. The accounting and financial rules and procedures applicable within the Group are accessible on the CGGVeritas intranet site. 14 VI Internal verification and the role of the Internal Audit department The purpose of the Group’s internal audit system is to provide a reasonable assurance that the Group’s objectives in the following areas are being met: • Performance and optimization of operations, including asset protection • The reliability of financial information • Compliance with current laws and regulations. All Group Employees and Representatives are an integral part of the internal control system and should contribute to its functioning. They must demonstrate that any information requested of them is transmitted in a completely transparent manner and they must in no way hamper the performance of audits that may be conducted by internal or external auditors. The Board of Directors, managers, internal auditors and other members of the workforce actively contribute to the effectiveness of the internal audit system. The Group has an Internal Audit structure, with its own charter, that operates independently and objectively and reports to the Group’s General Management and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Internal Audit department evaluates internal auditing using the general outline and tools defined by COSO (Committee Of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) and complies with the code of professional ethics developed by the Internal Audit Institute. The Internal Audit department reviews each major Group entity on a regular basis. Priority is determined on the basis of operations in progress and levels of risk. The Annual Audit Plan is defined by the CGGVeritas Executive Committee and presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Group’s Internal Audit department conducts financial and accounting audits as well as operational audits. Recommendations that result from these audits are validated by the Group’s Executive Committee and the related action plans are monitored by Internal Audit until issues requiring action have been resolved. 15 Business Code of Conduct VII Archiving Any Employee or Representative who, by virtue of his or her professional activities, comes into the possession of documents that must be archived in accordance with internal or external regulations must comply strictly with established rules governing archiving, and in particular those relating to legal archiving timeframes. The unauthorized destruction of such documents constitutes a serious violation of these rules. In the event of pending or foreseeable court action, the destruction of archives, even in accordance with prevailing internal or external regulations, is strictly prohibited. 16 VIII Creation of an Ethics Committee An Ethics Committee reporting directly to the Chairman has been established within CGGVeritas with the following responsibilities: • To prepare the present Code and to ensure that it is appropriately disseminated within the Group and understood by Group employees. • To update the Code as appropriate and make such recommendations with regards to ethics and professional conduct as it deems necessary. • To draw the attention of Group management to the risks of any eventual failure to apply major ethical principles. • To respond on a confidential basis to any question raised by Group Employees or Representatives regarding the application of guidelines for individual behaviour set forth in this Code concerning specific situations. • To prepare, in co-operation with the relevant entities, any communication, either written or verbal, relating to the Group’s ethics. 17 The present Code of Conduct is applicable to all the entities of the CGGVeritas group in the world, subject to the adjustments necessary to comply with the local rules and regulations. cggveritas.com 11B-CC-327-v1 Appendix 4: Sustainable Development Policy SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY CGGVeritas is committed to Sustainable Development through a balanced approach to economic development, social progress and responsible environmental management. CGGVeritas believes that these fundamental elements coexist and provide a livable, fair and viable outcome for the people and the environment, both for today and for future generations. CGGVeritas’ commitment to Sustainable Development is reaffirmed through its Vision and Values, Mission, Code of Ethics, and also its policies and practices related to occupational health and wellness, safety, security, protection of the environment, fair business practices, and its Code of Business Conduct. CGGVeritas believes that Sustainable Development involves all internal and external stakeholders (employees, managers, shareholders, customers, suppliers, communities and the public). The company expects the involvement and commitment of all staff and management to support and promote this Sustainable Development Policy. CGGVeritas is a member of the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) and recognizes the ten principles which are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and The United Nations Convention against Corruption. CGGVeritas respects the indigenous people and their rights, as detailed in the United Nations’ Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People. To support Sustainable Development, CGGVeritas is committed to: Economic Development: Environmental Protection: – Establishing clear and transparent organizational governance; – Respecting and protecting the biodiversity where CGGVeritas operates; – Maintaining fair operating practices; – Promoting initiatives to encourage environmental stewardship – Actively working against corruption whenever it may be observed. and responsibility; – Encouraging development, diffusion and use of environmentally Social Progress: friendly technology; – Encouraging freedom of association and collective bargaining by – Establishing and maintaining compliance with all applicable employees; legislation, regulatory requirements and industry standards for the protection of the environment; – Eliminating discrimination with respect to employment and occupation; – Developing and maintaining open and constructive relationship with environmental groups, institutions, agencies, customers, – Not supporting or condoning forced or child labor; communities and employees in the countries of its activities; – Undertaking employment, skills transfer and training of local – Conducting project environmental risk assessments, measuring workforce; and reporting its environmental performance; – Establishing and maintaining partnerships with local – Adopting waste management strategies. organizations and global institutions acting in the social area (housing, health, diseases, hunger etc.); CGGVeritas strives to continually improve Sustainability performance – Investing or taking part in projects with social goals benefiting through periodic reviews. to local communities. Line management has responsibility for achieving specific objectives which support this Policy. Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_POY_07E Appendix 5: HSE Policy HSE POLICY (HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT) CGGVeritas is committed to achieving and maintaining excellence in all aspects of its activities. CGGVeritas recognizes and accepts the mandate to conduct its activities with integrity in a responsible and sustainable manner. CGGVeritas will provide a system of work in order to protect the health, safety and security of its employees, visitors, contractors and the public and at the same time to minimize the impact of its activities on the environment. CGGVeritas recognizes that all incidents are preventable. To achieve excellence in our business and work environment, the commitment and cooperation of all management, staff, contractors and visitors is essential. Line management at all levels is responsible for the overall QHSE performance of the activities under its control and for achieving specific objectives which support this Policy, with the support of the QHSE functions. In order to support this policy CGGVeritas will: CGGVeritas will allocate sufficient resources to achieve these objectives, and all employees and contractors – Develop, implement, maintain and improve the Sustainable will be required to: Development Management System (PRISM) including its integral components of Quality, Health, Safety, Environment and Security; – Comply with relevant standards specified by statute, industry or – Comply with local and international regulations and commit to the Sustainable Development Management System (PRISM); industry standards and best practices; – Accept responsibility for protecting themselves, fellow employees, – Promote and maintain awareness of workplace hazards, the risks visitors and members of the public who may be affected by their associated with them and the techniques to render risks as low as activities; reasonably practicable; – Contribute to the planning process and actively participate in – Ensure that employees are competent to conduct their specified assisting the company to achieve its objectives; tasks; – Actively participate in the reporting and subsequent investigation – Set objectives, regularly review performance, specify Key of all accidents, incidents, hazards and near misses that have the Performance Indicators and recognize excellence; potential to impact on CGGVeritas operations; – Maintain a reporting system that allows analysis of incidents, – Proactively propose opportunities for improvement and potential incidents and non-conformities and which disseminates communicate them as appropriate. recommendations to prevent recurrence across the Company; – Conduct regular audits and inspections of company, and where applicable, contractor facilities; – Demonstrate continuous improvement. Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_POY_08E Appendix 6: Environment Policy ENVIRONMENT POLICY CGGVeritas recognizes that active concern and responsibility for the environment is an integral part of the way we conduct business, and that environmental protection is the collective responsibility of governments, businesses, communities and individuals. CGGVeritas is committed to continually improving its environmental performance and the prevention of pollution by undertaking the following: Compliance: Environmental Practices: – Establish and maintain compliance, as a minimum, with all applicable – Promote environmental best practices within CGGVeritas activities, legislation, regulatory requirements and industry standards for the including the sharing of experience and the continued support of protection of the environment. research and development in environmental improvement initiatives; – Adopt waste management strategies that promote waste Relationships with other parties: minimization (reduce, re-use and recycle) and pursue initiatives aimed at reducing atmospheric emissions; – Develop and maintain open and constructive relationships with environmental groups, regulatory agencies, customers, institutions, – Respect and protect environmentally sensitive areas and zones where communities and employees in the countries of its activities. endangered species are present; – Restore worksites and camp locations to their original state as far as Risk Management: reasonably practical. – Conduct project specific environmental risk assessments (ERAs), Education: consistent with IS0 14000 standards, to identify actual and potential environmental aspects and impacts and assess their significance; – Train, inform and mobilize CGGVeritas employees and contractors to – Develop, implement and maintain, in conjunction with appropriate ensure activities are conducted in an environmentally responsible authorities, a project specific environmental management plan in manner; high risk profile areas; – Develop employees’ awareness of environmental issues and their – Develop emergency response plans for environmental incidents to responsibilities under this policy, and do the same with contractors mitigate potential impact, and involve contractors and suband sub-contractors. contractors in developing these plans; – Measure environmental performance throughout the life cycle of each Management Review: project. – Strive to continually improve CGGVeritas environmental performance through periodic reviews; – Publish information about environmental performance as part of the CGGVeritas annual report. Line management has responsibility for achieving specific objectives which support this policy. Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_POY_04E Appendix 7: Health and Wellness Policy HEALTH & WELLNESS POLICY CGGVeritas recognizes that health and wellness at the workplace are the collective responsibility of governments, communities, employers, employees, and individuals. In order to support this policy, CGGVeritas is committed to: Compliance: Wellness Practices: – Maintain, as a minimum, compliance with applicable legislation, – Provide healthy and hygienic offices, work place, and living and regulatory requirements, and industry standards for the resting quarters where necessary, to our personnel; promotion of health and wellness at the workplace. – Promote wellness best practices in the context of its business activities; Relationships with other parties: – Maintain and enforce no-smoking and substance abuse policies; – Develop and maintain open and constructive relationships with – Support public health campaigns. international health organizations, occupational health agencies, customers, local government agencies, local communities, and health service providers in the countries where we work. Education: – Train, inform and mobilize CGGVeritas employees and contractors Risk Management: to ensure that their activities are conducted in a healthy manner; – Conduct health risk assessments in order to identify and assess – Develop employee awareness of health and wellness issues and health risks and reduce this risk to a level as low as is reasonably their individual responsibilities with respect to this policy. Do the practicable; same with contractors and sub-contractors. – Support and encourage employees to participate in activities which promote health and wellness; Management Review: – Promote health impact assessment whenever the local community, – Strive to continually improve health performance through periodic contracted workers, and their families are potentially impacted by reviews; a project; – Monitor health performance indicators to follow up and – Proactively respond to local, country and global health issues in a continuously improve; timely fashion; – Publish information about health performance as part of the – Have adequate emergency response capability and plans. CGGVeritas annual report. Line management has responsibility for achieving specific objectives which support this policy. Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_POY_02E Appendix 8: Security Policy SECURITY POLICY CGGVeritas is fully committed to providing a secure working environment by protecting its employees, its contractors, its assets and its operations against the risk of injury, loss or damage from criminal, hostile and malicious acts, and to this end: Compliance: – Operate and regularly maintain security equipment so that it fits for purpose; – Ensure alignment of all security management systems between – Use its best endeavors to implement in close cooperation with its CGGVeritas, its contractors, its clients. clients the recommendations laid down in the “Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights . Where necessary to Relationships: protect our personnel, armed security guards will be deployed in accordance with the recommendations contained in “OGP Fire – Engage in appropriate information sharing with local government Arms and Use of Force” and “IMO guidance regarding piracy and agencies and embassies; armed robbery against ships”, with the emphasis on protecting – Utilize the services of third party companies with expertise in the human dignity and preserving human life”. security area; – Engage in open dialogues and consultation with local Education: communities to ensure that potential issues arising from seismic – Communicate timely to all employees any security threats or operations are addressed and associated risks well and timely issues, and support appropriate emergency or evacuation plans to identified. ensure their safety; – Train, inform and mobilize CGGVeritas employees and contractors Risk Management: to ensure activities and processes associated with Security are – Apply the CGGVeritas security risk assessment and management conducted as appropriate. process to ensure security risks are well identified at planning and prior to project implementation; Management Review: – Ensure that emergency response plans for security incidents are – Regularly monitor security management performance, thus clearly defined and maintained and that drills are regularly ensuring continuous improvement; conducted taking into account the security risk level in the country; – Conduct regular reviews of security plans; – Have an exit strategy prepared for operations in countries where – Report, investigate and analyze security incidents, take the security threat level may rapidly deteriorate; appropriate improvement actions as required, and disseminate recommendations to prevent reoccurrence across the Company; – Utilize the Traveler Tracker (TT) to advise and notify employees intending to travel to countries with a high security profile. – Integrate security into the Sustainable Development Management System (PRISM) and ensure that Security is considered as a cornerstone of any project. Practices: – Assess security measures through specific audits and regular Line management has responsibility for achieving specific reviews across the organization; objectives which support this policy. Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_POY_05E Appendix 9: Financial Security Policy FINANCIAL SECURITY POLICY CGGVeritas is committed to operate in compliance with its Code of Ethics and in accordance with its Business Code of Conduct. Therefore CGGVeritas is engaged to provide, within the required time limits, complete, impartial, accurate and understandable financial information in all its public communications and in the documents it files with the French Financial Market Authority (AMF) and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Consequently, the entities of CGGVeritas are committed to ensure that all transactions are checked, and timely and accurately reported in the Company’s Financial Statements, in accordance with the policies and procedures in force. All transactions are subject to audit. All entities therefore commit to continuously — Define clear employee responsibilities, and provide the improve our financial reporting, in particular appropriate training by: — Supply adequate resources — Establishing an efficient Internal Control — Assess risks and implement the relevant processes and controls — Respecting current laws and regulations (e.g. SarbanesOxley, Loi de Sécurité Financière) — Implement and strictly enforce rules and procedures, report difficulties and failures, and undertake corrective actions — Promoting a conviction that all failures in the field of designed to ensure continuous improvement of Internal financial security can be avoided Control — Reporting and communicating in a clear manner, especially — Regularly assess the effectiveness and progress of Internal by reporting all issues that could affect the Company’s Control using key indicators, audits and executive reviews, public communications and disclosures and carry out all relevant corrective measures Based on these commitments, CGGVeritas The personal involvement of each of us in the application shall: of these principles is fundamental for CGGVeritas to operate — Demonstrate active involvement across line management in a proper financial security environment, which is suitable and functional lines to building sustainable and reliable relationships with its customers, shareholders, employees, and partners. — Define clear objectives and monitor their achievement February 2011 Jean-Georges Malcor 11O-CC-022-V1 CEO Appendix 10: Human Resources Policy HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY The CGGVeritas Human Resources Strategy is to strengthen, mobilize, and energize our company’s most important asset: OUR PEOPLE. A consistent and ambitious vision for each HR domain contributes to CGGVeritas’ attractiveness and is deployed throughout the organization. This vision is supported by objectives and action plans; it is linked with driving change management initiatives, selecting and developing our talented people, and preparing for the future by building succession plans. In order to build and support an environment which will Communication enable this vision, CGGVeritas is committed to providing the following: Share the Company’s Vision, Values, and Strategy with all employees to promote the sharing of knowledge and good Recruiting practices. Undertake periodic employee satisfaction surveys and support the implementation of corrective action plans. Strive to be an equal opportunity employer that hires individuals based solely on their qualifications, knowledge, Performance and compensation skills, and competencies. Ensure that all recruiting decisions are fair, equitable, and transparent. Ensure the coherence of the compensation system across the Company, within the framework of a global policy which is Empowerment and autonomy applied locally. Reward employee performance by defining and implementing mechanisms that aim at sharing the value Encourage initiatives, creativity, and innovation. Promote created by the Company. individual and group participation in project development. Encourage teamwork and cooperation. Provide autonomy Ethics and equity and accountability for decisions within a global Company framework. Provide a working environment where equal opportunities and equal treatment are offered to all our employees and Individual and organizational development that prohibits any form of discrimination. Create the means for any employee to report in a confidential manner any Implement a structured people and organizational transgression they may have suffered. development strategy. Identify, describe, map and regularly assess the knowledge, skills and competencies required for Work environment all jobs. Develop employees through training, mentoring, coaching, stretch assignments, and experience that encourage Establish work conditions compliant with health, safety, and mobility and professional challenges. Build and offer training ergonomic standards, in order to ensure the well-being of all programs adapted to our current and future needs, leveraging staff, as well as to optimize their performance. the unique position of CGGVUniversity. Implementing this policy requires the active involvement and contribution of all, staff and management, with the support of the Human Resources organization. By doing so, we hope to fulfill our vision and become the employer of choice in our industry. Gilles Garczynski Jean-Georges Malcor 11O-CC-035-V1 EVP, Human Resources Chief Executive Officer 11O-CC-035-V1_HumanResources_Policy.indd 1 26/01/11 17:59:11 Appendix 11: Trade Compliance Policy TRADE COMPLIANCE POLICY CGGVeritas is committed to comply with all export, import, and trade laws and regulations of all countries in which it operates. CGGVeritas uses products and technologies which are subject to trade controls defined through international decisions and specific arrangements, as well as by national laws and regulations. Trade compliance is the process by which goods are imported and exported, and services are delivered and made available to countries or persons in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include but are not limited to those of the U.S., Singapore, U.K., and E.U. concerning export controls, embargo sanctions, and anti-boycott laws. To achieve excellence in our business and work environment, the commitment and cooperation of all management and staff are essential. To support this policy, CGGVeritas will: — consult with internal Divisions to: — identify regulation requirements wherever we do business to: • gain awareness of all relevant risks • recognize procedural processes and the severity of laws • assist with logistics and administrative processes • liaise and communicate with local authorities CGGVeritas management will allocate sufficient resources to achieve these objectives and • acquire export licenses or permits as needed employees will be required to: — implement an Internal Control Program (ICP) that — comply with the Internal Control Program (ICP) for Export encompasses: and Import Compliance (Policy and Procedures) • an applicable policy — understand export and import control requirements related • straight-forward procedures to their work and, especially, to ensure that no trade transactions occur that are contrary to any government • helpful tools regulations or CGGVeritas policy • practical and pertinent information — attend Trade Compliance training to understand how export regulations can affect the Company’s business — provide training that is: — cooperate and assist with internal audits • specific for personnel responsible for imports and exports — proactively propose opportunities for improvement and communicate them as appropriate • informative for personnel who require knowledge and understanding • made available to all personnel through a variety of supports December 2010 Jean-Georges Malcor 10O-CC-568-V1 CEO 10O-CC-568-V1_TradeCompliance_Policy.indd 1 11/02/11 15:53 Appendix 12: Quality Policy Quality Policy CGGVeritas is fully committed to working in partnership with our clients and suppliers to achieve the vision of being the international leading partner in developing natural resources through geophysics. We make a relentless effort to continually improve our Motivated and Involved Staff products and services: — Trained to anticipate customer needs and respond swiftly — Exceeding our customers’ expectations and effectively in a rapidly changing industry. — Meeting or exceeding our turnaround commitments — Rewarded for their initiative and efforts to improve our operational performance, technology, and customer service. — Delivering superior operational and financial results Mutually Beneficial Supplier Relationships We deliver by listening to our customers’ needs and concerns; meeting our commitments; and improving our Creating long-term sustainable value for both CGGVeritas and staff, technology, and processes. our preferred suppliers. To achieve this result we commit to the following: Optimized Business Processes Strong Line Management Leadership Streamlined to efficiently and effectively support operations. Providing resources and creating an environment in which our Robust Quality Management Practices employees can operate effectively and deliver improvements to our products, services, and processes. In place to deliver continuous improvement in our products, services, and practices through: Clear Targets and Objectives — Compliance with international standards and industry Set and monitored by management to deliver our strategy and regulations. achieve the desired results for our stakeholders. — The use of audits and management reviews to ensure Exceptional Talents and Technology that the CGGVeritas quality system remains effective and capable of meeting management and customer Leveraged to continually improve products and services, expectations. enhancing customer satisfaction and generating value for CGGVeritas. Paris, 2 January 2011 Jean-Georges Malcor 11O-CC-004-V1 CEO 11O-CC-004-V1_Quality_Policy.indd 1 11/01/11 12:06:47 Appendix 13: HSE Objectives 2011 OBJECTIVES HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT (HSE) CGGVeritas is committed to eliminating fatalities and events which cause serious injuries to our people and damage to the environment. The 2011 objectives are set as minimum expectations in order to support this commitment and to continuously improve HSE Performance. RESULTS – KPI lagging indicators • No fatalities, no disabilities • Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) < 0.30 or at least 25% less than 2010 for the concerned entity • Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) < 2.70 or at least 10% less than 2010 for the concerned entity • Severity Rate (SR) < 0.005 • Environmental Damage Frequency (ENDF) < 0.05 • Motor Vehicle Crash frequency (MVCF) < 0.90 • Marine Fuel consumption efficiency >50 Leadership : Management Commitment − Workshops and Maintenance The HSE commitment of the Line Management will be reinforced and o Workshops and maintenance best practices will be consolidated monitored: across Divisions as Guidelines and Must Haves which will be regularly audited. – All line managers will be given personal annual HSE objectives; – All line managers shall have attended an HSEMS training by end − Contractor and Subcontractor Management 2011; o The Contractor and Subcontractor Management process will be rolled out across all Divisions for High (90%) and Medium Risk – 80% of the action points from High Risk findings and events will be (50%) contractors. closed within 2 months of creation. Specific Initiatives People : Behavior – The Rules to Live by and Must Knows will be rolled out globally, − Crisis Management aiming at reinforcing individual HSE accountability; o The Crisis Management training plan will be rolled out to cover all key crisis team members and 50% of the total potential – Task Observation Program (TOP) will be extended to Land and members. Equipment Divisions, in a specific way; – On site video footage will be used during HSE meetings to reinforce − Security team HSE awareness and sense for intervention in case of potential o All Level 2 and above Security Plans will be reviewed by Division danger for other team member. EVPs prior to mobilization to site. − Health and Wellness PRISM reporting and communication system enhano A Noise exposure control and reduction program will be cements launched, aiming particularly at reducing the exposure in PRISM provides the backbone to support and spread HSE excellence accommodation and rest facilities; culture. o A Vector Control awareness campaign will be rolled out to reduce – PRISM Project Risk Assessment tool will be rolled out for 100% of the frequency of Vector transmitted diseases. Marine and Land Divisions activities; − Environment – PRISM 2011 enhancements will include an extension of the current o Normalized environmental metrics will be reported for Marine Action Points Workflow, including preferred contractors and partners, and Processing Divisions; to improve follow up. o A Processing center will be ISO 14001 certified, and further certifications evaluated trough gap analysis. Key Critical Processes − Training − Transportation By Vehicle o An HSE Training Matrix will be implemented within each o All Heavy Duty vehicle drivers will attend a specific Heavy Duty Division, and its implementation will be monitored by Divisions. Defensive Driving Course; o By year end all vehicles of contractors and subcontractors within our prevailing influence shall comply with our standards (defensive driving, safety equipment). Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_OBE_01E Appendix 14: SD/SR Objectives 2011 OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CGGVeritas is committed to Sustainable Development through a balanced approach to economic development, social progress and responsible environmental management. CGGVeritas believes that these fundamental elements coexist and provide a livable, fair and viable outcome for the people and the environment, both for today and for future generations. Leadership: Management commitment − Social Responsibility o The risk of direct or indirect association to violations of The Divisions and the Geomarket Function are closely associated to the Human Rights will be reviewed regularly for each country of Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility (SD/SR) Steering operations. Specific control measures will be implemented to Committee, whose role along with other responsibilities is to: minimize these risks; – Make recommendations on annual orientations and objectives to o Where relevant in view of the local context, Community the CGGVeritas Executive Committee; Relations Management Plans will be implemented to ensure – Monitor the implementation of action plans; the harmonious integration of our projects with local stakeholders. – Validate social investment proposals; – Monitor the distribution of social investment expenses. − Environment o As part of a global effort to reduce the carbon footprint of The Board of Directors of CGGVeritas reviews at least once a year the CGGVeritas, a worldwide campaign to minimize travel and SD/SR initiatives and orientations through its HSE and SD/SR optimize energy consumption will be promoted and its impact Committee. monitored across the Company. Staff: Employees involvement − Audit o Group HSE Audits of our sites and operations will CGGVeritas will support, on a priority basis, SD/SR initiatives that systematically include a chapter on SD/SR; demand practical employee’ involvement in the fields of education o Specific SD/SR Audits will be conducted where relevant, with (children and adults), social integration or re-integration, health, focus on our contractors and suppliers. protection of the environment or that require our company expertise in the field of earth sciences. SD/SR initiatives aligned with these − Monitoring and Communication goals will be, by order of preference: o Our 2011 “Communication on Progress” will focus on the – Projects contributing to local communities or other stakeholders of human rights and labor rights principles; our activities, and conducted either directly by CGGVeritas or in partnership with other entities; o Our social and environmental reporting will be extended and reinforced globally, in line with Global Reporting Initiative – Initiatives involving the personal efforts of one or several (GRI) recommendations; employees for the benefit of associations or specific projects; o Regular internal and external communication around our SD/SR – Donations matching employees gifts to a relevant SD/SR project. initiatives will be developed to further promote a company culture that encourages employee awareness and involvement in SD/SR. Key critical processes − Projects, partnerships and sponsorship o Partnership and sponsorship proposals that call for contributing to or funding SD/SR projects and events must abide to the SD/SR 2011 sponsorship validation process. Paris, January 2011 Jean-Georges MALCOR Chief Executive Officer GRP_HSE_OBE_02E Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progresssur le progrès September 2011 Appendix 15: Audit checklist form Child Labor1 1. [High] Are all workers, including sub-contracted workers, more than 18 years old? 2. [Medium] Does CGGVeritas have identity card/passport copy of all crew workers, including sub-contracted crew?2 Forced Labor 3. [High] Do all workers offer their services voluntarily without being victim of forced labor as defined below3. 4. [Low] Do they have a written employment contract? 5. Does CGGVeritas or the sub-contracted workers’ employer not ask the employees or workers • [medium] to pay a deposit, • [high] to enter into a debt bondage4 • [high] to have withheld part of any personnel’s belongings5 • [low] to retain their passport or ID6 in order to force such personnel to continue working for CGGVeritas or such employer? Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 6. [Low] Are expatriates free to join trade unions or to elect or appoint their own representatives to bargain with crew management or their employers7? 7. [Medium] Are local workers free to join trade unions or to elect or appoint8 their own representatives to bargain with crew management? Discrimination 8. [Medium] Do they exist illegal discrimination9 between workers, including sub-contracted workers? Disciplinary practices 9. [High] Is there any complaint from workers against use of corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion, or verbal abuse of personnel? Working Conditions 10. [High] Do foreign workers have a valid working permit for the working country 11. [Medium] Do the workers work less than 12 hours/day? [Medium] Do they work less than of 26 consecutive weeks without days rest? 12. [Medium] Do standards for accommodations meet the CGGVeritas HSE and Wellbeing standards? Remuneration 13. [High] Do all worker wages meet the legal or industry minimum standards if any? 14. [High] Is there any case of deductions from wages for disciplinary purposes? 15. [Low] Is remuneration rendered either in cash, bank transfer or check form, in a manner convenient to all workers, including subcontracted workers? 16. [Low] Are wages paid on time? 66 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) Community relationship 17. [Low] Has a “Community Relation Management Plan” been implemented? Security 18. [High] Does the CGGVeritas standard contract apply to the private security Company used if any? Monitoring 19. [Medium] Are workers’ and stakeholders’10 complaints treated and recorded? 20. [Low] Are the SD/SR policies and objectives posted on site? 21. [Medium] Has the sub-contractor management been informed of all the rights, policies and requirements stated above? Corruption 22. [High] Do you have knowledge of corruption (either actual or alleged) from or to the benefit of the sub-contracted workers’ employer(s), any other supplier or third-party? 23. Could you please list positive initiatives or practices you have observed regarding SD/SR? 1 “Child labor” is, generally speaking, work for children that harms them or exploits them in some way (physically, mentally, morally, or by blocking access to education). International conventions define children as aged 18 and under. 2 This question is to check workers age. 3Forced or compulsory work shall mean any work or service which is exacted from a person under the menace of penalty or that this person has not offered voluntarily (definition of the ILO convention N° 29) 4 Debt bondage is classically defined as a situation when a person provides a loan to another and uses his or her labor or services to repay the debt 5 salary, benefits, property, identification papers or personal documents 6 In Middle East, withholding the ID or passport is a usual practice 7 Such as CGGVeritas Services SA, CGGVeritas International or other CGGVeritas entities 8Appointment could be made without formal election : for example by agreement or consensus than one worker will speak for the others 9 Any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or impairing equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation. However, according to the International Labor Organization, a distinction, exclusion or preference in respect of a particular job shall not be a discrimination if such treatment is based on the inherent requirements of such particular job (such as working in extreme conditions on the field, specific accommodation cannot be reasonably made for or a job cannot be made by a certain category of people due to the specific requirements of the job). 10 Stakeholders : client, subcontractors, communities, local authorities, NGOs etc. Third Communication on Progress 67 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 Appendix 16: Environmental Indicators Extract of the Financial Annual Report (AMF) Water, raw materials and energy consumption Data reporting changes During 2009, CGGVeritas completed its transition to PRISM; the sole integrated reporting tool for its land and marine operations. PRISM is replacing the remaining legacy reporting tools (CGG, Veritas and Wavefield Inseis ASA) and has been fully deployed across our Land and Marine Divisions from the start of 2010, delivering a greater data accuracy. In Land operations, starting in 2009 and continued in 2010, the estimation of GHG gas emission was made on actual fuel consumption (previously estimated based on distance driven). Included in this year report is the land crews’ semi permanent installations (generators, etc.) emissions tracking which should help to better evaluate our actual carbon footprint for Land operations. Reporting Aspect CGGVeritas assesses its emissions in accordance with the International Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) guidelines and the United Kingdom Offshore Operators Association (UKOOA) Guidelines. In addition, we report on our emissions data for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Finally, the methodology used for reporting meets the reporting criteria set by the GHG protocol. CGGVeritas reporting of the quantity of CO2e11 emissions will encompass our onshore and offshore operations combined. Emissions are reported in metric ton (M/T). The quantities submitted are direct emissions on a global scale. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (“GHG”) In 2010 the total quantity of CO2e11 emissions represented 781,002 M/T. Marine operations accounted for 81% of the total emissions while land operations represented 19%. Whereas the reporting of emissions from Marine have now reached a satisfactory consistency (+4% in 2010 vs. 2009), significant over reporting was detected into 2009 data from Land operations (gasoline used mostly in North America). Comparison between years is still not relevant; 2010 data should anyhow provide us with the robust baseline we need for future benchmarking. GHG direct emissions of Marine and Land acquisition GHG direct emissions of Marine and Land acquisition combined Combinated Operations GHG Emissions Distribution 1 000 000,00 781,002.34 800 000,00 600 000,00 (M/T) 400 000,00 200 000,00 2,802.10 14,476.19 1,952.51 68,95 718.39 0 CO2 CO NOX SOX CH4 VOC 11Carbon dioxide equivalent, CO e, is an internationally accepted measure that expresses the amount of global warming of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in terms of the amount of carbon 2 dioxide (CO2) that would have the same global warming potential. Examples of such GHGs are methane, perfluorocarbons and nitrous oxide. 68 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) Total Combined GHG emissions Year 2010 Total GHG emissions 801,020 M/T GHG Qty (M/T) GHG Qty (M/T) CO2 781,002 SOX 1,952 CO 2,802 CH4 69 NOX 14,476 VOC 718 GHG emissions sources from combined operations Year 2010 Marine – Emission source Qty (M/T) Qty (M/T) Vessels using MDO fuel 170,070 Vessels using HFO fuel 25,750 Incinerator 2,099 The percentage of Heavy Fuel Oil used by the fleet has remained stable in 2010 (13% vs. 11% in 2009). Land – Emission source Qty (M/T) Qty (M/T) Land transport diesel fuel 24,851 Land transport gasoline fuel 2,090 Other diesel fuel used 5,536 Other gasoline fuel 1,012 Small watercraft fuel diesel 91 Aircraft fuel 1,297 Incinerator 2,346 Equipment Division GHG emissions sources Land – Emission source M/T M/T Land transport diesel fuel 11 Land transport gasoline fuel 21 Land – Emission source Kwh Kwh Electricity 35,554,553 Natural gas 53,708 Third Communication on Progress 69 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 Marine acquisition GHG emissions Marine operations Period Year 2010 Total Qty Emission GHG Vessels Emission factor Incinerators (M/T) factor CO2 629,705 626,624 3.2 3,081 1.468 CO 1,574 1,567 0.008 8 0.00367 NOX 12,120 11,553 0.059 567 0.27 SOX 1,574 1,567 0.008 8 0.00367 CH4 56 53 0.00027 3 0.001268 VOC 472 470 0.0024 2 0.0011 Land acquisition GHG emissions Land operations Period Year 2010 Total Qty Emission GHG Transportation Emission factor Incinerators (M/T) factor CO2 151,297 147,853 3.2 3,445 1.468 CO 1,228 1,219 0.027 9 0.00367 NOX 2,356 1,723 0.038 634 0.27 SOX 378 370 0.027 9 0.00367 CH4 13 10 0.00023 3 0.001268 VOC 246 244 0.0054 3 0.0011 70 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) GHG direct emissions of Equipment division Total Combined GHG emissions Year 2010 Total GHG emissions 20 M/T GHG Qty (M/T ) GHG Qty (M/T) CO2 20 SOX CO CH4 NOX VOC Water consumption The water consumption for the land crews which have operated in isolated locations (desert, jungle…) amounts to 180,131m3 (30% increase from 2009, corresponding to a high level of activity in the Middle East). Data relating to crews operating in urban areas are not included in this report. For the offshore operations, water consumptions tracking falls under the responsibility of vessel maritime crews and are not consolidated in this report. Management of black and grey waters On land, black and grey waters generated by the land crews are treated by specialized subcontractors and disposed offsite (78%) or when operating in isolated locations are treated and disposed onsite (22%). In marine, since vessels are equipped with onboard permanent water treatment units, most used waters is treated/disposed onsite (77%) and occasionally treated in offsite facilities (23%). Management of used waters Qty (m3) Onsite treatment/Disposal 49,011 (64%) offsite treatment (facilities) 27,045 (36%) Management of waters in the Equipment division Management of waters Qty (m3) Water used municipal 165,978 Water used underground 492 Onsite treatment 153,144 Offsite treatment/disposal 13,051 Third Communication on Progress 71 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 Waste Management Everywhere we operate, on our vessels and land crews, we have implemented a waste management system by our teams. It prioritizes the management of waste according to the following hierarchy: waste reductions, reuse, recycle, treat or dispose to certified facilities and dispose by incineration. It must be noted that our operations, especially in land, often take place in remote location and in areas where certified facilities for waste treatment or disposal are not available. Waste management distribution Overall operations Waste Management Distribution Year 2010 M/T Recycled offsite 3,988 Treated and disposed onsite 28,303 Treated and disposed offsite 33,003 Disposed by incineration 4,445 Disposed offsite 10,803 2010 Combined Waste Management Distribution Summary Disposed by Recycled offsite incineration 5% 6% Treated and disposed offsite 41 % ■ Recycled offsite ■ Treated and disposed offsite ■ Disposed offsite Treated and ■ Treated and disposed onsite disposed onsite ■ Disposed by incineration 35 % Disposed offsite 13 % Waste management in the Equipment division Overall operations Waste Management Distribution Year 2010 M/T Recycled offsite 700 Treated and disposed onsite 13 Treated and disposed offsite Disposed by incineration 68 Disposed offsite (landfill) 163 72 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) Incidents and Residual Spills Land acquisition In our Ocean Bottom Cable (OBC) operations, one minor recordable spillage occurred in 2010. One of the vessels used on the project experienced as small oil leak from a damaged seal. While containment efforts were immediately deployed, 300 liters of oil were anyhow spilled in open sea. On land, no recordable fuel spill occurred. As part of our standard practices, we are committed to clean up 100% of our spillage by sending contaminated ground to offsite facilities for proper treatment and disposal. Land Acquisition Spill Distribution (m3) Total = 0.3 (m3) Diesel fuel Engine oil 0.3 Aviation fuel Hydraulic oil Antifreeze Land Residual Spillage Distribution 1 ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 0,8 0,6 (M3) 0,4 0,3 0,2 0,01 0,0 Black/grey water Diesel/ Aviation fuel Hydraulic oil Engine oil Gasoline fuel During our winter campaign in Alaska, one tundra scuff generated a recordable environmental disturbance. The location was revisited the following summer by regulator agency and native inspectors to better assess the environmental impact. Upon inspections, no reclamation effort was necessary and no further action was required. Third Communication on Progress 73 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 Marine Acquisition In marine, our environmental incidents were all negligible. The further deployment of the solid streamer technology on our fleet helped achieve this positive result. Marine Acquisition Spill Distribution (m3) Total: 0.00 (m3) Marine Diesel Oil (MDO) 0 Grey Water 0 Hydraulic oil 0 ISOPAR M 0 Engine oil 0 ■ 2008 Marine Residual Spillage Distribution ■ 2009 ■ 2010 10 9 8 7 6 4.88 (m3) 5 4 3 1.75 2 1 0.5 0 ISOPAR M Marine Diesel Oil Hydraulic oil Engine Oil Black/grey water (MDO) Following the plan designed in 2009, normalized metrics were evaluated in 2010, aiming at setting quantified performance targets in 2011. Marine Acquisition and Processing and Imaging activities were targeted as being better standardized activities than Land Acquisition. The Fuel Consumption Efficiency, measuring the quantity of linear seismic data acquired per cubic meter of fuel consumed (HFO + MDO) was chosen for Marine Acquisition (CMP km / m3), with a 2010 performance of 45.33, showing an improvement over 2009 (31.8). A target of 50 was set up for 2011. The Power Usage Effectiveness (Total Facility Power/ IT Equipment Power), being a widely recognized metric, was chosen for data Processing and Imaging. This indicator has been followed up for our major centers in 2010 and will be extended to most of our other centers in 2011. Measures taken to limit impacts on natural environment, protected animal and plant species Biodiversity loss due to competing land use or marine ecosystems disturbance is a global environmental challenge our society is facing today. We recognize the importance of protecting biodiversity, especially when operating in sensitive environments. Since 2007, CGGVeritas is part of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association Biodiversity Working Group (IPIECA BDWG) to collectively engage with our clients in developing tools to better assess and manage biodiversity in our operations. In Marine Acquisition for example, monitoring protected species is part of our daily duties. Onboard dedicated marine fauna observers insure compliance with applicable regulations stipulated by the country or specific region our vessels operate. In 2010, 1,295 marine mammal and sea turtle visual detections were recorded during our seismic survey acquisitions around the world. The visual and acoustic detections generated respectively 67 and 3 delayed energy source ramp-ups and shutdowns as part of required mitigation measures. These measures allow sufficient time for the animals to leave the immediate vicinity of our operation. It must be noted that ramp-up procedures, also called soft-start, are used as a standard practice to warn marine mammals and sea turtles of our presence before seismic surveying can begin. The number of acoustic detections rose sharply from 2009 figure (81 vs. 1), as a result of the extended use of Passive Acoustic Monitoring techniques during our operations. 74 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) Marine fauna mitigation measures summary Year 2010 Total detections (Visual and acoustic) 1,295 Total Visual detections 1,214 Total acoustic detections 81 Operational downtime Total operational downtime 258 hours 58 minutes Visual downtime Delay ram-up and shutdown 67 Operational downtime 256 hours 35 minutes Acoustic downtime Delay ram-up and shutdown 3 Operational downtime 2 hours 23 minutes Marine Fauna Mitigation Measure Summary 1500 ■ Visual detections 1406 1348 ■ Acoustic detections 1295 ■ Shutdown/Delays 1200 1139 900 600 300 110 81 84 70 48 21 1 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Operating Best Practices Scientific research continues to improve our understanding of climate change and how it responds to human activities. One major emerging environmental challenge faced by society is the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As a good corporate citizen, CGGVeritas continually looks for innovative ways to minimize emissions through better operating practices and technological innovations. Onshore, we are committed, whenever possible, to use diesel technology over gasoline to deliver better fuel economy and less GHG emissions. Today, 95% of our owned vehicles use diesel engines. In house on site mechanics ensure proper engine maintenance. Each driver is accountable for his or her vehicle and must conduct a documented daily vehicle inspection. Offshore our fleet of 19 vessels is composed of 15 high capacity 3D and 4 mid-capacity 3D/small 3D/2D acquisition vessels. Together with our fleet managers, the Company has implemented a control process to ensure full compliance of our fleet with MARPOL Annex VI of the international convention on the prevention of pollution from ships which regulates NOX, SO and CO2 for new vessels built or modified beginning in 2000. Third Communication on Progress 75 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 Our vessels exclusively use marine diesel oil (MDO) with the exception of two 3D vessels, which consume a combination of marine diesel oil (MDO) and heavy fuel oil (HFO). The significant advantage of using MDO over HFO is the higher heat value of diesel oil, which means lower fuel consumption. The typical heat value for MDO is about 42 MJ/kg and for HFO it is about 40 MJ/kg, a difference that in theory represents a reduction in fuel consumption of 5%. Furthermore, diesel oil properties with a lower viscosity and less particle content signifies less friction in the engine’s moving parts, which in turn leads to reduced fuel consumption. In addition, our ship-owners warranty that their ships comply with the MARPOL conventions. Bunkering activities (fuel transfer) In 2010, our marine fleet successfully completed 295 bunkering at sea and 1,480 bunkering in port for a total of 136,261.48 m3 of fuel transferred without an incident. Emergency Preparedness and Response In line with our integrated QHSE management system, all of our operational sites have Emergency Response Plans (ERP) in place to deal with a wide range of possible emergency scenarios, such as; oil spill, fire and helicopter emergency landing. These plans are tested periodically in drills to ensure their effectiveness throughout the duration of each project. For example, on average every three days a pollution drill is conducted on one of our nineteen vessels. Marine Operations Emergency Preparedness Year 2010 Pollution drills 148 Emergency steering 101 Fire drills 532 Emergency towing 63 H2S/Chemical 2 Blackout 41 Marine Emergency Preparedness Distribution 600 ■ 2009 532 ■ 2010 500 458 400 300 200 148 134 101 100 64 63 48 41 7 11 2 0 Pollution drill Fire drill H2S/Chemical Emergency Emergency Blackout steering towing Technological initiatives Currently 79% of our marine fleet is equipped with solid streamer technology, while the remaining vessels use fluid filled streamers containing ISOPAR M. This is the highest percentage of solid streamers within industry, and keeps steadily increasing in line with CGGVeritas efforts to improve environmental performance. We plan to increase our solid streamer fleet capacity. All high capacity 3D vessels should be equipped with solid streamers by 2011. 76 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) Steps taken for an evaluation and certification of the Group regarding environment The process for certifying our Crawley and Redhill (UK) Processing and Imaging centers under ISO 14000 family of norms was launched formally, aiming at completion before the end of 2011. This certification is aimed as a pilot within the Company, providing key learning for further certifications; however our operations are compliant with ISO 14001 standards. Sercel Optoplan facility in Trondheim (Norway) is certified under OHSAS 18001 standard. Measures taken to ensure, if necessary, compliance of the Company’s activities with applicable laws and regulations The majority of our operations are subject to an impact assessment carried out by our customers in accordance with local regulations before our work starts. Experts representing local authorities visit our sites when we are operating. Finally, when operations are over, our sites are restored. As stated in our environmental policy, we undertake the following: • Conduct project specific environmental risk assessments, consistent with IS0 14000 standards, to identify actual and potential environmental impacts and assess their significance; • Where significant impacts potentially exist, develop, implement and maintain, in conjunction with appropriate authorities, a project specific environmental management plan; • Develop emergency response plans for potential environmental incidents to mitigate environmental impact; • Measure environmental performance throughout the life cycle of each project. Committed expenses in order to prevent the consequences of the company’s activities on environment Technological Innovations We have engaged into a fleet renewal program with new vessels of the X Box design compliant with the most stringent requirements related to environment protection. These vessels, one of which has been launched in 2010 as “Oceanic Vega”, comply with the Det Norske Veritas “Clean Design” Class with specific requirements for emissions to air from energy producers, cargo handling systems and service systems on the ship, requirements for discharge to sea from energy producers, waste/sewage systems, antifouling systems, ballast water systems, handling systems and hydraulics. Dedicated HSE organization to manage environment, training and information of the employees on environment, means dedicated to the reduction of risks for the environment as well as the organization put in place in order to face pollution accidents having an impact beyond the company’s locations The Group has a dedicated HSE organization with a centralized pool and dedicated HSE resources for Divisions. A full-time Environment manager is dedicated to the implementation and development of the CGGVeritas Environment Policy. Such policy which is largely circulated emphasizes the necessity to recognize and manage the environmental risk, to be compliant with laws and regulations and to train all parties involved in the environment stakes. In this perspective, certain experimental actions are currently being carried out by the Company in order to continue reducing the impact of its activities on environment. 2010 Passive Acoustic Monitoring (PAM) field trial in a multi vessel operation (phase 2) Because the potential effect of anthropogenic sounds on marine ecosystems has been an area of increasing concern, Passive Acoustic Monitoring (PAM) has been used in recent years as a supplemental component for mitigation; however, as technology improves, PAM is becoming an increasingly accepted mitigation tool used to successfully reduce potential impacts from human activities on marine mammals. Third Communication on Progress 77 Pacte Global Mondial Compact Deuxième Third Communication communication on Progress sur le progrès September 2011 To that end, CGGVeritas, in collaboration with its clients, conducted a nine months extensive multi vessel PAM field trial. It was the largest deployment of PAM on any commercial seismic program in the US waters of the Gulf of Mexico. This field trial was made possible with the permission and supports of the US regulators Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation, and Enforcement (BOEMRE), formally known as Mineral Management Services (MMS). The objective of the PAM experiment is to determine the effectiveness of PAM on multiple vessels utilizing existing telemetry technology in a wide azimuth environment where more than one vessel is used in the acquisition program. Project Highlights: • Largest deployment of PAM and PAMGUARD on a commercial seismic program in the Gulf of Mexico; • Utilization of centralized PAM monitoring from real-time computer displays, both video and audio from remote PAM systems using data sent over a telemetry link; • First successful telemetry link network using the wide azimuth production’s telemetry network; • Concurrent monitoring of acoustics from PAM system on the bridge of select source vessels through use of networked data transferred from instrument room to bridge; • First Gulf of Mexico evaluation of a dual in-line array PAM hydrophone cable for refined/improved localization abilities; • Demonstrated the reliability and stability of the industry developed and funded PAMGUARD software over a nine-month period; • Reduction in total survey time by using PAM to soft start when operations would otherwise not have been permitted to restart. Approximately 209 hours and 56 minutes (~8 days) of production time (start of line to end of line) was saved through the use of PAM; • An additional 30 hours 15 minutes of mobilization time was also saved by using PAM to conduct airgun array testing during periods of low visibility. Experts from CGGVeritas contributed in the following research projects: Sound and marine life research initiatives In 2010, CGGVeritas remained an active participant of the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Joint Industry Program (OGP JIP) E&P Sound and Marine Life Program. “The overarching objective of the joint industry program is to identify specific, operationally focused questions that relate to the effects of sound generated by the offshore E&P industry on marine life and to pursue a research program that will test scientific hypotheses and produce the data needed to address these questions”. (OGP JIP website) The program objective consists of four parts: 1. Afford a more comprehensive understanding of the potential environmental risk(s) from oil and gas operations; 2. Inform and update public decision makers, and regulatory development processes that affect our operations globally; 3. Determine the basis for mitigation measures that are protective of marine life, cost effective, and credible with outside stakeholders;, and 4. Feed into planning for efficient and environmentally protective E & P project development. BRAHSS project (Behavioral Response of Australian Humpback whales to Seismic Surveys) The study is one the largest and most comprehensive studies on the effects of noise on whales ever undertaken. It is scheduled to last until 2014. This project aims at providing information that will reduce the uncertainty in evaluating impacts of seismic surveys on humpback whales. It will also assess the effectiveness of ramp-up as a mitigation measure, and the potential to improve design of ramp-up. The broad objectives are: (a) To determine the response of humpback whales to a typical commercial seismic survey in terms of the variables affecting the response, 78 Third Communication on Progress (September 2010) such as the received sound level, relative movements of seismic array and whales and distance between them, behavioral state and social category of the whales, and environmental variables. (b) To determine the response of humpback whales to soft start or ramp-up and its components, to assess the effectiveness of ramp-up as a mitigation measure in seismic surveys and the potential for improving the effectiveness. Third Communication on Progress 79 Worldwide Headquarters Paris, France Tour Maine-Montparnasse 33, Avenue du Maine B.P. 191 75755 Paris Cedex 15 FRANCE Tel: +33 1 64 47 45 00 Fax: +33 1 64 47 34 31 Massy, France 27, avenue Carnot 91341 Massy Cedex FRANCE Tel: +33 1 64 47 30 00 Fax: +33 1 64 47 39 70 Houston, USA 10300 Town Park Drive Houston, TX 77072 U.S.A. Tel: +1 832 351 8300 Fax: +1 832 351 8701 Regional Offices Bergen +47 56 11 31 00 Calgary +1 403 205 6000 London +44 1293 683000 Singapore +65 6723 5500 11B-QH-303-V1 cggveritas.com/third communication on progress
