SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Axis in 1 minute Axis is an IT company offering network video solutions for professional installations. Axis is the global market leader within network video and offers high quality and innovative products for security surveillance and remote monitoring which promote safety and security in society. Axis’ product portfolio Axis’ business model offers Axis was the first company in the world to launch a network cama local presence era in 1996, initiating the shift from analog to digital technology. Axis’ products reach the market through a two-stage model via Axis’ sales consist almost entirely of the Video product area which distributors and in most cases, system integrators who work with comprises network cameras, video encoders, accessories and apthe end customers. plication software. Axis Distributors Resellers System integrators End customers Axis in brief 2010 >> Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 2,933 M (2,301), corresponding to growth of 27 per cent. >> Profit after tax amounted to SEK 415 M (308). >> Axis’ first product Life Cycle Analysis provides an in-depth view of the product’s environmental impact. >> Axis’ first Carbon Footprint report was completed after the end of the financial year. >> The number of partners amounted to 35,000 (30,000) at year-end. >> The number of employees continued to increase and totaled 914 (774) at year-end. 35,000 partners Axis’ employees are in more than 30 countries Distributors in 70 countries Collaboration with partners in 179 countries President’s comments It is natural for Axis to take responsibility for its products and operations. We aim to follow and promote good sustainability practice and high ethical standards, reduce the environmental impacts of our activities and help our clients and partners to do the same. Promote safety and security The same expectation applies to our suppliers, distributors, system inIn my view, Axis’ foremost contribution to society is that our products tegrators, consultants and other business partners. In manufacturing, promote safety and security for people all over the world. I am basing we cooperate with a limited number of carefully selected subconthis on surveys which show that surveillance cameras contribute to tractors and use contracts and yearly inspections to ensure that our crime prevention and to solving criminal actions and also on the fact standards are being met. We work with several partnership programs that a majority of the public are positive towards surveillance cameras. featuring different types of training about the market and the products including information about Axis’ Code of Conduct. We are aware that public surveillance is also connected to issues > surrounding personal integrity. It is important to realize that the legal responsibility for how systems are used and data is stored follows each country’s laws and regulations and the responsibility therefore lies primarily with the user, i.e. the end customer. However, Axis takes questions regarding personal integrity very seriously and we work in many ways to ensure that our cameras are used in a correct and responsible manner. We place great emphasis on the selection and training of partners and resellers. Other measures to avoid misuse include technological innovation, compliance with international guidelines and voluntary best practices. Long-term product development Axis works according to good business ethics and the products are produced, distributed and marketed with consideration to the environment and health. Axis has performed a Life Cycle Analysis and a Carbon Footprint study of the operations as part of its sustainability work. Among other things, these studies show that the greatest single impact on the environment comes from the energy consumption of the products during many years of use by the customers. We therefore attach great importance to development of products that have good energy performance. Since the cameras’ power consumption can impair the image quality, this work goes hand in hand with our long-term aim of Future development delivering network cameras with high resolution. Axis is a rapidly growing company and many of our challenges ahead are linked to our continued expansion. It is about ensuring that new The code of conduct guides employees and partners employees participate in the corporate culture and support our many The company’s Code of Conduct sets out the approach, values and partners in reaching the company’s goal – namely, that Axis’ end cusguidelines that Axis’ personnel shall apply in matters of business tomers should have cutting edge security installations which should principles, business relations, human rights, workplace practices and be used in a responsible way. environmental principles. Leaving things up to the individual’s conscience has proved a very successful strategy. Since people like working here, it is naturally in Ray Mauritsson their interests to do the right thing. President & CEO President’s comments 3 Governance As a global company, Axis is very much aware of the need to conduct all parts of our business in a sustainable and ethical way in order to gain the long-term support of employees, partners, customers and society at large. We also realize that conducting our business in a transparent way is an essential part of our efforts to develop beneficial relations with our stakeholders. Code of Conduct Corporate Governance Axis’ Code of Conduct is the hub around which our policies and Axis AB (publ) is a listed company with its registered office in Lund, corporate governance are built. It sets out the approach, values and Sweden. Axis was floated on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in 2000 guidelines that Axis’ personnel shall apply in matters of business and is currently listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic. The company follows principles, business relations, human rights, workplace practices and the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act as well as the stock environmental principles. exchange regulations for listed companies in Sweden. Axis applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. A corporate governance The following international principles form the basis of Axis’ Code of report for 2010 will be published in connection with the Annual ReConduct: port. The Corporate governance report defines the decision systems >> UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights by which the owners, directly or indirectly, manage the company >> UN’s Global Compact initiative (www.axis.com see Investors). >> The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Axis’ most important guidelines and policies relate to financial conAxis became a member of the UN Global Compact initiative in 2007 trol, communications, human resources, business ethics, quality and and has adopted its ten principles on human rights, labor standards, environmental matters. the environment and anti-corruption. Code of Conduct Reporting Scope Environmental Human Resource UN Human Rights This report aims to present an accurate picture of the group’s perforPolicy Policy UN Global Compact mance in areas relating to sustainability, safety, health, environment ILO Conventions as well as business ethics. It is Axis’ first report and our ambition is to OECD Guidelines report annually. 4 Governance Resellers General Sub-suppliers CLCs Axis Distributors End users manufacturers System integrators Boundaries Axis’ own operations mainly consist of functions such as development, purchasing, marketing, service and technical support as well as administration. Axis also works with product configuration and handles shipping at four Configuration & Logistics Centers (CLC) whereof only the Swedish center is operated by Axis. Other units are operated by other companies and all office premises are rented. All production of Axis’ products is carried out by contract manufacturers and the products are sold via an indirect distribution model, whereby Axis’ sales take place in the first stage to distributors. As a consequence of the business model, a great deal of the responsibility for production, distribution and specific installation of Axis’ products rests with the company’s business partners. However, Axis works closely with its partners to ensure that its Code of Conduct is understood and followed. Reporting standards and KPIs The report conforms to the internationally recognized GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) used by Axis are selected from version G3 of the GRI standards. The report is selfdeclared and complies with application level C under the GRI standards. KPIs were not subject to third-party checks. Historical data is not available for all Key Performance Indicators. Unless otherwise stated, the data refers to the 2010 calendar year with comparative figures for previous years. Governance 5 Axis and society Axis is an innovative and global IT company offering surveillance solutions for professional installations. Axis’ network video products and solutions contribute to security and safety in society and improve the efficiency of our customers’ processes. The security market is being driven by increased prosperity and urDuring 2010 a customer satisfaction survey has been conducted. The banization as well as a general trend towards greater emphasis on result shows that the customers identified Axis as the knowledge public security. The customers are mainly to be found within the separtner in network video. curity sector, but also in other sectors where a need exists for remote monitoring and streamlining of business processes. Examples of such Business ethics fields of application for network video are inventory management Axis has adopted a business ethics policy for the purpose of conductand measurement of customer behavior in the retail sector and reing business operations in a responsible manner. Among other things, mote monitoring within health care. this policy states that Axis shall not pursue business practices which are not in accordance with applicable local or international laws Surveillance versus integrity and regulations or conduct business related to the use of products in Surveys show that surveillance cameras contribute to crime prevenweapon systems, the sex industry or in the promotion of drugs. We tion and to solving criminal actions and that a majority of the public verify our ethical decisions with colleagues and managers at a local are positive towards surveillance cameras (see the next item). Howlevel and promptly refer unclear or conflicting cases to our Business ever, in line with the increasing number of surveillance cameras in Ethics Council. society, a discussion has arisen regarding how surveillance systems affect personal integrity. Axis has also drawn up an Export Control Policy and has established an organization with the responsibility for ensuring that export Axis’ view on the matter is that a surveillance system in itself cannot control rules and regulations are implemented and are dealt with violate personal integrity and that the issue is rather about how sysin a consistent way. Every deal with countries which are subject to tems are used and data protected and stored. Nevertheless, as with export restrictions is assessed individually and is stopped in cases all kinds of equipment, it can be misused. Axis therefore places great where it obviously does not comply with the rules in force. This is emphasis on the selection of partners and resellers in order to ensure handled within Axis’ Operations organisation, which in doubtful that our products are not misused. Other measures to avoid misuse cases, raises the matter for determination by the company’s maninclude technological innovation, compliance with international agement team. guidelines and voluntary best practices. On the subject of anti-corruption, Axis’ Code of Conduct states that Axis develops and sells network video products, including surveillance the company shall compete fairly and in full accordance with applicameras. We sell to distributors, who in turn sell on to system intecable laws. Corruption, bribery and unfair anti-competitive actions grators and resellers. In many transactions this means that we do not are not accepted. All employees are expected to promote, contribmeet the end customer. The legal responsibility for how systems and ute to and uphold the company’s values, integrity and responsibildata are used and stored follows each country’s laws and regulations ity. Axis also informs its suppliers, distributors, system integrators, and the responsibility therefore lies primarily with the user, i.e. the consultants and other business partners that they should follow end customer. these principles. 6 Axis and society Public surveillance Surveillance of traffic and public places makes cities safer Axis’ network cameras are used to protect people’s lives and health. The cameras monitor public places and traffic flows around the world in order to prevent crime and accidents. The cameras are also used to increase security in schools, stores and in many other connections. The results from an international survey conducted by the National Council for Crime Prevention in Sweden, based on a written report of surveys carried out in the US, Canada, Sweden and Norway, show that crime has decreased at places which have been placed under surveillance. Similar results have also been reported in later studies in various countries. According to the survey, the number of crimes at parking lots, for instance, has been halved at locations where surveillance cameras have been installed. In specific areas the effect has been almost 80 percent. In city centers and areas subject to a higher crime risk, the average effect is a 7 percent decrease in the number of criminal incidents, ple, damage to property, violence and insurance fraud. The cameras while on public transport the number of criminal incidents has deare also used to reduce the costs of transport management and to creased by an average of 23 percent. monitor traffic and road conditions in vulnerable areas. Many schools are facing a growing problem of violence and maltreatAxis’ network cameras have made it possible for retail businesses all ment directed towards students and teachers. In addition, theft and over the world to optimize sales efforts and to streamline store and vandalism often entail high costs for servicing and equipment. Thereinventory planning on site or remotely. Installing surveillance camfore, schools and other educational establishments around the world eras is also a way of preventing wastage, shoplifting and theft in the are investing in boosting security with Axis’ network cameras for surretail trade. The cameras increase the security of both personnel and veillance of school yards, corridors, classrooms and other premises. customers. Within the transportation sector, Axis’ cameras are used to increase * Report 2007:29 “Camera surveillance and crime prevention”, The National Council for safety for travelers by improving security and preventing, for examCrime Prevention in Sweden. Public surveillance 7 Axis and the environment Axis’ ambition is that environmental considerations must be applied to the entire value chain, from the selection of materials and suppliers to the use of the final product and its recycling. A considerable part of the environmental impact during the lifecycle of the products is related to their energy consumption during use by the end customers. Thus, great importance is attached to development of products which display good energy performance. In 2006, Axis conducted a study of the company’s overall environRaw Material Extraction and mental impact and updated this in 2008. The study showed that the Processing Manufacturing company’s products and transportation of goods account for the majority of the operations’ environmental impact. The study results are used to guide Axis’ environmental work towards those areas which have greatest importance, but other areas such as the operations’ energy consumption, business trips etc. are also analyzed and End of life continually adjusted. Transportation Environmental aspects of Axis’ products Axis’ ambition is that environmental considerations must be applied Use to the entire value chain, from the selection of materials for components to the use of the final product. During 2009, Axis conducted its first product Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) Stages in a product’s life cycle. in order to develop a clear understanding of the environmental impact of one of its new products during the product’s entire life cycle. Raw material extraction and processing (EN1, PR3) The study was a pilot project aimed at establishing a feasible method Axis aims to use materials and components which may be recycled to for use in Axis’ product development process. a large extent such as aluminum, zinc and plastic. The analysis, which is described in more detail on page 13, identified The main materials (weight-based) used in Axis products are: the user phase as the part of the life cycle where the product had the >> Aluminum greatest environmental impact, which is a consequence of the net>> Zinc work camera’s energy consumption during the time when it is used >> Steel by the end customer. >> Stainless steel >> PC/ABS (polycarbonate and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polymer) However, it is worth noting that an important benefit of the use of >> PC (polycarbonate) network cameras is that they contribute to a reduced environmen>> PA (polyamide polymer) tal impact for customers who use them for remote monitoring. This >> Rubber means that a customer, who for example has responsibility for a number of retail stores spread over a large geographical area, is able Axis does not currently have complete information regarding the proto monitor these units without having to travel to them and thus portion of recycled material included in our products, this is under inemissions of carbon dioxide are reduced. vestigation and we will hopefully have a finalized result during 2011. 8 Axis and the environment All electronic products have one or more PCBAs (printed circuit board certifies component suppliers; supports the contract manufacturers assemblies), consisting of a board featuring several electronic comin establishing efficient production processes and monitors the perponents. The board itself is made of plastic and fiberglass. Besides formance of all suppliers. The supplier model is based on close and the main plastic material, printed circuit boards also contain smaller long-term relationships, which also allows for a good insight into the amounts of raw materials such as copper, gold, nickel, zinc, beryllium, supplier companies. tantalum, coltan and other metals. Axis can directly influence the first chain of subcontractors through a Axis collaborates with its component suppliers to ensure that all careful supplier selection process and supplier contracts. Further back existing and future products meet the requirements for elimination in the supplier chain – i.e. supply of bulk components – it becomes of environmentally hazardous components and substances. The comincreasingly difficult to exercise control apart from component specipany meets the demands of the EU RoHS directive on restriction of fications. certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, as well as the EU REACH directive on Registration, Evaluation, AuthoAxis currently collaborates with four contract manufacturers and rization and Restriction of Chemicals. approximately 100 strategic component suppliers. Contract manufacturers, operating in Thailand, Poland, Slovakia and South Korea, In addition to the legal requirements, Axis maintains its own list of are responsible for production of Axis’ PCBA (printed circuit board banned and restricted substances in order to further eliminate the assembly), and the assembly of complete products. The strategic number of dangerous and undesired substances in the products. component suppliers are located all over the world. During 2009–2010, Axis has put a great effort into collecting deAxis requires that all suppliers and contract manufacturers have tailed information on all materials used in our products. All Axis knowledge of legislation and applicable regulations in the environsuppliers are required to deliver detailed material declarations, mental and working environment area as well as in areas related to including a list of all materials and substances used in each comthe ethical standards covered by Axis’ Code of Conduct for suppliers. ponent. Axis also requires contract manufacturers to be certified according to ISO 14001. The manufacturers must also be able to show that they Packaging are in compliance with these requirements and Axis performs annual Axis’ packaging is mainly made from recycled material although for visits and audits with action lists, schedules and follow-up. technical reasons certain parts of carton boxes, such as the outer linings, are made from new fiber. There are two types of fittings, Strategic component manufacturers shall be ISO 14001 certified or PET plastic and PE foam. All PET fittings are made from recycled PET work according to an environmental management system approved whereas the PE foam is usually not made from recycled materials. by Axis. Strategic component manufacturers are also subject to reguBoth types of fittings can be recycled. lar inspections and audits, usually on an annual basis. Manufacturing All suppliers must provide information about the raw materials used All production of Axis’ products is carried out by contract manufacin the products supplied to Axis. Since Axis’ products only represent turers. Axis designs and develops the products; selects, contracts and a smaller part of the manufacturing carried out by contract manuAxis and the environment 9 facturers and component suppliers, Axis does not request specific blies and camera units in bulk packaging from its manufacturers to information regarding the manufacturers’ energy consumption, water Atlanta for final assembly, configuration, and packaging for delivery consumption and total waste. However, improvements in these areas to customers in North America. This has reduced the transportation are reviewed at the annual audits. volumes to the US by more than half, which has had a positive impact on the environment. It is now also possible to transport bulk articles Logistics and transportation by ship to CLC warehouses instead of the previous practice of transProducts are sold via an indirect distribution model, whereby Axis’ porting finished products by air directly to the customer, which has sales take place in the first stage to distributors. They stock the prodfurther reduced the environmental impact of freight transportation. ucts and supply them to the system integrators and resellers who are the partners that meet the end customers. All in all, Axis has some The mode of transport is largely determined by the requirement of 35,000 partners worldwide. short lead times for deliveries. Inbound components mainly go by ship and road transport. Outbound transports within Europe principally go Axis has four Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC) in Hungary, via road, but in the case of the US, they largely take place by air. Thailand, the US and Sweden. Only the Swedish center is managed by Axis while the rest are operated by other companies. High volumes of Products in use products are bulk packed and shipped from contract manufacturers As described above, Axis has identified energy consumption over time to Axis CLCs where software and accessories are added before the when using the products as the single largest environmental impact products are individually packed and shipped to our customers. of the company’s products. Prior to the establishment of the CLC in Atlanta, US in 2009, final Reducing the energy consumption of our products is continually products were shipped directly to customers in US from CLCs in in focus, not just from an environmental perspective but also as Hungary, Thailand and Sweden. Now Axis is able to send subassemregards performance, as the generation of heat which occurs when 10 Axis and the environment the energy consumption is high may have an adverse impact on the in connection with the transport of goods controlled by Axis itself. image quality. An important factor is to choose efficient power supAxis produced a Carbon Footprint report during 2010 (see page 15) in plies and Axis expects that the company will progressively be able to order to describe the environmental impact of CO2 emissions from its reduce the products’ power consumption by a magnitude of 10 % by operations, including freight transports. choosing more efficient power supplies whenever possible. Axis itself develops the processes for the cameras, facilitating development of As part of the work of reducing the environmental impact of freight new, more energy efficient models. transports, Axis has reduced the number of transport service providers and has elected to work with a smaller number of environmenAxis’ products are CE marked and no instances of non-compliance tally certified companies. Axis also uses the climate compensation with regulations for product and service information have been reprovided by different suppliers (such as DHL GoGreen etc.) to a cercorded. Axis has not received any significant fines or non-monetary tain extent. sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Nor have any incidents of non-compliance related to health Emissions from outbound transports 2009 2010 and safety impacts of products and services occurred. kg CO2 per shipped unit 7.1 7.8 End of life Emissions from inbound transports 2009 2010 The decommissioning of the camera refers to the end-of-life treatg CO2 per ton-km 113 138 ment and disposal of the camera. Approximately 95 percent of an Axis camera can be recycled or combusted, thus only 5 percent needs One explanation for the increase is that Axis’ product portfolio in to be sent to landfill (according to Swedish standards). 2010 includes heavier products, such as outdoor-ready cameras (Axis cameras built into a housing). In the end-of-life stage, the camera is disassembled automatically (grinder) and manually. Firstly, parts containing hazardous waste, Axis does not control all inbound transports and at this point is only such as PCBAs (printed circuit board assemblies), are separated by able to measure and influence a small portion of these transports. hand for special treatment. The bulkier components of the PCBA are Emissions from inbound transports are based on CO2 data supplied by then removed; the board is melted down and its precious metals such our transport company. They are measured in grams of CO2 per tonas gold are recycled. The grinder separates parts by using magnetism km since we don’t have data regarding the number of shipped items. and differences in density. Aluminum, zinc, copper, steel and stainless Emissions from inbound transports have also increased in 2010 comsteel are melted down to be reused as raw materials. Plastics are eipared to 2009 as a result of a rise in the use of air freight. Normally, ther recycled to be reused in plastic products, or are used to produce inbound components mainly go by ship and road transport, but due to energy. the release of a large number of new products and the requirement of short lead times, air freight was used to a greater extent during 2010. Axis’ products are covered by the EU’s WEEE directive (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment), which among other things, means that One step towards reducing our freight emissions was the initiation the manufacturer/importer of electronics has a responsibility for enof a project during 2011 to examine how Axis can optimize its prodsuring that the waste is collected separately. A symbol on the product uct packaging and also to review the logistics flow for a specifically of a garbage can with a cross on top shows that collection shall take selected product series and thereby make it possible to reduce the place. As manufacturer, Axis is responsible for marking its products. environmental impact of our transports through improved logistics and packaging volumes. Environmental impact from Axis’ operations Axis also analysed the direct environmental impact from the comSince Axis has suppliers, customers and partners throughout the world, pany’s own operations as part of the environmental surveys carried business trips also constitute an important environmental aspect. This out. The corporate headquarters, the CLC unit in Lund and regional impact is described more under Carbon Footprint on page 15. offices are also regarded as own operations. The other CLC units are operated by other companies, so Axis’ possibility of influencing the In 2009, Axis made considerable investments to increase and improve operations is limited. the use of webinars both internally and for training of partners. During 2010 eight webinars were held involving a total of 8,000 particiMaterials pants all over the world, and implying substantial reductions in the Axis’ own operations have a limited environmental impact and connumber of business trips both for Axis and the company’s partners. sumption of materials is mainly related to the use of office materials. Energy Transport Axis Communications buys electricity from external suppliers and the Axis has a goal of reducing the environmental impact of its transenergy mix varies depending on the location of the facility. Axis enports. In the first instance, it is a question of reducing CO2 emissions ergy consumption is included in our Carbon Footprint study. Axis and the environment 11 m3 m3/employee The energy consumption as total has slightly increased from 2009 to 8,000 25 2010, as a natural result of an increase of office spaces and employees. The energy consumption per employee has however decreased by 20 6,000 approximately 19 %. 15 4,000 10 As Axis rents all its premises, larger investments to reduce energy consumption must take place on the landlord’s initiative. During 2,000 5 2010 some improvements were made in the facilities of Axis head0 0 quarters. One of the improvements was to install a heat pump, which 2009 2010 2009 2010 CLC 800 831 CLC 12.3 10.9 has had a positive effect on the use of energy for heating and cooling. HQ 6,400 7,548 HQ 12.1 11.4 At the headquarters, Axis has carried out investments including reTotal amount of water used at HQ Total amount of water per employee and CLC Lund 2009–2010 used at HQ and CLC Lund 2009–2010 placement of traditional lighting in favour of LED lighting and this work is continuing. Furthermore, during 2010 Axis moved its Configuration and Logistics Center in Lund to new premises with a new Biodiversity heating and ventilation system, resulting in lower operating costs Axis does not own, rent or manage land. Nor does the company have and energy consumption than in the former premises. There are still any activities in areas identified as protected areas of high biodivera lot of improvements to be done and Axis will keep on working tosity value outside protected areas. wards further efficient use of energy. Chemicals and Waste MWh MWh/employee Waste from Axis is collected by Lunds Renhållningsverk, which is 5,000 25 responsible for waste management in the municipality of Lund. All waste management is executed in compliance with national legisla4,000 20 tion. According to Lunds Renhållningsverk, 33 % of the non hazard3,000 15 ous waste generated by Axis’ head office was recycled, 66 % was 10 incinerated and 1 % was used for land filling during 2010 and 2009. 2,000 At the CLC 76 % of the non hazardous waste was recycled, 23.8 % 1,000 5 was incinerated and 0.1 % was used for land filling. 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 Regional office 682 774 Regional office 3.0 2.9 The non hazardous waste at Axis’ head office mainly consists of CLC 786 707 CLC 12.1 9.3 household waste. Non hazardous waste at the CLC mainly consists of HQ 3,820 3,871 HQ 7.2 5.9 corrugated paper, which explains the difference between the amount Energy consumption (year 2009–2010, Energy consumption per employee of recycled waste at the CLC and the head office. HQ, CLC 1, Regional office) (year 2009–2010, HQ, CLC 1, Regional office) Axis is a growing company and needs to continually work on reducing the amount of waste by increasing the awareness of our employees and improve management of resources. Water The source of water for the facilities in Lund is municipal water suptons tons plied by Lund municipality. The water withdrawal sources are not designated as protected areas (nationally and/or internationally) and 150 15 have no specific biodiversity value. Axis has no process water but only water consumption linked to housekeeping, drinking water, toilets 100 10 etc. Consequently, no water recycling takes place. Data has only been collected for Axis’ facilities in Lund, where 75 % of all employees are 50 5 located. 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 Just like the energy consumption the total amount of water has CLC 124 123 CLC 10.9 10.1 HQ 51.5 54.3 HQ 6.3 5.9 slightly increased from 2009 to 2010, but the consumption per employee has decreased by approximately 8 %. Tons non hazardous waste generated at Tons hazardous waste generated at HQ HQ and CLC Lund 2009–2010 and CLC Lund 2009–2010 12 Axis and the environment Life Cycle Analysis Provides the basis for continued environmental work During 2009, Axis conducted its first product Life Cycle Analysis LCA result. This needs to be taken into consideration when comparing (LCA) in order to develop a clear understanding of the environthe result of different life cycle assessments. mental impact of one of its new products during its entire life cycle. The study was a pilot project aimed at establishing a feasible Utilization has the largest impact method for use in Axis’ product development process. Axis elected to perform the Life Cycle Analysis on AXIS Q6032-E PTZ, which at the time was a relatively newly released camera with A LCA is used to identify the ways in which a product impacts the an estimated useful life of 10 years. The following processes were environment throughout its entire life cycle. The results of a LCA included in the LCA study: Raw Material Extraction and Processing, analysis make it possible to make decisions and implement improveManufacturing, Transportation (between manufacturing sites and to ments to reduce the environmental impact of future product designs customers), Use (Utilization) and End of life. The study assumed that and processes. the product was produced at Axis’ contractual manufacturer in Poland and two user scenarios; camera sold and used in US and camera The LCA project was conducted as a master thesis at the end of 2009 sold and used in EU. and beginning of 2010. Besides the LCA study, the project also led to the development of a tool for performing simplified LCAs on other Environmental impact during the product life cycle Axis cameras and a guideline/platform to be used in product develop(as percent of total) ment processes in order to enhance life cycle thinking. Life cycle phase European scenario US scenario Raw material, extraction and processing 6% 5% The study covers both substances that are damaging to health as well Manufacturing 12 % 9% as those harmful to the environment. Examples of impact categories Transportation 2% 12 % in the study are carcinogens, climate change, ozone layer, ecotoxicity and acidification/eutrophication. These impact categories are sumUse 85 % 78 % marized in three so-called damage categories, Human Health, EcoEnd of life –5 % –4 % system Quality and Resources. The result of the LCA shows that the phase which has the largest In a proper LCA the entire life cycle shall be taken into consideration. potential environmental impact is utilization and the use of elecIt is worth noting that even though there are standards for how to tricity. Utilization accounts for approximately 85 % of the product’s perform an LCA, results from different studies are not directly compaenvironmental impact during the entire life cycle if the camera is rable. For example, selection of system boundaries and assumptions installed in Europe. If it is installed in the US it accounts for aphas a significant influence on the results of the LCA. There are several proximately 79 %, due to the fact that transportation has a higher software programs which are of assistance in conducting LCAs. The impact since the product needs to be transported a longer distance choice of software program can also have some impact on the final and by air. Life Cycle Analysis 13 Raw material extraction End of life Transport Transport Material processing Axis Q6032-E Transport Utilization Transport Assembly, Transport Manufacturing configuration, & assembly packaging & distribution Better understanding The amount of energy used by the camera over 10 years equals the Manufacturing comes second in the European scenario, followed by amount of energy that a 60 W regular light bulb consumes during raw material extraction & processing and transportation. Decomconstant use for approximately 4.2 years. It will take 24 days for the missioning impacts have a negative value, i.e. the environment is average European to emit the same amount of CO2 as the camera impacted positively. The transportation category has second highest does during its lifetime. And it will take 27 days for an average Euoverall environmental impact in the alternative scenario (where the ropean to consume the same amount of energy as the camera does camera is transported by air to the US). during its lifetime. The total amount of CO2 which the camera emits during its life cycle The result of the LCA and the development of a method for conductreaches 662.6 kg in the scenario with the highest environmental iming simplified LCAs has provided Axis with a better understanding of pact (the US scenario). This amount corresponds to what a car emits the actual environmental impact of our products and given us tools during a 5,100 km trip. Interestingly, transportation emits the least which can help us to improve the environmental impact of our prodCO2 out of all the life cycle phases. ucts in the future. 14 Life Cycle Analysis Carbon Footprint report Focus on energy consumption and freight transports As a complement to the product life cycle assessment, Axis has total footprint of Axis’ corporate operations has increased from 8,085 performed an analysis of the company’s Carbon Footprint in relatons CO2e [2] in 2009 to 10,366 tons CO2e in 2010. This is an increase tion to its operations, in other words, the environmental impact of 28 %. of Axis’ activities and operations through emissions of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide). The total amount of emissions relative to sales has however decreased slightly in 2010 compared to 2009. Emissions generated Axis’ Carbon Footprint report was finalized in February 2011. In this inby our employees (all activities excluding emissions from freight augural Carbon Footprint report, Axis chose to focus on emissions from transports) are more or less unchanged. The result is presented in the facility energy consumption, company cars, business travel and paper charts below. consumption. The report is based on data from 2009 and 2010 collected tCO2e per sales tCO2e per employee from the corporate headquarters, the Configuration and Logistic Center (excl third-party deliveries) (CLC) in Lund and Axis regional offices. Besides the above activities, the 30 5 report also includes emissions from all outbound and inbound freights controlled by Axis. The choice of system boundaries has an impact on 25 4 the results of the analysis. This needs to be taken into consideration 20 when comparing Axis’ results with other Carbon Footprint reports. 3 15 2 The main purpose of the Carbon Footprint report is to identify Axis’ 10 emissions of greenhouse gases pertaining to different activities and 1 5 areas and to provide us with a better understanding of where to initially focus our efforts. 0 2009 2010 0 2009 2010 tCO2e per 27 25 tCO2e per 4.5 4.4 The assessment has been performed in accordance with the World USD 100 M employee Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute’s (WBCSD/WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol. It has It is also worth noting that Axis’ sales have increased by 36 % while been conducted with the help of a consulting group specialized in the increase of emissions is 28 %, indicating that sales revenues have sustainability. The collection of data and the calculations of greengrown at a faster rate than our emissions. house emissions have been carried out using an Internet-based tool called “Our Impact”. Approximately 50 % of the emissions are caused by outbound freight transports, which are the main contributor to the company’s greenAs a result of Axis’ growth as a company, including an increase in house gas emissions. Business travel is the second largest item and employees of 15 % [1], greater product sales and larger facilities, the represents approximately 27 % of our emissions. Carbon Footprint report 15 The large increase in emissions from third-party deliveries can be exto reduce the company’s greenhouse gas emissions is being drawn plained by the fact that Axis expanded the reporting scope in 2010 to up and will be adopted during 2011. In the case of outbound freight include outbound air freights from the CLC in Hungary and inbound transports, the activity which causes the greatest environmental transports from our contracted supplier in Thailand. In previous years, impact, a measurable target and action plan to reduce CO2 emissions these transports were not controlled by Axis, which is why they were are already in place. not included in the report for 2009. It is therefore difficult to state without further analysis if the emissions of CO2e have actually inThe result of the report will be communicated internally at Axis to creased in 2010. further raise awareness of the company’s environmental impact among our employees, as a first step towards our goal of reducing An action plan defining the program of action that Axis will be taking Axis’ Carbon Footprint. tCO2e per activity 2009–2010 Total Paper Outbound third-party deliveries Inbound third-party deliveries Long term leased vehicles Premises [1] Number of employees is based on the number of Business travel employees at the organizational units included in the assessment and not Axis Communications as a whole. 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 Long term Inbound Outbound [2] CO2e, carbon dioxide equivalents, is a measurement Business Premises leased third-party third-party Paper Total for describing how much global warming a given type travel vehicles deliveries deliveries and amount of greenhouse gas may cause, using the 2010 tCO2e 2,373 977 604 1,153 5,199 59 10,366 functionally equivalent amount or concentration of 2009 tCO2e 2,004 819 594 612 3,976 80 8,085 carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference. Taiwan is badly hit by flooding and cloudbursts on account of its geographical location. The flooding causes considerable damage to both crops and property and also puts people’s lives and health at risk. There is a great need for a system that can warn the residents and the government has therefore received assistance from Axis’ partners in order to install a network surveillance system. 16 Kapitelnamn Axis as a workplace Axis is a rapidly growing global company with offices in more than 30 countries and partners in more than 70 countries. Our mission is to be the driving force in bringing customers the full benefits of intelligent network video solutions. The knowledge and motivation of our employees are central to our efforts to develop and market our products and solutions globally. In recent years, the human resource function has been developed into employee representatives was formed and safety representatives a global organization with regional human resource representatives. were appointed from among the employees in the Swedish operaThere is a focus on ensuring that all parts of the organization handle tions. human resource matters including recruitment, training and core values in a structured and uniform way. In 2008, the company signed Growing number of employees a collective bargaining agreement with unions encompassing the Axis is growing and global expansion continued during 2010 when Swedish part of the Group. the number of employees increased to 914 (774), representing growth of 18.1 %. Axis’ operations are divided into nine different Successful recruitment and introduction of new employees is of vital sales regions and the company´s headquarters including R & D and all importance for Axis’ ability to grow and develop as a company and support functions are situated in Lund, Sweden. Of the 914 employworkplace. During 2010, the number of employees continued to inees 73 % are men and 27 % are women. crease at a high rate in line with the overall growth of the company. Ensuring that the entire organization acts according to Axis’ core Over the last four years, Axis has more than doubled the size of its values is a key factor which we believe is closely linked to our sucoperations in terms of the number of employees; from 438 employees cess. All new employees in the global organization participate in an in 2006 to 914 at the end of 2010. introduction program in Sweden and the company’s core values are an important topic during recruitment, introduction and in bringing 90 % of the workforce is currently covered by our Human Resources new employees on board in the day-to-day operations. system. The system is continuously expanding and we aim to cover 100 % of the workforce by the end of 2011. Code of Conduct Axis’ Code of Conduct states that all employees are to be treated with The majority of Axis’ employees are employed in Sweden; 66 % in respect and dignity. The company shall promote diversity and not 2010 (65 %). Although corporate policies apply to the Group as a engage in or support discrimination in hiring, compensation, access whole, specific practices may vary between different countries due to to training, promotion, or termination based on ethnic or national national legislation and other local conditions. origin, caste, religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, physical disability, union affiliation or political opinion. Recruiting, developing and retaining our people are crucial aspects of Axis’ success and we believe that the low employee turnover 6.4 % The Code of Conduct also states that a safe and healthy working (5.6 %) confirms our strong efforts in these areas. environment shall be provided for all employees in compliance with international and national laws. There is also a Working Environment Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and Policy that outlines the main responsibilities in the area. Efforts in the number of fatalities are handled locally in accordance with local the area of work environment and job safety have been stepped up regulations. All major occupational injuries are to be reported to Axis during 2010. A work environment council comprising company and Headquarters. Axis as a workplace 17 Introduction Program Knowledge is easily shared All employees participate in a local introduction program followed Axis’ culture and having met and got to know colleagues from all by a global introduction program at Axis’ headquarters in Sweden. over the world, it is now very clear that this culture is alive throughThe global program includes meetings with the corporate manageout all our offices worldwide. The Swedish culture is also refreshingly ment team, an introduction to Axis’ global processes and tools, different to the English one and here at the headquarters you can building networks and getting a feel for the Axis spirit and core walk around and meet the CEO and say hello to him whereas in the values. Ross McMurray was one of the new employees who particiUK this would never happen. pated in the Axis Introduction Program in 2010. How would you describe the Axis culture? – It is very relaxed; the knowledge sharing is very evident and extremely important for me and also makes my job a lot easier. The culture is very team-oriented and people help each other in order to achieve our common goals. What is your view on Axis’ way of introducing new employees? – When I started, I was really looked after and quickly felt integrated into the team. I was shadowing someone for two weeks in order to learn the job and I also attended a training academy in the UK. The on-the-job experience was very useful and now I am participating in the Introduction Program which is of great benefit to me in many ways. What is your view of the Axis Introduction Program? – The Introduction Program is excellent and I have learnt many things this week. I am now fully aware of the extensive tools and resources available to assist me in my everyday duties. I have learnt more about Ross McMurray from the UK is one of the many new employees who have participated in the introduction program at Axis’ headquarters in Lund, Sweden. 18 Introduction Program Employees in the world 36 South America 2 % Average age North America 12 % Full-time employees Part-time employees 99 % 1% Asia 11 % Permanent employment Other type of employment 98,5 % 1,5 % years EMEA Sweden University education Other education 13 % 62 % 75 % 25 % An open company Training and development Organizational development and our working methods are vital comAxis is a focused company, dedicated to network video products. In ponents at Axis. New employees (140 in 2010) bring new influences order to succeed and advance our knowledge, we must nurture and to Axis and develop the company every day since the corporate culdevelop our employees. All Axis employees receive regular perforture stimulates new initiatives. As a global company with a relatively mance and career development reviews. Axis’ global performance and small number of employees, it is important for us to be able to work development process makes it possible to work together with our emtogether and harness our cultural and geographical diversity. We put ployees towards goals that benefit the individual and also contribute a lot of effort into creating an open environment from the bottom up value to Axis’ business. After follow up of the performance and deand throughout the organization, enabling people to take initiatives velopment process for 2010 we can state that 88 % of all employees and seek solutions outside their organization. Transparency and an received a performance and development review during 2010. ability to identify potential are central to our operations. Employee training and development is matched to the employees’ Employee benefits needs and potential. Among other things, we work with a global Terms and conditions are generally handled on an individual basis beleadership program aimed at supporting the development of leadertween employer and employee. Axis aims to offer a compensation packship skills among new managers and expanding their global network age that is competitive in the local market, enabling employees to feel with a view to improving cross-border collaboration. motivated. A position evaluation tool was purchased and implemented in 2010 in order to ensure that we are a competitive employer. The tool makes it possible to compare the basic salary of men and women by occupational category. The composition of governance bodies and breakAxis’ core values down of employees per category according to gender, age group and minority group membership and other diversity indicators can be found in Axis has three core values that guide our decision-making and the annual report. Full-time and part-time employees have an expanded behavior. They keep us focused on reaching our goals and on health care plan and are entitled to an annual bonus when it is paid. building an organization that we can be proud of. All employees in Sweden are covered by collective bargaining agree> Act as one! ments while at a global level 68 % of the total workforce is covered We are helpful, dedicated and responsible in order to create an by such agreements. The collective bargaining agreement in Sweden, innovative work environment, beneficial for our employees and in conjunction with Swedish law, regulates all employee/employer customers. relations such as working time, minimum notice period, employee influence and regulations regarding employment and termination of > Always open! employment etc. We embrace change, think outside the box and promote an open and transparent organization. This is fundamental to us in A health and safety committee in Sweden covers 66 % of the total order to be number one in a market that is constantly evolving. global workforce. Three members represent both white-collar and bluecollar employees. A work environment inspection was conducted at Axis > Think big! HQ during 2010 by external professionals; Axis passed this inspection. We are growing and need to plan for the future in every decision we take. We need to be one step ahead at all times, we are Providing a good and safe working environment in compliance with the market leader and we shall drive the development. local laws and regulations is important for Axis. Axis’ health and safety matters are regulated in formal agreements with trade unions. Axis as a workplace 19 Global Leadership Program Creating room for development Axis uses a global leadership program aimed at supporting the denew possibilities vis-à-vis all stakeholders in our business. At Axis a velopment of leadership skills among new managers and expandnew challenge always lies around the corner. ing their global network to improve cross-border collaboration. Coralie Roy works as Marketing Manager in Axis’ Southern Europe What is your experience of the Axis Global Leadership Program? Sales region and has been with Axis since 2007. She started her career at Axis as a Marketing Coordinator and is one of the man– I have always had coaching from my manager since I started at agers participating in the global leadership program. Axis, but I think that the global leadership program has helped me to understand how to interact better with others in order to work How do you perceive the Axis way of developing you as an employee? more efficiently. I have also gained a clearer view on how to develop my strengths while working on my weaknesses. The network I have – The Human Resources department at Axis offers lots of tools for developed with the other participants, both internally and externally, developing the employees. For instance, the annual performance realso means a lot to me, as I can turn to peers for advice or just to view offered to every employee makes it possible to create a personal share ideas. The fact that the program is an ongoing long-term prodevelopment plan to reinforce our expertise and strengths. The Axis cess makes it easier to step back and reflect on actions continuously. culture also encourages us to share creative ideas and participate in new projects that we are interested in such as virtual councils and cross-border projects. There is real scope for professional development thanks to many opportunities to talk with our managers about the future outlook. How would you express the Axis culture in your own words? – The sharing of ideas and the proactive way of working at Axis is striking compared to other companies. Our core values – Think big, Act as one and Always be open – are reflected in the everyday work and are perceived by our own customers. We have the opportunity to develop with the company and we always strive to incorporate longterm improvement considerations into everything we do. We also act as one in our teams and with our partners, treating each other with respect and going beyond the scope of our duties to achieve a comCoralie Roy works as Marketing Manager in Axis’ Southern Europe Sales region. She is mon goal. The work is extremely focused on always being open to one of the managers currently participating in Axis’ global leadership program. 20 Global Leadership Program GRI references Axis’ sustainability report 2010 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. The following index shows where in the report, the Annual Report 2010 and the Corporate Governance Report 2010 the information can be found. Only the GRI core indicators, and the additional indicators Axis has opted to report, are listed. GRI requirement Page GRI requirement Page PROFILE 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of 4 1. Strategy & analysis the highest governance body. 1.1 Statement from President and CEO Ray Mauritsson. 3 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 4 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social perfor1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3 mance and the status of their implementation. 2. Organizational profile 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing sustainability 4 2.1 Name of the organization. 1 performance. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 1 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 2 particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 23 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 2 is addressed by the organization. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, princi4 2.7 Markets served. 2 ples, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy > – 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 5 organizations. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. – 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 5 3. Report scope and boundary 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. – 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 5 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engage– ment by type and by stakeholder group. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 4 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder > – 3.3 Reporting cycle. 4 engagement. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 23 3.5 Process for defining report content, including 4–5 3.6 Boundary of the report. 4–5 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 4–5 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comparability NA Indicator Description UNGC Page from period to period and/or between organizations. Economic performance 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. NA Core EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 4 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information. NA Core EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 7 – 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, > NA to climate change. boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Core EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obliga4 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 21–22 tions. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 23 Core EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 4 the report. Market presence 4. Governance, commitments and engagement ADD EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to > – 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 4.2 Chairman’s position. 4 CORE EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based – 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent 4 suppliers. and/or non-executive members. CORE EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manage6 18 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4 ment hired from the local community. or direction to the highest governance body. Indirect economic impacts 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance 4 CORE EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and – body, senior managers, and executives, and the organization’s perforservices provided primarily for public benefit through commance. mercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 4 CORE EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic – interest are avoided. impacts, including the extent of impacts. GRI references 21 Indicator Description UNGC Page Indicator Description UNGC Page Environmental performance indicators ADD LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 19 CORE EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8 8 ADD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 19 CORE EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input > – career development reviews. materials. CORE LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employees per 1, 6 19 CORE EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 11 category (gender, age group, minority group). CORE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 11 CORE LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 1, 6 – CORE EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improve8–9 11 Human rights performance indicators ments. CORE HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment 1–6 – ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy 8–9 10 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have based products and services, and reductions in energy > undergone human rights screening. requirements. CORE HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 1–6 – ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reduc8–9 – undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. tions achieved. ADD HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 1–6 19 CORE EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 8 12 concerning aspects of human rights. ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 8 12 CORE HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions 1, 2, 6 – taken. ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 12 CORE HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom 1–3 19 Core EN11 Land owned, leased, managed in protected areas and areas of 12 of association and collective bargaining may be at significant high biodiversity value. risk, and actions taken to support these rights. CORE EN12 Impact on biodiversity. – CORE HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 1, 2, 5 6 ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 12 of child labor. ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing 8 – CORE HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 1, 3, 4 6 impacts on biodiversity. of forced or compulsory labor. ADD EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation – ADD HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s NA list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights. level of extinction risk. ADD HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of > 1–2 NA CORE EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 10 indigenous people and actions taken. CORE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 10 Society performance indicators ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 7–9 11 CORE SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts NA CORE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. 12 of operations on communities. CORE EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions. – CORE SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for – risks related to corruption. CORE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 8 12 CORE SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-> 10 – CORE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 12 corruption policies and procedures. CORE EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. – CORE SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 NA ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 12 ADD SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy > 1–10 NA deemed hazardous. development and lobbying. ADD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of > – ADD SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, > 10 NA water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by politicians, and related institutions. discharges of water and runoff. ADD SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, NA CORE EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 7–9 13 anti-trust, and monopoly practices. and services. CORE SO8 Monetary value of fines and number of sanctions for non– CORE EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials – compliance with laws and regulations. that are reclaimed by category. Product responsibility performance indicators CORE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non10 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental CORE PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of > 1 13 laws and regulations. products and services are assessed. ADD EN29 Environmental impact of transports. 8 11 ADD PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volun– tary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and invest– and services. ments by type. CORE PR3 Type of product and service information required by proce8 Labor practices and decent work performance indicators dures. CORE LA1 Total workforce. 17 ADD PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 10 CORE LA2 Employee turnover. 17 voluntary codes concerning product and service information ADD LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees. – and labeling. CORE LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 1, 3 – ADD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. 6 agreements. CORE PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary 4 CORE LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes. 19 codes related to marketing communications. ADD LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 19 ADD PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and NA management–worker health and safety committees. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. CORE LA7 Work-related accidents and diseases. 17 ADD PR8 Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of – customer privacy and losses of customer data. CORE LA8 Action program relating to serious diseases. 17 CORE PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with laws and – ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 1 19 regulations concerning products and services. trade unions. CORE LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee. 19 UNGC: United Nations Global Compact principle 22 GRI references Axis AB, company registration number 556241-1065, is a Swedish company and parent company of Axis Communications AB. The head office is in Lund, Sweden. This sustainability report is focused on sustainability efforts within Axis Commmunications and mainly based on the guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. The report has not been audited. All figures are in SEK unless otherwise stated. Advisors: Aspekta Graphic design: Lönegård & Co Please visit www.axis.com for more information. C IC E OL A R D BE English revised by Word of Mouth Communications NO Photos: Lars Owesson, J M Dupont, Stefan Lundberg, Alain D Boillat, Axis, Contact for the report: L iStockphoto/Christopher Futcher, Malerapaso, Image Source/Christopher Robbins Margareta Lantz, IR & Corporate Communications Manager 341 425 Printing: Tryckfolket, 2011 +46 46 272 1892 margareta.lantz@axis.com 23 www.axis.com About Axis Communications 42601 BROCH SUSTAINABILITY EN 1103 R1.0 Filename: report_sus 42601_en_1103.pdf Axis is an IT company offering network video solutions for professional installations. The company is the global market leader in network video, driving the ongoing shift from analog to digital video surveillance. Axis’ Baksida products and solutions focus on security surveillance and remote monitoring, and are based on innovative and open technology platforms. Axis is a Swedish-based company, operating worldwide with offices in more than 20 countries and cooperating with partners in more than 70 countries. Founded in 1984, Axis is listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website at www.axis.com. Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund ©2011 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
