UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2011 INDEX ITEM SUBJECT PAGE 1 Statement of Continued Support & Commitments 3 2 Further Actions 4 2.1 Human Rights 4 2.2 Labour 5 2.3 Environment 6 2.4 Anti-Corruption 6 2 1. Statement of Continued Support & Commitments BUTEK is pleased to see UN GLOBAL COMPACT’s increasing positive impacts on other companies and stakeholders since 2006. We hereby declare that BUTEK continues to embrace the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles, as well as to integrate the principles into our business activities. Through this global network, our aim is to be willing to help and support all people in the world and the community in which we are a part. Namık Kemal MEMIS CEO 3 2. Further Actions 2.1. Human Rights Butek has adopted the principle of human rights protection as determined by international, European law and Turkish basic rights. Also the human rights are not only in principle, we encourage the implementation of human rights to all employees in our company and to all companies which we work together. Butek is a big family because we see our employees’ like our family so all employees’ could express their views on any issues related with Butek. Our principle involves a transparent and democratic working environment. Education is an effective way to ensure human rights in the workplace. For this purpose, BUTEK employees participates at least 3 internal and/or external training programs every year. Some of them are listed below: • Basic PC informations training • Face-to-face sales skills training • Quality management system training ( 9001: 2008 revision) • SWOT analysis training In terms of Women’s Empowerment Principles 3 female employees began to work in Butek since May 2010 and the number of employees in management department is equal to man employees’ number. 4 2.2. Labour BUTEK’s working terms and conditions are transparent and clear. The employment policies codify our support for a fair and safe workplace. Butek is supporting the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We are taking necessary measures to ensure on Labour Safety. We know that workplace accident causing death or injuries. So all members of Butek take education about workplace safety rules at the beginning and this education is repeated periodically. Also we produce our machines in accordance with CE safety standards to avoid security errors avoid from our machines. The abolition of the child labor worldwide should be effective. Butek is against child labor and is very sensitive regarding this topic; avoid working with companies which uses child labor. 5 2.3. Environment The protection of natural resources and the fulfillment of our commitment to the environment is the basis of the activities of BUTEK’s machine. In our country, the recycling sector is at the beginning of the mechanization so Butek supports them with knowledge of the recycling. With our products while we assist the recovery of raw materials such as metal, plastic etc. we also provide dangerous oils and emulsions recovery. Office materials and the other used materials are environmental friendly. In order to avoid the paper wasting we use double-sided printing if printing is necessary, if not we make our correspondence and our workings in digital way. 2.4. Anti-Corruption Butek is against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. By making our social and environmental operations public, we’re increasing our openness and transparency with our stakeholders. 6
