Global Compact Communication On Progress 2010 Nanterre, June 10, 2011 Message from the Chief Executive Officer More than ever our Company made the social, environmental and economical issues the center piece of its strategy. In 2010, Tarkett joined the United Nation Global Compact to mainstream the ten Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in all its business activities across the world. As a responsible member of the community, the Group applies an ambitious sustainable development policy in relationship with its stakeholders and constantly monitor progress made in these areas. In the interest of transparency, our continuous progresses are published on a yearly basis in the annual report and sustainable development report available at www.tarkett.com. Michel Giannuzzi CEO Tarkett SA – 2 rue de l’égalité – 92748 Nanterre Cedex – Tél. : + 33 (0)1 41 20 40 40 – Fax : + 33 (0)1 41 20 40 65 – info@tarkett.com – Société Anonyme à directoire et conseil de surveillance au capital de 316 110 900 € – Siren 352 849 327 RCS Nanterre – N° identification intracommunautaire : FR 88 352 849 327 00064 Communication On Progress 2010 Global Compact Principes 2010 Actions References / 2010 indicators Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1 Group values deployed across the Group Annual report page 49 Businesses should support and respect Integration of The United Global Compact principles in many procurement contracts Annual report page 41 the protection of internationally Code of Ethics involving all employees deployed across the Group. proclaimed human rights Integration of principles of respect and promotion of diversity Principle 2 Integration of ethical principles in recruitment process and people management Annual report page 41 Make sure that they are not complicit Put in place of in-house audit plan Reduction of 32% of Lost Time in human rights abuses Deployment of a major safety policy to reduce risks and raise staff awareness of Accidents and by 49% for all safety in the workplace accidents in 2010 vs. 2009 Labour Principle 3 Respect of social laws in each of the countries where Tarkett is located Annual report page 41 Businesses should uphold the freedom Integration of these principles in the Code of Ethics of association and the effective Put in place of representatives bodies in most of the countries recognition of the right to collective Tarkett Forum : the Tarkett’s European work council that goes beyond legal constrains bargaining Principle 4 Deployment of a code of Ethics across the Group + internal audits The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The Group is committed to fighting discrimination in both recruitment and career Annual report page 40-41 The elimination of discrimination in management 24% of Tarkett employees are respect of employment and occupation Tarkett promote employee employability and develop employees skills women Maintaining equal treatment for all 39% of Tarkett employees received training in 2010 800 manager development plans set up Environment Principle 7 In 2010, 90% of the Group’s production sites were certified ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 Annual report page 46 Businesses should support Sustainable development is engraved in the very mission, vision and values of the group Annual report page 47 a precautionary approach Among the 5 Tarkett values: commitment to the environment Annual report page 18-19 to environmental challenges Monitoring of environmental KPI: Energy and water consumption, waste production and recycling Tarkett strategy is fully aligned with the group’s vision and mission It aims at constantly improving the well-being and quality of life of our product’s users by developing sustainable solutions Principle 8 Tarkett has undertaken an ambitious environmental strategy from product design Undertake initiatives to promote through the end of life treatment, the group devotes considerable time and effort 103 000 tons of PVC recycled greater environmental responsibility to reducing the carbon footprint of its products, production processes and logistics in 2010 Member of the KKR’s Green portfolio program: Annual report page 18-19 Tarkett commits to improve its environmental performance in regards of greenhouse gas emissions, waste, water, forest stewardship and chemical products Principle 9 In 2010 the Group raised its R&D budget by 21% vs.2009 Encourage the development Group’s innovation strategy: Annual report page 18-19 and diffusion of environmentally Strengthen our product’s eco design: Launch of low emissions products in Europe that Tarkett has a portfolio friendly technologies are ten time better than European standards of over 100 patents Create the modular solutions for tomorrow Maintain industrial process leadership Partnership with EPEA to deploy Cradle to Cradle® philosophy: Develop products that go into perpetual technical cycles and can even be upcycled Anti-corruption Principle 10 Principles part of the Group’s values and parts of the code of ethics Annual report page 49 Businesses should work against Training on fair competition practices: Committed to fair and honest competition, corruption in all its forms, including Tarkett has established a Group Competition Compliance Program. extortion and bribery Integration of Global compact principles in many procurement contracts Tarkett, growing in a sustainable and profitable way 2010 annual report Contents The vision of a leading solution designer 10 New areas for growth Corporate governance The best designer of integrated flooring solutions An ambitious innovation strategy and a major commitment to the environment World-Class Manufacturing Flooring solutions make the difference 22 Design and functionality define how people experience their living space Years in school learning about floors Our integrated solutions have made us #1 in healthcare projects Proven productivity through stimulating work environments With retail outlets, Tarkett floors mean business Leading in sports surfaces with advanced technology and over 7,000 installations 48 A pledge of sustainable performance for all our stakeholders 36 Sustainable development: a policy applied every day Combining respect for individuals with skills development Ensuring profitable growth Offering our customers the best experience Controlling the impact of our activities Setting up win-win partnerships Co-existing with local communities Achieving success 52 2010 Financial results PROFILE World leader in flooring and sports surfaces Mission: Mission: WithWith130130years yearsofof experience experience inin creating creatingsafe, safe, sustainable and inspiring flooring and sports surface solutions, Tarkett enhances every day its customers’ quality of life and return on investment across the world. Vision: Vision: ToTobebethe leaderinininnovative globalleader theglobal innovativeflooring flooring generate value and sports surface solutions that generates valuefor forcustomers customers in a sustainable way. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 01 Key figures Performance wall to wall Sales by geographical area 36% Europe* 1.9 billion euros in turnover in 2010 Emerging 8,800 North America: countries: 27% 34% employees 30 Other OECD countries: 3% production sites * European Union, Switzerland and Norway 1880 1886 1913 1972 1985 1987 1992 1994 1997 As with all great brands, Tarkett has a rich legacy of people, values, expertise and ambitions. The Group, initially made up of Sommer and Allibert, gradually grew from its humble Offices in over 100 beginnings through acquisitions of companies founded by entrepreneurs having launched countries hardwood flooring in Sweden, linoleum in Canada, vinyl felt and backing in France and textiles in Serbia. It integrated such industry leaders as Azrock, Domco, Johnsonite, FieldTurf and Sintelon, and more recently Beynon, Fademac, Aspen, Centiva and Morton Extrusion technik. Tarkett teams are diverse yet share common backgrounds. This diversity continues to be the source of ongoing innovation in materials, technologies, design, and service 1.2 to make people’s lives safer, more comfortable, more productive, and inspire them through million m2 sold per day colors, patterns and textures in the places where they work, live or play. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 Morton Extrusiontechnik TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 03 Our product range A wide range of products Tarkett product lines (% sales per product line) Vinyl and Linoleum: 64% Sports: Rubber and Various: 13% 11% 50% Wood and Laminate: dans le secteur de la rénovation 12% As a leader in flooring solutions and sports surfaces, Tarkett offers a very wide range of products on the market from Vinyl and Rubber to Laminate, Wood, Carpet Tiles, Accessories and all kinds of indoor and outdoor sports surfaces. Tarkett solutions feature a wide variety of materials and styles that blend seamlessly into customers’ environments. Available in hundreds of alternative colors and shades, patterns and designs, quality standards and price points, our broad range gives us all the necessary options to operate as a true provider of integrated solutions. Main product brands TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 05 International Solid positioning around the globe USA Mexico USA Brazil Portugal FieldTurf – Boise Retail chain, Central Dupage Hospital Cristovao Hospital Da Luz, State University, Puebla Hospital, Winfield, São Paulo Lisbon Idaho Illinois 100 30 48 Sales in over We are a global leader in both countries production sites sales / commercial marketing offices and residential segments. Global leader : for vinyl products for artificial turf Regional leader : for running tracks in North America for wood flooring in Western and Eastern Europe for flooring accessories in North America France Germany Romania Sweden Australia Russia Foch Hospital, Peter Petersen Polisano clinic, Travel center, Aged Care Center, State school, Suresnes gesamt schule, Sibiu Eskilstuna Adelaïde St petersburg Hamburg 90% 6 10 of turnover outside France recycling centers international training centers TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 07 Highlights Events in 2010 From the Vancouver Olympic Winter games to the introduction of next generation artificial turf, Tarkett consolidated its international presence and influence in 2010. February April May June The Tarkett Group at the Inauguration of the Azrock wins the Grand Tarkett receives the DIY Vancouver 2010 Olympic Mytishchi plant in Russia, Prize of the Starnet Design & Household retail award Winter Games as an official specializing in laminate Awards for its work at in Russia. partner of the French production. Central Dupage Hospital National Sports Olympic (Winfield, Illinois, USA). Tarkett’s FiberFloor® Committee (CNOSF). collection wins American Tarkett Group joins the magazine Consumer United Nations Global Digest’s prestigious Compact. “Best Buy” award. Michel Giannuzzi and Vincent Lecerf win the 2010 CEO/HRD award in France. FieldTurf and EasyTurf announce the creation of a partnership in the United States to reinforce their market positions. September October November December Tony Parker inaugurates Tarkett pursues its growth “Floor in a Box” wins an FieldTurf creates the new ASVEL Basket floor in Russia by opening “Etoile du Design” award a partnership with Morton (France) with the same a Customer Service Center in the “marketed products” Extrusionstechnik technical characteristics in Novosibirsk, Siberia. category in France. to consolidate and look as NBA floors its international positions installed in the USA. All Johnsonite plants Tarkett acquires the in artificial turf. in North America obtain Rhinofloor brand from Tarkett Sports takes ISO 14001:2004 certification. Amstrong World Industries. Tarkett acquires Centiva® a majority stake in Poligras Flooring to become one Iberica SA to reinforce of the largest manufacturers its artificial turf positioning of luxury vinyl floor tiles in Europe. in North America. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 09 THE VISION OF A LEADING SOLUTION DESIGNER As a leader in the flooring industry, Tarkett continues to grow by expanding into new markets. All around the world, the Group is now known as a designer of integrated, high-performance and sustainable solutions that meet the diverse, complex needs of its customers. CEO Interview New areas for growth “We are pursuing profitable growth with a strong focus on our customers, employees and the environment.” Michel Giannuzzi, Chief Executive officer Chairman of the Management Board Tell us your thoughts on 2010 How about Cost and Cash? from a financial perspective. The World-Class Manufacturing program currently under 2010 was a year of strong recovery. One highlight was the deployment has enabled substantial savings in our major improvement in Group turnover, up by 12% and soaring production costs. As for Cash, we have mainly focused as high as 24% in emerging countries which account on reducing required inventory and improving overdue for 34% of our turnover. Our growth was substantially accounts receivable the latter benefiting from the superior to that of the market as a whole. Our increased wholehearted involvement of our credit department sales volumes and the productivity actions set up two years and sales teams. At the same time, we increased ago helped offset the widespread increase in commodity our capital expenditures targeting projects likely prices observed since the second quarter of 2010. The strong to generate the strongest return on investment. financial performance of 2010 reflects the soundness of our profitable growth strategy. In 2011 the Group will continue What are the Group’s Commitments to expand its growth in emerging markets and implement its policy of targeted acquisitions. to its employees? Our workplace safety initiatives brought our lost time accident rate down by 32% in 2010, while several other What about your acquisitions? initiatives developed the Group’s talents, training We are pursuing our policy of keeping a balanced approach and in-house communication. These endeavors sparked between organic and external growth. Our acquisitions are positive feedback from our employees. The April 2010 based on our three strategic goals: global in-house opinion poll enjoyed an outstanding introduce innovative products to bolster our solutions 75% participation rate, indicative of our employees’ strong portfolio; we have made the acquisition of Morton Extrusion commitment to the Group strategy as well as a noticeable technik in Germany for the production of a new generation improvement in overall satisfaction: 74% of employees of artificial turf and of Centiva® Flooring, which now positions being proud to work for Tarkett as opposed to an industry Tarkett as one of the largest producers of luxury vinyl tiles average of 58%. in North America. develop new markets; with EasyTurf, North America’s What about the environment? premier sales, marketing and installation company for residential and commercial artificial grass landscaping. To improve the environmental impact of our activities, consolidate market position; with the acquisition of a all of the Group’s plants follow key indicators. 90% of majority stake in Poligras, an artificial turf manufacturer our production sites have ISO 9001 and ISO 14 001 that holds a prominent position in sports surfaces in Spain. certification. Product recycling and eco-design remain a priority. Tarkett pioneered the concept of flooring recycling as early as 1957. In 2010, Tarkett recycled an astonishing Your strategy revolves around the 5 C’s. 103,000 tons of PVC which makes us the highest in the Can you tell us some of the year’s flooring industry. Our products promote better indoor air highlights for each one of them? quality, with Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions 10 times lower than the current European standard. The 5 C’s are Customer, Cost, Cash, Commitment All these initiatives confirm that Tarkett is taking strong (to both the environment and employees) and Creativity. leadership on sustainable development in the flooring Concerning Customers, our goal is to offer a unique industry. experience. The Group aims to stand out as a provider of integrated solutions. To derive the most from our multiproduct offer, we have worked on a new segmentation, What are the Group’s main areas now enabling Tarkett to offer specific flooring solutions to of innovation? meet the various needs of its six core segments: housing, healthcare, education, offices, retail/hospitality and In 2011, the environment will continue to be a major sports. Dedicated solutions have been created for each to research driver. We will continue to work on eco-innovation satisfy individual tastes and functional or environmental for our products. To this end, Tarkett recently signed needs. The experience is not only about product solutions a partnership agreement with the German Environmental but also service. In 2010 we invested in a logistics Protection Encouragement Agency (EPEA) founded by platform in Novosibirsk, Siberia and in Astana, Kazakhstan Michael Braungart. Through this partnership, we will start to provide our regional customers with unrivalled service to apply the “Cradle to Cradle”® methodology which aims quality. As for customer recognition, Tarkett Residential in to develop products that go into perpetual cycles and can North America has earned a prestigious “Best Buy” rating even be upcycled. In this model, products eventually have from Consumer Digest Magazine for the second time. To an end of use rather than an end of life. Tarkett is the first further boost team and partner knowledge on our products, French company to apply this methodology both in the we have continued to open new “Tarkett Academies” in development of new materials and product certification. Australia and Brazil. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 13 Governance Corporate governance From left to right: Eric Daliere, President Tarkett Sports • Fabrice Barthélemy, Chief Financial Officer • Vincent lecerf, EVP Human Resources • Michel Giannuzzi, Chief Executive Officer • Patrick Mathieu, President Western Europe • Jeff Buttitta, President North America • Dragan Zarkovic, President Eastern Europe • Anne-Christine Ayed, EVP Research, Innovation & Environment • Pierre-Philippe Simphlet, Secretary of the Board From left to right: Alain Vourch, KKR • Eric Deconinck • Jacques Garaïalde, KKR • Bernard-André Deconinck • Josselin de Roquemaurel, KKR • Didier Deconinck strong support Supervisory Board Audit Committee and commitment The Supervisory Board (“Conseil Its purpose is to assist the Supervisory of our shareholders de Surveillance)” is composed of Board with the following duties: six members: three members of ensuring the reliability and quality Since January 2007, Tarkett SA the Deconinck family and three of the financial data in Tarkett Group has been owned through a holding representatives of KKR. The board accounts every six months company by the Deconinck family members meet once a month to validating the quality of financial (50%) and funds affiliated to “Kohlberg review in detail with management the data with external auditors Kravis and Roberts” (KKR) (50%). The group’s financial performance as well (KPMG and Praxor) as well Group enjoys a stable financial base as operating and strategic initiatives. as following up on the and involved shareholders that support recommendations arising its profitable growth strategy. In line with common governance from audits practices, the Supervisory Board also validating the in-house audit plan Tarkett SA is legally has three dedicated Committees: the and ensuring that in-house control structured with Audit Committee, chaired by Josselin processes are performed a Management Board de Roquemaurel from KKR, the Strategy examining the conclusions of the and a Supervisory Board. and Marketing Committee, chaired in-house audits and implementing by Eric Deconinck and the Selection corrective measures and Remuneration Committee chaired The Audit Committee met twice by Jacques Garaïalde (KKR). in 2010. In 2010, Tarkett performed a risk Management Board mapping of all its operations, in order to identify and prioritize the The Management Board (“Directoire”) main risks that the company may be is chaired by Michel Giannuzzi, exposed to. The ten most important Chief Executive officer and includes risk factors are subject to dedicated Fabrice Barthélemy, Group’s Chief action plans that have been Financial Officer and Vincent Lecerf, presented to the Supervisory Board. Human Resources EVP. A Code of Ethics involving Executive Board all employees The Executive Board is the Group’s Tarkett has enacted a Code of Ethics steering body. It includes: distributed to all Group employees. The Chief Executive officer It requires all employees to actively The four Division Presidents adopt common practices and commit (Western Europe, Eastern Europe, to adhere to exemplary working North America and Sports) practices. This requirement helps to Three functional Vice-Presidents: guarantee the Group’s reputation Finance, Human Resources, Research on the world markets. Innovation & Environment The Secretary of the Board. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 15 Strategy The best designer of integrated flooring solutions In 2010, Tarkett pursued its profitable growth strategy based on the 5 C’s (Customer, Cash, Cost, Commitment, Creativity) and on its position as a provider of high added value solutions. • Accelerating profitable growth • Constantly improving Group financial performance Strategic focus • Pursuing strategic acquisitions to reinforce our position as a world leader The Tarkett Awards: the company’s recognition program to reward workers helping to make Tarkett a quality company in each of the 5 C’s. Fully integrated flooring solutions Tarkett’s strategy is based on five strategic pillars: the 5 C’s 2015 Customer: Offer a unique customer experience • Commitment: to employees and the environment outlook • Developing new approaches to • Guaranteeing workplace safety for all our employees products and services to meet • Promoting skills development our customers’ needs • Outgrow the market for Group employees by setting up • Enlarging our product portfolio by by focusing on organic personal interviews, training adding new or additional categories growth and innovation as and succession plans • Developing business partner and well as a timely acquisition • Improving the environmental impact employee training in order to be strategy in three principles: of our products and operations recognized as the experts in flooring geographical growth, solutions reinforcing the product Creativity: Invest in research portfolio and consolidating and innovation Cash: Generate cash to fuel market positions. All this, our growth • Anticipating market trends to strengthen our global • Launching innovative, position. • Optimizing working capital needs environmentally-friendly products • Investing in projects with high using eco conception • Pursue our commitment returns on investment • Involving employees to innovation in products in the innovation process and service, a strategic Cost: Reinforce our competitiveness Group priority, and offering • Implementing the World-Class competitive solutions. Manufacturing program • Optimizing the quality process • Extend our commercial • Leverage scale through strategic presence in emerging acquisitions countries. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 17 Strategy An ambitious innovation strategy and a major commitment to the environment Tarkett’s innovation strategy is fully aligned with the Group’s vision and mission. It aims at constantly improving the well-being and quality of life of our product’s users by developing sustainable solutions. The three pillars of the Group’s innovation strategy: Tarkett is becoming Strengthen our products’ eco design Create the modular solutions of tomorrow the industry Improving interior air quality in homes Design teams all over the world are reference for and public places is a major facet of the Group’s innovation strategy. In parallel, looking out for new trends, anticipate user expectations and adapt designs to Volatile Organic Tarkett uses its knowledge of materials local particularities. Our research activities Compounds (VOC) and industrial processes to develop environmentally-friendly flooring by and regular dialogue with architects and customers are leading to the development emissions reduction considering the complete life cycle of a of innovative modular concepts. This year, product right from the design stage. For Tarkett launched “Floor In A Box”, a new Years of highly advanced research example, the Group launched “TarkoSpray/ modular product, which is easy to carry and development have resulted in SpraySmart”, a solvent-free glue, “IQ and to install, tailored to meet innovative product formulations Natural”, the first homogeneous vinyl users’ needs. and optimized manufacturing proflooring containing over 75% of natural, cesses. All flooring products that renewable raw materials. In the USA, Maintain industrial process leadership Tarkett sells in Europe have VOC Johnsonite launched a new range of rubber After having developed a map of emissions ten times lower* than tiles, FOLIO™ COLLECTION with a long life international experts, Tarkett entered current European standards. cycle and low maintenance. Over time, partnerships with the best universities rubber flooring offers greater resources * TVOC after 28 days. Emissions to model and continuously improve its under 100 μg/m3, 10 times lower than efficiency than many other materials and industrial processes. In addition, several European standards (1000 μg/m3). the ability for the product to be recycled networks of internal experts were set up reduces its impact on the environment. to build on and leverage the technical knowledge of Tarkett R&D teams. • Commitment to the environment Facets of our • Well-being and quality of life of our customers and end-users innovation strategy: • Competitive positioning and industrial excellence With its modular “Floor In A Box” concept, Tarkett revolutionized the flooring market. Innodays: Internal initiative organized to generate innovative TarkoSpray/SpraySmart: environmentally ideas from accross the Group. friendly slovent-free glue. Innovation at the heart of profitable growth Tarkett, the first Innovation is a priority for supporting Tarkett, french company to the Group’s profitable growth strategy and setting it apart from competition. a member of KKR’s join Cradle to Cradle® In this perspective, the Group raised its Green Portfolio R&D budget by 21% in 2010 vs. 2009. In 2011, Tarkett intends to strengthen As a leader in the flooring industry, In February 2010, Tarkett joined its green design research. To this Tarkett undertakes major Research the KKR Green Portfolio. Designed end, Tarkett signed a partnership and Development initiatives to create in partnership with the non-governmental with the German scientific institute sustainable solutions with high added organization Environmental Defense EPEA founded by Michael Braungart value and to maintain its technological Fund (EDF), the program requires (Environmental Protection and advantage. that Tarkett commits to improving Encouragement Agency) to deploy the its environmental performance, Cradle to Cradle® philosophy. Prestigious partnerships particularly as regards greenhouse The truly revolutionary Cradle to gas emissions, waste, water, forest Cradle® concept offers a new approach worldwide stewardship and chemical products. to the business paradigm and to • With Penn State University, to study corporate culture. Thus, Tarkett wishes the safety and performance impact to support eco-innovation without of sports flooring on athletes conflicting with economic growth and • With the University of Michigan, environmental commitment. Rather to study the impact of indoor air than systematically seeking quality on health to consume less, Tarkett undertakes • With the “Ecole Nationale Supérieure to design products that go des Arts Décoratifs (ENSAD) into perpetual technical cycles in France, to imagine and develop Tarkett has a portfolio of over 100 and can even be upcycled. the flooring of the future Tarkett is the first French Group to • With “Ecole des Mines” (Paris), promote and adopt this concept both • With the “Ecole Supérieure de in its approach to new materials and in physique et de Chimie Industrielles” terms of product certification. (ESPCI) in Paris. patents TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 19 Strategy World-Class Manufacturing The World-Class Manufacturing (WCM) program supports the Group strategy in terms of industrial excellence. For two years, using this method has resulted in concrete improvements to safety, quality, customer service, cost reduction and environmental impact. • Improving quality and performance from the customer’s standpoint • Adapting the manufacturing plant to market requirements WCM Principles • Improving the industrial performance of the Group’s business lines • Optimizing the use of industrial resources to reduce costs WCM methodology relies on the implementation of industrial performance audits. Hanaskog wood plant in Sweden implemented the WCM Safety & work environment pillar. Reaching Zero accident through safety program awareness. Aiming at industrial A worldwide program excellence In 2010, the WCM program was The WCM Launched in February 2009, the WCM implemented in the majority of the network program is designed to increase the quality of production and customer sites in Western Europe, through pilot projects. The main goal was to identify In each site where service while improving safety, and significantly reduce sources of the program is set up, environmental impact, performance loss or waste in our production plants. one manager per pillar and the bottom line. As a continuous In two years, the program has resulted is appointed, as well as improvement tool, the WCM program in conclusive improvements. Bolstered one coordinator, and then is based on ten fundamental pillars: by this positive first result, the WCM trained in the methodology. Safety & working environment program will be deployed in 2011 These teams make up Cost deployment in all Tarkett plants in North America the WCM network, which Focus improvement and Eastern Europe. promotes regular sharing of Autonomous activities best practices between the Professional maintenance Optimize manufacturing Group’s various sites. Quality control processes Supply chain and customer service Early product & equipment To stay competitive and improve management the industrial performance of its People development business lines, Tarkett constantly Environment seeks to optimize its manufacturing and relies on the implementation processes. The Group has undertaken and monitoring of key indicators. several initiatives to redesign existing methods and develop innovative industrial processes. In 2010, our Technology Expert Network was created to share knowledge on processes and materials on a global scale. Positive results in 2010: Safety: Lost-time Quality: Customer accidents down by complaints down by 32% 30% TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 21 FLOORING SOLUTIONS MAKE THE DIFFERENCE No other flooring manufacturer in the world offers a larger range of different flooring types in more countries than Tarkett. This gives us the scope and freedom not only to recommend the perfectly adapted product to each of our customers, but also to offer fully integrated flooring solutions. All are designed to match different styles and tastes as well as maximize performance and savings for all building types and purposes. Providing these solutions is what makes Tarkett unique. Thinking in terms of solutions is what gives us the power to anticipate future customer needs and the development of tomorrow’s innovative flooring products. Housing Design and functionality define how people experience their living space Tarkett advertising “Best Buy rating” from Consumer Digest magazine on Broadway, NYC. Style, comfort and safety Tarkett FiberFloor® awarded All these elements play an important prestigious Consumer’s Digest “Tarkett’s innovative product role in the physical and emotional ‘Best Buy’ honor collection in the fiberglass well-being of people in their homes. category is industry leading The Tarkett Residential FiberFloor® For this reason, Tarkett works with and has allowed FloorExpo to Easy Living™ Collection has earned designers, architects and public compete and win in today’s a prestigious Best Buy rating from authorities to create unique flooring competitive environment. Consumers Digest magazine in its solutions, which address the wide Tarkett’s willingness to be recent ‘Best Buys in Flooring’ issue. diversity of needs and regulatory creative and innovative with The publication reports that on average requirements of contemporary housing product and service programs the Consumers Digest Best Buy rating projects. A wide choice of trendy has been a valuable is awarded to less than three percent colors, patterns and styles for vinyl, part of the FloorExpo model of the competing models in any given linoleum, laminate or wooden floorings for success.” product category. have the capacity to transform a simple With 207 designs in three overall room into an inspired space while Andy Hogan, collections, distinctive colors and catering to very individual tastes and Executive VP/CPO – FEI Group textures – including authentic-looking expectations. Functional benefits such wood grains, rustic tiles and earthy as slip safety, air quality and noise Floor Expo is a network stones – FiberFloor® effortlessly reduction are particularly important of flooring contractors working mimics the real thing, while providing for dense municipal housing projects in 200+ markets across the USA. the ultimate in value and enhanced and need to be matched with performance that meets all the rigors economical factors such as maintenance of day-to-day living. costs and return on investment. Constant dialogue with customers and end users as well as over 130 years of experience have made Tarkett the #1 flooring reference in many markets across the world. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 25 Education Years in school learning about floors Nova International School, Skopje, Republic of Macedonia Metrolina Scholars Academy – North Carolina – USA Basisschool – Terneuzen – Netherlands A unique range of flooring Schools are some of the toughest Metrolina environments for flooring. So back to playing Scholars school we go, studying our products in real life conditions. Observing our & learning in the Academy, USA floors’ resistance to heavy traffic, best conditions staining, noise and denting. “We chose this rubber tile We have talked to hundreds of teachers, “Our school was developed flooring because we are students and facility managers to learn to stimulate the imagination trying to support a strong how to best match their needs. The and be colorful, providing environmental ethics result is a unique range of flooring the very best conditions for for our school community. products, designed to significantly both playing and learning. The idea of no stripping improve the learning environment The Tapiflex and Acczent with chemicals and waxing and to address the many needs of being flooring ranges from Tarkett with other unpleasant durable and cost effective, safe and are a vital part of the interior products was a major inspiring and hygienic, noise reducing design, providing possibilities determining factor in our and stainand impactresistant. for using colors and patterns selection of the flooring.” to best effect. We set out One of the most modern to give the children in our Marie E. Peine, facility an open and secure Ph.D., Director, schools in Russia environment with acoustic Metrolina Regional Scholars Finished in July 2010, the and underfoot comfort.” Academy, Charlotte, St Petersburg state school is today North Carolina – USA considered one of the most modern in Gaelle Van Zeveren, Russia. Tarkett installed Acczent Mineral Architect, V+G architecten vinyl flooring, known for its resistance to wear and denting, in the classrooms. The surface is treated with Topclean XP PUR for easier maintenance. Part of this project, the multi-activity room has been equipped with wood flooring. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 27 Healthcare Our integrated solutions have made us #1 in healthcare projects Central DuPage Hospital, Winfield, Illinois USA St Petersburg Central DuPage Federal Perinatal Hospital, Center – Russia Winfield, Illinois Founded in 1980, the St Petersburg Federal Center for Heart is today one “Thanks to Tarkett Azrock® of the largest health care centers Cortina® products, we were of the Russian Federation. Tarkett able to create a design used its knowledge of the healthcare that uses color, light and sector to offer the clinic the most shape to define a youthful St Petersburg birthing Center – Russia suitable products for its purposes. environment rather than Over 16,000 m² of IQ Melodia and typical look alike spaces. Toro SC homogenous vinyl were Each sweeping design installed in areas equipped with element leads into the next, electronic devices, as well as in the creating an experience operating rooms. To protect sensitive that is uplifting for young equipment, these floorings feature patients during their brief low resistance in order to dissipate stay at the hospital.“ electrostatic charges, both conducting and dissipating electricity. They Margi Kaminski, also inhibit the growth of bacteria Designer, RTKL Chicago and fungi, and are particularly well De Vlietoever aged care Center – adapted to high-traffic areas. Bornem – Netherlands G&M Wellness Fully integrated solutions Tarkett Azrock® honored Center, No other flooring projects are more with Grand Prize San Diego, challenging and complex than those StarNet award California for healthcare. Not only must floors meet the specific needs of the Each year the StarNet Design Awards reward the creativity and talent “The Optima tile allowed building section in question, but of StarNet members by recognizing us to use vibrant colors to different flooring types also have outstanding commercial interiors help people find their way to harmoniously transition in terms featuring innovative flooring products throughout the facility. of their functionalities and design and technologies. Entries are judged The design was created features. Strict hygiene, air quality based on the creative use of flooring, to give seniors a welcome standards, static control, water and as well as the design concept and break from their everyday chemical resistance, acoustics and overall quality of the solution delivered existence spent in heavy traffic have to be reconciled with to the client. Azrock’s Cortina Grande® poverty on the streets work comfort and ease of maintenance. commercial resilient tile offered of San Diego.“ Additionally, stimulating environments the design flexibility, aesthetics, must be created to promote healing. maintenance qualities and cost Erica Roman, In light of the challenge that these requirements to meet the facility’s LEED AP, Interior Designer, projects represent, any flooring needs. With a wide range of color Smith Consulting Architects solution has to be fully integrated to options and superior performance perform. Today, our healthcare flooring warranty, Azrock’s Cortina Grande® offer – the most extensive in the provided the right flooring solution. market – combined with our expertise and ability to advise and support healthcare professionals every step of the way, have turned Tarkett into the uncontested #1. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 29 Offices Proven productivity through stimulating work environments Arcelor building – Liège – Belgium Dental Office – North Carolina – USA Skanska offices Budapest – Hungary Creating a stimulating green building in Budapest. This could well make this office building the workplace Johnsonite In today’s efficiency driven business greenest in all of Hungary (by LEED standards). is the proud world, we have found that the right This range of linoleum products was recipient choice of flooring can make a significant contribution to creating chosen as the best natural, renewable product. Skanska won the trophy of two Awards stimulating and more productive for the “greenest building of 2010” workplace environments. Floors, awarded by the KÖVET Association. Johnsonite received the Award through their design, styles and The competition drew entries from of Excellence, Sponsored by functional aspects can make people 30 companies seeking to make their FCNews and the World Floor feel more comfortable, safer and offices as green as possible Covering Association (WFCA), in more inspired. Offering excellent life by introducing changes with the Group B Resilient category cycle costs and maximizing return on a long-term environmental impact. for the 3rd straight year in a row. investment, the ample range of Tarkett The Award of Excellence by flooring categories, colors and styles FCNews and the World Floor propose the perfect solution for any Covering Association (WFCA) is a type of business and every area of high way for manufacturers’ customers performance office space, from — retailers, distributors, the boardroom to the kitchen. designers, installers, and specifiers — to honor the Environmentally companies they feel consistently provide the best service. Some friendly offices of the criteria examined are Thanks to Tarkett linoleum, the professionalism of the sales the Skanska offices become even more force, the responsiveness of environmentally friendly. Tarkett laid management, value, design, 6,300 m2 of 3.8 mm linoleum in the handling of claims and ease of offices of Skanska, an EU-certified Municipal Council, Seixal, Portugal doing business. The company also won the top three honors in the Award for Design Excellence (ADEX) 20092010 competition, winning the Silver, Gold and Platinum awards for the Space, Harmonium xf and Mesto Configurations lines, respectively. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 31 Stores and hospitality With retail outlets, Tarkett floors mean business Crown Plaza Hotel – Netherlands Supplying Telekom Orange Shops – Srbija retail chain Romania Tarkett’s cooperation with Orange “For this chain of stores, our in Romania started in 2009. In 2010 idea was a little peculiar. Tarkett will install 8,200 m2 in Orange We wanted to find a way to Shops, while a further 6,000 m2 make this shop different, a are slated for installation in 2011. way to make it stand out. Small shops average 60-80 m2, Due to strong traffic in while large shops are around 180 m2. Telekom Srbija shops, the Tarkett Optic acoustic range was recommended. It is simultaneously very resilient, easy to install and cheap to maintain – it does not need polish for life. This solution has several benefits for the store: great look, easy and low cost maintenance, high sound reduction and excellent resistance to scuffing, soiling and staining.” Sonja Lukic Tarkett Marketing Backa Palanka, Serbia Telekom Srbija shop – Serbia Enhancing image Mio furniture Shop – and efficiency Stockholm – Sweden A store outlet, boutique or hotel Mio is one of Sweden’s leading reception area is the predominant furniture and home decoration chains, showcase of any given retail brand. with about 60 stores all over the Vibrant and edgy or relaxed and country. In a pilot store for the chain, comfortable, the choice of flooring wood flooring was selected owing to its reflects the desired brand image and homelike feel. The flooring challenge helps bring customers through the door. was to find a white hardwood flooring Wood, laminate, linoleum, vinyl or rubber that could withstand the extreme – no other flooring company provides a effects of people walking straight larger choice of different flooring types, in from the busy street in the Nordic allowing retail owners to always find winter climate. The choice was Tarkett the perfect solution. And the depth Epoque (Oak Winter), a high-quality of colors, styles and surface treatments wood flooring combining elegance, provide an almost unlimited toolbox tradition and comfort. The multi-layered to match the desired visual effects with construction provides excellent stability the particular durability for customer and the extra-thick wear layer can be traffic requirements. And while retail re-sanded up to five times. The Proteco fashions may change, easy installation lacquer finish, one of the strongest in provides a new cutting-edge look with a the market, is particularly hard-wearing minimum of downtime and lost revenues. and long-lasting. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 33 Sports Leading in sports surfaces with advanced technology and over 7,000 installations Meadowlands Stadium – New York – USA Universiada hall – sofia, bulgaria Installed in October 2010, Sportable, the portable parquet made by Tarkett Sports, was chosen to renovate the Universiada multipurpose sports complex. The 2,600-seat hall built in 1961 is a genuine architectural monument. Revolution Innovative new fiber It is also Bulgaria’s most famous sports complex and home to the Levski Club, Sofia’s most popular basketball team. Tarkett was chosen to renovate the 615 m2 floor with a Sportable floor. Approved by such governing sports bodies as FIBA, FFBB, IHF and WVBF, it has excellent wear and shockabsorption. Proflex M wood Surface Providing the best sports ultraviolet rays. A result of the passion and ingenuity of its scientists, FieldTurf surface experience Asvel Basket club, For many years, Tarkett has been in-house fiber manufacturing makes it one of the most vertically integrated Lyon, France setting the pace for the industry with companies in the industry – with high performance sports surfaces that full control over all facets of the turf “In line with Asvel’s provide playing comfort, safety and system – fiber, tufting, coating and expectations and benefiting strong sensations at any level of sports installation. This provides FieldTurf from Tony Parker’s input, competition. Today, many of the world’s clients with a level of quality assurance Tarkett Sports has developed best football, baseball and soccer that simply cannot be matched. a solution recognized as the teams are playing on our 3rd generation benchmark in basketball. FieldTurf artificial turf. Elsewhere, Proflex M from Tarkett Sports portable parquets go on tour with offers the same technical Champion League Basketball teams and esthetic characteristics and our athletic tracks help break new as North American surfaces. records. Many of these installations Proflex M is perfectly have set new environmental standards, designed for high level saving millions of gallons of water, competition games, and thousands of tons of pesticides and offers athletes unequalled “After looking at all the fertilizers or simply using all renewable play performance as well as different synthetic turf raw materials such as in wooden an innovative look.” providers available, we felt or linoleum based indoor fields. FieldTurf was the best choice. Gilles Moretton, FieldTurf’s commitment President of ASVEL, Revolution – to player performance and French National Basketball The new age of artificial turf safety was a major factor Champion team Together, FieldTurf and Morton have in our decision.” unlocked the secrets of combining Houston Nutt, the very best in polymer technology Head Football Coach, with improved UV inhibitors and University of Mississippi USA a state-of-the-art extrusion process. The creation of this new compound enables FieldTurf to produce a fiber that will resist splitting and reduce degradation caused by the sun’s TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 35 A PLEDGE OF SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS As a responsible member of the community, Tarkett considers social, environmental and economic issues in the management of its business and in its relationships with stakeholders. The Group applies an ambitious sustainable development policy, constantly monitoring progress made in these areas. Sustainable development Sustainable development: a policy applied every day Tarkett is combining overall performance with respect for the environment and people. Tarkett’s sustainable development strategy is grounded in three considerations: corporate governance, social responsibility and environmental responsibility. In 2010, the Group performed a major diagnostic to define its sustainable development strategy and meet the requirements of all stakeholders. This strategy, based on clear, measurable goals, was circulated and applied worldwide in 2010. Sustainable development Our strategy: sustainability as a growth factor is engraved in the very Tarkett only considers growth as fashion for all of its stakeholders (e.g. mission, vision and values part of a long-term vision combining employees, shareholders and suppliers). of the Group competitiveness with sustainable development. The Group pledges to Managing technology As a leader in the flooring market, conduct its strategy by focusing on and production units Tarkett is conscious of its economic, citizenship, the control of risks and In its industrial policy, Tarkett social and environmental role. In all its sound, effective management. endeavors to improve the activities, throughout the world, the competitiveness of its activities Group pledges to act in harmony with Generating sustainable, profitable growth while limiting their environmental sustainable development requirements Fighting against global warming, preserving impact. The Group ensures a constant and principles. energy and drinking water resources, technological watch to explore Tarkett calls on the skills of scientific, improving health and education, and new opportunities and increase its technical and industrial specialists promoting diversity, Tarkett actively industrial efficiency. The company for two purposes: to provide innovative pledges to take up these major challenges has committed to double its Research services in harmony with social and to contribute to economical, social and Development budgets in order to and environmental issues to create and environmental progress. As an design products and processes that sustainable growth and value for example, water consumption in all our plants are both innovative and sustainable. shareholders, employees and economic has been reduced by 30% in 2010. The Group This guiding principle is applied to the partners. The Group pledges to behave strategy is based on a long-term vision, complete product cycle. From design, ethically, to respect people, to satisfy respectful of sustainable development manufacturing and use through to its customers and to be responsible principles. In doing business, Tarkett the end of their life, our products in management. endeavors to create economic and systematically take into consideration social value in a responsible, ethical environmental concerns. • Guarantee workplace safety • Maintain a risk management policy Principles • Manage the impact of our activities • Minimize our energy and resource consumption • Develop partnerships Garanteeing employees safety – Mytishchi – Russia Tuft bind testing, a quality control performed at FieldTurf Calhoun facility, USA Integrating sustainable development in company management Internal communication Managing financial resources Tarkett joins In the course of everyday management, In the management of its financial the United Tarkett develops social and environmental reporting tools to help resources, Tarkett focuses on creating sustainable value. To ensure its longNations Global it make sound decisions and implement term development, the Group chooses Compact suitable action plans. high ROI projects while keeping Tarkett particularly carries out a vast a close, careful eye on these choices. In May 2010, Tarkett joined the in-house communications program to United Nations Global Compact. provide all its employees with a clear vision Based on ten universally of the Group’s policy and strategy. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Managing health, safety the environment and antiand the environment corruption, the Global Compact aims at contributing to a more Tarkett is a responsible industrial group concerned with preserving the health 1000 days of balanced and sustainable global economy. In joining and safety of its employees. “No Lost Time” this globally accepted The Group devotes important means and efforts to guaranteeing employee accidents reference organization with over 5,300 other companies safety and limiting risks in the for Johnsonite worldwide, Tarkett confirms workplace. In 2010, Lost Time Accidents its commitment to sustainable have been reduced by 32% and all in 2010, Johnsonite Canada development and responsible accidents by 49%. The Group is also Inc. received from EMC commercial practices. mindful of preserving the environment (Excellence in Manufacturing and surroundings of communities where Consortium) an award for its sites are located. achieving 1000 working days of «No Lost Time» accidents. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 39 Employees Combining respect for individuals with skills development Tarkett’s human resources policy matches its long-term vision. The Group is committed to guaranteeing the best working conditions and safety for its employees, developing skills, and promoting diversity, employability and equal opportunity for all. Sustainable development at the heart endeavors, carried out as part of the of the Group’s HR policy WCM program, in 2010 the number of lost-time accidents dropped by 32%. Satisfied employees As a socially responsible company, Tarkett pledges to respect human rights involved in the and promote diversity. It ensures that Strengthening trade union relations and in-house communication Group’s strategy all of its employees have the same rights and career opportunities. The Tarkett aims at maintaining the quality Sent to all of our staff, Group promotes involvement of all its of its trade union relations by listening the Employee Feedback helps us employees in sustainable development carefully and promoting personalized assess the overall satisfaction through awareness campaigns and discussions. In all of its Divisions, of employees and identify areas training. This encourages greater the Group has several venues for improvement. The April 2010 employee responsibility and builds for discussion to promote constructive poll had a 75% participation rate. a corporate culture based on good trade relations. In 2010, Tarkett Compared to 2008, the findings citizenship. increased its in-house communication showed a clear increase in overall to improve understanding of Group employee satisfaction, Workplace safety for our employees: strategy, get employees involved a solid sense of Group belonging, a top priority in the 5Cs, and share the company’s and strong agreement with vision and values. In 2010, With a view to its employees’ health company strategy. For example, the Group launched a newsletter and well-being, Tarkett guarantees 77% of Tarkett employees feel sent to all employees, and conducted a safe working environment for all. strongly committed to the an in-house opinion poll. With the poll Tarkett’s goal is to reach a “Zero company, as opposed to an findings, it was able to set up specific Accident Rate”. For two years, the industry average of 60%. actions tailored to each country. Group has deployed a major safety policy to reduce risks and raise staff awareness of safety in the workplace. The program has particularly bolstered in-house communication and risk assessment. It has also reconfigured workstations. Because of these • Integrating sustainable development into staff training Keys • Promoting staff diversity to our actions • Maintaining equal treatment for all • Maintaining good trade union relations Tarkett values: Three questions for Alfons Kohl In a Group of such international scope, built through a series of of our Konz site acquisitions, our values are the Tarkett Forum team in Germany basis for a corporate culture that is shared worldwide. (General Secretary Who will be the winning teams? Tarkett recognizes the most successful teams of the Tarkett Forum) • Positive customer attitude having excelled on our 5C’s strategy What is the Tarkett Forum? • Team spirit How does it work? The Tarkett Forum is Tarkett’s • Empowerment and European Works Council, accountability a genuine platform for dialogue and exchange to facilitate • Respect and integrity European integration. Its creation Send your nominations The Award ceremony in Frankenthal, Germany, in 1996, Tarkett • Commitment to the in September to in December Awards@tarkett.com Awards in Paris was necessary, even crucial, given environment More details and entry forms available at your HR department or on the Tarkett Intranet the Group’s growth. The Group’s new international scope, a more customer-oriented sales strategy, and joint international projects Develop skills Promote diversity, fighting with other companies in such discrimination fields as marketing, logistics and To ensure it has the skills it will R&D were all elements requiring need tomorrow, Tarkett is constantly The quality of employee relationships reinforced cooperation between seeking to develop and enhance its is one aspect of the value of respect management, employees and staff employees’ skills. For three years, embraced by the Group. In all of representatives across Europe. the Group has carried out an ambitious its activities, Tarkett is mindful of management skills program based promoting staff diversity. To offer every What is your role in the Forum? on performance assessment tools and individual the same chance of success, My peers appointed me as Secretary individual support. In 2010, the annual the Group is committed to fighting of the Forum. As such, I am performance and skills assessment discrimination in both recruitment a mediator between Management interviews were extended to all of our and career management. Today, 24% and the Forum. The Tarkett Forum employees. A vast program of tailored of Tarkett employees are women. The team also meets on a quarterly interviews and training was developed Group also implements major initiatives base with General Management; for the Group’s 800 managers. to retain older workers. In 2010, for I am responsible for organizing example, a “Seniors’ agreement” was these meetings with my colleagues. signed in France. Additionally, annual Promote employee employability reviews adapted to the second part of From an employee relations point Tarkett permanently ensures that its their careers have been implemented of view, what is your opinion of employees develop the right skills to company-wide. Tarkett’s growth these past three maintain their long-term employability. years? In 2010, the Group reinforced its The past three years have brought lifelong learning initiatives and started many positive developments in to create succession plans for our employee relations. Two good 10% of its staff. The Group increased examples are the approval of the its lifelong learning possibilities by opening the Tarkett Academy up to manager development 800 Code of Ethics and the Employee Feedback survey conducted to floor installation partners, who will measure in-house satisfaction. plans set up now be able to benefit from the Group’s Social equality and European technical expertise. Some 39% of Tarkett employees benefited from of employees received training 39% integration are on-going processes on which we must work tirelessly. at least one training session in 2010. in 2010 TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 41 Shareholders Ensuring profitable growth The Group pledges to create sustainable value for its shareholders through a sound and meticulous management policy that reconciles profitability and corporate responsibility. • Ensuring strong returns for our shareholders Keys • Applying an eco design approach to growth strategy to our actions • Managing industrial and operational risks Crédit photo : Getty Images TBWA\PARIS Crédit photo : Getty Images TBWA\PARIS YOU CAN BE A LEADER OUR TURF IS SYNTHETIC. AND STILL LOVE HAVING PEOPLE WALK ALL OVER YOU. HOWEVER, IT NEVER STOPS GROWING. In 1994, we invented the first new generation of synthetic turf. Today, more than 7000 fields around the world By producing over a million square meters a day, we’re one of the world leaders are equiped with it. It’s resistant, easy to maintain, and environmentally friendly because it needs no water in resilient flooring and sports surfaces. www.tarkett.com or pesticides. We can grow our turf even in the desert. www.tarkett.com 130 YEARS OF EXPERTISE UNDER YOUR FEET. 130 YEARS OF EXPERTISE UNDER YOUR FEET. Launched in 2010, Tarkett’s corporate advertising campaign aims at building brand equity by developing brand awareness and brand image perceptions. Sustainable, profitable growth Thanks to these actions initiated early on and to more favourable input prices, Tarkett Strong Tarkett pledges to create sustainable value for its shareholders. To achieve this goal improved its EBITDA margin by 110 bps commitment to we can rely on very strong fundamentals: during 2009, at the height of the financial crisis. With leaner and more efficient our shareholders the group is a global leader in resilient flooring and sports surfaces. It can rely operations, the Group was fully prepared to take advantage of the rebound of its major on a diversified product portfolio and on Meticulously respecting the markets in 2010. This rebound has taken balanced end-markets across geographies principles of transparency, place in Eastern Europe and other emerging to be more resistant during market cycles. integrity and loyalty will countries and to a lesser extent, in North As shown during the 2008-2009 crisis, guarantee the Group’s longAmerica and the European Union. However, all countries and market segments do not term development. In line rising raw materials and energy cost cannot follow exactly the same economic cycles. with generally accepted be offset by productivity alone: since June As a matter of fact, while residential rules of governance, Tarkett 2010, we have announced and implemented markets in North America and in Eastern has set up clearly defined significant price increases in all markets Europe plummeted in 2009, commercial roles and responsibilities, and product lines. segments such as Healthcare and Education and developed transparent remained strong in North America and in financial communication for The group has been cash generative the European Union. In addition, Tarkett’s its shareholders. To guarantee through the last market cycle footprint in emerging markets allows us to the company’s long-term take advantage of the recovered growth in During the past four years, Tarkett has viability and image, the Group those regions, particularly Eastern Europe regularly reduced its financial leverage: has designed a Code of Ethics and South America. the net debt/EBITDA ratio decreased every engaging all of our employees year, reaching 1.0x at the end of 2010. to adopt exemplary conduct in Tarkett has proven its ability to adjust Even during the crisis, the group remained their daily activities. its cost structure cash-generative: in 2009, Tarkett posted a record operating cash-flow of €270m. In 2009, the Group could not avoid a reduction in sales, as the contraction of A strategy of small or mid size the world economies was especially brutal acquisitions is being pursued in order in Eastern Europe and in Sports activities. to supplement our organic growth Nevertheless, the group had launched an with a focus on emerging markets ambitious productivity plan as early as (South America, China), new product lines September 2008. This plan focused on direct (e.g. running tracks), or consolidation costs, as well as the reduction of back-office of industry (Poligras, Centiva). headcount. However, no factory was closed in order to preserve the production capacity. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 43 Customers / users Offering our customers the best experience Customer satisfaction with the quality of our products and services is our top priority. Tarkett pledges to develop high-performance products to improve the well-being of its users and build a sustainable, trust-based relationship with them. • Creating more pleasant surroundings for our users Keys • Bolstering product information to our actions • Building a quality customer relationship The biggest vinyl flooring factory in the world – Tarkett ZAO, Otradny, Russian Federation “Tarkett Observer”: explaining design trends for our customers Each year, Tarkett’s international design teams publish a guide «The Tarkett Observer» analyzing the major architectural, cultural and interior decorating trends. The Tarkett collections are enriched and adapted to these major trends in terms of color and texture in order to better anticipate our customers’ expectations. Monarch – history of success “In 1995, the idea of distributing floor coverings, namely resilient floors, came to me. From 1996 to 1998, the Monarch company had no direct contracts with floor manufacturers. At that time the market of southern Russia, where Monarch operated, was fragmented and there were a lot of small local players who basically purchased goods from large distributors in Moscow. That was when I realized that Monarch needed a strategic partner with a focus and clear strategy on the Russian market, in order to secure the Creating more pleasant the “Make your balanced choice” program, Tarkett provides customers company’s growth and development. surroundings for our users with simple, transparent information As an environmentally responsible through a system of product tags that The Tarkett/Sintelon joint venture company, Tarkett develops flooring help them choose the best flooring of 2002 gave fresh impetus that contributes to well-being, safety while balancing their technical and to our business development, and better indoor air quality. With environmental needs and their budget. with new products, innovations the advantage of its technological and non-standard approaches. expertise, the Group endeavours to Building a quality customer Today, the Monarch company operates provide its customers with innovative, 11 warehouses and has a turnover with high performance, sustainable solutions relationship Tarkett, our strategic partner, that are environmentally friendly. Tarkett seeks to offer customers of 90 million euros. And we believe it is Tarkett employs eco design methods an unparalleled experience. In all only the beginning of a long journey. by using renewable, easily recyclable of its activities, the Group makes materials to the greatest extent the customer its focal concern Looking back in the past, possible. The Group is constantly and encourages employees to adopt my team and I understand that developing new methods and specific a positive attitude towards their the success of Monarch would not surface treatments to improve flooring customers and users. The Group’s have been possible without wear, and limit the use of maintenance baseline, “THE ULTIMATE FLOORING the support and assistance of Tarkett.” products. EXPERIENCE“, represents a major commitment and is the guideline for all Andrey Krainov Monarch, General Director Bolstering product of our staff. Mindful of the quality of service provided to customers, Tarkett information has undertaken to reduce the number As a leader in its market, Tarkett of recorded complaints, and regularly pledges to provide its customers with assesses progress made on this goal. detailed information on its floorings and their composition. By creating TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 45 Environment Controlling the impact of our activities Because Tarkett is conscious of the ecological impact of our activities, the Group has undertaken an ambitious environmental strategy. From product design through to end-of-life treatment, Tarkett devotes considerable time and effort to reducing the carbon footprint of its products, production processes and logistics. Tarkett’s environmental strategy is based on four key concepts: Consideration for the complete and power. Each Tarkett product is 90% of sites life cycle of products manufactured following the strictest certified ISO 9001 One major aspect of Tarkett’s environmental standards in ISO 9001 and 14001-certified sites which and ISO 14001 environmental strategy is the eco conception of its products. For example, regularly undergo independent audits of their environmental risks. To assess All Tarkett flooring is manufactured the Group develops flooring that uses and control the use of resources, following the strictest as many natural and renewable raw the Group has set up four key indicators environmental standards. In 2010, materials as possible. At the end of at all of its production sites. 90% of the Group’s production 2010, the Group signed a partnership Quantitative goals are set for these sites were certified ISO 9001 agreement with the German institute indicators, and the results are regularly and ISO 14001. In addition, the EPEA, founded by Michael Braungart, monitored. plants are regularly checked by to implement the Cradle to Cradle® independent auditors to assess concept. This partnership reinforces Guaranteeing safer, healthier products their environmental risks. the Group’s commitment to develop contributing to the well-being of all highly recyclable flooring, and represents a genuine change of paradigm in Tarkett pledges to develop flooring corporate culture. With this step, that promotes well-being, safety Tarkett demonstrates its desire to and performance. All floor covering 6 recycling centers promote eco innovation without bringing it into conflict with economic that Tarkett sells in Europe have VOC emissions 10 times lower than current growth and environmental commitment. European standards*. This performance 103,000 makes Tarkett a benchmark in the Meticulous resource management flooring industry. Likewise, thanks to tons of vinyl recycled surface treatments such as Topclean XP, Tarkett constantly seeks to control the Tarkett flooring reduces the use ecological impact of its activities by of chemical detergents as well as water improving its use of natural resources and power consumption. • Taking into account the complete life cycle of products • Optimizing resource use on the production sites Keys • Guaranteeing increasingly safer and healthier products to our actions for the well-being of all • Recycling and helping others recycle Since 1957, Tarkett has actively engaged in the collection and recycling of flooring. Houston’s Environmental Management FieldTurf’s “Green Machine” used for the removal of artificial turf. System Team received ISO 14001 The turf is rolled up on the machine and the infill is removed/separated certification. prior to being recycled. Leader in flooring recycling 2010 Figures Tarkett pioneered the concept of flooring recycling as early as 1957. Since then, it has maintained its leadership Energy consumption (KWh/m2) Water consumption (l/m2) in end-of-life product management. 2008 2.96 2008 2.95 Through its “Tarkett ReUse/ReStart™” 2009 3.14 2009 3.04 program launched in 2003, the Group 2010 3.55 2010 2.15 has developed the industry’s largest flooring recycling scheme. The program, Up slightly over 2009, mainly due to the The new closed industrial water circuit which encourages professionals integration of new production units which set up at several sites (e.g. Narni, will gradually have their energy consumption Backa Palanka) reduced water consumption to recycle flooring scraps and products optimized through combined heat and power by 30%. Today, 13 of our plants are no at end of life, diverted 103,000 tons generation (in all our wood flooring plants) longer connected to either the local water of vinyl from landfills in 2010. or energy recycling. On a like-for-like basis, network or a groundwater well for their consumption was down 6.3%. industrial needs. Currently, all Houston manufactured Azrock® products contain 20 to 30% post consumer recycled content. In Waste production (g/m2) Recycling (g/m2) the United States, Tarkett signed a partnership with Walmart in 2010, to 2008 126 2008 254 collect the distributor’s flooring at end 2009 112 2009 285 of life and thus recycled 34 million 2010 46 2010 284 lbs of post consumer waste into new To measure waste ending up in landfills The level of recycling stayed the same due flooring. For Academy Sports + Outdoors, only, the Group modified its calculation to the change of scope from 2009 to 2010. one of the nation’s largest sporting scope by eliminating waste recycled outside On a like-for-like basis, our recycling rate goods retailers operating over 100 stores of approved recycling streams. On a like-foractually went up by about 10%. across the southeastern United States, like basis, waste production went down by 5%, to 107 g/m². 471 thousand lbs of flooring material have been recycled in 2010. The material reclaimed included both used and unused flooring from Academy retail locations. All of the flooring material was returned to Tarkett’s Houston plant and ground up into particles usable to produce future commercial tile at the Houston facility. * TVOC emissions after 28 days. Emissions lower than 100 μg/m3, 10 times lower than the EU standard of 1,000 μg/m3. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 47 Suppliers and partners Setting up win-win partnerships Tarkett’s supplier strategy is grounded in win-win, long-term partnerships. The Group seeks to build relationships and working conditions with all its suppliers and partners that promote long-term competitiveness in harmony with mutual respect and ethical principles. • Procuring reliable, competitive products Keys • Assessing supplier performance to our actions • Entering long-term partnerships • Anticipating business volumes and securing procurement Evonik, a German-based company that supplies our plants with plasticizers has been awarded “2010 Best Supplier of the Year”. A demanding procurement partnership ensuring end customer satisfaction regardless of market policy Respect In its procurement policy, Tarkett conditions or fluctuations. The Group closely works with suppliers to boost for ethical is careful to select reliable, product performance, develop green principles competitive and well-documented products. To guarantee its long-term design products, and improve the competitive edge of its solutions. competitiveness, the Group seeks an In 2010, despite tensions in the Tarkett expects its suppliers exemplary service level, in terms of commodities markets, these solid to use exemplary, transparent quality, costs and deliveries from its relationships helped Tarkett working methods. in 2010, we suppliers. Tarkett regularly reviews its keep production levels up included the United Nations suppliers’ performance in five key areas: and avoiding shutdowns. Global Compact in many customer service, price, innovation, procurement contracts. quality and on-time delivery. Anticipating raw material In 2010, Tarkett created the “Supplier Awards” to encourage suppliers to market trends constantly excel in meeting our quality To secure procurement and promote requirements. The trophy rewards profitable growth, Tarkett must ensure suppliers that achieved the best a continuous supply of raw materials performance in all five quality criteria. at competitive prices. The Group closely follows developments Transparent relationships in the commodities markets and anticipates production volumes based on long-term in order to efficiently manage potential partnerships shortages. Tarkett carries out market With its partners and suppliers, studies for commodities worldwide. Tarkett wants to build lasting, winThis guarantees the Group good win relationships based on a spirit visibility of future market trends of mutual respect. In exchange for and helps optimize its procurement this commitment to quality, Tarkett process. guarantees suppliers have a lasting TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 49 Communities Co-existing with local communities Tarkett has set up solid, lasting partnerships with the local communities where its industrial sites are located. Throughout the world, the Group seeks to improve the quality of life of local populations. It is actively involved in sports and social endeavors. “collage of possibilities” in favor of population from Haiti. • Weaving our activities into the local economic and social fabric Keys • Co-existing and getting involved with communities to our actions • Saving local resources • Preserving the local surroundings A committed partner to CNOSF As a world leader in sports surfaces, Tarkett continues its commitment to the French National Olympic Committee Rebuilding of the Lighthouse (CNOSF). In addition to Children from the local school school near Nashville, Tennessee visiting the Narni plant, Italy. after the 2010 flooding. supporting French sports, this partnership, signed in 2008, lets Tarkett study the needs of various players in order to offer better technical flooring solutions to improve sports performance and safety. Tarkett Sports has been the French Disabled Sports Federation’s technical partner since 2008 and will be supporting them in the development of high-level sports. Environmental commitment Responsible partnerships to preserve local surroundings in sports and social issues In all the regions where the Group As a player committed to social issues, is located, Tarkett is careful to limit Tarkett carries out many actions to the impact of its activities and preserve promote the quality of life of local the environment of communities living populations. Health and sports are near its sites. Major commitments have two pillars of the Group’s partnership been made to save natural resources policy. In the United States, Tarkett Johnsonite supports (water, air, soil) with closed water loops in most of our plants, signed a partnership agreement with the US Soccer Foundation to provide “Architecture optimizing drinking water management sports fields in underprivileged for Humanity” and reduce green house gas emissions with alternatives to road transport areas. In France, Tarkett has been an active partner of the Fondation to rebuild haiti in Sweden. Mindful of preserving Claude Pompidou for several years. the surroundings for local residents, This foundation assists aged and During the NeoCon trade fair site managers seek to limit sound hospitalized individuals held in June 2010, Johnsonite and visual pollution arising from as well as handicapped children. invited show attendees to place manufacturing to the greatest extent The Group also assists disabled athletes a sample of its flooring tile possible. They regularly carry out in this way through its partnership on a “Collage of Possibilities” awareness campaigns and opinion with the Handisport federation. and pledged to increase surveys among the local populations in their product donation to order to identify areas for improvement. “Architecture for Humanity” for each tile that was placed. Social commitments In the end, 3,000 m of Johnsonite® Harmonium xf™ to local communities were donated to relief efforts. Every day, Tarkett endeavors to play an active role in local communities in order to lastingly weave its activities into the local economic and social fabric. In Serbia, Tarkett created a “Tarkett Fund” in order to finance local sport competition and social activities. The Group contributes to the local economy by developing labor pools, promoting dialogue with local authorities, and supporting local social endeavors. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 51 ACHIEVING SUCCESS Achieving success 2010 Financial results After a 17% drop in 2009, sales increased by 12.4% in 2010. This was driven primarily by organic growth (6.5%), compounded by a favorable impact of exchange rates (3.9%) and by external growth (2.0%). Strong top line driven by emerging In South America, our Tarkett Fademac subsidiary has continued to perform very well. markets In a buoyant Brazilian market, the quality of During the year, Tarkett has continued to our offer and the cross fertilization with other successfully deploy its strategy Tarkett entities have delivered the expected of targeted acquisitions. We successively strong growth. acquired or took majority stakes in EasyTurf (artificial turf for landscaping applications In the European Union and in North America, in the USA), Poligras (outdoor sports surfaces we estimate that resilient flooring markets have in Spain), Enia in Serbia, Morton Extrusion slightly declined; however we have managed (production of fiber for artificial grass in to grow our sales in those regions by 2% on Germany) and finally Centiva, an American a like-for-like basis. Some countries have specialist of Luxury Vinyl Tiles (LVT). continued to suffer from the financial crisis (e.g Spain and Italy) while other parts Flooring Segment of the world are already on a recovery path (Scandinavia for instance). Organic growth has been very strong in emerging countries, particularly in Eastern Europe (Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Serbia…) Sports Segment and in South America. In these regions, our Tarkett Sports designs and sells outdoor sports sales have grown by 24% at same perimeter surfaces such as artificial turf or running and exchange rate. tracks. A majority of our customers are local Sales in emerging markets now represent 34% communities, universities or schools. All of of consolidated sales. these segments have been heavily impacted by the reduction of public spending and have In Eastern Europe, the recovery has been suffered a reduction in sales by 7% compared as sharp as the fall observed during to 2009 on a like-for like basis. the financial crisis of 2008-09. The residential markets have been driven by the enormous Recurrent EBITDA progresses need for housing renovation in Russia, estimated at 2.1bn square meters, i.e. despite the impact 70% of the 3.0 bn square meters of housing. of raw material prices In addition, Tarkett’s presence has been EBITDA before unusual items increased by improved with the opening of logistic centers 7.1%, to reach €222 million. The effect of in Kazakhstan and Siberia. Our product offer additional volumes and productivity actions has also been enlarged with the start-up implemented since 2009 is partially offset by of our laminate flooring production facility near a steep rise of all raw materials that has taken Moscow. place since the end of the first half-year. This Sustained cash-flow generation rise affects most commodities, from chemical products to linseed oil and most species of Despite the strong growth in sales, the Group’s wood. Faced with this new challenge, we have working capital only increased announced selling price increases in all our by €9m before the effect of perimeter markets and are reinforcing productivity plans changes. On-going capital expenditures have in our industrial operations. been maintained well below the amount of depreciation and have been focused on projects enabling to fuel organic growth: EBIT margin strongly improves opening of service centers in Kazakhstan thanks to reduction and Siberia, new product development for North in restructuring charges America, quality and productivity improvement. Operating cash-flow remainded therefore very Depreciation charges increase by 9%, following strong, at €168 million. the start-up of our laminate production facility in Russia. On the other hand, restructuring and impairment cost have been minimal compared Continued de-leveraging and robust to 2009 (€4 million vs. €36 million in 2009). balance sheet structure Strategic investments amount to €49 million This reflects that most of the adjustments and consist mainly in acquisitions listed above, required by the financial crisis had been and in the tail end of our laminate plant in implemented in 2008 and 2009. Consequently Russia. Interest and taxes paid amount to our EBIT margin improved by 150 bps €51m, up by €14m vs. 2009 due to the one-off and reached 7.1% of net sales. tax credits received in 2009. Net debt is also significantly affected by the Net result reaches 111 million weakening of the Euro, as part of our debt Financial expenses have continued to improve is denominated in US dollars. Net debt reaches vs. the previous year. For the second year in a €226 million, i.e. 1.0 time recurrent EBITDA, row, current and deferred taxes benefit from the giving Tarkett a considerable flexibility recognition of previously unrecognized deferred to pursue its profitable growth strategy. tax assets in North America and Western Europe, following the strengthening of our financial results in those regions. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 55 Achieving success Income statement 2010 2009 2008 Million EUR Million EUR Million EUR Net sales 1,919 1,708 2,069 Cost of sales (1,476) (1,308) (1,651) Gross profit 443 400 418 Selling expenses (202) (187) (217) Research and development expenses (16) (13) (13) General and administrative expenses (103) (104) (124) Other operating income & expenses 14 (1) (31) Operating profit before financing costs (EBIT) 136 96 34 Unusual items (4) (36) (116) EBIT before unusual items 140 132 150 % of net sales 7.3% 7.7% 7.2% of which depreciation (83) (76) (80) EBITDA before unusual items 222 208 230 % of net sales 11.6% 12.2% 11.1% Net financial costs (19) (26) (40) Share of Profit of Associates (0) 0 (0) Profit before tax 116 70 (7) Income tax expense (current & deferred) (5) 1 (18) Profit for the year 112 70 (25) Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 111 69 (28) Minority interests 0 2 3 112 70 (25) Balance sheet Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2008 Million EUR Million EUR Million EUR ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 393 372 386 Intangible assets 365 335 343 Investments in associates 3 3 Financial assets 24 30 37 Deferred tax assets 93 53 36 Other non-current assets 0 1 2 Non-current assets 876 793 807 Inventories 265 205 262 Trade receivables 274 235 251 Other receivables 57 58 74 Cash and cash equivalents 28 75 116 Assets classified as held for sale 30 Current assets 624 573 733 TOTAL ASSETS 1,499 1,366 1,540 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 316 316 316 Share premium and reserves 139 120 119 Retained earnings 134 64 95 Net result for the year 111 69 (28) Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 700 568 503 Minority interests 8 4 30 Total Equity 708 572 532 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 222 291 296 Other Financial Liabilities 20 3 95 Deferred Tax Liabilities 6 3 21 Provisions and other non-current liabilities 137 118 120 Non-Current Liabilities 386 415 532 Trade Payables 196 144 149 Other Liabilities 141 143 135 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 32 55 137 Other Financial Liabilities 11 8 5 Provisions and other current liabilities 26 28 23 Liabilities classified as held for sale 27 Current Liabilities 405 379 476 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,499 1,366 1,540 TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 57 Achieving success Operating cash flow 2010 2009 2008 Million EUR Million EUR Million EUR EBITDA before unusual items 222 208 230 Variation in operating working capital (9) 99 26 On-going Capex (46) (37) (65) Operating cash flow before unusual items 168 270 191 Debt Analysis 2010 2009 2008 Million EUR Million EUR Million EUR NET DEBT Opening (271) (317) (350) Operating cash flow before unusual items 168 270 191 Unusual items in EBITDA 4 (14) (16) Unusual items in operating working capital (4) 0 7 Non cash flow items (8) (3) (12) Net Operating cash flow 159 254 170 Net cash used in investing activities (51) (175) (64) Net cash used in financial and non operating activities (48) (37) (68) Non Operating cash flow (98) (212) (132) Net cash flow 60 42 38 Other (16) 4 (5) NET DEBT (226) (271) (317) Notes TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 59 Notes Tarkett.com Conception, design and production: Paris Photo credits: DPPI/CNOSF, Stéphane Muratet, Tarkett media library, Getty images. TARKETT 2010 Annual Report 61 2010 Annual Report
