GPC Electronics Global Compact Communication on Progress December 2011 Principle GPC’s Progress Actions Policy and/or standard reference Principle 1: GPC respects human rights within our When tendering and formally Implementation of SD108, Business Businesses sphere of influence and is committed to assessing major suppliers we Ethics, and implementation to Code of should support operating as a leading employer. Our consider supplier compliance with Conduct SD109. All personnel will be and respect the Ethics policy (SD108) outlines our our ethical policies and practices, trained by December 2012. protection of approach to human rights. Our Supplier GPC has amended our external internationally Corporate Responsibility policy requires and supplier audit process and proclaimed our suppliers to support and respect the questioner to ensure conformance human rights. protection of nationally and internationally to our policies. proclaimed human rights, and to ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 2: GPC implemented and deployed our Our Ethics policy is communicated GPC will investigate any breaches of our Businesses Business Ethics policy (SD108) and to our people and will be reviewed policy by suppliers and actively consider should make amended our Supplier Audit process and on regular basis to ensure it is business continuity with any supplier that sure that they questioner to ensure that new and aligned to industry best practice breaches our policy. Investigation will be are not complicit existing suppliers are adhering to human and meets the ongoing conducted through our normal supplier in human rights rights. Suppliers will be down scored if requirements of human rights as audits. abuses. they are found to be abusing basic well as GPC’s business. human rights and engaging in child Confidential reporting systems are also in slavery. place to allow such reporting without fear of retaliation. Principle 3: GPC does not have any issues with GPC have never put a stop to any GPC remains fully committed to ensuring Businesses freedom of association. GPC do not tell action or forbid any action by any a fair and supportive environment for all should uphold people or try and tell people who they can employee to join any union or to of our people regardless of whether they the freedom of / can not associate with. speak to any union regarding have formal employee representation or association and collective bargaining they do not. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Our Ethics policy (SD108) requires our When tendering and formally In 2012 we intend to ensure that all Businesses employees to avoid all forms of forced or assessing major suppliers we will GPC’s employees are trained to our should support compulsory labour. This principle is also consider suppliers’ compliance Ethics Policy. the elimination of reflected in our Supplier auditing process. with ethical policies and practices. all forms of We are working with our suppliers to forced and ensure this policy is adhered to. compulsory labour. Principle GPC’s Progress Actions Policy and/or standard reference Principle 5: Our Ethics policy requires our employees Through regular communication of In 2012 GPC intend to ensure that all Businesses to support the effective abolition of child our Ethics policy and review of our GPC’s employees are trained to our should support labour. We are working with our suppliers employee’s adherence to it, we Ethics Policy. the effective to ensure this policy is adhered to within ensure we maintain a record of no GPC will continue to investigate any abolition of child our supply chain department. reported incidents of child labour breaches of any of our major suppliers’ labour. or forced labour, within GPC’s own adherence to GPC’s Ethics Policy and operations. Child Slavery, and actively consider contract renewals with offending suppliers Principle 6: GPC promote and support a diverse GPC implemented SD107 to GPC has implemented a new EEO, Businesses workforce at all levels of the organisation. ensure employee behaviour is in Discrimination, Harassment and Bullying should support We ensure our people or potential hires line with promoting and supporting policy (SD107) to enforce our support for the elimination of are not unlawfully discriminated against a diverse workforce. this UNGC principal. discrimination in directly or indirectly as a result of their respect of colour, creed, race, nationality, ethnic or employment and national origin, connections with a occupation. national minority, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, religion, or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, gender, gender reassignment or trade union membership and will not tolerate harassment or bullying in any form. Principle 7: We aim to continually improve the In addition to our own GPC have implemented since 2007 Businesses sustainability of our operations. Since environmental programme, ISO14001 and has been audited for this should support a 2007 (ISO14001 implementation) we outlined in our Environment policy, international standard on regular precautionary continued to minimise our impact on the we also support our clients in intervals. approach to environment. reducing their environmental GPC have implemented many environmental impact. environmental programs to reduce water challenges. consumptions and to reduce waste sent to landfill, these programs has been very successful, all results are audited by an impartial external auditing body. Principle 8: Through the efforts of our people, and by Our internal ISO14001 programme In 2010 GPC reduced green house Businesses harnessing technology, we are reducing involves regular environment emissions by 3%. We are establishing should the energy, carbon and resource impact awareness events, highlighting the group wide and local plans to ensure we undertake of our business. We power down some of issue of our business and personal meet our internal carbon reduction and initiatives to our systems overnight and at weekends. environmental responsibilities. In waste reduction targets. promote greater In the New Year GPC will be starting a 2010 around 200 employees In 2012 GPC will continue to investigate environmental new environmental program that aims to participated in our environmental more ways to reduce power responsibility. reduce power consumption. awareness training program. This consumptions to achieve our target of 5% training will continue in 2011 and reduction. beyond. Principle GPC’s Progress Actions Policy and/or standard reference Principle 9: GPC is not involved in Research and GPC have two developed and GPC’s DFM document “GPC capability Businesses Development, GPC is a provider of utilised documents: Design for and design guide rev2.doc” and DFT should Electronics Manufacturing Services. Manufacturing (DFM) and Design document “Test Requirement V2.2-FPencourage the for Test (DFT) that we share with TPT.doc”. As an EMS when and where possible we all customers to improve the development discuss with our customers to improve These two documents are circulated with and diffusion of manufacturability of boards and the design of their products to ensure existing, new and potential customers to environmentally assemblies to ensure reduction of better and faster manufacturing steps are use in human and natural ensure better design for Printed Circuit friendly employed. Our aim is that all reduction in resources. Boards is utilised by designers. technologies. the manufacturing steps will require fewer resources whether it is human or natural resources. Principle 10: GPC is committed to the highest GPC has implemented a Code of Implementation of Code of Conduct SD Businesses standards of corporate governance and Conduct to ensure employee 109 should work professional integrity. We conduct our behaviour is in line with anti In 2012 we intend to ensure that all against business around the world in an ethical, corruption principles. GPC’s employees are familiar with our corruption in all honest and accountable manner. GPC prides its self in conducting Code of Conduct and that they also its forms, business around the world in an receive anti-corruption education. including ethical, honest and accountable extortion and manner in accordance with all bribery. relevant laws, rules and regulations.
