PIGMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT “COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS” JUNE 2011 PIGMENTS LIMITED Sakchi Boulevard Road, Jamshedpur-831001, India Tel 91 657 2433547/2439857 Fax 91 657 2434039 E-mail md@tatapigments.co.in Website www.tatapigments.co.in 1 PIGMENTS September 19, 2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Introduction Tata Pigments Limited is committed to the ten principles of the Compact which foster better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an insight into our recent activities in support of the Global Compact’s objectives. Statement of Continued Support As a member of the Tata Group we follow the principles of corporate governance and a code of ethics (called the Tata Code of Conduct) very similar to the Global Compact. This code of conduct is signed by all our officers and most of our employees and has been shared with our suppliers and customers too. For further information of the Company, please visit our website www.tatapigments.co.in For and on behalf of Tata Pigments Limited (Prakash Sarode) Managing Director 2 PIGMENTS September 19, 2011 U N GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress (A) HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. (A1) Company’s Policies affirming this Principles: Tata Group has a common code of conduct for its companies, which is a shared set of ideals and beliefs that govern and guide the business. Tata Code of Conduct 2008 is a guide to each one on the values, ethics and business principles expected from each one. The Code consists of 25 principles listed below, which enshrine the human rights principles, the commitment towards environment protection, adherence to labour standards and anti-corruption. Besides, all employees are also governed by the Works Standing Order duly approved by the concerned Government Authorities. 1. National Interest 12. Public Representation of the Company and the Group 2. Financial Reporting and 13. Third Party Representation Records 14. Use of the Tata Brand 3. Competition 15. Group Policies 4. Equal Opportunities 16. Shareholders Employer 17. Ethical Conduct 5. Gifts and Donations 18. Regulatory Compliance 6. Government Agencies 19. Concurrent Employment 7. Political Non-alignment 20. Conflict of Interest 8. Health, Safety and 21. Securities Transactions and Environment Confidential Information 9. Quality of Products and 22. Protecting Company Assets Services 23. Citizenship 10. Corporate Citizenship 24. Integrity of Data Furnished 11. Cooperation of Tata 25. Reporting Concerns Companies The Team comprising the Managing Director and Chief Ethics Officer, Ethics Counsellor, Departmental Heads are in charge of resolving any concerns that are reported within the Company. (A2) Company’s Initiatives to support the Policies and outcomes:  Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) & Works Standing Order include clauses on Human Rights, advising every employee of a Tata Company to preserve the human rights of every individual and the community and strive to honor commitments. Total No. of employees (top to bottom) is 193. All employees undergo training on TCoC on regular basis. The Code is posted on the company’s Website www.tatapigments.co.in and printed copies are distributed to all employees, dealers and major suppliers. All employees of Tata Pigments have submitted a written undertaking to abide by the TCoC in letter and spirit. 3 PIGMENTS Systematic procedure has been established for receipt and resolution of concerns received on TCoC by any stakeholders of Tata Pigments. TCOC coverage 120 100 100 100 100 100 100 % of TCOC coverage 100 80 60 40 20 0 Target 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 2010-11 Ethical concern recieved Good 8 7 7 6 5 4 4 3 3 3 2 1 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11  Employee Grievance Redressal, a part of the Human Resources Management Department, reviews and addresses the grievances of employees. No human rights violation case has been reported till date.  Established Disciplinary Procedure enumerated in the Works’ Standing Orders (WSO) of the company deals with any violation on Human Rights. WSO is applicable to all employees and have been communicated to all employees at the time of joining the company. Besides, there is an Officers Rules abiding all officers of the company.  Contractors’ works for the company are required to follow the guidelines such as the Safety Rules and Regulations, Payment of Minimum Wages Act and Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act. No Child Labour is employed.  Occupational Health and Safety issues related to various operations are systematically reviewed and improved through certification to OHSAS18001:2008 which is audited thrice in a year by Internal Certified Auditors and once in a year by internationally accredited external authority for recertification. Clause 8 of TCoC also deals with the subject.  The Company not only provides medical facilities to its employees but also conducts free Medical Camps with registered doctors and pathologists in the adjoining villages for underprivileged class of the society under “Mother & Child Care”. 4 PIGMENTS Aid awareness programme for villagers and school children  To support continuing education particularly to under privileged class – SC/ST, the company sponsors scholarships under Affirmative Action. (B) LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (B1) Company’s Policies affirming the Principles:  Tata Pigments Works Standing Orders  Tata Pigments Officers Rules  Tata Code of Conduct – Clause 4 on Equal Opportunity Employer (B2) Company’s Initiatives to support the Policies and outcomes:  Tata Pigments abides by the prevailing regulatory laws, in India. Its Human Relations and Industrial Relations practices allow collective bargaining. All employees other than officers are represented by the Tata Pigments Workers; Union. Collective bargaining issues are discussed with the Tata Pigments Workers’ Union on regular basis.  The Joint Works Council (Union & Management) meets periodically to discuss issues like productivity, quality, safety, environment and employee well being issues. 5 PIGMENTS Stake Holders Proactive Measures Improve EVA Share holders Improvement in productivity. Customers Customer’s feedback, Strategic out-sourcing of products. Treatment of effluent water. Community and Environmental friendly process. society Support to community. Climate change initiatives Safe and healthy working conditions. Health checkups, Use of safety appliances, Employees TPM, ISO14001 & OHSAS implementation Proactive Measures for Stakeholders  Dialogues and meetings with the Union members, proactively deliberates issues of possible area of conflicts and creates a congenial environment in pursuit of corporate sustainability.  As per the laws of the land, forced and compulsory labour is prohibited and Tata Pigments fully abides by the law. Senior Leaders and Ethics Counsellor periodically review any violation of such requirements.  As per the Works Standing Order of the Tata Pigments Limited, minimum age required for the employment is 18 years and hence the company engages no Child Labour. The recruitment process requires furnishing of appropriate proof of age to ensure conformance to the age bar.  All dealers, suppliers and contractors who work for the company are required to follow the guidelines of no Child Labour employment and Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act.  The company is committed to be an equal opportunity employer – Clause 4 of TCoC and follows the company policy which states that employment will be solely based on eligibility and merit of the applicant without any discrimination against their gender, race, religion, caste, colour, ancestry, marital status, nationality and disability.  The Tata Code of Conduct emphasizes equal opportunities and nondiscrimination. The company Ethics Counsellor monitors concerns raised on discrimination in its activities, services and products. During the year no concern was received on discrimination or violation of the Code of conduct or Policy. (C) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6 PIGMENTS WORLD ENVIRONMENTAL DAY FUNCTION 05.06.2011 WORKS GARDEN 7
