Skanska pioneers the use of many Sustainable development innovative technologies, particularly in the area of energy efficiency. The use of Energy Piles™ and Energy Wall™combine the latest foundation and geothermal technology to provide an innovative source of renewable energy. They can help reduce the carbon emissions related to heating and cooling of a building by up to 30 percent. 60 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 64 The Skanska Journey to Deep GreenTM has begun. It will redefine construction and development, providing new opportunities Blå Jungfrun. Harnessing heat from people and household appliances for a more sustainable future. 64 The Skanska Journey to Deep GreenTM 64 Exceeding norms in Poland Meeting and exceeding expectations Skanska constructs buildings and infrastructure projects that meet or surpass the requirements of many voluntary national and international environmental labeling and management systems, among them: • EU GreenBuilding – Europe – All new projects by Skanska’s Commercial Development Nordic and Commercial Development Europe business units will meet this target. – Today Skanska Commercial Development Nordic is a registered EU GreenBuilding Corporate Partner. • Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) − Global – A s a minimum, all new commercial properties in the Nordic countries, Central Europe and the United States developed for Skanska’s own account will meet the standards for LEED Gold certification. • Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) – United Kingdom • Civil Engineering Environmental Quality Assessment Tool (CEEQUAL) – United Kingdom • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System – Global – In 2000, Skanska was the first construction company to become globally ISO 14001-certified. • Swan label – Nordic countries Skanska Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 61 Taking the lead in sustainability Sustainable development Skanska is helping to build a Deep Green Society − a place where projects have a near-zero environmental impact. Skanska is regarded by many clients, independent rating gains and dismiss the importance of the longer-term agencies and industry experts as a leading practitioner benefits of sustainability. Skanska has maintained its of sustainable development. This is confirmed by the commitment to improvement. When economic times 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project’s Nordic 200 report, are tough, and the focus is on cost-cutting, the business where Skanska is the top construction company in the case for Skanska’s sustainability agenda become stronregion and is ranked number nine overall. Skanska is ger, for example improved energy efficiency, water use the only construction company in the top 20 listing. In and waste management. the U.K., the Sunday Times newspaper also recognized Improving safety standards, particularly in Central Skanska’s efforts in its annual Best Green Companies Europe, has also been prioritized. The regions in which list. Skanska UK was overall winner of the category Skanska operates are at different stages of development, “large company with high environmental impact,” and both in behavioral patterns and in regulatory standards. Solar makes financial sense the top contractor in the Green List, as well as winning Efforts continue to introduce global standards of best Over 1,600 solar panels have the category for best corporate environmental strategy. practice. been installed at Skanska Koch’s In November, Skanska USA Building was presented headquarters in Carteret, with the US Green Building Council’s Leadership Ethics New Jersey, U.S.A. Capable of generating 426kW of electricity, Award for the private sector. The Award recognizes As a founding member of the World Economic Forum’s the array will not only provide outstanding individuals and organizations that signify Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Skanska 85 percent of the building’s vision, leadership and commitment to the evolution of has, for many years, been committed to eradicating electricity needs, but also green building design and construction. Further reccorruption in the construction industry. Skanska AB’s generates up to USD 25,000 of ognition of leadership was confirmed with the appointGeneral Counsel is a member of the working group revenue every month. This is ment of a Skanska USA Building employee as the new appointed by the Swedish government to propose the first installation of its kind at a Skanska office. Payback is Chairperson of the US Green Building Council. changes to Swedish criminal law on bribery, including expected in less than five years. a proposal for a code on gifts and benefits. Measurement where appropriate This Sustainability Review highlights what has been Leading change throughout the industry accomplished environmentally and socially in 2010. It also Skanska continues to play an active role in improving looks forward to work that must be done in the future. working conditions, equality and safety, not only within This review does not follow convention, given the its own business units but across the wider construction business model of project-based companies. For example industry. The company is a signatory to the United there is no third-party verification because no credible Nations Global Compact act and its business leadership approach exists for a project-based business such as forum, Caring for Climate. Skanska is also a member of Skanska’s. What Skanska does is driven by customer the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. demands. As a consequence, many so-called standard reporting practices are inadequate because they tend Ethics Committee to be based on a model for manufacturing industries − During the year, the Skanska Group established a not project-based construction where, in effect, almost Corporate Ethics Committee and mandated that every every project is a one-off. Therefore, only Key PerforSkanska home market have its own ethics committee. In mance Indicators (KPIs) that take into account the addition, an Ethics Expert Group consisting of Skanska nature of Skanska’s business model, are reported here. employees was established under the sponsorship of a member of the Senior Executive Team (SET). The Ethics Challenges and opportunities Expert Group meets twice a year to share best practices The primary sustainability challenges for Skanska are and agree on focus areas for further improvement. safety and business ethics, highlighted in the first part The Corporate Ethics Committee was established to of this review. The second part focuses on the largest debate best practices and review any issues highlighted business opportunity for Skanska in the field of sustainthrough the corporate whistle-blowing system that able development – Green Business. This moved foroperates worldwide. ward significantly during 2010 under the title Journey Open and transparent dialogue is encouraged to Deep GreenTM and is communicated and measured throughout Skanska and, in a majority of cases, imporusing a new tool, the Skanska Color Palette TM . tant issues can be resolved in this way. Where this is not Last year was another challenging year for sustainpossible, for reasons of confidentiality, the fully indeability from a global perspective. In times of economic pendent whistle-blowing process is in place to ensure uncertainty, it is always easy to focus on short-term that any ethical dilemma can be resolved satisfactorily. 62 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2010 Safety starts with planning Skanska believes that any accident, of any kind, is one safety specialists from Arbetsrelaterade olyckor and the U.K. to Poland med the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) frånvaro (LTAR) 2005–2010 2005–2010 too many and that all accidents are avoidable. Analyzing Czech ­Republic. Skanska’s commitment to improving and understanding why accidents happen, managing safety is not limited7to its own operations. World-class 7 risk and providing education and training are vital safety expertise can6be used to improve working condi6 factors in improving safety performance. To do this, tions in the entire industry. Skanska has therefore begun 5 5 Skanska works to be a learning, reporting, fair and just to engage with leading competitors and government organization. regulators in several4 markets where improvement is 4 needed, in order to 3change attitudes and help to deliver 3 Performance best practices throughout the whole sector. Skanska 2 2 Improving its safety performance remains a key focus Poland initiated an agreement with several major for Skanska. The ultimate goal of zero accidents is supcompetitors to improve 1 safety in its home market. 1 ported by a series of annual milestones. The 2008–2010 Skanska aims to0 be a learning organization, and in 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Business Plan set a target Lost Time Accident Rate* 2008 the use of Global Safety Stand Downs (GSSDs) was (LTAR) of 4.0 by the end of 2010. The actual LTAR in introduced. Extensive(Antalinvestigation arbetsrelaterade of procedures, olyckor med sys(Number of lost time accidents 2010 was 3.6, improving on the 2009 achievement of tems, equipment and behaviors takes place after every frånvaro multiplicerat med 1 miljon arbetade timmar) delat med times 1,000,000 hours) divided by (total labor hours) 3.8. Skanska regrets to announce that nine work-related fatal accident. This(totalt enables antallessons to be learned with arbetade timmar) fatalities occurred at the company’s sites during 2010: the aim of preventing similar occurrences in the future. *Skanska has recorded lost time accident rate (LTAR) on a global five subcontractors, three employees and one member Skanska has further developed this reporting procedure basis since 2005, which serves as of the public. This loss of life is unacceptable and Skanska to cover other serious incidents. the base year for these statistics. will make whatever changes are necessary to prevent To reduce the number of acthese in the future. A safer workplace brings rewards cidents, Skanska established a The business plan for 2011–2015 sets a new Skanska The drive to reduce accidents to zero and provide a safe three-year target: by the end milestone LTAR of 1.0 for the end of 2015, which will working environment for everyone associated with any of 2010, to reach an overall LTAR in the Skanska Group not move Skanska closer to its ultimate goal of zero accidents. Skanska project also has economic benefits. Research exceeding 4. This plan includes a global strategy covering five key undertaken by Skanska USA shows that by improving As the chart indicates, areas, including safety competency and knowledge, a project’s risk rating, its insurance premiums can be ­Skanska achieved an LTAR of the selection and management of subcontractors and reduced significantly. This results in more competitive 3.8 by the end of 2009, and embedding safety in efficient production methods. tendering and lower ultimate project costs for the client. 3.6 by the end of 2010. As part of its continuous improvement program, during 2010 Skanska developed eight new Global Safety Standards to complement the four already in use. Ensuring that these safety standards are fully operational in all businesses is a key step to providing a safer workplace. Leadership During 2010 a Global Safety Leadership Team was Skanska Safety Week, established. It consists of senior managers and safety held for the sixth specialists from across Skanska’s business units including the President and CEO of Skanska. The aim is to consecutive year, was a ensure that all obstacles to achieving the global safety great success in 2010. Tens goal of zero accidents are identified and overcome. of thousands of Skanska As part of our focus on introducing and monitoring leading indicators, Executive Site Safety Visits (ESSV) employees, contractors were introduced in 2008 and have continued to be a and customers took success during 2010. These were extended during 2010 part in the world’s to include a wider range of company personnel. A total of 4,751 ESSVs were completed during 2010, compared largest workplace to a target of 3,013. Each business unit also measured a safety initiative organized larger number of safety leading indicators. In this way, by a company. The Safety Skanska is monitoring and measuring the actions that eliminate accidents before they happen. Week themes were “Being involved” and Sharing knowledge “What can we do better?”. Skanska recognizes that some business units have a more mature knowledge base of safety procedures and techniques than others and benefit from having highly developed training and regulatory frameworks. To enable other business units to reach the same level of safety performance, Skanska seconded two of its Skanska Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 63 The Journey to Deep Green TM Sustainable development Eco-design professionals Delivering consistently beyond compliance Number It is now more than 10 years since Skanska became the 600 first construction company to be globally certified to 500 ISO 14001. Using this internationally recognized envi400 ronmental management system provides a consistent Today, vanilla buildings and infrastructure are the norm. There is a 300 framework for continual improvement. growing list of green projects around the world. While these may 200 Projects are now regularly delivered that exceed the meet today’s requirements, will they be good enough tomorrow – 100 national standards and voluntary eco-design frameworks will their value be future-proofed? The concept of “green” is a mov0 set for green construction, such as: LEED (Leadership ing target, so Skanska prefers to push towards Deep Green projects. 0 2004 2006 2008 2010 in Energy and Environmental Design), BREEAM (BuildLEED’ AP’s, BREEAM, CEEQUAL and ing Research Establishment Environmental Assessment other eco design professionals. Method) and EU GreenBuilding. The Deep Green Society Getting to Deep Green ISO 14001 Major The Journey to ISO Deep Green 14001 TM wasavvikelser a major focus of allvarliga The Skanska Color Palette TM , a strategic framework and Non-conformances (MNCs) resources, training and commitmentMNC) (Major Non-Conformaties, throughout 2010. communication tool for Green Business, has been develThe frequency of MNC in 2005–2010 identiﬁerade under 2005–2010 Skanska’s Journey to Deep GreenTM will eventually take oped to measure the company’s performance along the Number the company, itsAntal customers, suppliers and the people way. The palette comprises three colors: 10 10 who benefit by occupying or utilizing everything that is 8 constructed by Skanska, 8 to a Deep Green Society. This Vanilla – The construction process or product perfor6 is a place where projects 6 have a near zero environmental mance is in compliance with law, regulations, codes impact. In a Deep Green Society, assets and facilities are and standards. 4 4 future-proofed by the improvement of energy efficiency 2 and materials use 2 and the reduction of carbon emissions Green – The construction process or product per0 and water consumption. 0 Deep Green can be measured formance is beyond compliance, but can not yet be 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 in zeros, using six2005 key2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 indicators: considered to have near-zero impact. Green can be In 2010 Skanska Business Units had • Net zero primary energy Under 2010, hade Skanskas qualified by voluntary classifications such as: zero MNCs. Since January 1, 2005, 13 affärsenheter 0 MNCs. EU GreenBuilding, LEED and BREEAM. Skanska recorded a total of thirteen MNCs. • Near zero carbon Sedan 1construction januari 2005, har totalt 13 MNCs identiﬁerats i Skanskas • Zero waste 13 affärsenheter. Deep Green – signifies a construction process where • Zero hazardous materials product performance is future-proofed – for example, it uses zero net energy and produces zero waste. • Zero unsustainable materials Deep Green is the ultimate destination for the • Net zero water for buildings and zero potable projects undertaken on behalf of Skanska’s more water for construction in civil/infastructure forward-looking customers. Exceeding norms in Poland Delivering beyond compliance is exemplified by the Grunwaldzki Center in Wrocław, Poland. Designated an EU GreenBuilding, the modern office facilities consume 30 percent less energy than Polish building norm. The building is equipped with an advanced Building Management System, which manages the heating, ventilating and air conditioning system and all the indoor parameters to ensure optimal energy use. Heat recovery systems in the air handling units recycle 90 percent of the energy from the outgoing air and outgoing warm air is recirculated through the garage levels to avoid the need for space heating. The Harnessing heat from people project also achieved Apartments in the Blå Jungfrun development in Stockholm have 98 percent recycling no conventional space heating, they are warmed by the heat of of waste materials, the occupants themselves, household appliances and passive solar which were segreheating. As a result, these apartments consume less than half the gated on site. energy of a comparable building types in Sweden. 64 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2010 The Skanska Color Palette TM is now being used to benchits products. Carbon emissions resulting from air travel mark new projects. Each of the key indicators is mapped to corporate events involving large numbers of employees according to project performance. and day-to-day travel for a number of corporate functions are balanced through these contributions. This has A sustainablesports arena several advantages over conventional carbon offsetting. Completed in April 2010, the New Meadowlands As well as encouraging responsible forest management, Stadium in New Jersey − home to both the New York the social welfare of the communities who rely on the Giants and New York Jets − is one of the most sustainrainforest is enhanced. Established forests are also more able sporting venues in the U.S. Local employment efficient carbon sinks than the newly-planted woodland was encouraged through the Construction Managethat forms the basis of many offset programs. At project ment Building Blocks program, a training program level, where biodiversity can be enhanced or improved, designed to help small business owners from minority Skanska recognizes its broader responsibility to assist in social groups. During the construction phase and the species protection. first year of operation, carbon dioxide emissions were reduced by approximately 1.68 million metric tons. The Carbon new stadium uses around 30 percent less energy than Skanska reports its Scope 1 and 2 emissions in accordance its predecessor, despite having double the floor space, with the internationally recognized Greenhouse Gas Prowhile water usage has been reduced by 25 percent. By tocol and supplies this data to several external stakeholder working closely with the customer and the U.S. Envigroups, including the Carbon Disclosure Project. Scope 1 ronmental Protection Agency, Skanska USA delivered a Absolute Carbon Dioxide emissions were 336,082 metric USD 1.1 billion project that sets new standards for sustons and Scope 2 Absolute Carbon Dioxide emissions were tainability and spectator enjoyment. Read more about 106,189 metric tons in 2010. In addition, Skanska’s ambithe stadium on page 30. tion is to further develop its reporting within Scope 3 in line with emerging international guidance. Enhancing the natural environment Energy efficiency and carbon reduction are major The United Nations designated 2010 as the International sustainability opportunities for Skanska. The progress Year of Biodiversity. made in previous years was strengthened in 2010 with the The forests of Brazil represent around one third of development and use of carbon footprinting tools, both to the world’s remaining rainforests and are home to an benchmark the total lifetime carbon emissions of a strucestimated 56,000 species of plants and over 3,600 species ture and to help identify low carbon options for projects. of animals. They also provide the country with two milDuring 2010 Skanska’s Building Information Modellion jobs. Skanska is currently helping to reduce deforesing (BIM) competence centre in Finland incorporated tation and encourage sustainable forest management by a carbon calculator so that, for the first time, trade-offs supporting The Forest Trust, a Swiss non-governmental between cost, structural performance and carbon can be organization. Aided by contributions from Skanska, assessed for different materials and structures. TFT has enabled Rondobel, a Brazilian forestry comSkanska’s business units are developing a range of pany that works 16,000 hectares of the forest, to progress approaches to carbon footprinting, depending on toward full Forest Stewardship Certification (FSC) for local regulations and market requirements. In 2010, Planning for safety Green – from the roof down The Norra Länken project, Due for completion in 2011, the new ten-story 733 10th and winner of the Skanska 2009 G building in Washington, D.C. is being constructed to a minimum Health and Safety Award, standard of LEED Gold. Innovative building features include a uses Building Information green roof to minimize “heat island” effects and reduce storm Modeling (BIM) as part of water overflow. Inside, sensors will monitor carbon dioxide levels safety improvement plans. and regulate BIM makes it possible to plan ventilation. Energy every step of construction. efficiency measures For example, the project will provide an employed BIM to illustrate estimated 14 percent materials using 3-dimensionreduction in annual al tools at startup meetings energy costs. with different trade contracOutside, special tors, which helped provide parking is provided a better picture of the work for alternate fuel to be carried out and any vehicles. High difficulties that might arise. performance, low This enabled some of the solar gain glass is risks to be removed. The projcomplemented by ect also went on to win the the re-use of Swedish Road Administramaterials. tion Safety Award in 2010. Skanska Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 65 Skanska Sweden launched its own ECO2 tool, which The Company is also continuing its participation in the Total average amount of Sustainable development was used for the first time on the Nyhamn-Gävle Strand World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s waste diverted from landﬁll 2008–2010 residential project. ECO2 is linked directly to cost Energy Efficiency in Buildings Initiative. Skanska is estimating, enabling carbon emissions to be calculated playing a leading role in developing the project with the Percent according to the project specification and construction International Energy Agency into a high level policy 100 material profiles. Skanska Finland used BIM to calculate document and is facilitating the development of a sector 80 the carbon footprint of its new headquarters buildCarbon Dioxide Measurement Protocol together with 60 ing, Skanska House, while in Norway the Norwegian ENCORD the European Network of Construction ­Government’s carbon calculator was applied during the Companies for Research and Development. In addition, 40 construction of the Nesodden Community Center. Skanska supports the UN Environment Program’s 20 Sustainable Building & Climate Initiative and piloted 0 Reducing carbon emissions its Common Carbon Metric tool for buildings. 2008 2009 2010 In the U.S., footprinting of the Hillsboro Intermodal Waste diverted from landﬁll. Target Transport Facility (HTIF) a multi-story vehicle and Water conservation for 2010 >90%. bicycle parking project in Oregon, helped in the selection Water is regarded as one of the planet’s finite resources of low carbon options for a range of primary construction that will be severely affected by climate change. materials, resulting in the avoidance of over 3,600 metAlthough construction and infrastructure developric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e ). HTIF has ment does not consume large quantities of water, the been designed to consume significantly less energy than subsequent occupancy of buildings can be responsible conventional parking garages. Using energy-efficient for high levels of water consumption during their serlighting designed to perform at 82 percent below code vice lifetime. Skanska is reducing this consumption in a and a 60kW photovoltaic solar energy system that genernumber of ways, and for the first time water is a specific ates 89 percent of the power requirements, the carbon focus area in both the Skanska Color Palette TM and the footprint of the project has been reduced significantly and 2011-2015 Environmental Strategy. Reuse of rainwater, the Hillsboro project rates beyond compliance, or Green grey water recycling and reducing the consumption on the Skanska Color PaletteTM . of potable water are important considerations for all Meanwhile, in the U.K., Skanska calculated the projects. For example, Skanska UK’s involvement in carbon footprint of the recently delivered One and construction for the 2012 London Games involves a Two Kingdom Street projects in Paddington, London. comprehensive program of ground and surface water Embodied carbon is typically estimated at 20 percent of treatment and reuse. When complete, the project is a construction project, with the remaining 80 percent expected to use over 60 percent non-potable water. due to energy consumption during lifetime occupancy. Results produced for Skanska UK show that thanks to energy-efficient design and construction, operational carbon for these projects is predicted to fall to approximately 70 percent of the total. Meanwhile the Bristol Private Finance Initiative (PFI) schools in which Skanska Infrastructure Development is an investor are now part of the largest biomass boiler cluster in the U.K. Low-carbon homes will play an important part in achieving the energy reduction targets, particularly those set in Europe. Skanska has already built over 50 percent of all the “passive house” stock in Sweden. Royal green Photo Chris Jackson His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales The latest development, completed in 2010, represents the first high-rise rental apartment building to be Playing an active role in constructed to Swedish passive house standards. the EU Corporate Leaders’ Group on Climate Change, Energy an initiative that is supported Skanska continues to benefit from energy efficiency and by His Royal Highness the renewable energy. During the year the Commercial PropPrince of Wales, is part of erty Development business units in the Nordic countries Skanska’s commitment to and Central Europe focused on beating national energy sharing sustainable codes by at least 25 percent to obtain EU GreenBuilding best practices. recognition for their projects. Most business units also Skanska’s contribuhave energy efficiency plans for their own offices and tion to building a projects. In addition to energy efficiency measures, supply more sustainable contracts were switched to Green tariffs and in the case future was of the Civil business area of Skanska USA, two large acknowledged photovoltaic systems were installed in New Jersey and personally by Colorado, and surplus generation is sold to the state grids. His Royal Highness in a letter he sent External engagement − carbon and energy from Clarence House. Skanska works with the influential EU Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change to support policymakers by promoting a forward-looking agenda on climate change. 66 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2010 Sustainable procurement Skanska’s Green IT commitment demands that suppliOver 80 percent of Skanska’s revenue flows through its ers replace substances of high concern such as phthasupply chain. As well as playing a key role in materials lates, PVC cables and brominated flame retardants with selection and use, sustainable procurement is of great commercially viable alternatives. For many years Skanska strategic importance. Skanska will only ever be as safe, has committed to reducing hazardous substances in green and ethical as its supply chain. As a consequence, its projects, for example through membership of the one of the most important business challenges is to ­Business Group of NGO ChemSec. ensure that subcontractors as well as materials and product suppliers are aligned with Skanska’s own susCommunity engagement tainability agenda. Clear communication with the supSkanska works closely with small suppliers and underply chain is vital to ensure that goods and materials have represented minority groups to encourage their a chain-of-custody. Pre-qualification of suppliers and involvement in the supply chain. During 2010, three subcontractors is also an important tool for improving training programs aimed at young offenders have been safety performance. Skanska UK works systematically undertaken by Skanska UK with the encouragement to ensure that the supply chain understands the precise of its customer, the National Grid. Working with the requirements. Assistance is given to suppliers, to enable South East Electricity Substation Alliance (SEESA) and them to work towards compliance and appreciate the the Rochester Young Offenders Institution, Skanska importance of sustainable sourcing. has helped to teach participants to find work at the end The activities of Skanska’s Nordic Procurement Unit of their sentences. The ten-week courses have been so are greatly influenced by sustainability considerations. successful that employment is now being offered by Suppliers are encouraged to consider green solutions, Skanska to many of those who complete the training. aimed at reducing whole-life cost, as part of their bids. Education at every level is important and Skanska Where alternative materials and products have already takes its responsibilities seriously. In Argentina, been used successfully in projects, details are commuSkanska has been working with the Cimientos Foundanicated throughout Skanska’s Nordic business units. tion since 2005, helping to support and encourage There is also increased focus on using additional factors children through their secondary schooling. besides price in determining the suitability of a product, service or supplier, for example by integrating the The road ahead ­Skanska Color Pallette TM into the procurement process. In 2010 several of Skanska’s key sustainability initiaSkanska Norway actively supports the EU Chem tives were strengthened and further developed, while Xchange project. Started in 2009, it offers the European Skanska’s Journey to Deep GreenTM is already changing construction sector a tailor-made, low-priced, fully the way new projects are visualized and implemented. digitalized chemical information system covering risk Looking forward, sustainable development concepts assessment, supply chain communication and managewill play a central part in the Company’s 2011–2015 busiment. A database will soon provide information in ness plan. The social priorities of ethics and safety will be 23 EU languages plus Norwegian. actively managed alongside green business opportunities linked to energy, carbon, materials and water. Green Urban Development Report Skanska’s new series of Green Urban Development Reports highlights trends and developments that will make our society greener. The first issue Awards won features how energy • Top construction company, Nordic Region, in the Carbon consumers turn into Disclosure Project (Skanska Group) producers. In the near • The Sunday Times Best Green Companies Award: 2nd overall future, citizens will and winner of large company and winner of best corporate become stakeholders environmental strategy (Skanska UK) in a local energy community. Smart • The US Green Building Council’s Leadership Award technology will (Skanska USA Building) empower citizens to • Winner of the Supplier Diversity category in the Mayor of become urban energy London’s Responsible Procurement Awards (Skanska UK) farmers. Skanska will issue two reports per • Safety Premio Apolo Award ENDESA (Skanska Latin America) year and you can find • Via Bona awards, presented by the Pontis Foundation for them at www.skanska.com/greenreport Skanska’s commitment to business ethics (Skanska Slovakia) Skanska Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 67 Sustainable development Solar power in Colorado Location: Cortez, Colorado Unit: Skanska USA Civil Heavy road, excavation and construction jobs are part of Project: 1,260 solar panels Skanska’s day-to-day work in the “Four Corners” region. Giant Capacity: 258 kWh bulldozers and other heavy machinery parked in the Skanska Investment: USD 1.5 M USA Civil yard in Cortez normally attract people’s attention. Environmental benefit: Reducing CO2 emissions by But no longer − today the big eye-catcher is 15 rows of shiny purchasing substantially less electricity produced by coal new solar panels. fired power plants The Cortez office also showed its precision know-how by performing its own site preparation, including pole and solar panel installation. In the Rocky Mountains, some 2,000 meters (over 6,000 ft.) above The message has been snapped up by its surroundings. sea level, Skanska is capturing the sun. Skanska’s local office in A number of potential customers have already contacted the Cortez, Colorado has switched to solar power. Not only that − suroffice to get help with their own solar energy systems. Skanska plus energy will flow from its new system into the local electrical grid. has also been given the Green Business of the Year award by Skanska’s 1,260 solar panels will generate 258 kW when the Cortez Area Chamber of Commerce. operating at capacity. The desert-dry landscape around Cortez At today’s energy prices, the office’s USD 1.5 M investment has few rainy days and the sun shines 240 days a year. The solar will pay for itself in six years. The environmental benefit cannot panels will also generate electricity even on cloudy days. be measured in money, but the transition to solar energy is The office’s solar panels are capable of rotating and are conestimated to save the equivalent of 227 metric tons of carbon nected to a GPS tracking system that enables them to follow the dioxide emissions yearly. sun and maintain an optimal angle. This boosts their efficiency Skanska USA Civil’s office in New Jersey also generates its by 30 percent compared to fixed panel arrays. own electricity, using roof-mounted solar panels. 68 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2010
