Social responsibility report 1 Company name: Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB Country: Lithuania Sector: Production of beer, soft beverages and long drinks Reporting period: 2010 2 3 4 6 W OR D 8 FR TH OM E TH BU E 12 SI N CO AB ES M OU S PA N T PH Y’ 16 ŠV ILO S ŠV YT SO M YT UR AN PH AG 22 UR YS Y ER YS –U OF SO -U TE ŠV CI TE NO YT AL NO S UR 30 RE S AL YS SO SP AL US –U CI ON US UA TE AL SI B UA B NO 38 RE IL I B S SO SP TY SO AL CI ON ON CI US AL SI B AL 44 TH RE UA SO RE SP IL I E SP B CI ON TY M ON AL IN AR 48 RE SI B W KE SI B SO SP IL I OR T IL I TY ON TY KI CI IN NG PO AL SI B RE EN EN LIC SP IL I TY VI VI Y ON RO RO IN NM NM SI B SO CONTENTS CI EN EN IL I TY AL TA T IN RE L PR AN LA OT TI TI EC -C ON T OR S IO RU N PT IO N 5 Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB is presenting already its third social responsibility action report publicly and to the Global Compact organisation of the United Nations. The social responsibility report has been drawn under the principles of the Global Compact that cover protection of human rights, improvement of employee relations, safeguarding of the environment and anti-corruption. We followed the guidelines set by Carlsberg and the corporate Carlsberg system for the presentation of corporate social responsibility data. The system covers all of the necessary information to enable comparison of results with other Carlsberg companies, share good information, experience and further promote social activity as well as utilise the possibilities with more efficiency. I am glad that the company gives regular support to what we have best in the Lithuanian sports, arts and culture, and actively contributes to the welfare of Klaipėda and Utena municipal communities. Last year a significant support was given to Lithuanian men’s basketball national team that brought bronze medals from the World Basketball Championship in Turkey, the basketball team Lietuvos Rytas, the club Juventus of Utena and the team Neptūnas of Klaipėda. It is already the eighth season that we gave support to the Lithuanian opera, we gave Operos Švyturiai awards to the best opera and ballet performers, we also support many big and small cultural and art projects. A new guideline in our social responsibility policy is the environmental protection program the Land of Lakes. In this program we joined environmental initiatives the purpose of which is growth of the ecological production, consumers’ and employees’ education on environmental subjects and cleaning of the unique region – the land of one thousand lakes. The data collected in the social responsibility report and our good practices Rolandas Viršilas stand to evidence that we are not only declaring but also performing a CEO significant role in the field of social responsibility, that not only are we Švyturys-Utenos Alus UAB developing our business, but we are also transcending beyond the boundaries of commercial activity, adhering to the principles of business ethics and thus expressing our civil spirit. 6 7 The business philosophy of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB The mission To offer the people a possibility to enjoy best drinks. The vision To be the leader on the Lithuanian drinks market with the strongest brands representing Lithuania in the world with the maximum use of its distribution network and ensuring the highest level of corporate management. Švyturys– Utenos Alus is one step ahead when it comes to meeting consumer and client demands, using the advanced technology and launching innovations to the market. Švyturys–Utenos Alus is a sought-after employer and a most reliable business partner. 8 9 The values • Our customers and consumers are at the heart of every decision we make. We put ourselves in the shoes of our consumers and customers and have a detailed in-sight into their needs and preferences. We manage “to be in another’s shoes” not only by listening but also by keeping our ears open. We understand and perceive how personal behaviour helps to solve problems of both external and internal clients and how much added value it creates for the company. • Together we are stronger. We respect and welcome differences in people, brands and culture across regions. We recognize that working closely together and actively sharing best practices is what it takes to grow and win. A perfect team is a team where everyone knows his role, place and professionally “plays his instrument”. It is like an orchestra where each musician is necessary in order that the piece sound perfect. • We are each empowered to make a difference. We take ownership of challenges and problems, individually and in teams, and have the autonomy to deliver outstanding results. We do not let fear or failure overcome the desire to succeed. We understand the necessity to change, we challenge established standards, we remove barriers by changing ourselves and our environment. • We are engaged with society. We are socially and environmentally responsible, we also feel responsible towards future generations as we want our grandchildren and great grandchildren to have something to enjoy. We believe it makes business sense to do so. We make a positive contribution to the societies in which we operate and the communities in which we live. We commit to those that are affected by our work. • We want to win. We always strive for winning solutions and are willing to take bold steps to reach our goals. It takes daily fervour, discipline, persistence and inspiration by our colleagues to achieve the best results. We act fast and with determination, we never stop at what we achieve. We illustrate our desire to win with the words of Nelson Mandela: “after climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb”. 10 11 Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB export volumes About Švyturys–Utenos Year Export of own brands Total exports (mil. l) (mil. l) 2010 3,66 19,1 Alus UAB 2009 3,2 10,7 Table 1 The company’s operating results The main shareholder of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB is the Danish company Carlsberg. The In 2010, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB produced and sold 165.1 million litres of drinks, which is interest from one of the world’s biggest beer-makers in the Lithuanian company has been 3.13% less than in 2009 (see Table 2). spurred by the excellent financial performance and the popularity of the beer it produces. The sales by the company have been mostly affected by the decrease in the consumers’ Carlsberg has shared its long-standing experience, upgraded the company, boosted its outpurchasing power in Lithuania last year. put, improved the skills of the employees and invested into quality improvements. Producing and selling not just beer, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB achieved good results in sale of soft drinks. The company sold 33.7 million litres of products produced and imported by others: drinking water, cider, alcohol cocktails, energy drinks and juices in the Lithuanian market in 2010. Brands produced: Also, by use of efficient sales and logistics forces, Švyturys–Utenos Alus started distribution of a new product, namely juices, using the traditional sales channel in cafes and restaurants. • Beer Švyturio All of the above brands are well known 1.61 million litres of juices were sold during the reporting year. across Lithuania and are gaining increasing • Beer Utenos recognition abroad. In 2010 the export of • Beer Blindos the company’s products amounted to 19.1 Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB Appreciations, awards: million litres, i.e. 78.5% more than in 2009 products made and sold Švyturys–Utenos Alus products were • Beer Carlsberg (see Table 1). The export of own brands to awarded even four gold medals in the an• Beer Tuborg foreign markets increased by 17%, up to 3.66 Drinks produced nual awards “Lithuanian Product of the Year million litres. Year (mil. l) 2010” organised by the Lithuanian Confed• Beer cocktails D-light eration of Industrialists. In the category of 2010 165,1 • Cider Kiss beers and soft drinks, the highest awards 2009 170,3 were given to the beers Blindos Tradici• Long drinks Zip 2008 192,7 nis, Švyturio Baltijos, Švyturio Baltas and • Drinking water Vichy Classique Švyturio Ekstra. The main purpose of these Table 2 awards is to popularise products of the • Soft drinks Vichy Vivafresh country’s industry both locally and interna• Drinking water Montavit tionally. The beer Utenos Ice was recognised to be • Energy drink Battery (imported) the best in its class and was awarded the • Kvass Blindos Firminė (imported) gold medal “Europe’s Best Ice Lager” in the World Beer Awards competition. 12 13 Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social responsibility policy 14 15 Švyturys–Utenos Ten principles of the Global Compact Alus UAB social Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; responsibility policy Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Corporate social responsibility consists of voTable 3) as well as General Reporting and Principle 3: of the right to collective bargaining; luntary efforts of businesses to include social Carlsberg Group guidelines. Just like any Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory and environmental issues into their overall other Carlsberg company, Švyturys–Utenos Principle 4: labour; activities and relations with stakeholders. Alus UAB follows both the values and moral Social responsibility means that the organiprovisions adopted by the society and these Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; sation should be held liable for every act it principles, which guarantee the protection Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6: employment and occupation; performs to the extent it affects people, their of human rights, employee relations, fair communities and environment. market and environment as well. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Following the responsible business principles Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB implements its Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental of Carlsberg, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social responsibility through focused corpoPrinciple 8: responsibility; conducts its business assuming responsibility rate behaviour in five key areas (see Table 4): Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally towards the society, its employees, partners Principle 9: friendly technologies; • the market, and other parties concerned, adheres to high • the working environment, Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and standards pertaining to fairness, decency and Principle 10: bribery. safe working conditions. Švyturys–Utenos • environmental protection, [http://www.unglobalcompact.org/aboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.html] Table 3 Alus UAB, a party to the Global Compact • social relations, and member of the National Responsible • anti-corruption. Network of Companies, hereby presents its Areas of responsible activities of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB third Social Responsibility Report for the • Products and their quality Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social year 2010. • Consumer information responsibility policy on the market: • Responsible supply management This report has been drawn on the basis of • Preservation and safeguarding of the environment the 10 principles of the Global Compact (see Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social • Pollution reduction responsibility policy in environmental • Efficient use of energy protection: • CO2 emissions control and reduction • Implementation of environmental initiatives Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social • Equal opportunities for employees • Motivation of and incentives for employees responsibility policy in the working • Training and professional advancement environment: • Healthcare and job safety • Maintaining transparent relations Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social • Support for and initiation of social, sports and cultural projects responsibility policy in social relations: • Improving social relations • Ensuring transparent procurement processes • Honest tax payment and payments to employees Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB social • Constant smooth cooperation with the State Tax responsibility policy in anti-corruption: Inspectorate • Economic relations with business partners, eliminating any opportunity for corruption Table 4 16 17 Employee contribution in raising social responsibility in the company: The whole team of Švyturys–Utenos Alus Darom 2010, the staff voluntary ecologiUAB makes its own contribution to develcal program the Land of Lakes, September oping social responsibility strategy and 1st events, support for Save the Children integrating it into the business plans of campaign and Foster’s Home for Children in Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB: Pabrade; • Employees use the company’s intranet • There are projects that are aimed at saving to share their stories and examples of how natural resources (water, electricity, thermal they understand good social responsibility energy). practices; • Special elections take place every half a year to award the “gold hop” and the “silver hop” to a socially responsible employee; • The company develops and promotes small-scale in-house initiatives, involving the whole of the staff: the sorting of waste, 18 19 Social responsibility on the market 20 21 Social responsibility on the market The social responsibility activities of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB relating to the market and economic impact on the market first of all include things like the effects of products on consumers, ethical trade and transparency of competition. According to the Global Compact, social responsibility on the market is not covered by the ten principles. Yet Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB seeks to abide by moral and ethical standards both in its dealings with the public and employees, and also in order to develop responsible marketing and competitive relations that are based on social responsibility. Products and their Consumer-related quality: matters: Products and their quality are the main • Consumer information on the ingredients factors ensuring competitiveness of and and quality of products on labels. trust in the company. Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB has always aimed at supplying only • Information on the possibility to report degood quality products, conforming to all fective products by calling a toll-free quality relevant standards and requirements, both to hotline, which is given on every label. corporate clients and consumers. The principal shareholder of Švyturys–Utenos Alus, • Consumer information about the company and its products on the Internet and via the global beer concern Carlsberg makes advertising. In 2010, responsible ads would consistent investments into products and be placed considering the Code of Honour the production processes, thus ensuring the of Lithuanian beer makers. Moreover, the quality of products. National Board for Control of Tobacco and Utenos Alus, the largest brewery in the Baltic Alcohol would be consulted before putting States, stands out with the high quality of ads into production. its products, which conforms to the requirements of the ISO 9001 standard. Enforcing Švyturys–Utenos Alus and other members compliance with the quality management of the Lithuanian Guild of Beer Makers, system requirements is the responsibility understanding the importance of education of quality managers. The company is open in reducing alcohol abuse, in 2010 carried out a social campaign “For self-expression for customers – in 2010 consumers could of young people without alcohol 18+”. This also track the suitability of products and business-initiated social campaign, that is report any violations using a toll-free quality with the largest budget in Lithuania (the hotline. gross value of advertising amounts to LTL 1.4 million), is one of the first and largest business self-regulation initiatives in the country. 22 23 Ričardas Berankis, the best Lithuanian interested in developing responsible ties with tennis player and the 87 th ranking world suppliers and therefore, in order to promote player, Martynas Gecevičius representing the the proliferation of social responsibility, the Euroleague basketball club Lietuvos Rytas, company dedicated 50 hours to educate its that is 8th by the rate of its audience, and suppliers. DJ Mamania, one of the best Lithuanian disc jockeys, became faces of the campaign. The organisers of the action address young Ethics standards people in the language they understand and accept, in modern style, the underground Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB in 2010 abided trends ruling. by the business ethics policy and supervision in order to prevent unfair prices, unfair The persons in TV clips, in ads placed in competition, money laundering, tax evasion the press, on the Internet and in outdoor and bribery. advertising, who are authority among young people, show by their own example that you Following these standards of ethical business can be original and interesting for yourself as well as the Code of Honour of Lithuanian and your peers without alcohol. beer makers, there were no violations of the fair competition principles in 2010. To avoid The guild that joins five beer makers, includincidents relating to business ethics on the ing the largest beer maker in the country, i.e. market, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB gives Švyturys–Utenos Alus, during this campaign lectures and training for its employees. marked their products with special caps with the trade mark “18+”. This mark indicates that consumption of alcohol in the Republic of In 2010 Carlsberg Group companies apLithuania is permitted only after you are 18 proved a new policy of business ethics that years old. During the action, this mark was was also introduced in Švyturys–Utenos Alus put on 1 million bottles of Švyturys–Utenos UAB. It sets out specific rules of conduct for Alus UAB. employees of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB to ensure ethical business conduct and compliance with all relevant laws and regulations Responsible supply throughout the company. The policy admanagement dresses 8 key topics: 1. Bribery. The Carlsberg Group and its Responsible supply management is ememployees shall not accept or offer bribes ployed to ensure that transactions are ecoin any form. Gifts, meals and entertainment nomical and efficient. Under the Carlsberg offered to the companies or employees must purchase contract rules as of 2010, responbe appropriate and related to legitimate sible supply management offered equal opbusiness purposes. portunities to suppliers. While choosing the supplier, account was taken of their social 2. Facilitation payments. The Carlsberg responsibility policies and practices, the aim Group does not endorse the practice of facilibeing for them to match the special respontation payments. sible business principles of Švyturys-Utenos 3. Gifts, meals and entertainment. Gifts, Alus UAB. Švyturys-Utenos Alus UAB is meals and entertainment offered or accepted 24 25 by the Carlsberg Group and its employees Responsible investments: must be appropriate. The Carlsberg Group and its employees shall not offer to or Socially responsible investments are a way receive from public or private stakeholders, to manage the investments that combines social, environmental and financial activities. gifts, meals or entertainment that go beyond In 2010, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB made legitimate business purposes. investments into improving workplaces. This 4. Donations. The Carlsberg Group shall not led to employee satisfaction, ecologically make political contributions or use donations friendly production, consideration of the to obtain improper business advantages. society’s needs. The following responsible investments were made in 2010: 5. Conflicts of interest. Employees in the Carlsberg Group shall not engage in activities that might create a conflict between • In 2010 Švyturys beer makers launched a new Eco-malt program, the purpose of which personal interests and the Carlsberg Group’s is to promote ecological farming in Lithuania business interests. and propagate growing of organic barley 6. Confidential information. Employees for malt. Organic barley for malt is already in the Carlsberg Group shall not disclose or grown according to the Eco-malt program in misuse confidential information obtained farms located in Panevėžys, Biržai, Pakthrough business transactions or otherwise. ruojis districts, the total volume of organic Confidential relationships between the barley grown in the first year of the program amounted to 150 tons. Švyturys–Utenos Alus Carlsberg Group and its stakeholders shall be invested into this program LTL 120,000. duly protected. • Švyturys installed a pallet wrapping equip7. Competition law. The Carlsberg Group ment. Automation of this work facilitates and its employees shall ensure that Carlsthe process and saves time, also reduces the berg’s business practices comply at all times quantity of the wrap used for this purpose by with applicable competition rules and with almost to a half. the Carlsberg Competition Law Compliance • The car fleet was upgraded. New cars with Programme. hands-free equipment were ordered for the 8. Fraud. Employees in the Carlsberg Group staff driving corporate cars. shall not steal company assets or resources. Employees shall not use company assets or The 2011 targets on the resources for anything other than Carlsberg business purposes. Employees shall observe market are as follows: the anti-fraud procedures described in the 1. Maintaining competitiveness; Carlsberg Group accounting policies. 2. Development of consumer education programs; 3. Development of social responsibility programs: a) Consumers’ ecological consciousness program the Land of Lakes; b) Implementation of social responsibility programs against minors’ drinking and drunk driving. 26 27 Social responsibility in working environment 28 29 Social responsibility in goal is to develop a working environment that is free from any forms of harassment, working environment illegal discrimination and repressions. A decision relating to employment, from hiring to In 2010, following the Carlsberg Group labour dismissing is based exclusively on important and human rights policy, Švyturys–Utenos and objective criteria. Alus UAB focused primarily on a discrimination-free working environment that would promote learning and professional approach Forced and child labour: and would allow reaching a balance between work and other aspects of life. Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB prohibits all forms of forced labour, including labour The company employs people of different to pay off debts, slave labour and human nationalities and respects human rights, trafficking. Employees are allowed to move guarantees social justice and does not tolerfreely and leave their workplaces when the ate forced and child labour. Švyturys–Utenos shift is over. Švyturys–Utenos Alus does Alus UAB has both included these principles not request that employees leave originals of the Global Compact into its activities of their personal identity documents or the and designs and implements an increasing original of another official document with number of initiatives within the working enthe company, or pay a deposit for employvironment every year. The company believes ment. that its employees are its biggest assets and the key to its success. Švyturys–Utenos Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB does not hire Alus UAB seeks to create a working place employees under 18 for jobs requiring to where employees could develop themselves work in dangerous conditions and risk one’s professionally, realise their potential in an health, safety or ethics. open and inspiring working environment. The In 2010, just like any other year, Švyturys– company is committed to conforming to high Utenos Alus UAB did not record any violastandards of justice, decency and safe worktions to the forced and child labour zero ing conditions with regard to all employees toleration principle. of Švyturys–Utenos Alus. Equal opportunities for Training and professional employees: advancement: Training programmes for employees of difŠvyturys–Utenos Alus UAB employs people, ferent levels consist of a social dialogue with pays salaries, promotes its staff members employee representatives, which dialogue is and makes other employment-related decibeing developed and promoted on a continusions on the basis of such legitimate factors ous basis, as well as possibilities for selfas qualifications and work success, regardsufficient learning, using the in-house library. less of race, sex, skin colour, religion, age, origin, sexual orientation, disability or any Cooperation with trade unions’ representaother grounds as protected by the laws. The tives is actively ongoing in the company. 30 31 The company has two unions representing staff of the company four times per year to employees’ interests: the trade union of present the company’s results and to answer Švyturys AB and the association of Utena employees’ questions. Dialogue and partnerworkers, which both make the United Repship are encouraged during such meetings. resentation of Trade Unions. Any material decision in the company is made subject Employee surveys: to approval by representatives of the trade An employee survey is performed every two union. years. Last time it was performed in 2009, During the economical crisis, the dialogue therefore, in 2010, in order to get a feedback from its employees, Švyturys–Utenos Alus with trade unions became much more UAB performed a short survey C15. Answers intensive. This demonstrates a high level of to C15 questions are used to foster the democracy at the company when it comes to culture of feedback and to develop organisaaddressing social issues. Diverse opinions are tional leadership. The goal of the survey is always welcome, provided they are voiced in to create a structured and regular dialogue a legal manner. between supervisors and subordinates on important matters and to support it with mutual cooperation. Openness and publicity of information: Also, a 360 survey was performed, i.e. the manager’s behaviour was evaluated by his colleagues and upper management. During The company strives at openness and publicthe survey, the anonymousness of particiity of information. Every region (division) has pants is kept, but the manager is given a message boards featuring classified informapossibility to see differences in answers. That tion like “New employees, organisational allows achieving more accurate evaluation. changes”, “Employee information”, “Press reThe survey helps managers to continue leases”. Furthermore, the company publicises working in the right direction – correct their information relating to its social policy – mistakes and eliminate shortcomings, as well employee motivation, events, achievements, as consolidate their advantages. including products, accomplishments, recogConsidering the breakdown of employees nitions, market achievements. The company by age (see Table 5) one can note that there publishes the in-house magazine Su Puta, were no signs of discrimination observed in which is largely intended for the staff, in or2010. der to inform the employees and to maintain a dialogue with them. The company has the Breakdown of employees by age intranet (ŠUAnet) and employees are free to use it, access all of the updated, latest Age Number of employees information about what is going on within the company, read on developments in other 19 – 29 123 Carlsberg Group companies. 30 – 39 132 40 – 49 126 The general manager and the top manageOver 50 98 ment of the company meet with the entire Table 5 32 33 Remuneration system or permanent positions at other units of the company under the priority procedure; The 2011 targets of and professional developing employee advancement: Healthcare and job relations are as follows: Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB ensures that the safety: 1. To improve leadership and organisational development; company strictly adheres to all applicable Job safety and working conditions are requirements set by the law regarding the defined in the provisions of the Collective 2. To improve management of talents: salary, working hours, overtime and extra Agreement that has effect in the company. payments. Payments for overtime are ala) To carry out the talents program; Working conditions that deviate from the ways made in accordance with the statutory norm are subject to the bonus of up to 30% b) To increase international and domescoefficients. The remuneration regulations and up to 50% for certain jobs. Švyturys– tic appointments; describe salary structures, as well as the Utenos Alus UAB has an employee safety procedure and dates of revisions. Living and 3. To increase employees’ involvement and and health committee consisting of reprethe culture of feedback; doing business during the hard times, in 2010 sentatives of the employer and the staff. salaries were paid on time and in full. The Safety and health checks for employees of 4. To conclude a new Collective Agreecompany kept the main benefits (including ment. the company’s departments are organised, all allowances) for all employees in 2010. involving representatives of trade unions and employees. A Job Safety Programme Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB is committed to for 2009–2010 was being implemented in uninterrupted development of employees’ 2010. In order to promote healthy living, all skills and abilities and providing career opthe employees have access to fresh drinking portunities. Employees of the company reguwater at their workplace for free. larly improve their qualification in courses, seminars and qualification raising programs in conferences and training sessions organImproving working ised both in Lithuania and in countries where the Carlsberg Group operates. conditions: As every year, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB Outplacement policy, does everything it can to improve conditions for its employees. assistance in seeking job: In 2010, the company focused on improving the working conditions for its employees, People are dismissed in accordance with the considering employees’ opinions. New cars provisions of the Collective Agreement – it is with hands-free equipments were ordered a written agreement between the employer for employees driving corporate cars, fresh and the team of the company’s employees drinking water is available at offices without concerning work, remuneration and other limit, a canteen was repaired and reopened social and economic conditions. in the Utenos brewery. The equipment for lifting of structures was installed in the As jobs become available, we offer the logistics unit. people who are being dismissed temporary 34 35 Social responsibility in environmental protection 36 37 Social responsibility Packaging utilisation and recycling in 2010 in environmental Packaging used for products Packaging protection Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB implemented its and put on the domestic market, tons per year waste Quantity Year utilisation and/ environmental targets raised in 2010 to the recycled, t Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB makes its proSecondary and/or or recycling ducts using natural ingredients from natural maximum and even surpassed them, improPrimary targets, % tertiary sources. The company makes a contribution ving the preceding year results. 2009 2954 1726 39% 1806 to improving and preserving the environment In comparison with 2009, the company mathrough participation in environmental pro2010 2453 1867 44% 1882 naged to reduce the volume of power used in grams and implementation of environmental Table 7 the production process by the total of 8.8%, initiatives and adherence to legal norms. The and having eliminated the drop in production company’s environmental priority targets are The mechanism of recycling and utilisation National Park and its environs, transfer of – by 5.95% (see Table 6). After optimisation protection and conservation of the environof packaging waste is becoming more and such garbage for recycling); of water consumption in the production more efficient. In comparison with 2009, 76 ment, constant reduction of CO2 gas emisprocess, the water consumption dropped tons more of packaging waste were recycled 2. Eco-march 2010 for the company’s emplosions, responsible use of produced resources. by the total of 9% and by 6.16% after the (see Table 7). yees and project partners (garbage collection Starting from 2010, the incentives and drop in production is eliminated. The total in the National Park); bonuses system for employees engaged reduction of sewage volume was even 17.6% Environmental 3. Ecological consciousness and environmenin production is linked to saving of natural and 14.95% after the drop in production is eliminated. The target to reduce CO2 gas initiatives: tal measures for beer consumers (decompoand energy resources, in this way striving to emissions every year to produce one litre of In 2010, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB contrising garbage bags in product packaging and reduce the impact the company makes on the company’s products is successfully imbuted to improving, protecting and safeguurging to be ecologically responsible); the environment. plemented. Last year Švyturys–Utenos Alus arding the environment by organising and joining various projects. 4. Raising the ecological standard for packaThe ISO 14001 environmental management UAB managed to reduce it even by 9.54% ging (saving the packaging materials); standard was introduced and certified in the and by 6.41% after the drop in production is Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB, in cooperation company in 2010. eliminated. 5. Increasing the beer production ecology with the non-governmental organisation Labanoro Klubas, is carrying out the envi(production ecology projects). ronmental program “For clean nature of the Reduction Land of Lakes!” since the beginning of 2010. Program performance results: Reduction Adjusted of sewage Adjusted The goal of the project is to reduce pollution of power for drop in 1. The set-up and maintenance of eco-stations discharged to for drop in in the Aukštaitijos National Park and its enviconsumption production the treatment production rons, to make the environmental protection Eco-stations set up in the summer of 2010 facilities important for the society and employees became the main focus of the ecological -8,8% -5,95% of the company, also to set an example for project the Land of Lakes. The volume -17,6% -14,95% communities by active participation in enviof garbage left by tourists in 7 garbage ronmental initiatives, to initiate new ones. collection points, i.e. eco-stations, set up in Molėtai, Ignalina, Švenčionys and Utena disReduction Adjusted Reduction of air pollution in the Constituent parts of the program tricts and disposed of during three summer of water for drop in entire product chain: “For clean nature of the Land of months amounted to more than 1,600 cubic consumption production CO2 emissions Lakes!”: metres. At first, Švyturys–Utenos Alus plan(g/1 l of products) ned a budget of LTL 80,000 for set-up and -9% -6,16% -9,54% 1. The set-up and maintenance of ecomaintenance of eco-stations in the Land of stations in the Land of Lakes (organised Lakes, but as the summer went, it saw that Table 6 collection of garbage from tourists in the the disposal of garbage is much more than 38 39 planned, therefore, it assigned the additional Reduction of production waste. After amount of LTL 30,000 for this project. optimisation of processes, the separation of products from the water for washing of sys2. Eco-march 2010 for the company’s emplotems became more effective. This resulted yees and project partners in a lower amount of product losses and a decrease in the quantity of BOD (biological On 24 July 2010, the team of Švyturys– oxygen demand) emitted to the environment Utenos Alus UAB employees organised with the sewage by about 12.5%. an eco-march in kayaks in the Aukštaitijos National Park. On that day 150 employees Albumen collection and re-use. The goal is of the brewery collected 2 tons (a full truck) to use albumen produced and separated in of garbage by the river Būka and the lake the manufacturing process for agricultural Baluošas. The event was accompanied by an purposes. Albumen was started to be sold active ecological education action. to farmers who use it as a feed additive. This results in a lower amount of production 3. Ecological consciousness and environmenwaste deposited in landfills. The volume of tal measures for consumers secondary raw materials suitable for feed sold to farmers during 2010 amounted to 50 In the summer of 2010 the company offered tons. its customers free ecological garbage bags that get easily decomposed in the natural The total budget of the program “For clean environment, inviting customers not to leave nature of the Land of Lakes!” amounted to garbage behind and in this way raising the LTL 250,000 for 2010. Most activities within level of ecological consciousness. In the sumthis project will continue into 2011. mertime, garbage bags were enclosed with each pack of Utenos Alus. In 2010 the team of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB actively participated in the environmen4. Raising the ecological standard for packaging tal action Darom 2010. Darom 2010 is a project of larger scope than its earlier versions. The Company is actively searching for possiDuring this action, the organisers sought bilities to use labels from recycled paper on to combine cleaning of nature sites with an its beverages. In 2010 the company reduced educational program and interactive training the excess packaging of beverages – in 2010 related to public spirit and ecology. the company planned and implemented a saving program: the consumption of cardboard was 16 tons less and of plastic wrapping – 4 tons less. The environmental 5. Projects for increasing the production ecotargets for 2011 are as logy and environmental protection follows: Reduction of heat loss. The goal of this pro1. Continuing the Land of Lakes program; ject is to reduce the consumption of thermal energy used for beer making and the volume 2. Electing and awarding the employees of vapours emitted to the environment. In who contributed to the environmental 2010 the volume of heat emitted to the protection most; environment was reduced by 2 percentage points – the heat loss dropped from 9.5 to 3. Reducing consumption of energy resources. 7.5%. 40 41 Social responsibility in social relations 42 43 Social responsibility in social relations Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB is engaged in a transparent business and shares its success with the society. For the purposes of successful cooperation, in 2010 the company adopted Sponsorship in 2010: Carlsberg Community Engagement Policy, covering five key categories. Its purpose is to feel Within the framework of exercising social Sponsorship was also given to other responsibility and commitment to the society and communities where we work and live. responsibility, the largest emphasis is placed sports, cultural, art organisations: on Utena and Klaipėda communities. In 1. Stakeholder relations. Carlsberg Group subsidiaries are encouraged to follow the commu2010, the company supported a community • Lithuanian Basketball Federation; nity engagement policy together with their stakeholders and must try to keep good relations. relations programme, staged meetings to • Basketball club Lietuvos Rytas; 2. Community investment. Each Carlsberg Group subsidiary must identify interests of the address significant issues. Feeling respon• Lithuanian Football Federation; community in which it operates. Needs differ depending on region, country, culture, therefore, sible towards the communities, in 2010 the company granted LTL 2.658 million of • Lithuanian National Olympic Committee; it is important to take them into account and, if possible, offer help. Carlsberg does not accept separation on the basis of gender, race, nationality, therefore, the group companies must seek sponsorship and charity funds to different • Vilnius University Hospital Santariškių that work and financial support be directed transparently, efficiently and fairly. organisations. Clinic; • Lithuanian National Opera and Ballet 3. Assistance in solving problems. Carlsberg Group subsidiaries must actively react to probSupport of UAB Švyturys–Utenos Alus Theatre; lems they see and look for possibilities to solve them. The main purpose of social actions and • Lithuanian Musicians’ Support Foundation; community support by Carlsberg Group is not sales promotion but improving the reputation Klaipėda community: of the company. • St Christopher Chamber Orchestra; • Sea Fiesta; • VšĮ Kino Pavasaris; 4. Sponsorship. In sponsorship activities Carlsberg Group subsidiaries must at first assess the • Basketball club Neptūnas; • Vilniaus Festivaliai; impact of relevant actions on the company’s brand, the company itself and the reputation of • Klaipėda city club of sport dances Žuvėdra; the entire Group. • VšĮ Džiazo Namai, etc. • Gargždai football club Banga; 5. Economic impact. The success of the Carlsberg Group has an impact on the national • Klaipėda Basketball Amateurs League; economy. Carlsberg creates jobs and gives its employees every opportunity to develop. • Klaipėda Football Academy; • Sailing ship Meridianas support foundation; The 2011 targets of building social relations: 1. To be involved in educating the public in Utena community: ecology; • Utena centre of culture; 2. To continue supporting the communities; • Administration of Utena district municipality; 3. To facilitate the development of self-ex• Basketball club Juventus. pression of young people without alcohol; 4. To maintain transparent relations. This is only a small part of the long list, as support and charity was also given to other community events and teams. 44 45 Social responsibility in anti-corruption 46 47 Social responsibility in anti-corruption Following the ten principles of the Global Compact, Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB has included targets pertaining to fight against corruption into its socially responsible business strategy as well. In 2010, the company continued upholding the idea of transparent relations with the society and partners. While interacting with current or future clients, suppliers, producers, the company did not accept nor grant privileges aiming at personal gain. There were no cases of accepting bribes, thank-you gifts or other extraordinary gratuities. Social responsibility. Anti-corruption measures: • All procurements by the company must be transparent. • In communication with current or future clients, suppliers or producers, accepting or giving privileges for one’s own personal benefit or for the benefit of family or friends is prohibited. • It is prohibited from accepting bribes, gifts of gratitude or other extraordinary gratuities from organisations or persons willing to do business or doing business together with Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB or competing with it. • Even symbolic gifts and/or entertainment are not acceptable if it may seem that such gratuities may affect the employee’s business decisions. 48 49 Publication and availability The social responsibility report is available on the website of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB at http://www.svyturys.lt/ and is sent to the UN Global Compact partners. of the social The report is presented to every shareholder and employee of Švyturys–Utenos Alus UAB. The report can also be accessed by every stakeholder using the contact details as responsibility indicated below. report Contact person for comments and additional information: Dainius Smailys, Director of Corporate Affairs, 50 51 Phone: +370 5 2397600, mob.: +370 698 412 79, E-mail: dainius.smailys@svyturys.lt
