www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group Issue 2011 Balance Company | Social Responsibility | Environment | Corporate Citizenship a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 3 You will find further information on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group at: www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Order your copy of our Annual Report 2010 at: www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations The Lufthansa Group stays on course An airport’s illuminated runways and taxiways show directly what counts most in aviation: staying on course. For Lufthansa, this refers not only to responsibility in navigational, technical and operational areas, but also to the sustainable development of the company as a whole. This concern has been firmly anchored in the Group’s Guidelines for many years. For this reason we continuously improve climate and environmental care, treat our employees responsibly and fairly, and actively get involved as a company in numerous social issues. The satisfaction of our customers has the highest priority in everything we do. This is how we will stay on course in the future as well. Editorial information Published by Deutsche Lufthansa AG Corporate Communications, FRA CI Senior Vice President: Klaus Walther Concept, text and editors Deutsche Lufthansa AG FRA CI/B, in cooperation with various departments and Petra Menke Redaktionsbüro Design and production organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH Copy deadline April 15, 2011 Photo credits Ingrid Friedl (cover) Flughafen München GmbH (page 26, 44) Boeing (page 28) Fraport AG (page 43) AARP (page 56) Jens Görlich (page 87, 91) Shakeel Qureshi (page 89) Paul A. Rauh (page 93) NatureLife-International (page 94 top) 1 Source: Lufthansa Annual Report 2010. 2 For the reporting year 2010 the following companies are Gürzenich Orchester (page 97) included: Lufthansa Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive Italia and Lufthansa Regional: Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways), Paper Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS, Austrian Airlines and bmi. Content: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made from Excluding the share of third parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance nor the equipment used 100 % recycled paper. Produced without optical brigh(see also table “Share of third parties” on page 66). tening agents, without chlorine bleach. 3 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and Certificate: Environmental label charter flights. “The Blue Angel” – RAL-UZ 14. 4 See also table “Fuel consumption” on page 66. Cover: LuxoSamtoffset, FSC-certified. 5 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 3, but including ferry flights, as these Reprints, including excerpts, only with written represent costs. permission from the publisher and by citing 6 Balance: aircraft operated by the Group; Annual Report: “Deutsche Lufthansa AG” as the source (text and imaaircraft in the Group’s possession. See also the overview ges). In this case we ask that you send us a “Group fleet” on page 29. 7 Balance: segments (operational perspective); Annual Report: copy or clipping. distance (customer perspective); one distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany 8 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual ISSN 1612-0906 Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 1 Balance 2011 a At a glance Business performance data1 2010 2009 Change Revenue million € 27,324 22,283 + 22.6 % of which traffic revenue million € 22,268 17,604 + 26.5 % Operating result million € 876 130 + 573.8 % Profit/loss from operating activities million € 1,240 271 + 357.6 % Net profit/loss for the period million € 1,131 34 Total assets million € 29,320 26,392 + 11.1 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 3,075 1,991 + 54.4 % Capital expenditure million € 2,273 2,405 – 5.5 % Equity ratio percent 28.4 23.5 + 4.9 PP Personnel data 2010 2009 Change Number of employees (on 31.12., respectively) 117,019 117,521 – 0.4 % of these, in Germany 65,159 64,741 + 0.7 % of these, outside Germany 51,860 52,780 – 1.7 % Staff costs1 million € 6,659 5,996 + 11.1 % Revenue/employee1 € 233,407 198,384 + 17.7 % Staff costs/revenue1 percent 24.4 26.9 – 2.5 PP Average age years 40.7 40.3 + 0.4 Y Part-time ratio, absolute percent 26.8 26.9 – 0.1 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 13.5 14.0 – 0.5 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 43.5 42.7 + 0.8 PP Share of women in management percent 13.3 14.7 – 1.4 PP Environmental data2, 3 2010 2009 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption4 tonnes 8,459,255 7,680,708 + 10.1 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l/100 pkm 4.20 4.30 – 2.4 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g/tkm 231 243 – 5.0 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 26,646,655 24,194,229 + 10.1 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg/100 pkm 10.58 10.84 – 2.4 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 134,744 112,645 + 19.6 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 53.5 50.0 + 7.0 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 19,640 17,376 + 13.0 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 8.6 8.5 + 1.8 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,109 1,982 + 6.4 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 0.9 0.9 – 4.1 % Transport performance data Balance2, 3 Change Annual Report5 Change Size of fleet (on December 31, 2010)6 672 – 16 710 – 12 Number of flights7 982,459 + 11.7 % 1,021,266 + 13.5 % At a glance i Passengers carried 88,470,605 + 16.2 % 91,157,195 + 17.9 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 2,022,670 + 18.2 % 2,022,670 + 18.2 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 228,615 + 11.3 % 235,837 + 13.3% Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,193 + 3.7 % 15,430 + 7.4 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 36,894 + 8.3 % 39,000 + 10.0 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT8 million pkm 187,192 + 12.5 % 187,000 + 15.2 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,405 + 16.8 % 10,491 + 20.5 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 28,245 + 14.3 % 29,033 + 16.4 % 2 Balance 2011 a Our environmental balance sheet also developed in positive ways. The specific fuel consumption of our fleet continued to decline and reached the lowest value in the history of the Group at 4.2 liters of fuel per 100 passenger kilometers. Our continuous and significant investments in modern and efficient aircraft are paying off. The Lufthansa Airbus A380 fully meets the expectations we placed on it. Its specific fuel consumption stood at 3.4 liters in 2010. Coinciding with rising demand, we were able to put our first four A380s into service last year and we will take delivery of four additional A380s in the course of this year. Lufthansa’s new management team, which as­­ sumed responsibility on January 1, has set itself high goals for 2011. My colleagues and I on the Executive Board – Stephan Gemkow, Stefan Lauer and Carsten Spohr – will keep the company on course in 2011 and continue to develop Dear Readers, it with care. In doing so, we count on a solid financial basis and long-term value creation In this issue of Balance we report on all dimenacross the Group because these are the fundasions of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group. mental prerequisites for meeting our responsibility Once again, the past year provided us with vis-à-vis customers, employees and the environnumerous and very different challenges. At the ment. Even though there are numerous imponbeginning of the year, the effects of the worldwide derables for the development of business in 2011 financial and economic crisis still had a profound – such as the volatility in the price of kerosene, impact on the development of the market. In extreme pressure from competition and on fares, addition, harsh winter weather both at the beginparticularly in Europe, and the air transport tax ning and at the end of the year caused extreme newly introduced in Germany – we believe that disruptions in flight operations in Europe and we are well equipped to master these challenges North America for several weeks. The volcano’s successfully. eruption in spring in Iceland and the resulting cloud of volcanic ash caused a closure of air­ Thank you for your interest in our company. space over Europe lasting for several days, which I wish you an interesting read and perhaps some is unknown in recent history. All these events new insights from this issue of our Sustainability and a pilots’ strike had a significant impact on Report. Lufthansa’s annual result. The fact that we were nevertheless able to achieve a positive result for the year is due both to a perceptible market recovery in the second half of the year and our determined course of applying sustainable princi­ p­les, which has proven to be correct and sound in times of crisis as well. Despite all burdensome influences, we were able to conclude the financial Christoph Franz year 2010 successfully in economic, ecological Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO and social terms in all business segments. Deutsche Lufthansa AG a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 3 Contents 1 Editorial information 2 At a glance 5 About this report The Lufthansa Group 8 Facts and figures 10 Business segment Passenger Airline Group 14 Business segment Logistics / Business segment MRO 15 Business segment IT Services / Business segment Catering 16 Interview: Twelve questions for Christoph Franz 20 Corporate responsibility 23 Stakeholder dialogue 27 The Lufthansa Group fleet 34 Prizes and awards Economic Sustainability 36 Corporate governance: Growing in value-oriented ways 39 Management and corporate structures 40 Corporate governance and compliance 42 Corporate sourcing 43 Infrastructure 44 News in brief Social Responsibility 46 Personnel policy at the Lufthansa Group: HR integration – Exemplified by Austrian Airlines 49 Employment policy based on partnership 52 Diversity 57 Corporate training and continuing education 58 Employee safety and health protection 62 Facts and outlook Climate and Environmental Responsibility 64 Kerosene and emissions: Specific kerosene consumption has never been so low 67 Long-term testing of biofuel 70 Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group: Saving fuel efficiently and long-term 74 Air traffic management: Towards a unified European airspace 76 Environmental management 79 Energy and resource management 82 Noise emissions 86 Research projects Corporate Citizenship 88 Social commitment 93 Corporate volunteering 94 Environmental sponsorship 97 Cultural commitment and education 100 Sports sponsorship 101 Glossary 106 Contact partners 107 Memberships 4 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a About this report The present Sustainability Report Balance informs stakeholders and the interested public about the activities, advances and goals of the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial year 2010. The understanding of corporate responsibility at Emissions in absolute terms the Lufthansa Group is based on the following The calculation of emissions from flight operafive pillars: tions is based on the actual transport performance (i.e. actual load factors) and the actual • Economic sustainability absolute quantity of kerosene consumed during • Social responsibility the year in review. In this context, each aircraft• Climate and environmental responsibility engine combination that exists in the fleet is con• Corporate governance and compliance sidered separately, and the corresponding values • Corporate citizenship are calculated by means of computer programs provided by the respective aircraft and engine The section “Corporate governance and manufacturers. The annual average flight profile compliance” is part of the chapter “Economic of each subset in the fleet is then fed into these sustainability.” programs. This allows us to determine emissions in relation to flight altitude, distance flown, thrust Scope of consolidation and load. This approach is necessary for nitrogen Reporting with regard to transport performance, oxides (NOX ), carbon monoxide (CO) and un­­ fuel consumption and emissions from flight burned hydrocarbons (UHCs) in particular. Carbon operations is based on the following scope of dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require special consolidation1: calculation methods, as they are generated in a fixed relationship to the quantity of kerosene • Companies: Lufthansa Passenger Airlines burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of kerosene (including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Regional with Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways), Specific consumption and emission values Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss International Air Lines Calculating specific consumption and emissions (SWISS), British Midland (bmi, from July 2009) entails expressing absolute values in relationship and Austrian Airlines (from September 2009). to transport performance. For example, the ratio Excepted are third-party services, as Lufthansa “liters per 100 passenger kilometers” (l/100 pkm) has no influence either on their performance is calculated on the basis of actual load factors, or on the aircraft operated. distances actually flown and the kerosene actu• Types of service: all scheduled and charter ally consumed. The distances used in the calcuflights. lations are great-circle distances. Methodology of calculations 1 Unless a different scope of consolidation is expressly named. Kerosene in absolute terms The calculation of kerosene consumption is based on actual flight operations (i.e. using actual load factors and flight routings), according to the so-called “gate-to-gate” principle. This includes all phases of a flight – from taxiing on the ground to flying detours and in holding patterns in the air. a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 5 Evaluation and validation of data and Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking information statements The data included in this report has been collected Environmental management system and processed with the utmost care. Nevertheless, The data used in this report were collected by errors in transmission cannot be ruled out entirely. means of Lufthansa’s environmental management system. This system also determines the Information published in this report with regard methods for data verification and its transmission to the future development of the Lufthansa Group to the division Group Environmental Issues. and its subsidiaries consists purely of forecasts The basis for data collection is Lufthansa’s own and assessments and not of definitive historical Environmental Database. facts. Its purpose is exclusively informational, identified by the use of such cautionary terms Accuracy as “believe,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” The figures shown in tables and illustrations are “project,” “plan,” “estimate,” “count on,” or rounded due to considerations of presentation. “endeavor.” These forward-looking statements However, values indicating changes from the are based on all discernible information, facts previous year always refer to precise figures. For and expectations available at the time. They can, this reason, it is possible that a specific value therefore, only claim validity up to the date of their may remain the same from one year to the next, publication. while a relative change is indicated. Since forward-looking statements are by their Comparability nature subject to uncertainties and imponderaDue to changes in the portfolio over the past ble risk factors – such as changes in underlying years, the figures of personnel and environment economic conditions – and rest on assumptions in this report are only to a limited extent compathat may not or divergently occur, it is possible rable with those reported for the previous years. that the Group’s actual results and development For example, Austrian Airlines and bmi were fully may differ materially from those implied by the consolidated for the first time in the financial year forecasts. Lufthansa makes a point of checking 2010. There are also differences in approach and updating the information it publishes. It cancompared to the Annual Report 2010 when calnot, however, assume any obligation to adapt forculating passenger numbers and the related ward-looking statements to accommodate events indicators (see explanations relating to the table or developments that may occur at some later “At a glance” on page 2). date. Accordingly, it neither expressly nor conclusively accepts liability, nor does it give any guar­ Publication dates of this report antee for the actuality, accuracy and completeBalance, the Sustainability Report of the ness of this data and information. Lufthansa Group, is published once a year in a German and an English edition. The German edition of the previous year’s report was published on April 29, 2010; the English edition followed shortly after. Additional information on the Internet In addition to this report, Lufthansa also informs readers on the Internet about activities in the area of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group and provides additional detailed environmental data from the individual business segments as well as a Group-wide matrix of environmental goals and measures. www.lufthansa.com/responsibility 6 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a The Lufthansa Group Deutsche Lufthansa AG ranks as one of the leading companies worldwide in international air transport. The activities in the areas of passenger transport, air freight and services for airlines are divided into the five business segments Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO (Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul), IT Services and Catering. The strategic focus is on the business segments Passenger Airline Group and Logistics, the passenger and cargo airlines of the Lufthansa Group. These position themselves as quality carriers within their segments. The Lufthansa Group comprises a total of more than 400 subsidiaries and associated companies. Treating the environment in a responsible manner is an integral part of the corporate culture of all Group companies. This approach manifests itself in the sparing use of resources, the commitment to climate research and the persistent efforts to improve the efficiency of infrastructures on the ground and in the air, all aimed at keeping the environmental effects of flying as small as possible. a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 7 7 The Lufthansa Group Facts and figures At a glance Corporate Cologne headquarters Employees 117,019 Nationalities 149 Group fleet 710 Passengers 91.2 million North Atlantic 3,853 weekly frequencies to Freight/mail > 2 million t 132 destinations in two countries Frequencies and number of destinations Lufthansa and Group airlines Lufthansa including codeshares An “entirely normal” day at the Lufthansa Group South Atlantic 222 weekly frequencies We look after more than We take off and land more to 21 destinations in ten countries 1,000 aircraft. than 2,790 times. We take about 38,000 We carry about 250,000 telephone calls within the passengers and more than Service Center network. 5,500 tonnes of freight. We provide more than 1.2 million meals for our customers. 8 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a Jobs around the world Europe 92,393 North and Central America 12,363 Europe South America 2,909 10,979 weekly frequencies to Asia/Pacific 7,310 182 destinations in 44 countries Africa/Middle East 2,044 Asia/Pacific 778 weekly frequencies to Middle East 61 destinations in 21 countries 231 weekly frequencies to 16 destinations in 12 countries The Lufthansa Group and its five business segments Africa * * * 276 weekly frequencies to 47 destinations in 34 countries Passenger Airline Group The Group’s airlines are among the leading carriers worldwide. * * Logistics Lufthansa Cargo – ranks among the market leaders in international air freight transport. MRO Lufthansa Technik – Shareholder structure by nationalities the world’s leading provider of technical aircraft services. Others 8.9 % IT Services Lufthansa Systems – United Kingdom one of the world’s leading providers of IT services 3.4 % for the airline and aviation industry. Luxembourg Catering LSG Sky Chefs – 9.3 % the largest provider worldwide of services in airline Germany catering and in-flight management. USA 68.5 % 9.9 % * equity investments see pages 10 and 14 As per 31.12.2010 a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 9 Business segment Passenger Airline Group Passenger transport is the core business of tives. By applying sustainable economic principles, the Lufthansa Group. The business segment the companies also meet their responsibilities for Passenger Airline Group comprises Lufthansa preserving natural resources. With the introduction Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia and of the summer timetable 2011, the airlines of Lufthansa Regional), SWISS, Austrian Airlines, Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, SWISS, bmi and bmi and Germanwings as well as the equity Brussels Airlines serve a total of 283 destinations investments in Brussels Airlines, jetBlue Airways in 105 countries on four continents. The Group’s and SunExpress. own route network is complemented by a wide range of codeshare flights operated in cooperaThe airlines of the Lufthansa Group position tion with other airlines. themselves as quality carriers and occupy top positions in their respective segments. All companies within the Passenger Airline Group purNumber of passengers carried sue the goal of profitable growth. This creates in 2010: 91.2 million the conditions needed for investments in modern fleets, financial stability in a volatile industry and secure jobs with attractive development perspecThe passenger airlines of the Lufthansa Group and their hubs Lufthansa Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Regional and Lufthansa Italia) Hubs: Frankfurt, Munich SWISS Hub: Zurich Austrian Airlines Hub: Vienna bmi Key hub: London Heathrow Germanwings 5 locations in Germany Equity investments 15.6 % 50 % 45 % jetBlue SunExpress Brussels Airlines Hub: Hubs: Hub: New York JFK Antalya, Istanbul, Brussels Izmir 10 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a The “crane in a circle”: The Lufthansa brand has always been regarded as a synonym for quality, reliability and innovation. Lufthansa Lufthansa Regional comprises: In 2010, 58.9 million passengers traveled with Lufthansa Passenger Airlines. By offering a modern and high-quality product, a unique lounge concept and innovative services concerning all aspects of flying – such as the Lufthansa Star Chef Program, Miles & More and mobile services – Lufthansa Passenger Airlines and its full range of products enjoy the highest recognition and renown worldwide. The Lufthansa brand has always been regarded as a synonym for quality, reliability and innovation. The key hubs of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines are in Frankfurt and Munich. In addition, there is a local hub in Düsseldorf and Europe-wide direct services. The year 2010 brought a number of important innovations for customers of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines: the launch of services with the Airbus A380 and the related presentation of the new First Class; furthermore, the new European cabin with perceptible improvements in seating comfort and the reintroduction of Internet access on board long-haul flights (FlyNet®). Moreover, Lufthansa made preparations for a six-month trial phase to test the use of alternative fuels in regular flight operations (see “Long-term testing of bioStar Alliance fuel” from page 67). Lufthansa is a founding member of the Star Alliance – the world’s www.lufthansa.com leading airline network. The alliance was founded in 1997 and currently consists of 27 airlines that serve 1,160 destinations in 181 countries. In addition, Lufthansa maintains numerous partnerships with other airlines. www.star-alliance.com a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 11 Austrian Airlines Austrian Airlines is a dynamic, quality-oriented Group that comprises Austrian Airlines, Lauda Air and Tyrolean Airways. It has been part of the Lufthansa Group since September 3, 2009. In Austria, its home market, Austrian Airlines represents a significant part of the national air transport market. This network carrier, which assumes the role of market leader as it is the airline with the highest revenue, has made the growth area From “branded house” to “house of brands”: Today, the Lufthansa Group of central and eastern Europe one of its areas comprises additional renowned airlines besides Lufthansa. of specialization. With 44 destinations served, Austrian Airlines is the market leader there as well. The second area of emphasis is the Middle East. Austrian Airlines offers one of the densest networks in both regions. The central hub for all SWISS connections between east and west is Vienna, Swiss International Air Lines is part of the airline’s home airport. Switzerland’s 100-year tradition in civil aviation and the country’s national airline. SWISS has The passengers of this renowned airline benefit been a wholly-owned Lufthansa Group company from excellent service and the proverbial Austrian since July 1, 2007. The stock corporation’s headhospitality. Austrian Airlines has strengthened the quarters is in Basel. SWISS connects Switzerland airline network Star Alliance since March 2000. with the world from its hub in Zurich and airports www.austrian.com in Basel, Geneva and Lugano. The airline has been a member of the Star Alliance since April 2006. Customers flying with SWISS enjoy personal bmi care, the highest levels of quality, reliability and The British Midland Group comprises the three Swiss hospitality – the company’s brand values. airlines bmi International, bmi regional and SWISS positions itself with its leading-edge bmibaby and was successfully integrated into the products as a quality airline and premium brand Lufthansa Group in 2010. The home market of the in Economy, Business and First Class alike. company is the United Kingdom and its headquarters is at Castle Donington in England. British In the segment of private air travel, the SWISS Midland is the second-largest airline at London’s Group complements its portfolio with the fully Heathrow Airport, accounting for 10 percent of consolidated holiday airline Edelweiss Air. In all takeoffs and landings there. Heathrow ranks March 2010, SWISS celebrated the five-year as one the largest airports worldwide and serves anniversary of its successful cooperation with as a hub for bmi. From there, bmi flies to destinaLufthansa. 2010 was a record year for the airline: tions in Europe, the Middle East, central Asia and More than 14 million passengers booked a flight Africa. Since July 2000, bmi has been a member with SWISS. of the Star Alliance. Among bmi’s values are www.swiss.com flexibility, enthusiasm, customer-orientation and British hospitality. www.flybmi.com 12 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a Germanwings SunExpress (equity share of 50 percent) Germanwings is a fully-owned subsidiary of SunExpress is a joint venture of Lufthansa and Deutsche Lufthansa AG and one of the most Turkish Airlines, which each hold 50 percent of successful airlines in the low-cost segment. This equity. Founded in 1989, the airline with headwas recently confirmed by a study carried out quarters in Antalya has achieved an outstanding by Profiles International, the worldwide market market position over the past 20 years. Today, it is leader in profiling tools: The airline achieved the the leading provider of charter services between best evaluation in its industry and occupies the Germany and Turkey, and one of the largest top position as Germany’s most productive airproviders of scheduled services from Europe to line. The company was founded in 2002, has its southern Turkey. In addition, the airline plays an headquarters in Cologne, and its home base is ever-increasing role on routes within Turkey. Cologne/Bonn Airport. Germanwings flies with SunExpress accounts for 12 percent of the pas30 modern Airbus A319s from its five locations senger volume at Antalya Airport where it is in Cologne/Bonn, Stuttgart, Berlin Schönefeld, market leader. At Izmir Airport, the airline even Hanover and Dortmund to more than 75 destinahandles 32 percent of international traffic, which tions all over Europe. is more than any other airline. In 2009, to mark its 20-year anniversary, the company revised its Germanwings and Group parent Lufthansa are corporate identity and implemented a compreset to work together even more closely in distrihensive relaunch concept. In 2010, the airline bution as well: Since January 20, 2011, so-called announced the founding of the subsidiary interlining is possible between the two airlines. “SunExpress Deutschland GmbH.” Thus an outbound flight on Lufthansa can be www.sunexpress.com combined with a return flight on Germanwings in a reservation made by a travel agency or a Lufthansa sales office, for example. www.germanwings.com jetBlue Airways (equity share of 15.6 percent) jetBlue Airways is a U.S. passenger airline with headquarters in New York. It was founded in 1998 and started operations in 2000. Lufthansa Brussels Airlines (equity share of 45 percent) holds a 15.6 percent equity share in jetBlue and Brussels Airlines is Belgium’s largest airline. is thus the first European airline to have made a Since June 2009, Lufthansa has held an equity significant investment in a U.S. airline. jetBlue’s share of 45 percent in the company’s parent, the home base is at New York’s John F. Kennedy holding company SN Airholding with headquarAirport (JFK). From there, as well as from Boston, ters in Brussels. Starting in 2011, Lufthansa can Fort Lauderdale, Los Angeles/Long Beach and exercise a purchase option for the remaining Orlando, jetBlue operates the majority of its ser55 percent of equity. Brussels Airlines joined the vices to destinations in the United States, the Star Alliance in December 2009. Caribbean and Latin America. www.jetblue.com Brussels Airlines evolved from SN Brussels Airlines, the company founded in 2002 to succeed the Belgian national airline Sabena. From its hub in Brussels, the airline serves the most important European capitals and regions. Another area of emphasis in the route network of Brussels Airlines is flights to Africa. www.brusselsairlines.com a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 13 Business segment Logistics / Lufthansa Cargo AG Lufthansa Cargo AG is the provider of logistics serLufthansa Cargo offers a comprehensive route netvices within the Lufthansa Group. It ranks among the work with more than 300 destinations in about 100 market leaders in the international air freight busicountries, complemented by cooperations with other ness and offers a worldwide network, the shortest cargo airlines and air-freight-related partner compatransport times and high quality standards in many nies, including SWISS Cargo, Japan Airlines Cargo, product areas, many of them highly specialized. The Air China Cargo, LAN Cargo and DHL. Customers emphasis of Lufthansa Cargo lies in the airport-to-airbenefit from the highest quality standards, very short port freight business. The logistics specialist operates transport times and tailor-made logistics solutions. its own fleet of 18 Boeing MD-11F freighter aircraft Lufthansa Cargo’s product portfolio includes stanand holds international equity shares, for example dard and express freight, along with special freight in AeroLogic (equity share of 50 percent) and Jade as a significant cornerstone. The latter includes the Cargo International (equity share of 25 percent). transport of live animals, valuable cargo, mail, hazardous goods and temperature-sensitive goods. The main transfer point is Frankfurt Airport, while other important hubs are Munich, Leipzig-Halle and also Vienna, as the cargo business of Austrian Airlines has complemented the network since July 1, 2010, particularly in eastern Europe. There are also close ties to the Group companies SWISS, bmi and Brussels Airlines, which market their freight capacities independently. Lufthansa Cargo has its headquarters in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt. www.lufthansa-cargo.com Business segment MRO / Lufthansa Technik AG Lufthansa Technik AG is the world’s leading promaintenance, aircraft overhauls, engines, compo­ vider of technical aircraft services. The emphasis nents, landing gear services as well as VIP services. is on manufacturer-independent maintenance and The MRO network comprises 30 technical mainoverhaul of civil aircraft and the repair of engines, tenance operations worldwide. The company has electrical equipment and components (Maintedirect and indirect participations in 54 corporations. nance, Repair and Overhaul, MRO). Lufthansa Technik attends to about 750 customers worldwide, For the maintenance operation, Hamburg is including above all airlines and operators of VIP jets, Lufthansa Technik’s most important location, combut also aircraft leasing companies. Within the prising aircraft maintenance, completing of VIP airLufthansa Group, Lufthansa Technik is responsible craft, engine and component maintenance, the for the fleet’s safety, reliability and value retention. lo­­gistics center as well as development and producLufthansa Technik comprises the product divisions tion operations. The largest maintenance stations are in Frankfurt, Munich and Berlin; additional stations are located at all larger German airports and at 50 locations worldwide. In Asia, Lufthansa Technik has maintenance operations in four countries, such as Lufthansa Technik Philippines, Lufthansa Technik Shenzhen, Lufthansa Technik Services India and Ameco Beijing. The headquarters of Lufthansa Technik AG is in Hamburg. www.lufthansa-technik.com 14 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a Business segment IT Services / Lufthansa Systems AG Lufthansa Systems offers consulting and IT services over the long-term. Worldwide, there are more than for numerous industries. The company has a world200 airlines, but also companies in industries such wide leadership role in the aviation industry. With its as transport and logistics, manufacturing, media comprehensive portfolio, Lufthansa Systems covers and publishing, energy and health care that rely on the entire spectrum of IT services. Its services range the expertise of Lufthansa Systems. The company from consulting, development and implementation has its headquarters in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt, of tailor-made industry solutions to operations in and also has branch offices in Berlin, Cologne and its own data centers. In their work the experts of Munich as well as locations in 14 countries. Lufthansa Systems combine many years of project www.LHsystems.com experience with comprehensive technology knowhow, profound industry knowledge and experience in analyzing complex business processes. Given the high level of complexity of IT projects, project management has a key role in keeping implementations within schedule and budget. For this reason Lufthansa Systems further expanded its capabilities in the area of project management in a systematic manner and consequently increased customer satisfaction. Products and services provided by Lufthansa Systems allow companies to increase their effi­ ciency, reduce their costs and raise their revenues Business segment Catering / LSG Sky Chefs LSG Sky Chefs is the largest provider worldwide highest level of quality and reliability. Additionally, of airline catering and the management of all prothe Group has begun to open up associated marcesses related to in-flight service. The Group comkets such as railway and school catering as well as prises 133 companies at about 200 locations in catering in the health care and retail sectors. 50 countries. In 2010, this wholly-owned Lufthansa www.lsgskychefs.com subsidiary produced 460 million in-flight meals for more than 300 airlines worldwide – including nearly all international as well as numerous national and regional carriers, network carriers, charter companies and no-frills airlines. The Group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, has its headquarters in Neu-Isenburg near Frankfurt. In the area of airline catering, LSG Sky Chefs offers a complete range from premium meals produced to order, all the way to cost-efficient snacks. Based on its far-reaching experience, the Group has devel­ oped tried-and-tested methods which ensure that customers always receive first-rate quality. Further criteria are culinary excellence and innovation, authentic regional cuisines from the international network and an innovative and appealing menu design. Beyond that, the company offers a broad range of in-flight products and services at the a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 15 Twelve questions for Christoph Franz Christoph Franz has been Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG since January 1, 2011. In this Balance interview he describes different aspects of sustainability. Mr. Franz, can one still fly with a clear consciYou have taken the helm at Lufthansa at a ence today? time when the consolidation of the air transport industry is fully underway. What does Yes, definitely! Over the past 20 years we have this mean for the Group’s commitment to made enormous progress with regard to ecosustainability? efficiency. For example, the specific consumption of the Lufthansa Group fleet currently stands Our commitment to sustainability includes all at 4.2 liters of kerosene. In 1991, this value was companies of the Lufthansa Group, also the airstill 2 liters higher. And we have set ourselves the lines added over the past years, such as SWISS, ambitious goal to reduce the CO2 emissions per Austrian Airlines and bmi. All are committed to passenger and 100 kilometers – which directly sustainable business practices. That is our miscorresponds to fuel consumption – by 25 percent sion and we will not be pushed off course by by 2020 when compared with the 2006 values. “bad-weather phases.” The synergistic effects All IATA airlines intend to grow only in CO2-neutral that result from consolidation are significant in ways from 2020. To date, no other industry with all dimensions of sustainability. global activities has set such concrete environmental goals. Let us come back to the key term of sustain­ By the way, the research company INFRAS ability: In the hierarchy of success factors for recently carried out a new scientific study in co­­ Lufthansa, where do you rank sustainability? operation with the Fraunhofer Institute for the German Air Transport Initiative. This study clearly When we talk about success factors, we need shows that – if we take all factors into account to divide the term of sustainability once more. that burden the environment – the aircraft is not Of course, economic success is one fundamenonly the fastest mode of transport for distances tal condition for any company that also wants to above 400 to 500 kilometers, but in sum total be able to act responsibly in environmental and also the one with the lowest environmental costs. social areas. At Lufthansa, we grappled with the varied aspects of sustainability very early on. This 16 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a also includes the question of how we can meet reach the environmental goals already mentioned the enormous rise in mobility needs with environwithout the use of biofuel. We have now reached mentally compatible products. To achieve this, the point where we can start our six-month pracyou need a highly qualified and motivated team tical test this year. That said, the expectations of of employees. This is why we have always invested the project are correspondingly high, of course, in training and continuing education and offer and we have central requirements: Only certia wide range of development options. For fied biofuels will be used, meaning fuels that are Lufthansa, sustainability is a central characteristic ecologically acceptable and not in competition for differentiation and definitely a decisive factor. with the food chain or the drinking water supply. The supply of such biofuels is a problem at What are the key points of Lufthansa’s “For Lufthansa, sustainability is a central sustainability strategy? characteristic for differentiation and definitely We take several dimensions into consideration. a decisive factor.” Let me begin with an overriding observation. It is important for us to apply ethical yardsticks when the moment. We are working on this and on setmaking our decisions, that we create transparency ting up a functioning supply chain in cooperation concerning our sustainability issues and that we with our numerous system partners. I can’t wait communicate actively – and that includes areas to see the results of the test run, which is unique where we want and need to get even better. As worldwide. long ago as 2002 we were the first aviation group to join the UN Global Compact. We have clearly defined goals and our Corporate Responsibility Starting in 2012, European air transport takes Council steers the Group’s overriding sustainabil­ part in the EU emissions trading scheme. How ity activities. But our commitment can only take do you assess this decision by the European place if we are an economically stable company. Union? As a Group with global activities, we are subject to constant challenges of the most varying kinds. It Just for the record, I’d like to say that it has always is one of Lufthansa’s characteristics that we have been our goal to conserve fuel and thus avoid an economically sound company despite unstaCO2 emissions. And this will not change because ble world markets and despite the most varying kerosene is one of our largest cost items. As far legal frameworks from one continent to another. In as the emissions trading scheme is concerned, this context, we give special importance to valueair transport did not exclude itself from it and oriented corporate governance. It promotes longthen agree to participation in principle. However: term value creation. As a global industry with global competition we need reasonable and fair competitive conditions. Unfortunately, this is not the case as things stand And talking about creating value, what are today and that is why we are very reserved conyour expectations concerning the project cerning the purely European emissions trade, as Aviation Biofuel? it is currently being planned. Climate protection is a worldwide subject, not a sectoral one that can There is no way around the development and be differentiated by countries or continents. For testing of alternative fuels. We will not be able to us it is essential, therefore, to have global a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 17 solutions. It is our great concern that we will be In the recent past there were also some releconfronted with a partial solution for Europe that vant cases of compliance at Lufthansa. Does does not give us any incentives to do more for the Lufthansa Compliance Program have to be the environment, but that disadvantages us mas­ amended? sively, in turn, through financial burdens vis-à-vis non-European airlines that are obliged to buy Compliance issues are very important for compasignificantly fewer or no certificates. nies today. In my opinion this trend will increase in the years ahead rather than diminish. For that reason it is indispensable that we establish a culThe public debate concerning a women’s ture within the company that makes it unequivoquota also causes internal discussions at cally clear that we prefer to forgo business when Lufthansa. What is your opinion on this it violates a law or other regulations, instead of subject? finding ourselves doing the ethical equivalent of the splits between pleasant words to the outside We believe that a quota is not the right incentive and the actual course of action. That is why we to apply in the case of this issue. Independently have established both a Group-wide compliance of that, women in management positions are a program as well as an ombudsman system. topic of the highest priority, which I have put at Our employees – board members and myself the top of my personal agenda as well. included – take part in training programs. We cooperate fully with the authorities in complianceOur point of departure is comparatively good. relevant cases. The cases you mentioned were Our share of women with personnel respon­ also handled in this way. The programs we implesibility is currently just under 40 percent and mented are effective. compared with the industry we are far ahead. For positions in middle and higher management this share stands above 13 percent, and How would you complete this sentence: here we have indubitably a need for further “Sustainability starts ...”? improvements. We are in the process of set­ting up appropriate programs. These are de­signed … in our heads, not only in those of managers, to make it easier for women to assume but in the heads of all employees. And that is management responsibility, for example with why we create structures, so that our employees support from family-friendly working and partcan apply aspects of sustainability in their think­ time models, creating infrastructures for child ing and their actions. care, but also through mentoring programs that encourage women to take responsibility in a management world that is still strongly mascuIn this context, do you see a special responsiline. Beyond such fundamental programs, we bility and model function for the Chairman of also want to support women in targeted ways, the Executive Board? for example by means of young managers’ programs for women and initiating fast-track I can clearly respond with “yes” – no credibility programs. without a role model. 18 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a And where does sustainability end? example, and often a bicycle. When it comes to flying, I am of course convinced by our own effiI explained earlier that sustainability ends when cient fleet. Beyond that, I think one can be highly a company is in a genuine, existential crisis mobile by using intelligent links between different situation and one can no longer afford many of modes of transport. And at my vacation home I the topics that are relevant long-term because consciously installed a heat pump – the very first one is only focused on short-term survival. For in that place. exactly that reason it is so important that we do not get into such a situation but instead we set up our structures and act in such ways that we can afford this sustainability horizon for many years. Then – and I am convinced of it – we will never reach the limits of sustainable business practice. A question for the private citizen Christoph Franz: How do you practice environmental protection at home? Environmental protection is part of a certain attitude toward life for me. In my private life, I use cars that are as energy-efficient as possible, for a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 19 Corporate responsibility Responsibility Corporate responsibility, that is to say sustainable and responsible entrepreneurial practice, is an integral part of our corporate strategy. It means that we are committed to creating added value for our customers, employees and investors and to meeting our responsibilities toward the environment and society. For these reasons, we continuously improve our environment that is defined by long-term mega­ measures to safeguard the climate and the envitrends and global challenges, such as population ronment, maintain responsible and fair relations growth and the rise of megacities, in­­creasing with our employees, and as a company actively demand for mobility in the context of increasing engage in numerous social concerns. globalization, climate change and processes of political transition. These underlying factors Our understanding of provide the background for our understanding corporate responsibility of the five pillars of corporate responsibility and The international economy and the air transport our related activities. industry, in particular, operate in a dynamic Economic sustainability The basis of all activities at the Lufthansa Group Principles of the UN Global Compact and an important condition for responsible entreThe UN Global Compact is a worldwide initiative that was set up by the former preneurial action is the long-term increase of the UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000. The compact between companies company’s value by means of applying sustain­ and the United Nations has the goal of making globalization socially and enviable business principles. Our first consideration ronmentally compatible, and it obliges the participating companies to adhere to is toward our customers and their mobility needs. social and ecological minimum standards, to respect human rights and to fight They appreciate our dense, international network against corruption. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. of destinations, our efficiency and reliability as well as personal attention and high levels of qual­ Human rights ity. To remain the first choice among competitors, • Businesses should support and respect the protection of international we continuously work on innovation and stream­ human rights within their sphere of influence and lined cost structures. We take an active role in • make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human rights shaping the consolidation of the air transport abuses. industry and consistently strive to further improve and develop. Our business segments also make Labor a significant contribution to reaching these goals. • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Against this background, we count on long-term recognition of the right to collective bargaining; value creation, circumspect management of • eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; opportunities and risks, consistent management • effectively abolish child labor; and of our supply chains and constructive dialogues • eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. with our stakeholder groups. Environment Social responsibility • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Lufthansa is aware of the responsibility it has, challenges; not only for its customers, the environment and • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and society, but to a high degree also for the people • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly who have entrusted their capacity for work to the technologies. company. Our employees are the most important pillar within our corporate culture and thus cruAnti-corruption cial for the company’s success. A broad range of • Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion continuing-education options and flexible workand bribery. time models allow them to further and maintain their professional knowledge, and to strike a www.unglobalcompact.org balance between professional and family needs. In this way, we help maintain our employees’ 20 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a motivation as well as their mental and physical health, and we strengthen a culture of lifelong learning within the company. Climate and environmental responsibility Our conscientious approach to handling climate and environmental issues is illustrated, for ex­ample, by our successes in lowering specific CO2 emissions, the implementation and expansion of environmental management systems, the resource management and the measures in environmental care. The strategic goals we set in 2008 concerning environmental and climate protection are guided by the internationally acknowledged four-pillar strategy for air transport. The spectrum The Corporate Responsibility Council steers all topics relevant of objectives spans the range from a reduction to sustainability within the Group. of specific CO2 emissions by 25 percent by 2020 in comparison with 2006, to measures aimed at Our organization increasing efficiency in operational areas and all The mobility of people and goods is the basis the way to infrastructure improvements and eco­ for economic development and societal afflulogical construction techniques. ence. Lufthansa would like to contribute to these while assuming responsibility for current and Our ongoing fleet modernization program and future generations. The principles of entreprethe resulting introduction of new aircraft with neurial responsibility are firmly anchored in the modern and fuel-efficient engines into the fleet Lufthansa Group’s strategic principles as well as has the immediate effect of decoupling transport in its corporate values and management princi­ performance from CO2 emissions. This program ples. During the reporting year, we further devel­ also entails a further optimization of specific fuel oped our existing orientation and embedded all consumption, which is measured in liters per 100 aspects concerning this topic in a structure under passenger kilometers flown. the heading “Responsibility.” In addition to sus­ tainability, which implies economic, ecological Corporate governance and compliance and social issues, this also includes our activities For Lufthansa, it is a matter of course to apply concerning the principles of corporate managesound and responsible management and control ment according to sustainable guidelines (corpomechanisms and to adhere to laws and regurate governance) and social commitment (corpolations. This means that risks in the context of rate citizenship). corporate liability are minimized. We place great value on openness and clarity in communications To be able to manage all activities that are related and strive to maintain and expand the trust of our to corporate responsibility and sustainable busiinvestors, employees and the public in general. ness practice at the Lufthansa Group even more Corporate governance and corporate compliance effectively, the Sustainability Board, which had also comprise the areas of legal issues, taxation, been responsible for these issues in the past, data protection as well as the remuneration of was expanded and more closely linked to the members of the Executive Board and the SuperGroup strategy. The resulting Corporate Responvisory Board. sibility Council, which continues to be interdisciplinary and companywide, is chaired by the Corporate citizenship head of Group strategy. The committee’s memAs a Group with global activities, we take an bers are the heads of the Group departments in active part in society in numerous ways. The charge of political issues, environmental issues, focus of our commitment is on the areas of social human resources, legal issues, communications, issues, environment and nature, culture, educainvestor relations and controlling. The inclusion of tion and sports. In the event of natural catastroGroup Controlling additionally ensures a closer phes, such as the earthquakes in Japan and link between sustainability goals and the GroupHaiti or the floods in Pakistan, we can be at the wide control and reporting processes. To ensure disaster’s location quickly and provide efficient that our criteria of responsibility are also followed and immediate aid by transporting vital goods. throughout the supply chain, the Group departa Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 21 ment Corporate Sourcing contributes to the External evaluation of our Council’s work in a consulting function. We attach sustainability activities great importance to the high level of relevance of As in the preceding years, experts from outside all aspects of corporate responsibility – for this the company and rating agencies again evaluated reason, the Council reports directly to the Group’s and assessed Lufthansa’s activities concerning Executive Board, which has overall responsibility. responsible practices in 2010. Lufthansa continues to be represented in numerous sustainabilThose responsible at the Group level agree on ity indices, such as FTSE4Good, ASPI (Advanced and coordinate projects in the area of corporate Sustainable Performance Indices) and ESI (Ethibel responsibility. The individual departments are in Sustainability Index). charge of the subsequent implementation. But employees are also explicitly welcome to contribDespite manifold efforts, Lufthansa – similar to ute decentralized initiatives, ideas and optimum other corporations listed on the DAX stock index – processes to CRC. Simultaneously, Lufthansa was not able for the first time since 2005 to meet organizes and supports the cooperation and the tightened conditions for membership in the exchange of knowledge and information across Dow Jones Sustainability Index. The analysts identhe company by means of networks. tified potential for improvements above all in the areas of corporate citizenship, the conditions for Balance is a fixed component of internal and suppliers and the entrepreneurial commitment to external communications concerning the subinterest groups outside the company. By contrast, ject of “sustainability within the Lufthansa Group.” the evaluations in the areas of climate strategy, Launched in 1994 as a pure environmental noise protection and local air quality were very report, Balance today covers all aspects relepositive. vant to corporate responsibility at Lufthansa and its Group companies. In addition, we are curThe Executive Board and the Corporate Responrently developing an eLearning application to sibility Council take external evaluations and give all employees and managers at the Group recommendations very seriously. The areas for even better access to the subject of corporate improvement indicated are assessed together with responsibility. the experts within the company and necessary measures are then implemented. Balance: Continuity in reporting since 1994 22 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a Stakeholder dialogue Communications without detours The Group attaches great importance to knowing the wishes, experiences and expectations of its stake­ holder groups and to integrate these into its strategic actions. For this purpose, Lufthansa actively faces the critical questions of all stakeholders, whose interests are touched upon by the company’s business activities. This includes continuous exchanges with share• Customers • Capital market holders and analysts, customers and suppliers, • LOHAS (Lifestyle • Investors of Health and • Shareholders as well as employees, employee representatives Sustainability) • Analysts and contractual partners. Moreover, the company • Rating agencies maintains a constructive dialogue with neighbors • Governments and local communities, government representa• Legislators • Employees • Politicians tives and city administrations, scientists and edu• Employee representatives • Authorities cators, media and employer associations, environmental associations and non-governmental • Neighbors • Suppliers • Local communities organizations. The goal is to identify social issues • Contractual partners • Publicity and trends early on, such as opportunities and • Social networks risks, and to derive from these the next steps for • Science • Non-governmental • Research organizations (NGOs) a sustainable future. This also includes contin­ • Education • Organizations uous reporting in internal and external media • Consortia about the Group’s commitment in the area of sustainability. new product and service ideas. SWISS, bmi and Targeted customer surveys Brussels Airlines also presented their respective What do customers expect from Lufthansa? How portfolios to members of FlyerTalk and answered are our products and services accepted? Where all questions posed. are we doing well already and where can we improve? Lufthansa finds answers to these and Frequent flyers are also closely connected to other questions by regularly conducting custom­er selection processes concerning the introduction surveys which are carried out worldwide in of new products. To find out, for example, which cooperation with renowned market research instiseat would be optimal for the new European cabtutes. One fixed element is a number of questions ins, Lufthansa organized 16 events during the concerning the Group’s environmental perforreporting year that gave 300 top customers an mance and social responsibility. At the local level, opportunity to cast their votes, which were includ­ so-called Customer Advisory Boards are con­ d in the final decision. Beyond that, Lufthansa e vened when a specific event warrants it and the goal is to find out what passengers think about Lufthansa’s service chain. All offers of dialogue promote customer trust and also provide important impulses for the development of tailor-made offers. In addition, the level of customer satisfaction has been measured by means of the Cus­ tomer Profile Index since 2001. Exchanges with frequent flyers Lufthansa particularly promotes a dialogue with frequent flyers. In November 2010, the company again invited 70 frequent flyers organized in the Internet forum www.flyertalk.com to spend a day in Frankfurt. The day’s program included a tour of the new Lufthansa flagship, the Airbus A380, as well as the First Class Terminal. Furthermore, the The Lufthansa A380 also caused spontaneous enthusiasm among the frequent flyers guests took part in interactive workshops to test organized in the Internet forum www.flyertalk.com. a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 23 Executive Board and the department Investor Relations provided information about the Group’s current and strategic developments in the context of 39 road shows and 13 investor conferences. About 450 individual and group discussions took place with institutional investors and analysts. In January 2010, the company organized a meeting with analysts for the first time to send off the New Year. This was followed up in June 2010 with the annual Investors’ Day at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt. In addition to the Annual Report and the three Interim Reports the capital markets receive Technical and aeronautical competency clearly illustrated: “Investor Info,” which provides regular details The Visitors’ Service in Frankfurt welcomed more than 8,000 guests in 2010. about the monthly traffic figures of the flying companies and other news from the Lufthansa Group. has regularly organized the Service Excellence Private investors receive information through the Lounge since 2004. The goal of this moderated “Shareholder information” as well as in personal event is the continuous optimization of service. discussions that take place in the context of the five private shareholder forums. Never at a loss for an answer: The Lufthansa Visitors’ Service Dialogue with employees The topic-oriented guided tours organized by the Continuous dialogue events are an important Lufthansa Visitors’ Service at the locations Frankinstrument to find out more about the needs, furt and Hamburg allow a glance behind the wishes and expectations of employees. Beyond scenes of the Lufthansa Group. In 2010, a total of that, the company organizes numerous Town 18,153 visitors took advantage of this kind of diaMeetings at decentralized locations that give the logue. The service addresses primarily national Executive Board and employees an opportunity and international top customers from companies for direct exchanges. To give Lufthansa employ­ and distribution partners as well as students, uniees a perspective beyond the immediate horiversity graduates and representatives of associzons of their work areas, several internal media ations and research institutions, who appreciate were bundled in 2010 to form one “interdisciplin­ these opportunities for direct exchanges. Addi­ ary” publication: the new magazine “Lufthansa tionally, hundreds of Lufthansa employees ben­ Passage,” which equally addresses ground, efited from specialized employee tours in Frankfurt cabin and cockpit employees. to take a close look at the new Lufthansa flagship, the Airbus A380. These guided tours will In 2010, health was one of the central topics in be continued in 2011. In Frankfurt, 8,415 visitors the dialogue with employees. The goal was to participated in a total of 566 events, which in part promote and maintain Lufthansa employees’ include presentations of the environmental care well-being and ability to work, and the company activities of the Lufthansa Group. In Hamburg, organized a number of related events and infor512 guided tours took place involving 9,738 mation campaigns. And for the optimal introvisitors. Beyond the Lufthansa Visitors’ Service, duction of new IT components, such as PCs or Austrian Airlines and SWISS also offer such software applications, employees can particiservices at their hubs in Vienna and Zurich. pate in surveys on the subject of computer-based workstations. Close dialogue with investors and analysts Dialogue with science A significant part of the stakeholder dialogue con-­ Research and development are indispensable ­sists of transparent, timely and detailed informa­ pillars of social progress. To make a contribution tion to all participants of the capital market about to the dialogue with science, Lufthansa has for current corporate developments, the strategy many years participated in numerous research selected and structural changes. In comparison projects and worked closely with renowned with the preceding year, Lufthansa again increased scientif­ic establishments and institutions. The these activities in 2010. Thus, members of the emphasis of our research efforts is on climate 24 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a issues, ways to reduce emissions and noise, and Lufthansa and EBS organize an the development of alternative fuels (see “Climate expert roundtable on sustainability and environmental responsibility” from page 63). In November 2010, Lufthansa and the European Furthermore, Lufthansa maintains an ongoing Business School (EBS) invited a 25-member exchange with other airlines with the aim of pass­ expert roundtable on the subject of “Sustainable ing on its own experiences and receiving valuable development in the air transport industry” to impulses from the outside. Oestrich-Winkel. Among the participants were industry representatives as well as renowned Sustainability workshop in cooperation researchers from Germany and abroad. In their with Lüneburg University presentations and workshops the experts cast a Lufthansa takes advantage of numerous oppor­ light on the opportunities and hurdles on the path tunities to develop the company long-term – and toward sustainable development, among other also uses cooperations with renowned universities subjects. for this purpose. In spring 2010, the Group orga­­nized a hands-on workshop in cooperation with Lufthansa Cargo: the Leuphana University in Lüneburg on the subCargo Climate Care Conference 2011 ject of “Sustainable business practices.” It offered For the second time, Lufthansa Cargo organized 22 students participating in the MBA distance-learn­ the Cargo Climate Care Conference. The goal of ing program the opportunity to analyze Lufthansa’s this event, which took place on March 1, 2011 in sustainability during a one-week stay at the Frankfurt, was to develop innovative solutions for the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt and to devel­ long-term improvement of the logistics industry’s ­op concrete suggestions concerning the practical climate balance. More than 200 representatives implementation of individual programs. from the logistics and air freight industry partici­ pated in the dialogue event on the subject of For example, the future managers determined the “Energy efficiency in air freight: Reality and vision.” CO2 footprint of an airline catering product. The The program included a broad range of expert result showed that it would take a disproportion­ lectures, on topics such as alternative fuels and ately large effort to establish CO2 footprints for the energy efficiency, and the challenges of and opporentire product range of LSG Sky Chefs, which also tunities for “green logistics.” During the conference, changes continuously. Thanks to this insight, the the Cargo Climate Care Award, which includes company will in the future follow a more pragmatic prize money totaling 16,000 euros, was presented. approach, whereby CO2 emissions are not calcu­ Junior researchers, customers and employees who lated for individual products but as a so-called had developed innovative ideas for more climateOrganizational Carbon Footprint based on the CO2 friendly practices in air freight were honored with emissions of the entire company. The workshop this prize. organized by Lufthansa Cargo produced similarly encouraging results. Here, the students produced a comprehensive benchmark by comparing the CO2 emissions and the climate neutrality of the Lufthansa subsidiary with those of other freight airlines. The results are helping Lufthansa Cargo in 2011 devel­­op an individual CO2 calculator for its customers. Another group of students analyzed to what extent Lufthansa would be able to integrate sustainability criteria even more deeply into the supply chain and which criteria should be applied to the selection of suppliers. Last but not least, students were assigned to four project groups and given the task to convince a jury of experts of their work in the context of a competitive presentation. The jury included Lufthansa managers and external experts, such as the deputy managing director of the Öko-Institut Berlin, Christian Hochfeld. Fully booked: More than 200 representatives of the logistics and air freight industries participated in the Cargo Climate Care Conference 2011. a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 25 • Conversation with EU Commissioner Connie Hedegaard in Brussels on climate protection and trading emissions rights. • Aviation congress in Berlin under the motto “Aviation location Germany – Securing mobility, shaping growth responsibly” including the participation of Federal Minister of Economics Rainer Brüderle and Federal Minister of Transport Peter Ramsauer as well as several ministers of state. Dialogue with neighbors and municipalities Lufthansa seeks an ongoing dialogue with representatives of state governments as well as mayors and administrations of the municipalities surroundMunich Airport: Regular meetings with representatives of civic action groups in the airport’s viciing the hubs of the Group. For example, the nity establish a constructive dialogue and create positive channels for exchanges. government of the state of Hesse elected Lufthansa to join the Forum Airport and Region in fall 2009 Political and social dialogue (see “Active noise protection at Frankfurt Airport” Seeking dialogue with the public, managers of the on page 84). Furthermore, with support from the Lufthansa Group again presented and discussed initiative “Freight needs the night,” Lufthansa Cargo at trade fairs, congresses and seminars during organized an expert convention under the same 2010. Here is a selection of such events: title on June 24, 2010 in Frankfurt. Representa• Environmental congress “Greener Skies Ahead. tives of logistics companies, industry, science and 2nd International Conference on Reducing the politics discussed the necessity of a reliable legal Environmental Impact of Future Air Transport” framework for Germany as a location for logistics in the context of the International Aerospace operations. Exhibition (ILA) in Berlin. • Parliamentarian Evening “Air Transport” of Deutsches Verkehrsforum e.V. in Berlin on the topics of climate protection, subsidies, competition and passenger rights. • Event organized by German “Air Transport Initiative” with Federal Minister of Transport Peter Ramsauer, covering subjects such as the situation of the air transport industry after the passing of the cloud of volcanic ash, infrastructure improvements, and air traffic management. • 66th Annual General Meeting of the IATA in Berlin – Lufthansa was the official host for the more than 1,000 delegates. Social media Social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube or professionally-oriented platforms open up new paths for starting dialogues with stakeholders and optimizing communications. Within the company, Lufthansa employees have been able to use the Web 2.0 intranet platform eTeaming since June 2009 for their exchanges. In April 2010, it received the award for the “Best Internal Communications Strategy” on the occasion of the IRR Technology Web 2.0 Congress. Recently, the heading “Lufthanseat Online” was added to eTeaming, aiming at providing an even more targeted flow of information and exchanges with and between employees. 26 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a The Lufthansa Group fleet Investments in new aircraft pay off – Economically as well as ecologically Aircraft are the Lufthansa Group’s most important means of production and about half of the annual investment volume is allocated to new airplanes. The fleet strategy is guided by the development of markets and competition, customer needs as well as economic and ecological factors. The selection criteria applied when new aircraft On December 31, 2010, the Lufthansa Group fleet are acquired include price, seating and loading comprised a total of 710 aircraft at the airlines capacities, range, cruising speed and passenger Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian Airlines and bmi, the comfort. Also important are for noise, emissions, regional partners Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti consumption values as well as maintenance and and Eurowings as well as Germanwings and operating costs to be as low as possible. Lufthansa Cargo. Aircraft incorporating the latest technology have The Lufthansa A380 in scheduled operations a positive effect on all dimensions of sustain­ The Airbus A380, the new flagship of the ability: They secure jobs, consume less fuel, are Lufthansa long-haul fleet, has established new quieter and form the basis for the Group’s longyardsticks in the areas of technology, ecologiterm value creation. The department Lufthansa cal efficiency and sustainability as well as travel Group Fleet Management is situated at the Group comfort for passengers and working conditions level as a central function and is responsible for for crews. In 2010, Lufthansa took delivery of the all Group airlines. This department also serves first four A380s. The Lufthansa A380, which offers as a link between the airlines and the aircraft and 526 seats, now operates scheduled flights on the engine manufacturers. The consistent goal of our routes to Tokyo, Beijing, Johannesburg, New York buyers is to purchase the right type of aircraft at and San Francisco. Featuring a fuel consumption the optimum point in time and at the most favor­ of only about 3.4 liters of kerosene per 100 pasable price possible with a specification that fits. senger kilometers, the A380 marks the beginning of a new era in the industry. An additional advanIn the framework of the largest fleet modernization tage is that it is about 30 percent quieter than program of the company’s history, the Lufthansa other wide-body aircraft. Group put 47 new aircraft into service in the report­ing year alone – and thus continued the About 25 percent of the A380’s fuselage conrejuvenation of the Group fleet in a consistent sists of advanced and more lightweight compos­ manner. Firm orders have been placed for an ite materials. These include GLARE, a laminate additional 155 aircraft that will be delivered by the composed of aluminum layers and fiberglassend of 2016. In March 2011, the Supervisory Board reinforced plastic, which is more lightweight and also approved a further order of 30 aircraft of the damage-tolerant than the aluminum that has Airbus A320neo family for the Passenger Airline Group as well as five Boeing 777F freighter aircraft for the business segment Logistics. “The investments we make in our Group fleet are paying off. The aircraft added to the fleet are convincing, especially with regard to economic and ecologi­cal efficiency,” says Nico Buchholz, Executive “The investments we make in our Vice President Lufthansa Group Fleet ManageGroup fleet are paying off. The airment. For example, the operation of larger and craft added to the fleet are convinc­ more fuel-efficient types of aircraft in the regional ing, especially with regard to eco­ segment allows an increase of seating capacities, nomic and ecological efficiency.” while environmental effects are decreased at the Nico Buchholz same time. Executive Vice President Lufthansa Group Fleet Management a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 27 56 new orders in 2010 The Lufthansa Supervisory Board approved orders for another 56 new aircraft in 2010 for the Group: Eight Airbus A330-300s, equipped with Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines, will reinforce the long-haul fleet. The remaining 48 aircraft are earmarked for operations on continental and region­al routes: 32 Airbus A319s, A320s and A321s as well as eight Embraer 195s that will be delivered to the Group companies step by step. The list price of this order is about 3.5 billion euros. Additionally, there are eight Bombardier CRJ900 NextGens on order; deliveries will be completed in the first half of 2011. The first Lufthansa Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental in production. The Airbus A330-300 has been in service at the been standard in aircraft construction. In addiLufthansa Group since 2004. The twin-engine tion, insulation fixed to the fuselage’s outer layer wide-body aircraft seats up to 221 passengers shields the cabin from external engine and airand has a range of up to 10,000 kilometers when flow noise, so that the aircraft is very quiet for fully loaded. Technically, it is almost identical to the passengers as well. Further innovations in cabin A340-300, which is equipped with four engines, air conditioning and lighting as well as in-flight and is also operated on medium-haul routes. entertainment make the Lufthansa A380 unique. Thrust is provided by Rolls-Royce Trent 700 The fully redesigned First Class is located on the engines, which were developed specifically for the upper deck, offering eight generous seats that A330 series and are particularly efficient and quiet. guarantee individuality and the highest levels of comfort. Also on the upper deck is the world’s The A319s, A320s and A321s all belong to the largest Business Class, offering 98 seats. And successful A320 aircraft family manufactured by Economy Class, featuring 420 seats on the main Airbus, which is above all characterized by its deck with impressive dimensions of space, also economic efficiency. One of the advantages of this offers passengers more comfort than ever before. aircraft family is that A320 pilots can fly all types Lufthansa plans to operate a total of 15 A380s, of of the family. Furthermore, the aircraft’s similariwhich a further four are to enter service in 2011. ties save significant effort in maintenance and thus also costs. Another plus: Each of the 45 new airFirst Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental craft from the A320 family that will join the fleet in final assembly of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines will be equipThe current gap in the Group fleet between the ped with a new cabin, featuring improved levels of A380 with 526 seats and the Airbus A340-600 comfort, and a new appearance, that will graduwith a little more than 300 seats is set to be ally be retrofitted on the entire existing continenclosed with the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental. tal fleet as well. The longest family member is the In 2012, Lufthansa will be the world’s first airline Airbus A321, which seats up to 200 passengers in to put the Boeing 747-8 into service and plans Lufthansa’s configuration. The A321, which is oper­ to replace part of its Boeing 747-400 fleet with ated on shortand medium-hauls, gains points the Boeing 747-8. The airline has 20 aircraft of with its high fuel-efficiency per passenger and its this type on order; their new General Electric low noise and emissions values. As with the other engines will ensure low fuel consumption, which members of the A320 family, the A321 places as is expected to be around 3.5 liters of kerosene light a burden on the environment and the climate per 100 passenger kilometers. In addition, the as is currently possible. noise footprint is 30 percent smaller than that of the predecessor model, the Boeing 747-400 (see The engine manufacturer CFM International will Balance, Issue 2010, page 64). The final assemequip the Airbus A320 aircraft ordered in 2010 bly of the first passenger version of this aircraft with the latest version of the CFM56-5B engine, started at the end of 2010 at the Boeing factory whose advantages will include an additional in Everett near Seattle. The aircraft made its first improvement of specific fuel consumption by successful test flight in March 2011. about 1 percent and reduced noise emissions. The further development of the high-pressure 28 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a compressor, the combustion chamber and the A320 family, Lufthansa Regional will receive eight highand low-pressure turbines makes it possiEmbraer 195s and eight Bombardier CRJ900 ble to increase fuel efficiency and thus further cut NextGens. Five Airbus A330-300s, two Airbus consumption. At the same time, the engines meet A321s and two Airbus A320s are slated for oper­ the maximum emissions values of CAEP/6 (Comations at SWISS. Germanwings will receive eight mittee of Aviation Environmental Protection) of the Airbus A319s. International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The fleet modernization program comprises The aircraft of the types 190 and 195 made by the not only the acquisition of new aircraft but also Brazilian manufacturer Embraer also fly with high the updating of older models. The best exameconomic efficiency as well as being environmenple for this approach is the planned modificatally friendly. This is illustrated by the extremely tion of the entire Boeing 737 fleet stationed in low fuel consumption of about 3.9 liters of keroFrankfurt, which is to be completed by the end of sene per 100 passenger kilometers with a full pay2011. Lufthansa is adapting the engines of these load, according to the manufacturer’s data. Further Boeing 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft technically, pluses are low emissions and noise values. so that they will fly significantly quieter (see “Lufthansa is firmly committed to noise reduction” The eight CRJ900 NextGen aircraft of the Canafrom page 82). dian manufacturer Bombardier impress with new engine technology, more lightweight materials and fuel efficiency. These aircraft are also characterized by low emissions values and noise burdens. This type of aircraft can fly to destinations up to 2,440 kilometers away. New aircraft for Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, SWISS and Germanwings Of the 56 aircraft newly ordered in 2010, Lufthansa Passenger Airlines will receive three Airbus A330-300s and 20 aircraft from the Airbus Group fleet on 31.12.2010 (changes compared with 2009) in possession 1 age 1 in operation 2 age2 Lufthansa Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia) 342 ( + 25 ) 11.5 ( – 0.3 ) 274 ( + 19 ) 13.0 (± 0) L­ ufthansa­ CityLine 56 ( – 14 ) 9.9 ( + 0.3 ) 57 ( – 11 ) 6.9 ( – 1.7 ) Air Dolomiti 8 (– 6) 9.9 ( + 0.5 ) 17 (– 6) 7.4 (± 0) Augsburg Airways 0 (± 0) 0.0 (± 0) 15 (± 0) 5.9 ( + 1.3 ) Contact Air 0 (± 0) 0.0 (± 0) 8 (– 5) 16.9 ( + 3.6 ) Eurowings 13 ( – 10 ) 9.6 ( – 3.0 ) 28 (– 7) 4.7 ( – 3.3 ) Germanwings 30 (+ 4) 5.4 ( + 0.3 ) 30 (+ 4) 5.4 ( + 0.3 ) SWISS 90 (+ 6) 10.9 ( + 0.3 ) 86 ( + 10 ) 11.0 ( + 0.2 ) Austrian Airlines 94 (– 8) 11.6 ( + 0.6 ) 80 ( – 13 ) 11.6 ( + 0.6 ) bmi 59 (– 8) 9.9 ( + 0.7 ) 59 (– 9) 9.9 ( + 0.7 ) Business segment Passenger Airline Group 692 ( – 11 ) 654 ( – 18 ) ­Lufthansa­ Cargo 18 (– 1) 12.7 ( + 0.7 ) 18 (+ 2) 12.7 ( + 1.7 ) Business segment Logistics 18 18 Group 710 ( – 12 ) 10.9 (± 0) 672 ( – 16 ) 10.8 ( + 0.1 ) 1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession 2 Aircraft operated by the Group a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 29 The operative fleet of the Lufthansa Group ­Lufthansa Passenger Airlines including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa Regional LH: 30 aircraft, 127 seats, 2,590 km range Boeing 737-300 LH: 29 aircraft, 111 seats, 2,520 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 30 aircraft, 132 seats, 3,470 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 46 aircraft, 156 seats, 3,470 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 41 aircraft, 190 seats, 2,900/4,100 km range Airbus A321-100/200 LH: 15 aircraft, 221 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 26 aircraft, 266/221 seats, 11,100/12,700 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,600 km range Airbus A340-600 Legend LH: 29 aircraft, 352 seats, 12,500 km range 4U = Germanwings Boeing 747-400 BD = bmi C3 = Contact Air CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways LH = Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LH: 4 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range LX = SWISS Airbus 380-800 OS = Austrian Airlines Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively. Number of aircraft in operation on 31.12.2010 1 maximum number of seats, different versions in operation 30 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a EN: 1 aircraft, 46 seats, 900 km range ATR42-500 EN: 11 aircraft, 64 seats, 900 km range ATR72-200 CL: 11 aircraft, 93 seats, 2,280 km range Avro RJ85 EW: 13 aircraft, 50 seats, 2,000 km range CRJ200 CL: 20 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range CRJ700 CL: 12 aircraft, 86 seats, 2,440 km range EW: 15 aircraft, 86 seats, 2,440 km range CRJ900 IQ: 9 aircraft, 72 seats, 1,200 km range DHC 8-400 C3: 8 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Fokker 100 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range IQ: 1 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range Embraer 190 CL: 5 aircraft, 116 seats, 2,590 km range EN: 5 aircraft, 116 seats, 2,590 km range IQ: 5 aircraft, 116 seats, 2,590 km range Embraer 195 SWISS LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range Avro RJ100 LX: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 23 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,650 km range Airbus A320-200 a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 31 LX: 7 aircraft, 200 seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A321-100/200 LX: 5 aircraft, 229 seats, 8,400 km range Airbus A330-200 LX: 9 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range Airbus A330-300 LX: 15 aircraft, 228 seats, 10,500 km range Airbus A340-300 Austrian Airlines OS: 14 aircraft, 72 seats, 1,630 km range DHC 8-400 OS: 9 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range Fokker 70 OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Fokker 100 OS: 2 aircraft, 111 seats, 2,220 km range Boeing 737-600 OS: 2 aircraft, 132 seats, 4,440 km range Boeing 737-700 OS: 7 aircraft, 184 seats, 4,680 km range Boeing 737-800 OS: 7 aircraft, 132 seats, 4,500 km range Airbus A319-100 OS: 8 aircraft, 159 seats, 4,300 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 6 aircraft, 193 seats, 2,360/3,500 km range Airbus A321-100/200 32 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a OS: 6 aircraft, 225 seats, 9,800 km range Boeing 767-300 OS: 4 aircraft, 309 seats, 11,500 km range Boeing 777-200 bmi BD: 4 aircraft, 37 seats, 2,200 km range Embraer RJ 135 BD: 14 aircraft, 49 seats, 2,800 km range Embraer RJ 145 BD: 11 aircraft, 148 seats, 4,050 km range Boeing 737-300 BD: 3 aircraft, 131 seats, 4,395 km range Boeing 737-500 BD: 11 aircraft, 130 seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A319-100 BD: 7 aircraft, 1561 seats, 3,500 km range Airbus A320-200 BD: 7 aircraft, 1951 seats, 4,300 km range Airbus A321-200 BD: 2 aircraft, 2181 seats, 9,250 km range Airbus A330-200 Germanwings 4U: 30 aircraft, 1441 seats, 3,500 km range Airbus A319-100 ­Lufthansa­ Cargo LH: 18 aircraft, 516 m3/89.4 t, 7,000 km range Boeing MD-11F a Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 33 Prizes and awards In 2010, Lufthansa again received numerous prizes and awards that honor the performance of the Group and its companies. Below is a selection of the most important tributes: Lufthansa • “Best Airline Worldwide” at the Business Travel of European business publications. Moreover, Awards 2010 Mayrhuber also received the prestigious • “Best European Airline” at the World Airline “Laureate Award” of the trade publication AviaAwards tion Week in the area Commercial Air Transport. • “Most Innovative European Airline 2010” award from airlinetrends.com Group companies and network airlines • Elected as “Most Popular Airline on Short-haul • Award for SWISS as “Best Business Class to Routes” by the readers of British travel magaNorth and South America” at the Business zine Condé Nast Traveller Traveller Awards 2010 • “Best European Airline” on the occasion of the • SWISS receives the “Skytrax 2010 World presentation of the “Grand Travel Award” in Airline Award” for “Staff Service Excellence” Oslo on the ground and in the air • “Hungary’s Best Airline 2010” by travel maga• SWISS wins the “Global Traveler Award” of the zine Az Utazó U.S. publication Global Traveler Magazine for • San Francisco International Airport / Community the best seat in First Class Roundtable Jon C. Long Fly Quiet “Most Improved Airline” award for efficient noise • “Travel Star” award of the trade publication reduction Travel Inside in the category best network airline on shortand medium-hauls for SWISS, followed • Awards for the “Best Business Class on Gerby Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines man and European Routes 2010” and for the “Best Airline Website for Business Travelers • Award for Lufthansa Cargo as “Best European 2010” from the readers of the corporate travel Cargo Airline” on the occasion of the Asian magazine Business Traveller Deutschland Freight & Supply Chain Awards (AFSCAs) by • Award for the on-board Internet access trade publication Cargonews Asia Lufthansa FlyNet® as “Product of the Year 2011” • Award for Lufthansa Cargo at the “Cargo by Germany’s leading computer magazine “Chip” Airline of the Year Awards” presented by Air • “Smaato Mobile Advertising Award 2010” for the Cargo Media, as “Best European Cargo Airline” Lufthansa iPhone app • “SimpliFlying Airline Business Awards for Social • “Aircraft Technology Engineering & MainteMedia Excellence for Airlines 2010” in the catenance Award” for Lufthansa Technik as “Best gory “Best Social Media Marketing Campaign” MRO Provider in all Business Segments” – for for Lufthansa Web service MySkyStatus™ the fourth time in a row • “Innovation Prize 2010” by the Federal Asso• “Crystal Cabin Award 2010” for the new lightciation of the German Tourism Industry for weight construction trolley “Quantum” from LSG Lufthansa’s premium strategy Sky Chefs as the most innovative cabin product. • “AARP Innovative Employer Award 2010” from This trolley offers a weight savings of 40 percent the U.S. association AARP for Lufthansa’s when compared with conventional onboard innovative approach to handling the effects of models demographic change and supporting older employees • Innovation prize of German business for • Multiple top scores from the finance magazine Lufthansa Systems. The Password Reset Institutional Investor: “Best CEO,” “Best CFO,” InterActive (PIA) system convinced the jury in “Best Investor Relations,” “Best IR Professional” the category sustainability (2011) in the transport sector • Award as “European Manager of the Year 2010” • Award for Lufthansa Global Tele Sales Cape for Wolfgang Mayrhuber (Chairman of the Exec­ Town as “Best Employer South Africa” by the utive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa international institute of Corporate Research AG until the end of 2010) by the association Foundation 34 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 a Economic Sustainability “Ready for takeoff” The air transport market is and remains a growth market. In 2010, the Lufthansa Group was able to participate successfully in rising demand with its business segments. Significant success factors in a challenging competitive environment are the innovative orientation toward quality and performance of its strong brands, in passenger and freight transport as well as in the service companies. The valueoriented approach to corporate governance has particular importance in this context. The reason is that long-term value creation and a sound financial basis are the absolute prerequisites to stay on course in the future as well. a Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 35 35 Corporate governance Growing in value-oriented ways The leading indicator cash value added (CVA) and its anchoring in essential control processes ensures that the Lufthansa Group’s profitable growth is significantly promoted through all employees’ value-oriented thinking and acting. This approach is future-oriented, takes the requirements of our shareholders into account and is focused on a long-term increase of the company’s value with regard to all stakeholders. Economy and ecology go hand in hand when ments afresh every year, based on the current productivity increases result in the declining developments in the financial markets and our consumption of resources. This effect is amplified financial liabilities.” As a result of the most recent to the degree in which external, ecology-induced developments, the aviation company’s average costs are internalized, that is to say incorporated capital cost (Weighted Average Cost of Capital into operating costs. or WACC) declined, so that it was able to adjust this cost for the financial year 2011 from 7.9 percent to 7.0 percent. The positive effect: While the other general framework of conditions remains unchanged, the value added potentially increases “Economic success is the basic for capital providers. prerequisite for sustainable business practice. The special But before one can speak definitely of value advantage of the CVA approach in added, a hurdle consisting of three compon­comparison with other concepts is ­­­­ents has to be cleared. In addition to the capital that one indicator can capture the providers’ yield requirements, there is also financial effects of the most diverse the tax yield associated with the earnings gener­ measures.” ated as well as the preservation of assets. The thought behind this approach is that working Karl-Heinz Steinke Senior Vice President Corporate Controlling capital, such as aircraft and handling installations and Cost Management at Lufthansa are used up in the course of their usual life span and eventually have to be replaced. To be able to do so, Lufthansa mentally earmarks a certain amount during every year of use as provisions Lufthansa faces constant competition. This and invests it at interest. “This point in particuapplies to both the markets for selling services lar makes it clear that economic success is the and procuring supplies for the individual basic prerequisite for sustainable business pracbusiness segments, which also includes the tice. The reason is that these reserves decisively capital market in a wider sense. As a growing determine the ability to invest in new technologies company, Lufthansa depends on liquidity flowing and thus also a company’s ability to innovate,” in from external investors to finance its investemphasizes Steinke. ments, despite its own financial strengths from its operative business. In this market, the aviaAssessments differentiated tion group competes with the most varying comby business segments panies for the favor of investors, who can select An investment’s risk profile has a significant from numerous investment options. To be attracinfluence on the investors’ yield requirements. tive for equity providers means to meet their yield In simple terms: the higher the risk associated requirements based on risk. “It follows that ecowith an investment, the higher the demands nomic success is only achieved in our eyes when concerning yields. Analogous to their different the demands of the providers of equity capiareas of activities, the business segments of the tal and external funds, expressed in adequate Lufthansa Group have different risk profiles. The interest or yield on their capital, are guaranteed,” companies regularly compile their risk character­ explains Karl-Heinz Steinke, Senior Vice Presiistics by external comparisons and especially dent Corporate Controlling and Cost Manageby management evaluations concerning specif­­­­ ment at Lufthansa. “We assess these require­ic risk categories. They include the production 36 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 a risk, political risks, foreign exchange influences Deeply anchored in the management system and also environmental risks in comparison with The success of the CVA concept is also the average of the companies listed in the DAX. explained by the fact that value-oriented steering On the one hand, management evaluation creis deeply anchored in the Group’s management ates awareness of the influence of these factors. system and is actively applied by the company’s On the other, it gives Group companies an indimanagers. At Lufthansa, the cash value added rect incentive to actively reduce these risks with is integrated into a fixed circuit that is based on appropriate measures as capital costs subsethe four fundamental control areas of a company: quently decline. setting goals, structuring incentives, assessing investments and reporting. Measuring success via operative adjusting levers In the framework of setting goals, managers Only when the actual payment flow (cash flow) formulate clearly defined CVA goals for the indiclears the hurdle of interest requirements, taxes vidual business segments. These value-oriented and asset preservation within a period, does indicators have a central importance both for the the aviation company achieve a positive value long-term company strategy and the mediumand added. In calculating the CVA, Lufthansa takes short-term planning processes. Success-depeninto account all factors that can influence value dent remuneration policies for executives create creation within the Group. The system includes incentives that ensure their commitment to corcentral adjusting levers in the areas of revenues, porate goals. In order to further strengthen the expenditure and capital base, on which managelong-term element and sustainability in company ment can exert influence by means of its decimanagement, Lufthansa redefined the variable sions. Each change of a lever’s setting has an remuneration element for members of the Execuimmediate effect on the operating result, the capitive Board in 2010: Now it comprises – as addition­ tal base and thus also on the CVA. For example, ­al components – achieving a positive CVA for three the flying companies can improve their oper­ consecutive years as well as a sustainability factor. ating results by increasing passenger numbers Decisions about projects and investments also fol­­ or applying strict cost management. The capital low the principle of value added, whereby man­ag­e­ base can be lowered by selling fixed assets that ment compares the calculated interest earned from are no longer needed or speeding up collection a measure with the cost of capital employed. The and thus obtaining a smaller portfolio of receiv­ circle closes with reporting: in internal management ables – both options ultimately increase the CVA. reports, external financial reports and on the Inter“The special advantage of the CVA approach net, Lufthansa regularly informs about the developin comparison with other concepts is that one ment of the target value CVA. In this way, the Group indicator can capture the financial effects of the creates transparency concerning the value added most diverse measures,” emphasizes the Senior within a financial year and makes the development Vice President Corporate Controlling and Cost of performance understandable for employees and Management. the capital market. Working capital, such as aircraft and handling installations, are used up in the course of their usual life span and eventually have to be replaced. To be able to do so, Lufthansa mentally earmarks a certain amount during every year of use as provisions and invests it at interest. a Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 37 Successful in the past During this time, additional factors influenced The CVA concept of Lufthansa aims at the longbusiness, such as intensifying competition, oil term positive value added beyond the business prices at record levels, recurring threats from cycle of the air transport industry – fully aware of terrorism, country-specific charges, strikes, harsh the fact that there can be short phases of negawinter weather and the interruption of air traffic tive value contributions. Lufthansa, and with it by unforeseeable weather events. the entire industry, had to cope with tremendous challenges over the past ten years. Air transport For example, the eruption of the Icelandic suffered a dramatic slump in the wake of the volcano Eyjafjallajökull in April 2010 grounded terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. In subair transport in Europe for days on end. And sequent years, the second Gulf war, the SARS the unusually harsh episode of winter weather epidemic as well as avian flu and so-called swine in December 2010 also had a strong impact flu put a heavy strain on business. In 2009, the on flight operations across the entire Group. most serious economic and financial crisis in 70 Lufthansa Passenger Airlines alone had to cancel years caused worldwide passenger numbers to more than 4,500 flights. These weather-related fall by 3.5 percent, according to the International disturbances of flight operations and the associAir Transport Association (IATA). For the associated additional costs had a negative effect on the ation, it was “the worst year that the industry has Group’s result of about 70 million euros. ever seen.” Despite these adverse circumstances, Lufthansa was able to achieve a CVA of 71 million euros in 2010. Since 2000, the company has recorded a cumulative positive CVA of 2.1 billion euros. The financial scope thus generated not only gives the Group the opportunity to expand its market position, but it also creates the basis for developing new products for customers, securing jobs, and expanding and modernizing the Group fleet in environmentally compatible ways. Lufthansa leaves the economic crisis behind Well prepared for the future Lufthansa left the financial and economic crisis behind in 2010. With 91.2 As in years past, Lufthansa and the entire air million passengers, the flying Group companies transported 17.9 percent transport industry are facing sizable challenges more passengers than in the preceding year. Lufthansa Cargo increased its over the mid-term. Growth is generated above all transport performance by 18.2 percent. Concurrently, the Group achieved an in emerging countries and in Asia. Competitive operating profit of 876 million euros and thus increased its result of the prepressures from low-cost airlines and carriers from vious year of 130 million euros by more than fivefold. The Group’s net profit outside Europe are on the increase, while Euroincreased to 1.1 billion euros, a plus of 1.2 billion euros. pean airlines simultaneously have to cope with air transport’s inclusion in EU emissions trading. This encouraging development is not only the result of an increasingly posiSince 2011, the German air transport tax has tive progression of demand in passenger and freight traffic, but also that of been an additional and disproportional burden successful restructuring and cost-cutting programs at all company levels. The on all flights from German airports and thus for all program Climb 2011 alone aims at long-term result improvements of 1 billion German airlines. euros at Lufthansa Passenger Airlines by the end of 2011. In the reporting year, the Group company continued to pursue the measures approved and Furthermore, Lufthansa and all other airlines have achieved perceptible cost reductions. Among other measures, Lufthansa to adapt to worldwide megatrends and challenges, started to replace smaller aircraft in regional traffic with larger, more modern which include population growth, globalization, and more efficient models. Another example of securing lasting higher condemographic change, increasing mobility, the tributions to operating results in the context of Climb 2011 is the new cabin development toward a service-oriented society, interiors of the European fleet that feature more seat rows, but simultaneously and the expansion of the Internet. At the same offer passengers more comfort and legroom due to more slender backrests time, people’s needs for safety continue to and ergonomically optimized seats. Furthermore, the realization of synergy in­crease, and climate change and resource potentials across the airline group is making itself increasingly felt. Thanks to shortages assign an ever-increasing importance offers in line with market requirements, the Group companies were able to defend to environmental protection. their strong positions in the respective markets and partially expand them. With the concept of value-oriented management, 38 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 a individualization mobility demographic change to secure one’s living shortage of resources innovation capital markets Internet spheres of political power megacities population growth environmental protection climate change safety health globalization service-oriented society Megatrends and global challenges influence the air transport industry’s future development. Lufthansa is well positioned to master future advantage is the ability to invest; a result of challenges and react flexibly – as it has proved financial strength. Both factors form the basis on during the past decade. Result-securing prowhich the Lufthansa Group will continue to grow grams such as Climb 2011 ensure that optimized sustainably and profitably tomorrow as well. cost structures are in place today. An addition­al Management and corporate structures Lufthansa is a German stock company with headquarters in Cologne. The company employs the dual management structure ordinarily followed in Germany. The Executive Board is solely responsible for investors, almost 67.2 percent was held by instisteering the company, aligning it strategically and tutional investors. The share of German shareincreasing its value long-term. The Supervisory holders was 68.5 percent (see chart on page 9). Board appoints, advises and supervises the Exec­ To maintain its international traffic rights and air utive Board. Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills two transport operating permit, Lufthansa must be functions: It is the ultimate parent company and able to prove at any time that the majority of its the largest operating company within the Group. shares are in German possession. For further information on the Lufthansa share, see the Shareholder structure Lufthansa Annual Report 2010 from page 36 or The Lufthansa share has been traded on German the online Annual Report at stock exchanges since 1966. It is represented www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations in the German Share Index DAX and is part of the Prime Standard of Deutsche Börse (German Stock Exchange). Lufthansa fulfills the highest level of international transparency requirements related to this standing. The company’s share capital is divided into 457.9 million registered shares, which are held by about 347,000 shareholders. According to the standards of Deutsche Börse, the free-float quota was at 100 percent for Lufthansa shares at the end of 2010. About 32.8 percent of the equity capital was held by private a Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 39 Corporate governance and compliance Responsible company management in line with the rules of effective corporate governance is a substantial part of Lufthansa’s identity. The efficient, transparent structures and processes implemented by the company reflect this approach splendidly. Furthermore, Lufthansa places the greatest implementation, further development and comimportance on open and clear corporate commumunication of the Lufthansa Compliance Program nications in order to respond to demands for inforand is available as a central contact for questions mation from shareholders, employees, customers regarding compliance. In addition, Compliance and the public – thus maintaining and strengthenCommissioners, who are named at the various ing their trust in the Group. Group companies, ensure the Group-wide adherence to and the effective implementation of the Lufthansa fulfills the recommendations of the Compliance Program. German Corporate Governance Code with few exceptions. For the declaration of conformity purThe Compliance Office coordinates the investigasuant to the German Corporate Governance Code tion of circumstances relevant to compliance and see the Group Management report in the Annual in this context serves as a contact point for cartel Report 2010 from page 42. A comprehensive and investigative authorities. In such cases, compliance program, as described below, ensures Lufthansa fully cooperates with the authorities. lawful conduct with regard to legal requirements and prohibitions. The core components of the Lufthansa Compliance Program are its compliance guidelines. The Lufthansa Compliance Program These are binding internal regulations that give As adhering to legal and social regulations and employees not only strategies but also a binding standards is everyday practice at Lufthansa, the framework for action which guarantee a stanGroup has not formulated its separate Code of dardized and law-abiding external conduct for Conduct. Special attention is placed on ensuring Lufthansa. The Lufthansa Compliance Program a corporate culture that demands conformity with currently comprises four building blocks: Comrules and creates a framework of conditions that petition, Capital Market, Integrity and Corporate promotes such conformity. This is the purpose of Compliance. the Lufthansa Compliance Program, which was introduced in September 2004. It is to guarantee employees from breaking the law, train them in applying and interpreting legal norms and support them with advice in their daily work. Given the topic’s importance, Lufthansa set up a Compliance Office on October 1, 2007, as part of its central legal department. It is responsible for the 2010 was a very successful year Despite numerous extraordinary burdens, it was possible to achieve a strong result for the year – with positive contributions from all business segments. Austrian Airlines and bmi significantly reduced their losses by means of restructuring. In the first year after the crisis, the financial indicators moved a good bit closer to their targets or even reached their goals. Lufthansa was again able to add value. The rating stabilized and the outlook improved. The price of the Lufthansa share increased by 39 percent – more than twice as much as the DAX. The Lufthansa Annual Report 2010 provides detailed information about this topic. www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations 40 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 a “eLearning” As an aviation company with global operations, Lufthansa represents fair competition, integrity and responsible business practices. Every single employee needs to be aware of this tenet, know the rules and the consequences associated with incorrect conduct. By using eLearning modules, each employee actively participates in the implementation of the Lufthansa Compliance Program. Competition Compliance Lufthansa’s memberships in relevant national The module Competition Compliance introduces and international organizations. Examples of employees to the relevant regulations of cartel these are Lufthansa’s commitment to the prinlegislation, so as to minimize or exclude risks ciples of the UN Global Compact, its memberfor Lufthansa in this area. The Competition ship in Transparency International and its obliCompliance guideline provides a strategy for gation to respect the ICC guidelines to combat conduct in the context of business contacts with corruption in business dealings. third parties as well as a binding framework of action to ensure a standardized and lawful The Integrity Compliance guideline provides external presence of Deutsche Lufthansa. All support in handling invitations, gifts and other employees handling issues relevant to a carattentions and indicates room for maneuver. tel are trained in the fundamental regulations Furthermore, it raises awareness for potenof European and national antitrust legislation tial conflicts of interest. The Web-based trainby means of a Web-based training (eLearning). ing provides an overview of the legal frameSpecial emphasis is given to those areas of work, causes and facts of economic crimes. antitrust law that have particular importance for Employees are instructed by means of realistic everyday business practice. practical examples in behavior conforming to compliance. Capital Market Compliance The module Capital Market Compliance familCorporate Compliance iarizes employees with current capital market The module Corporate Compliance bundles law, such as regulations relating to insider tradthose internal regulations that are considered ing or ad hoc publicity. The goal is to keep essential for Lufthansa from a legal perspective both the Lufthansa Group and its employees and makes these transparent for managers and from breaking the law. In the context of Capital employees. Market Compliance the employees concerned are also instructed by means of Web-based Compliance training training, which gives them in-depth insights into Automated IT processes ensure that all employthe regulations of the securities trading law. The ees and executive bodies at Lufthansa parlaw’s individual provisions are explained in the ticipate in the eLearning courses relevant for context of daily practice and the explanations them once a year. The implementation of the are illustrated with many examples. eLearning process is expanded to the subsidiary companies step by step. As a complement Integrity Compliance to eLearning courses the Compliance Office With the module Integrity Compliance, Lufthansa regularly offers trainings involving the particidocuments its fundamental approach of lawpants’ physical presence. Compliance trainings abiding conduct in business relationships. are also an integral part of leadership semiThe obligation on the part of Lufthansa and its nars, management courses and other interemployees to adhere to non-corrupt and ethically nal continuing education and training events at correct conduct flows naturally from current Lufthansa. law, the internal compliance guidelines and a Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 41 Ombudsman system Monitoring and reporting To allow the confidential transmission of informaThe Compliance Commissioners of the tion pertaining to possible economic crimes, Lufthansa Group get together once a quarter. Lufthansa set up an ombudsman system on Their goal is to inform about current new devel­ December 1, 2007. As an additional preventive opments in the area of compliance and initiate measure against economic crimes, it is aimed at the implementation of relevant measures. In protecting Lufthansa and its employees. Relevant addition, the relevant implementation of an information can be given by employees or by effective compliance program is also evalu­ third parties to an ombudsman outside the comated with reference to the current requirements pany, either by telephone, in writing or in person. in the context of the accounting modernization This function is fulfilled by a lawyer. law by means of self-audits and external audits. In the context of his contractual relation with The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is Lufthansa, the ombudsman establishes with the informed twice a year by means of the Cominformant a particular relationship of trust, which pliance Report about current developments as consists of the transmission of the information they relate to compliance issues and the curentrusted to him to Lufthansa under absolute rent state of the implementation of the Complisecrecy with regard to the name and identity of ance Program within the Group, including train­ the informant. In this relationship, the ombudsing rates. man is fully bound by the legal obligation of professional secrecy and also has the right to refuse evidence vis-à-vis any public investigative authorities that might become active. In addition, Lufthansa and the ombudsman have expressly agreed that the identity of an informant will not be revealed and any documents the ombudsman might have received will not be handed over, unless the informant has expressly stated his or her desire that these items be made public. The revealing of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or third parties without his or her consent is therefore ruled out. Corporate sourcing At the beginning of 2009, the Lufthansa Group launched the project Procurement Leadership to further professionalize Group-wide procurement processes. The focus is on the introduction of a strategic product-group management that is expected to allow the procurement areas to make a long-term contribution of about 300 million euros to the operating result by 2011. The development of strategy is accompanied by tionally acknowledged conventions concerning intensive work on basic issues. In addition to new environmental protection and employee safety, IT systems and various process changes, this legal regulations concerning the fight against corincludes a fundamental realignment of the supruption, and safety guidelines pertaining to inforplier management with which Lufthansa confirms mation processing. Suppliers that do not accept its objective of sustainability – also within its prothese contractual clauses are not admitted to curement organization and along the entire supLufthansa’s circle of suppliers. ply chain. As a “procurement leader,” Lufthansa not only expects that its suppliers will adhere to binding sustainability criteria in a decentralized manner via its Group companies, but the company also anchors these criteria Group-wide in all contracts and internal guidelines. Lufthansa draws its orientation in this context from interna42 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 a Infrastructure Mobility depends on needs-oriented infrastructure Mobility is a basic human need and indispensable in today’s society. The demand for mobility continues to rise. It is driven by population growth, the expansion of urban areas and globalized trade flows, among other factors. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the number of passengers in air traffic alone is expected to rise by 800 million to 3.3 billion passengers per year between 2009 and 2014. Air freight is expected to grow by 6.4 percent per year by 2014, according to the latest prognoses. For many years, Lufthansa has been working on A-Plus pier will be available to passengers, to be handling people’s growing needs for mobility as used exclusively by Lufthansa. It offers space for environmentally compatibly as possible – and will seven wide-body aircraft, including four A380s. continue to do so in the future. This is evidenced Simultaneously, Lufthansa can handle an addi­­­­­ by the continuous acquisition of fuel-efficient and tional 6 million passengers per year in this part of quiet aircraft in the framework of the fleet moderthe terminal. Independent of the airport’s expannization, among other measures. But it is just as sion, it is also important to ensure flight operaimportant for the infrastructure on the ground tions at night, which are economically necesto adapt to the coming challenges. The Group sary. Should the seventh-largest air cargo hub makes its contribution in this area as well, as the worldwide really be cut off from the global flows following examples show: of goods for six hours every day, it would lose its position as the hub of the German export industry Frankfurt Airport and thousands of jobs would be at risk. Frankfurt is the focal point of the dynamic economic Rhine-Main region and one of the most Munich Airport important international hubs in air transport. With At Munich Airport, the expansion of terminal 70,000 employees, the airport is Germany’s capacities is also necessary so that Lufthansa largest place of work. In addition, Lufthansa is and the airport operator will be able to maintain the most important employer in Hesse with about their high levels of quality standards against the 36,000 employees. And the signs are pointing background of continuously rising passenger toward demand increasing further. The airport volumes. The capacity limit of the existing Termioperator Fraport expects an additional 35 million nal 2, which is jointly operated by the airport and passengers in Frankfurt per year by 2020, which Lufthansa and used exclusively by Lufthansa and makes the hub’s expansion overdue. In fall 2011 its partners, is 25 million passengers a year. This the new northwest landing runway will be put into maximum value will be reached this year already operation, which will expand the airport’s capac­ and therefore the expansion of Terminal 2 is ity perceptibly. From summer 2012, the new absolutely imperative. Frankfurt Airport: The competitiveness of international hubs depends on needs-oriented capacities. a Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 43 News in brief Modes of transport: The analysis of air transport is convincing In September 2010, the German Air Transport Initiative presented the results of an analysis of different modes of transport. It showed that the aircraft is the mode of transport with the lowest environmental costs for distances above 400 to 500 kilometers. The comprehensive analysis included aspects such as infrastructure costs, accident and environmental costs as well as operational costs and costs for the users’ time. The satellite building in front of Terminal 2 in Munich will make the needs-oriented capacity increase a reality when the summer timetable 2015 comes into effect. For the first time, light was shed in a concentrated way on comprehensive economic and ecoThe two partners will start construction on a satellogical aspects concerning rail, road and air lite building at the end of 2011, which will allow modes of transport. The study was carried out Lufthansa to handle an additional 11 million pasby the Fraunhofer Institute for System and sengers, starting with the summer timetable 2015. Innovation Research and the research comThe new functional elements of the existing pany INFRAS Zürich. Apart from Lufthansa, Terminal 2 will be characterized by incorporating the German Air Transport Initiative includes ecological aspects into the building. In compar­ DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH, Flugison, the satellite building will emit about 40 hafen München GmbH and Fraport AG. The percent less CO2 than Terminals 1 and 2, as the initiative’s patron is the German Federal Miniformer includes a walkable climate facade with stry of Transport, Building and Development. refrigeration storage media that optimize the www.initiative-luftverkehr.de building’s envelope energetically. Air conditioning will include modern displacement flow diffuser technology. To ensure that Munich will be able to maintain its position as a premium hub of international stanNew association: German air transport ding over the long-term, the construction of a bundles its forces third runway is also necessary. Today, the existing Lufthansa is a founding member of the new runway system is overloaded at peak times. Federal Association of the German Air Transport Industry (Bundesverband der Deutschen LuftBerlin Brandenburg International Airport verkehrswirtschaft – BDL), which has represenIn Berlin, Lufthansa Technik is further expanding ted industry interests with a single voice since its commitment and building a new maintenance December 2010. Its goal is to increase the hangar at the future Berlin Brandenburg Internatioawareness of the importance of air transport in nal Airport – in addition to the existing large maineconomic and employment policy among politenance hangar which will continue to be used in ticians and journalists, and to strengthen Gerthe years ahead. Starting in 2012, the provider of many overall as a location for the air transport technical services will look after Lufthansa shortindustry. On June 1, 2011, Klaus-Peter Siegloch and medium-haul aircraft in the new hangar with will take over the presidency of the association three parking positions. At the same time, capaciwith headquarters in Berlin from founding preties offered to other customers can be expanded. sident Dieter Kaden. www.bdl.aero 44 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 a Social Responsibility Fit for the future The Lufthansa Group has more than 117,000 employees worldwide. With a broad spectrum of options for continuing education and flexible working hours, they have choices for their professional development and maintaining expert knowledge, and for making career and family compatible. Comprehensive offers concerning health care and health maintenance mean that physical fitness is also taken into account. The highly motivated and qualified team of employees from 149 different nations is thus as well prepared as possible for the future’s challenges. a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 45 45 Personnel policy at the Lufthansa Group HR integration – Exemplified by Austrian Airlines The number of employees at the Lufthansa Group has more than doubled from 56,802 in 1996 to 117,019 today. Significant reasons are a continuous increase in the demand for mobility and the consolidation process in the air transport industry, in which the Lufthansa Group participates actively and with a clear strategic orientation. Over the past few years, the acquisitions of Airlines – a process that started in September SWISS, bmi and Austrian Airlines and the equity 2009 and has continued beyond 2010. participations in Brussels Airlines and jetBlue have meant that renowned international airlines The strategy of integrated independence makes were integrated into the Group or tied more it possible to provide answers for classic integraclosely to the Lufthansa route network. Both the tion issues quickly and efficiently – such as posdegrees of internationality and heterogeneity sible synergy potentials, customer advantages have strongly increased at the Lufthansa Group or the consequences that flow from the affiliasince then: While classic Group companies such tion under corporate law. Another consideration as Lufthansa Technik, LSG Sky Chefs or Lufthansa is to maintain the positioning of the new Group Systems have traditionally represented the members in their respective markets and to “yellow-blue” world of Lufthansa, the new Group ensure decentralized decision-making paths and airlines joined the company with their own speresponsibilities. cific identities, brands and cultures. To maintain these characteristics in parallel with the integraHR integration: tion topics related to Group membership and As much as necessary, as little as possible to further develop them independently is a cenAs with SWISS at the time, Lufthansa does not tral concern for Lufthansa. This approach is also aim at a full HR integration into the Group in the reflected in personnel management – as the case of Austrian Airlines. “In the foreground are ex­ample of Austrian Airlines illustrates. our efforts to maintain the identity of the Austrian market leader in terms of personnel and corpoStrategy of “integrated independence” rate culture. This is why we avoid the export of Be it SWISS, bmi or Austrian Airlines: When it German regulations and traditions, and concencomes to the integration of new companies, trate on jointly defining the meaningful degree of Lufthansa pursues an approach that is based integration for HR topics, ensuring comparable on the principle of partnership. The basis for this standards and establishing a long-term culture of approach is the strategy of “integrated independialogue for shared learning and working,” says dence,” which Lufthansa developed successfully Dr. Martin Schmitt, Senior Vice President Execuin the context of linking SWISS into the Group. It tive Personnel at Lufthansa. is now adapted for the HR integration of Austrian This process is made easier by a circumspect selection procedure. As a result, the new airlines are compatible with Lufthansa from the “In the foreground are our efforts to perspective of culture and personnel policy. maintain the identity of the Austrian The Group again followed this principle in the market leader in terms of personnel integration of Austrian Airlines: In the frameand corporate culture. We concen­trate work of due diligence, the audit of the accounts on jointly defining the meaningful that precedes an acquisition, Lufthansa also degree of integration for HR topics, scrutinized the HR regulations at the future ensuring comparable standards and Group airline, examining, checking and assesestablishing a long-term culture of diasing them for compatibility with the fundamenlogue for shared learning and working.” tal principles of the Group. Another focus was Dr. Martin Schmitt on economic aspects. Important economic Senior Vice President Executive Personnel at Lufthansa areas needing attention that were identified in the process of due diligence were further ex­­ amined by the Executive Board of Austrian 46 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Airlines and Lufthansa’s members of Austrian’s 2010, the board has included representatives Supervisory Board. from all Group airlines for the first time. Austrian Airlines is represented by the Senior Director Analysis of the degree of integration Human Resources & Organization. The committee The decisive conditions for a successful HR meets three to four times a year to define the overintegration of Austrian Airlines into the Lufthansa riding scope of development in personnel policy Group are the structures that make up the assimiand to discuss possible solutions for ongoing intelation process in the first place. This concerns not gration processes, such as in distribution and at only the unequivocal assignment of responsibilithe stations. For instance, the Board decided in the ties, but also a comprehensive harmonization of reporting year to set up a working group to develop all IT systems and interfaces. The reason is that a effective packages of measurements that supported standardized IT infrastructure is the prerequisite the integration of Austrian Airlines. Furthermore, for creating sound key performance indicators it decided to set up a task force that includes the (KPI) that can be used as a basis for decisiondepartment Corporate Communications to further making processes, documentation and analyses. optimize the exchange of information across the Lufthansa has already made good progress in Lufthansa Group. “Internal communications has a this area. For example, a comparative KPI anakey role in the context of successful network intelysis showed that from the start, the HR area of gration,” says Stefan Lauer, Chief Officer Group Austrian Airlines has a high level of overlap with Airlines and Corporate Human Resources of the indicators used by Lufthansa. This includes Deutsche Lufthansa AG. All activities aim at sucreporting about personnel levels, personnel cessfully implementing the concept of integrated structures and quarterly results, to name but independence. The implementation of decisions a few. taken by the HR Board is the task of middle management on location. Distribution of responsibilities The arrangement of HR responsibilities is a good indication that the independence of Austrian Airlines remains intact. The responsibility for the majority of all HR topics, such as personnel policies, collective pay agreements, personnel procurement and per“The distribution and station units sonnel development will remain at Austrian Airlines. of Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines However, topics in the area of corporate responsibility, which affect the social responsibility of the have grown together to form a sound Lufthansa Group as a whole, will be steered at the integrated system that gives both Group level. sides perceptible synergistic effects.” Richard Piller The HR Board in particular, situated at the Group Senior Director Human Resources & Organization at Austrian Airlines level, serves as a dedicated platform for coordinating HR topics across business segments. Since Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines: two independent brands – the same understanding of quality. a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 47 In addition, a meeting of the HR Management segments and selected corporate functions, the Day (HMD) takes place every six weeks. This head of Corporate Executives and the chairman expert forum, which coordinates policies concern­­­ of the Aviation Employers’ Association. As the ing personnel, management, and pay of employ­ success of integration depends on shared basic ees predominately working in Germany, includes positions, the top managers of Austrian Airlines the heads of HR of the Lufthansa business are closely connected to the dialogue and devel­ opment concerning the management level. Beyond this, further platforms exist for targeted exchanges (see overview on this page), synergies in distribution and at the stations. Towards the end of 2010, significant progress already emerged in the integration of Austrian Airlines. “The distribution and station units of Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines have grown to­gether to form a sound integrated system that gives both sides perceptible synergistic effects,” says Richard Piller, Senior Director Human Resources & Organization at Austrian Airlines. Forming mixed teams is always the task of the local company. The internal integration tasks of the jointly founded air freight company Austrian Representatives of all Group airlines have been on the HR Board since 2010. Lufthansa Cargo, founded in 2010 by Lufthansa Cargo and Austrian Airlines, are essentially completed. HR management platforms across business segments to coordinate personnel-relevant topics at the Lufthansa Group: Plans for the future Even though the HR integration of Austrian HR Board Airlines into the Lufthansa Group is not yet fully Chairman: Chief Officer Group Airlines and Corporate Human Resources implemented, the personnel experts in charge Labor Relations Directors/Members of Executive Boards in charge of person­ are already working on plans for the future. For nel within Group and HR heads of corporate functions example, Austrian Airlines would like not only shared network criteria for distribution and station HMD – HR Management Day management, but also a standardized IT platHMD Personnel Policy form that would allow a network of connections Chairman: Senior Vice President Executive Personnel between the personnel procurement systems of HMD Executive Personnel Policy the different Lufthansa companies. In addition, Chairman: Head of Corporate Executives Richard Piller advocates a higher degree of flex­ HMD Pay Policy Roundtable ibility within the Group: “Employees should be Chairman: General Manager of the Aviation Employers’ Association able to change from one employer to another at acceptable conditions.” Beyond that Lufthansa HMCI – HR Management Circle International is keen on further advancing the coordination of Chairman: Director Corporate Principles Personnel Policy HR data and improving the information exchange HR heads of all Lufthansa companies abroad, personnel managers among HR experts. The way ahead has already “International” at Lufthansa business segments and HR corporate functions been defined for these developments. concerning issues relevant abroad HMF – HR Management Forum Chairman: Director Corporate Principles Personnel Policy HR heads of all Lufthansa companies and HR corporate functions HMX – HR Management Experts Chairman: Manager responsible for respective issue Diverse topic-related forums that include affected Group companies; e.g. worktime, education, demographics, health-care management, personnel development, etc. 48 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Employment policy based on partnership HR policy copes with an exceptional year in 2010 by means of wide-ranging measures At Lufthansa too, the economic crisis meant that the first half of 2010 was dedicated to crisis management. Program to safeguard earnings in nearly all companies had to make use of the policy instruments available to cut staff costs and adjust human resources capacities in line with requirements. Lufthansa has learned from crises in prior years While numerous operative areas are currently and can draw on a wealth of experience in deal­ hiring again and creating new jobs, at the same ing with a variety of different scenarios. An extertime some areas within the Group need to be nal hiring freeze was followed by voluntary redunrestructured, which also entails shifting jobs or dancy models such as unpaid leave, phased job losses. To counteract this situation, Lufthansa early retirement, part-time work and compromise will – after having reviewed its applicant manageagreements with severance payments. In some ment system – further expand its tried-and-tested cases, measures such as reduced working hours job placement platform “JobChange” in Germany and the non-renewal of fixed-term contracts also and place emphasis on the areas of reach and became necessary. The successful implementauser friendliness. “JobChange” makes it possition was due not least to the constructive working ble to search even more efficiently for suitable relationship with the codetermination partners. replacement jobs for those employees within the The Group-wide internal placement program Group whose jobs are eliminated in the context “JobChange” also facilitated Company restruc­ of operational restructuring processes. Searches turing in the crisis year 2010. The program are carried out within Germany and indepenopened up new prospects within the Group for dently of legal obligations. The project-related many employees. success rates show that many, although not all, operations-related job losses can be compen­ The chosen methods of adjusting staff capacities sated in this way. also made it possible to react directly to eco­ nomic growth, which set in faster than expected. Information, negotiation and employee In some areas of the Group reduced working participation in company decisions hours were brought to an end quickly. It is a tried-and-tested company policy to settle conflicts of interest between company manageEarnings developments at the Lufthansa Group ment and employee representations in an open were more dynamic than could have been foreand transparent manner. A fair approach to coex­ seen and this provided the means for a special istence in all areas creates the necessary balance thank-you to the bulk of our pay-scale and nonto advance the Lufthansa Group in the market. pay-scale employees. Based on the good result for 2010 the Executive Board decided in December to make a one-off special payment amount­ ing to 700 euros per full-time employee, which was paid out in January 2011. Job opportunities at the Group In the face of enormous fluctuations in the economic ups and downs of the air transport industry, the large internal job market of the Lufthansa Group has shown in the recent past not only the function of a guarantor for entry and advancement opportunities, but also as an equalization mechanism to cushion unavoidable social hardship. Many suitable jobs and many opportunities for advancement can be found in our IT-based systems, increasingly also in an international Lufthansa is on track for growth: In 2011 the company’s dimension. recruitment will also include 2,200 flight attendants. a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 49 The increasing plurality of opinions and opinion Distribution of employees within the Lufthansa Group leaderships – analogous to developments in 2010, changes in percent society at large – is an increasing challenge for 2010 2009 change all participants. The guideline for all joint efforts is Group employees 117,019 117,521 – 0.4 flexibility and the ability to react in the market. of which Passenger Airline Group 57,157 58,083 – 1.6 of which Logistics 4,517 4,488 + 0.6 Partnership in collective agreements in Germany of which MRO 20,159 19,796 + 1.8 Lufthansa employs its staff under conditions that of which IT Services 2,935 3,027 – 3.0 provide them with social and material security of which Catering 28,499 28,390 + 0.4 not only during their professional lives but also of which Others 3,752 3,737 + 0.4 afterwards. They are established upon the collec­ tive agreements which the company negotiates with its union partners Vereinte DienstleistungsEmployees by group and gender gewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) 2010, in percent and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. Women 44.2 51,723 (UFO). The goal is to treat all employee groups Men 55.8 across the Group fairly and justly – a standard 65,296 that is faced with a challenging framework of Apprentices 24.0 1,603 76.0 conditions owing to the plurality of unions within Ground1 37.6 the company. 81,097 62.4 Flight2 60.8 34,319 39.2 The Lufthansa Group’s pay policy in 2010 was Cockpit 5.0 characterized by intensive negotiation in the 9,040 95.0 Cabin 80.8 areas of ground, cabin and cockpit. The newly 25,279 19.2 founded organization Aviation Employers’ Assofemale employees ciation (Arbeitgeberverband Luftverkehr e.V. – male employees AGVL) officially took up its work on January 1, 2010, assuming the Group-wide tasks concerning collective agreements. Since the beginning Lufthansa Group: Jobs around the world 2010 of 2010, the AGVL has replaced the previous Frankfurt/Main 34,987 employer organization Arbeitsrechtliche VereiniHamburg 9,940 gung Hamburg as a new collective bargaining Munich 9,570 partner for the unions at the Lufthansa Group. Cologne 2,572 Berlin 1,473 Rest of Germany 6,617 Following a constructive arbitration dialogue, Total in Germany 65,159 Lufthansa and VC signed a new collective agreeRest of Europe 27,234 ment for the cockpit personnel of Lufthansa Africa/Middle East 2,044 Passenger Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo and North/Central America 12,363 South America 2,909 Germanwings in June 2010. In the framework Asia/Pacific 7,310 of the overall compromise, VC and Lufthansa Group total 117,019 as well as Germanwings agreed to necessary reforms, such as the calculation of work times and the operation of small aircraft. The collective pay agreement and the collective agreement on As per 31.12.2010 working conditions were prolonged unchanged until March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, 1 without apprentices 2 consists of cockpit and cabin respectively. Concerning the interpretation and application of the Group collective agreement, which defines conditions of employment and career options, the result of the agreement negotiations includes sound solutions that take into account the interests of both sides. 50 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a In July 2010, a separate collective pay settlement was reached between the AGVL and union ver.di for the employees working on the ground at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. The overall package also includes the prolongation of the validity of the collective pay agreements without adaptation of salaries until December 31, 2011. Furthermore, unions and management also took the increased burdens on employees from shift work into account by means of a new collective agreement of age-related part-time work. In January 2011, Lufthansa and UFO agreed in an arbitration procedure to a new pay settlement for the approximately 16,000 flight attendants. The agreement provides for the prolongation of the collective pay agreement without adaptation of salaries until December 31, 2011. As a countermove, a collective agreement on working conditions was accepted, which currently can be terminated for the first time on February 28, 2014. It defines a package of measures aimed at further Human rights according to the UN Charter of 1948 improving working conditions. For example, the With its memberships in the UN Global Compact (since 2002), in the Inter­ number of possible changes in duty rosters is national Chamber of Commerce (since 1955), in Transparency International reduced to give cabin employees more certainty (since 1999), in Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik (since 1998) and in in planning their schedules and thus improving institutions that work for individual aspects of human rights, Lufthansa explic­ their work-life balance. Another example is the itly affirms adherence to respective norms and thus also to human rights. agreed extension of resting periods during layLufthansa’s home country, Germany, signed the adherence to the ILO norms overs on long-haul rotations entailing particular in 1951, thereby making these regulations – which are self-evident for our strain. Group – binding for Lufthansa as well. Active pay and social policies also abroad In countries where the acceptance of human rights does not appear self-eviInternationalization and globalization offer dent, Lufthansa tries to set accents that contribute to a positive development comprehensive opportunities for the business in the respective countries by exercising exemplary conduct vis-à-vis its and personnel processes across the Group. own employees. While the realization of the human rights formulated in the As a company with international operations, UN Charter is a task of national and thus country-specific norms, Lufthansa Lufthansa’s pay and social policies are guided contributes to the following rights by treating its employees in an exemplary by the respective general conditions in individual fashion: countries. The focus is on the long-term definition of the conditions of employment, which depend • the rights to freedom of association and to collective bargaining on employee needs, operational requirements • the right to social security and the local labor market. These conditions • the rights to work, to free choice of occupation, to just and favorable include rules on pay regulations, working condiworking conditions, tions, and care systems. As a member of the • to equal pay for equal work, to legal justice, and to form trade unions UN Global Compact (see on page 20), Lufthansa • the right to rest and leisure, including periodic holidays with pay documents its support of the freedom of asso• the right to a standard of living that helps maintain health ciation and the right to collective bargaining for • the right to education and to free choice of type of education all employees worldwide. Employees are free to organize themselves according to legal condiWorking, holiday and remuneration conditions are defined for the most part tions and thus participate in shaping their work­ collectively and always transparently by adhering to all national and legal ing conditions in any country where Lufthansa requirements. Corporate leadership and employee orientation are reflected companies are active. in the company’s excellent worldwide reputation as an employer. Thus, the Group helps its employees to lead a life in the sense of the norms defined by the UN Charter concerning employment relationships. a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 51 Diversity Appreciation creates value Today, companies striving for innovation, wanting to open up new customer groups and markets, and coping with the challenges from demographic change and lack of qualified personnel, need one thing above all: diversity. This means the diversity of competencies, ways Striking a balance between employee of thinking and working, cultures and lifestyles and company interests that are embodied by the people within an orgaThe Group-wide diversity strategy follows the princinization. Pursuing the goal to better understand ple “appreciation creates value” and aims at estab­ diversity and take advantage of its potential for lishing a lasting equilibrium between the company’s the benefit of employees and the company, economic interests and the employees’ legitimate Lufthansa set up its own organizational unit social interests. “In essence this means valuing the “Change Management and Diversity” in 2001. individual differences in employees as resources This department is part of the area Group per­ that increase not only the individual’s creativity, son­nel policy, whose head is a member of the motivation and willingness to perform, but that Corporate Responsibility Council and who also also benefit the company’s strengths of innovation pursues diversity-related topics in this committee. and competitiveness,” emphasizes Monika Rühl, Director Change Management and Diversity at Lufthansa. The Group has created the conditions for this approach by offering, among other options, numerous working time formats that make it easier At a glance: for mothers and fathers to make career and family Of 117,019 employees, of which ... compatible, or that make it easier for employees to ... 44.2 % are women care for family members in need. Further building ... 37.8 % are women with staff responsibility blocks are comprehensive offers for training and ... 13.3 % are women in management positions continuing education, attractive programs in health ... 5 % are pilots, care and health maintenance as well as appropriate participation in the company’s economic success. ... 55.7 % work in Germany. The areas of emphasis of diversity management Worldwide, 149 nationalities are represented in can vary from one business area to another and the Lufthansa Group. The average age is 40.7 at individual Group companies. While Lufthansa years. Passenger Airlines focuses on the subject of internationality and intercultural competencies, Lufthansa As per 31.12.2010 Technik pays attention to the coexistence of different generations and women in technical jobs. Group-wide diversity activities are communicated by internal and external media, including the em­­ ployee newspaper “Lufthanseat,” the sustainability report Balance, press releases and internal seminars and series in continuing education, such as the program “Further with Education.” Furthermore, every year managers give numerous presentations at congresses and conferences that address topics of diversity. International workforce: The Lufthansa Group employs people from 149 nations. 52 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Focus topic: Women in management positions The share of women in management positions declined in the reporting year compared with the preceding year from 14.7 to 13.3 percent, a development that is a statistical effect resulting from taking into account consolidated companies including the Group partners. In absolute terms, the number of women in management positions increased from 123 to 140. The share of women with staff responsibility stood at 37.8 percent in the reporting year (2009: 41.5 percent). Here again, consolidation effects are the cause. In 2011, promoting women at all levels and especially at the management level is among the top Moving away from stereotypes: Lufthansa Technik aims to persuade young women to take up issues for the Executive Board. Lufthansa’s comapprenticeships in technical professions by running original advertisements. panywide Talent Management has been set up and expanded, aiming at efficient and comprehensive structures. In 2010, the lineup of managFighting against stereotypes ers was evaluated in detail as market and general It is a persistent stereotype that girls want to be conditions had changed. Strengths and weakflight attendants and boys want to be mechanics, nesses were assessed and measures identified which is due primarily to a lack of information. It is with a view to considering the further developthe goal of a wide-ranging campaign – launched ment of Lufthansa’s Talent Management in its by Lufthansa Technik in December 2010 – to entirety. These measures are being implemented dismantle such reservations and interest more in 2011. Special attention is given to the developyoung women in a technical profession. “We ment and promotion of women in management want to address girls specifically so that we can positions. take advantage of applicants’ full potential in the future,” says Martin Brandes, Head of Vocational Job placement following the principle Training at Lufthansa Technical Training (LTT), a of best aptitude subsidiary of Lufthansa Technik. As the demand While Lufthansa strives to increase the share of for qualified employees is increasing, no company women among managers, the Group has decided can afford long-term to ignore the performance against a quota solution for job placements. Potenpotential of female employees. For this reason, tial applicants will continue to be selected primarily Lufthansa has participated for many years in the following the principle of best aptitude. NevertheGermany-wide Girls’ Day, which gives female less, to be able to identify female candidates at an pupils from the fifth grade hands-on insights into early stage and give them support, Lufthansa also technical, skilled trades, engineering and scienticounts on regular analyses of the women’s share fic professions. The profession of pilot is also not among university graduates, direct hires, employees yet sufficiently anchored in the scenarios of proshowing potential and holding responsible positions fessional choice among girls and young women. as well as supervisors and pilots. The measures Therefore, Girls’ Day also offers opportunities to already implemented and the additional measures take a glance behind the scenes and discover partially started are designed to create a fundamenthat career and family can coexist in this field, too. tal change of awareness among men and women at all levels of hierarchy. A further goal is to further optimize the compatibility of career and family, and the professional development of women. a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 53 Share of women with staff responsibility Average age at the Lufthansa Group2 at the Lufthansa Group1 in years in percent 39 40 38 35 37 30 36 25 36.4 37.0 37.7 38.3 38.8 38.9 39.0 39.1 39.0 39.4 29.2 30.8 28.0 32.0 32.5 34.7 35.8 38.0 41.5 37.8 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 41 40 Share of women in management positions at the Lufthansa Group1 39 in percent 39.8 39.9 40.2 40.6 41.1 41.3 41.4 41.5 41.5 41.8 15 40 10 12.7 13.5 12.3 13.3 12.7 12.9 15.0 14.6 14.7 13.3 39 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 38 38.3 38.7 39.1 39.6 40.1 40.2 40.3 40.4 40.3 40.7 Part-time employment at the Lufthansa Group in percent 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 40 female male all 35 employees employees employees 30 25 Age structure at the Lufthansa Group2 2010, in percent 25.2 29.7 35.5 40.3 41.1 42.6 43.8 42.7 42.7 43.5 60 and older 2.9 55 – 59 6.7 15 50 – 54 10.4 10 45 – 49 17.3 40 – 44 18.3 5 35 – 39 14.1 8.4 9.6 15.1 13.9 13.0 13.7 14.3 14.0 14.0 13.5 30 – 34 14.3 25 – 29 10.4 20 – 24 4.8 25 18 – 19 0.6 20 younger than 18 0.2 15 15.6 18.0 23.5 24.6 24.6 25.7 26.8 26.5 26.9 26.8 1 Deutsche Lufthansa AG, In-Flight Management Solutions GmbH, Jettainer GmbH, 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 LSG Lufthansa Service Europa/Afrika GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, LSG Sky Chefs Catering Logistics GmbH, LSG Sky Chefs Deutschland GmbH, LSG female male all employees employees employees Food & Nonfood Handel GmbH, Lufthansa Cargo AG, Lufthansa Cargo Charter Agency GmbH, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH, Lufthansa Process Management GmbH, Lufthansa Systems Aeronautics GmbH, Lufthansa Systems Airline Services Part-time work by Group companies GmbH, Lufthansa Systems AG, Lufthansa Systems Americas Inc., Lufthansa Systems 2010, in percent Berlin GmbH, Lufthansa Business Solutions GmbH, Lufthansa Systems Infratec GmbH, Group 26.8 Lufthansa Systems Passenger Services GmbH, Lufthansa Technik AG, Lufthansa 26.9 Technik Logistik GmbH, Lufthansa Technik Maintenance International GmbH, Lufthansa Deutsche ­Lufthansa­ AG 44.1 45.7 Training & Conference Center GmbH, Lufthansa World Shop GmbH, Air Dolomiti S.p.A. Group, abroad 16.1 Linee Aeree Regionali Europee, Austrian Airlines AG, British Midland Airways Ltd., 15.5 Eurowings Luftverkehrs AG, Germanwings GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service CateringL­ ufthansa­ Technik 10.9 u. Dienstleistungsgesellschaft mbH, LSG Sky Chefs Lounge GmbH, Lufthansa CityLine 12.1 GmbH, Lufthansa Technik Philippines Inc., Lufthansa Systems AS GmbH, Lufthansa ­Lufthansa­ Cargo 18.8 Italia S.p.A., Lufthansa Technik AERO Alzey GmbH, Swiss International Air Lines AG 18.8 2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Technik Systems LSY Group 20.5 20.5 Philippines, Shannon Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd., Lufthansa Technik LSG Group 15.1 Airmotive Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Budapest Ltd., Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd. US, 15.3 Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd. GB, BizJet Intern. Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance 2010 Materials LLC, Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp., Lufthansa Malta 2009 Holding Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Aircraft-Leasing Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Finance p.l.c. 54 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Learning from role models: Cross-mentoring for female managers In 1998, Lufthansa initiated an intracompany cross-mentoring program, aimed at accompanying and supporting female managers in their professional progress. In this context, a female Lufthansa employee with staff responsibility and a male or female mentor at a higher hierarchy level from a large corporation, such as Bosch, Deutsche Bank or Merck, form a tandem for a limited period of time, usually one year. In turn, Lufthansa manager with mentoring experience advise junior managers from other companies participating in this program. The pivotal element of mentoring is regular discussions between mentor and mentee Intercultural competence is especially important for a global service company. about the next professional steps, the implementaFor this reason, Lufthansa regularly informs its employees about different areas of culture tion of concrete goals and networking between in its international route network. the companies. At the start, midpoint and end of a mentoring project, participants have opportuselves with the worldwide meanings of gestures, nities during accompanying events to compare uncover possible unconscious prejudices in an their experiences with the program and to give association test or participate in a quiz on critical feedback to the project team. In 2010, a total of intercultural situations. In addition, all employees 112 mentors and mentees took part in the crosshave the option to inform themselves about differ­ mentoring program. ent areas of culture by means of an online learn­ ing program. Numerous seminars and language Fit for things foreign: “KultuЯRaum” expands courses complement the offers in the area of intercultural competence intercultural competence. Since May 2010, pursers and flight attendants have had the option to refresh or expand their knowledge of cultures that they visit in the context of their work. Lufthansa set up the so-called “Kulturraum” (literally: area of culture) at Frankfurt Airport for this purpose. There, experts in intercultural competence, regional flight attendants and colleagues from the distribution function are avail­ able under the mottos “Go Japan,” “Go China,” “Go Korea” and “Go India” to give detailed information about the needs and expectations of cus­ tomers from the respective countries. Those inter­ ested also have the option to reacquaint them“My year as a mentee was instructive and interesting. My mentor took excellent account of my situation and we gave each other the opportunity to expand our respective visions. Not only was I able to gain some insights into the world of banking, but in conversations with employees of the other company I could also exchange experiences, opinions and approaches, compare corporate cultures and expand my professional network.” Sandra Dahl Legal Consultant Labour Relations Lufthansa Group and participant of the Cross-Mentoring Program a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 55 the interests of about 40 million people over 50 years of age in the United States, praised in partic­ ular the company’s efficient health-care programs, its target-oriented personnel development and the long-term support of diversity among employees. The AARP also gave a positive assessment of the continuing education program oriented by the principle of lifelong learning and flexible worktime options. In 2010, the average age of Lufthansa Group employees was 40.7 years. Therefore, one accent of demography management was placed on maintaining long-term employability. In particular, The President of the AARP, W. Lee Hammond, presents Dr. Martin Schmitt with the Lufthansa promotes lifelong learning by employ­ “International Innovative Employer Award 2010.” ees of all ages and makes the necessary infrastructure available. The company also offers a broad range of options that allow its employees Focus topic: Management age-related qualifications and the further devel­ of demographic change opment of their competencies. Furthermore, Demographic change is not only the cause for employees and the company benefit equally from rising average personnel ages, but it also makes health care and options to secure work perforthe search for qualified and junior employees more mance (also see chapter “Employee safety and difficult. To limit the effects of this development and health protection” from page 58). secure future personnel needs, Lufthansa again made its comprehensive demography manageA disability does not have to be a hindrance ment one of its areas of emphasis in 2010. It is In 2010, 3.5 percent of Lufthansa employees in based on 12 action areas, such as employability, Germany had some type of disability. For the comknowledge and experience management, and pany it is an important goal of personnel policy to cooperation between generations. integrate people with disabilities in a profession­al context. Consistently with the Group’s diversity In November 2010, the American Association of concept, the emphasis is not on a person’s physiRetired Persons (AARP) presented the “International cal or mental deficits, but on the optimum support Innovative Employer Award 2010” to Lufthansa for for existing strengths and potentials. One important its innovative way of handling the effects of democondition for the success of this approach is indigraphic change. The organization, which represents vidually adapted workstations that offer optimum conditions of realizing potentials and that allow work results that fully match those of colleagues Disabled people at the Lufthansa Group in Germany1 2010, in percent without disability. LSG (subgroup) 10.5 L­ ufthansa­ Cargo AG 7.1 Information campaign Health Management ­Lufthansa­Technik Logistik GmbH 7.0 and Severe Disability ­Lufthansa­Process Management GmbH 4.9 In September 2010, Lufthansa launched the inforL­ ufthansa­ Technik AG 4.2 L­ ufthansa­ Systems (subgroup) 3.8 mation campaign Health Management and Severe ­Lufthansa­Flight Training GmbH 3.4 Disability, which aims to raise awareness of the ­Lufthansa Technik Maintenance Intern. GmbH 3.0 numerous facets of this topic among employees. ­Lufthansa­AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH 2.7 The focus was on events in Frankfurt, Berlin, Deutsche ­Lufthansa­ AG 2.1 Eurowings AG 1.8 Düsseldorf, Munich and Hamburg featuring panel ­Lufthansa World Shop GmbH 1.4 discussions concerning the internal ramifications L­ ufthansa­ CityLine GmbH 1.2 of severely disabled status for people affected and Lufthansa Technik AERO Alzey GmbH 1.0 their supervisors. Another area of emphasis was a Germanwings GmbH 0.6 Lufthansa Training & Conference Center GmbH 0.6 “marketplace” for exchanging information. 1 Share of people with significant disabilities at the consolidated companies in Germany: estimated values, based on analyses as per 31.12.2010. Final figures will be determined by Landschaftsverband Rheinland in fall 2011. 56 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Corporate training and continuing education Qualifications generate quality Lufthansa has offered a wide spectrum of options in training and continuing education for many years. In 2010, the aviation company employed 1,128 apprentices in 24 trainee professions in Germany. This spectrum includes not only traditional options such as Specialist for Air Transport Service or Chef, but also newly emerged professions such as Specialist for Forwarding and Logistics Services. Furthermore, dual courses of study – the combinaCooperation with universities tion of training within the company and univer­sity Lufthansa also places great value on close costudies – are becoming increasingly important. operation with universities and universities of At Lufthansa, 353 young people took part in 18 applied sciences. The company is present at educourses of study during the reporting year. Addicational fairs in the context of university marketing, tionally, the Group qualified 3,115 new employ­ participates in workshops, provides speakers and ees for the cabin, while 240 new flight-training organizes visits. For example, in the context of the students started their pilot’s training. Lufthansa is “Experience Lufthansa” day, every year selected planning to hire another 4,000 people in 2011. students take advantage of the opportunity to get to know the aviation group better. Furthermore, Lufthansa School of Business in 2010 Lufthansa and the Aviation Management The Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB), which Institute of the EBS Business School organized was founded in 1998, is Germany’s first corpo-­­­­­­­­­­ the international student competition “Lufthansa rate university. Under the motto “There’s no better Case Challenge” for the first time. It gave student way to learn” it provides the needs-oriented teams the task to work with issues from the interdisciplinary continuing education of manag­ Lufthansa Group. “Everyone involved benefits. The ers and employees from the entire Lufthansa students gain insights into the work practice, while Group. The LHSB offers long-term qualifications Lufthansa gains impulses from the international programs across the boundaries of individual academic community and hones its profile as Group companies as well as dialogue and netan innovative company,” explains Christoph Fay, work platforms. These activities are supported by Head of HR Marketing and Talent Sourcing the Lufthansa Training and Conference Center at Lufthansa. About 130 international teams from (LTCC) in Seeheim and closely coordinated with widely different disciplines submitted their futurethe education activities of the Group airlines. oriented concepts on the subject of social media. All measures are based on the competencies The six best teams were invited to pres­ent their models “Aviation Leadership Compass” and ideas at the final before a jury at the LTCC in “Aviation Competence Compass” which are used Seeheim. In 2011, the second Lufthansa Case Group-wide. The compasses make it possible to Challenge will be dedicated to the subject of develop the abilities of employees and managers sustainability. in line with work-related needs and to fill jobs across the boundaries of business segments and Group airlines. It’s a successful approach: In the reporting year, employees from within the company filled 95 percent of all available management positions. Among the LHSB’s areas of emphasis in 2010 were the optimization “The students gain insights into of interdisciplinary trainings within the Group the work practice, while Lufthansa and the continued creation of increasingly digigains impulses from the international tal learn­ing worlds in the form of Web-based academic community and hones its trainings. The Group’s total budget for internal profile as an innovative company.” training and education was 102 million euros in Christoph Fay 2010. Head of HR Marketing and Talent Sourcing at Lufthansa a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 57 Lufthansa – An attractive employer and very much in demand Lufthansa has been among Germany’s favorite employers for many years. Regular top positions in the most important employer rankings prove that the investments in the development and continuing education of the Group’s employees and managers are paying off. This is also reflected by the number of applications received: A total of 115,000 candidates submitted their applications for 2,000 job vacancies posted in 2010. There is also great interest in the Group’s job and career portal, www.Be-Lufthansa.com. In the reporting year alone, this Web site attracted more than 138,000 visitors per month. Additionally, Be-Lufthansa has had its own Facebook presence since April 2010, which has evolved into one of the most popular career portals of German companies in this social network, counting more than 12,000 fans. Employee safety and health protection Healthy employees – Lufthansa counts on prevention, not treatment For companies the topic of health has ethical as well as economic dimensions. Lufthansa is very much aware of the responsibility for its employees and therefore runs comprehensive measures to maintain employee health and safety protection. The goal is to promote the individual employee’s In focus: ability to work and consistently guard against Preventive health care and health support health risks. Just as different as the people who fly with Lufthansa every day are the variety of strains Medical Service from tasks performed by employees working on The Medical Service, headed by Professor Uwe board and on the ground. This variability places Stüben and offered by the Group in Germany, great demands on Lufthansa’s health manageis an important element in Lufthansa’s health ment. The Group supports its employees with concept. At the locations of Frankfurt, Hamburg a broad range of preventive health care and and Munich it provides care for employees in health support services. They include back-trainthe areas of occupational, aviation and tropical ing courses, nonsmoking programs, advice on medical care. It is also responsible for job safety stress and preventing addictions, counseling on in cooperation with Group occupational safety age-appropriate working practices, screening to and the company’s social counseling service. prevent chronic illness, and inoculations, as well The health managers of the Group companies as tailor-made services such as the voluntary maintain ongoing contacts to exchange know“Health Training” introduced in 2009. The Group ledge about general and specific health issues. closely cooperates in many areas with health 58 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a insurance companies. Participation in these on this path from March 23-26, 2010 in the health management services is voluntary. To context of the action days “food-life balance” raise employees’ awareness of the importance in Hamburg. This campaign took place in coop­ of health management and to provide informaeration with Techniker Krankenkasse (technition about related options, articles are regularly cians’ health insurance), the Medical Service, published on the intranet and in the employee the Lufthansa Sports Association and Lufthansa newspaper “Lufthanseat.” subsidiary LZ-Catering, which operates the cafeteria of the technical services provider. A related In addition, the Working Group Health of Cabin goal was to strengthen the employees’ awarePersonnel meets four times a year. It includes ness of their own responsibility. representatives of the Medical Service, occupational service, social counseling service, person­ Foods low in fat and sugar, whole-grain pronel management cabin and health manageducts as well as a lot of fresh fruit and vegetament cabin. The goal is to enable broad-based bles have always played a central role in LZexchanges concerning all health-related topics Catering’s nutritional concept “Food Balance.” and ensure a flow of information across departProducts that promote healthy nutrition are ment boundaries. therefore marked with the Food Balance logo at German cafeteria locations. Beyond that, The question how employees working in the the cafeterias in Cologne and Norderstedt are cabin can protect themselves effectively against already two of the employee cafeterias run by colds and flu was the topic of the campaign LZ-Catering that were awarded the JOB&FIT week “Healthy through the winter – This way certificate of the Deutsche Gesellschaft für colds and flu have no chance,” which the health Ernährung e. V. (German Association of Nutrimanagement cabin organized from November tion, DGE). The award is given to company 1-5, 2010 in Frankfurt. The focus of attention was restaurants that feature nutritionally balanced on nutritional advice on how to strengthen the offers, prepare dishes with care and inform body’s resistance. about healthy nutrition. JOB&FIT is part of IN FORM, the national action plan of Germany’s Health week at the Lufthansa Aviation Center Federal Government. Valuable impulses for a healthy lifestyle were again provided in 2010 by regular health days and weeks, which the Group and its subsidiary companies offered with varying areas of emphasis. For example, from June 14-18, 2010, the corporate area offered the second edition of a health week at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt. Every day was dedicated to a different topic, with the spectrum ranging from balanced nutrition and stress management to diabetes counseling and skin cancer screening, and from ergonomic advice to exercise. “The mix of competent advice, interactive offers and qualified presentations was well received by the employ­ ees. This was clearly displayed by the fact that more employees participated than in the previous year,” explained Monika Rühl, Director Change Management and Diversity at Lufthansa and the event’s organizer. Action days “food-life balance” at Lufthansa Technik Nutrition and exercise have an enormous influence on health. Nevertheless, it is difficult for many people to eat more healthily, to exercise more and to reduce their weight. The employees Employees take a lively interest in the offers available during the Health Week 2010 of Lufthansa Technik received practical support at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt. a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 59 A strong team: In 2010, 1,313 runners from the ranks of Lufthansa employees participated in the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in Frankfurt – more than ever before. Social counseling knowledge about the most frequent psychic illEmployees’ professional and private lives are nesses and preventive options, give support for highly varied. Often, personal problems are a taking action and show which (internal) expert burden for those affected and can at times have company representatives with an obligation to negative effects on a person’s qualitative and provide caring support can be contacted in such quantitative work performance, or that of work situations. Its implementation was accompanied groups and the work atmosphere. Employees of by a number of communications events. the Lufthansa Group, who are confronted with professional or private challenges, have had Sports promote living in balance the option to ask for help at the social counsel­ Studies prove that company sports improve the ing service since the mid-1980s. This service working atmosphere, strengthen the team spirit, maintains a presence in Frankfurt, Hamburg, balance the stress of everyday work and thus Cologne and Munich. promote individuals’ ability to perform as well as their employability. Plenty of opportunities for The professional psychosocial counseling service sports are provided by the currently 13 Lufthansa has its roots in personnel work from which it has sports associations at 11 locations and the camexpanded. Apart from support services aimed at paign “Lufthanseaten laufen” (Lufthansa employ­ reestablishing the capacity to work, today’s focus ees run), which was launched in 2009. The is on preventive measures and promoting the latter has evolved into a success story: In 2010, social competencies of employees at all levels of more Lufthansa employees than ever participated hierarchy. The preventive measures can lead to in Europe’s largest inter-company run, the structures that reduce the probability of illness. JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in Frankfurt. Together with the intervention services of social With 1,313 runners Lufthansa again provided the counseling they generate an important contribusecond strongest team. Moreover, about 350 tion to success for the respective company – also Lufthansa employees, that is almost 10 percent of with regard to the economic dimension. Furtherthe total field, were at the starting line on March more, social counseling experts also offer training 19, 2010 for the Frankfurt Half Marathon, which for managers on topics such as stress, conflict Lufthansa has supported since 2009 as main and addiction management. sponsor and name-giver. In 2010, the Group’s social counseling service Corporate reinsertion management developed guidelines in cooperation with the Nobody is safe from being unable to work over specialists of the Medical Service, entitled a longer period of time due to illness. Employ­ “Psychic health – When behavior becomes ees who are ill for more than six weeks during unusual!” Its goal is to improve the perception of a 12-month period benefit from corporate reinpsychic illnesses and provide an adequate framesertion management. It facilitates their return to work for handling them (especially in the case of their previous workplace or the search for a new, managers with responsibility for their staff) as well appropriate job. as related conspicuous behaviors at the place of work in the Group. The guidelines impart basic 60 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Employee safety: Organization and tasks In order to offer employees safe workplaces and maintain and increase their employability, Lufthansa continually develops measures concerning employee safety. The coordination of all activities related to safe job environments is the responsibility of Group employee safety, which cooperates closely with physicians, social counselors and those responsible at the Group companies. Emphasis is placed on identifying and assessing hazards as well as measures designed to continuously reduce the number of accidents. A further task is to identify risks of occupational diseases and other work-related health hazards Bundled under one roof: The new Medical Operation Center coordinates at an early stage and ward them off. the transportation of sick passengers at Lufthansa. At the location in Hamburg, the maintenance intensive care unit. It was used about 100 times workshops are the focus of employee safety, in 2010 alone. “With this capability we react to while in Frankfurt it is the areas of flight operaincreasing demand for medical clarification,” tions and administration. The experts for employ­ says Dr. Jürgen Graf, head of the department ­ee safety – most of them are safety engineers Passenger Medical Care at Lufthansa. “It some– also receive support from their colleagues in times happens on long-haul flights especially that Berlin and Munich to guarantee optimum care for passengers get into emergency situations.” all Lufthansa employees. All job-safety measures are adapted individually to local requirements. Indispensable pillars in Lufthansa’s concept are In addition, corporate employee safety offers crew training, the medical onboard equipment, counseling on health promotion, safety trainings, telemedicine and the Physician Onboard Proinstruction for employees in the noise laboratory gram, which was set up in 2006. It allows physias well as support for expanding and updating cians to register so that the crew knows in which health-related information on the intranet. Curseat a medical doctor is seated on a given flight. rently, more than 700 Lufthansa employees act Of course, the MOC’s physicians also organize as volunteer safety commissioners. Whenever the transport home of crew members who fell ill employees observe technical or organizational or were injured. Employees working abroad also shortcomings, the safety commissioners act as have access to a worldwide network of contract the first place of contact. If needed, they contact a physicians, which was founded more than 40 supervisor or a specialist for employee safety. years ago. Its members meet every four years to exchange scientific information. Passenger Medical Care department looks after customers Lufthansa operates a safety concept for passengers that is unique in the industry. Its basis is the new department Passenger Medical Care, which the company set up in summer 2009 in Frankfurt. At the center of this service, which is under the aegis of the Medical Service, is the Medical Oper­ ation Center (MOC), which assumes the medical responsibility for the transport of passengers suffering from illness. In 2010, the MOC coordinated up to 700 assignments per month. More than 20 medical specialists look after the travel conditions of patients in sitting and lying positions as well as oxygen supply for passengers with cardiovascular diseases. Furthermore, Lufthansa provides a Patient Transport Compartment if needed; an enclosed cabin that serves as a state-of-the-art a Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 61 Facts 2010 and outlook 2011 (selection) Area Facts 2010 Outlook 2011 Training / qualifications • At the end of 2010, 1,603 young people were employed in training programs. • Intensive, need-oriented training will continue to play a central role in for first-time employees 778 new apprentices and students in dual courses of study were hired in the securing qualified junior employees for Lufthansa. same year. • Changes in the education systems – such as setting up bachelor • Furthermore, Lufthansa hired and trained about 3,580 service professionals in degree courses as a standard at many universities – will increasingly 2010, who work primarily as flight attendants and in passenger service. be taken into account. • The number of new hires could be increased significantly especially in the • Lufthansa’s training and education portfolio is thus undergoing administrative and general technical segments. permanent change. • In 2010, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH in Bremen hired 240 new future pilots. Thus the total number of trainee pilots is at a similarly high level as in the year before. Continuing education • The efforts for the continuing education of the Service Professionals Cabin • Lufthansa will continue to support the qualifications being obtained increased significantly in 2010. by employees alongside work in the framework of the Bologna • The use of eLearning, blended learning and mobile learning was further Process, which places the emphasis on lifelong learning. developed by Lufthansa in a strategic and Group-wide manner. Employability • To ensure the company’s sustainable and long-term success, employees • In 2011, the Lufthansa School of Business will place the focus of need to be supported and trained according to the requirements of the its qualifications programs on the modern work world. This includes job market. This also includes the promotion of internationalizing the subjects such as “The use of new media,” “Business etiquette employees as well as the permanent further development of soft and hard and modern manners,” “Effective learning at a later age,” but also skills. Diverse tools and learning programs were introduced in this respect, “Success factor resiliency: The strength of people who bounce which significantly increase employees’ foreign-language and intercultural back.” competencies. • This variety of topics supports the employee’s employability and • A separate section for expanding intercultural competencies has been proves that Lufthansa meets the obligations of its role as a socially created on the Lufthansa intranet, where employees can access informaresponsible employer. tion about country-specific conditions at the most important destinations served by Lufthansa. • Translation assistants and electronic dictionaries complement the total package. Additionally, the Lufthansa School of Business offers intercultural and foreign-language trainings for all employees. Employee health and • In 2010, the Medical Service regularly performed a large number of various ser• To continue and expand health management safety protection vices for all Group employees: medicals for flying personnel, examinations in the context of hirings, screenings for ground personnel, inspections and meetings covering employee safety, inoculations, outpatient services, and others. • Extraordinary activities in 2010: measurement of pollutants and risk assessment in Moscow during forest fires in the region, to exclude possible risks for crews and passengers. • Corporate health protection is the responsibility of the Group companies. They organize their own highly varied activities for their employees, such as information stands, campaigns and trainings that take the employees’ special needs into account. • In 2010, employee safety was further developed, in part by offering WBTs (Web-based trainings) in the area of employee safety and health protection. Demographic change • Health measures intensified decentrally • Include widened scope of consolidation • More participants’ days in measures leading to professional qualifications • Define and implement measures concerning demographic change • Decentralized implementation of measures to meet challenges in the management landscape Diversity • Share of women in management positions increased in absolute terms, but • Implement measures to increase the share of women in managedeclined in relative terms (portfolio effects) ment positions • Detailed analysis of causes (qualitatively and quantitatively) of women in • E xpand work-life infrastructure management positions carried out • Promote increased degree of internationalization • Catalogue of measures concerning women in management positions developed • Cooperation among Group airlines intensified Dialogue with employees • Town-hall meetings and retreats • Continuation of employee dialogues • Cockpit dialogue • Introduction of a new dialogue event “Airline Dialogue” for • Service dialogue (exchange events for onboard and ground employees) employees and managers from all functional groups • Events for employees paid independently from collective agreements • eTeaming as internal online platform expanded for closer exchanges and discussions • Communications room for station employees (m.i.n.d. lounge) as a place for knowledge/information and dialogue Dialogue with social • Distribution conflicts induced by competition solved in a successful and • Continuation of the dialogue with social partners partners balanced manner by means of constructive arbitration dialogues • Disarm distribution conflicts induced by competition by means of • Accompanied and guaranteed smooth process of elections of employee intensive dialogue and constructive suggestions of solutions representatives for ground personnel. Promotion of employability and • Ensure smooth elections of employee representatives in Germany. qualification of the new employee representatives Promote employability and qualification of the new employee • Start of the dialogue on the need for operational changes representatives • Shape necessities of change in operational areas jointly and in a socially balanced manner 62 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Climate and Environmental Responsibility A firm eye on the environment By implementing a wide range of measures, Lufthansa and its Group companies continuously work on increasing their ecological efficiency in flight operations over the long-term. Apart from billion-euro investments in a state-of-the-art low-emissions fleet, this also includes the implementation of the latest technologies in aircraft maintenance. In addition, all processes with an influence on weight are examined with the greatest care. And this commitment pays off: Following its historic best value in 2009, the specific fuel consumption of the Group’s fleet again declined in 2010 by another 2.4 percent to 4.2 liters of kerosene per passenger and 100 kilometers. The focus of the company’s environmental strategy remains on long-term reductions in different areas: pollutant and noise emissions as well as energy consumption. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 63 Kerosene and emissions Specific kerosene consumption has never been so low The specific kerosene consumption of the Lufthansa Group’s fleet fell to an average of 4.2 liters of fuel per 100 passenger kilometers in 2010, the lowest figure in the company’s history. Compared with the previous year, this is a reduction of a further 2.4 percent. Concurrently, the specific CO2 emissions also During its first year of operations, the Airbus declined in 2010 by 2.4 percent to 10.58 kilos per A380, the Lufthansa Group’s new flagship, 100 passenger kilometers. consumed 3.41 liters of fuel per 100 passenger kilometers on average. Among the Group companies, Lufthansa Passenger Airlines and Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 2010 SWISS in particular were able to reduce their Average specific fuel consumption Group fleet specific fuel consumption in the course of the in l/100 pkm (center of circle) and shares of different traffic areas reporting year. Reasons for these improve(segments) in total fuel consumption for passenger transportation, ments include the continuous modernization active fleet 2010. Long-haul (58%) of the fleet, weight reductions, technical ad­­ Definitions of traffic areas: 3.57 l/100 pkm vances, higher levels of utilization, flying at Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km variable speeds and optimized flight routings. Short-haul less than 800 km 4.20 Medium-haul (24%) 4.73 l/100 pkm The absolute kerosene consumption of all regular flights operated by the Group, meaning l/100 pkm scheduled and charter flights, increased by 10.1 percent to 8.46 million tonnes in 2010. This significant increase is due, on the one hand, Short-haul (18%) 7.46 l/100 pkm to the fact that for the reporting year Lufthansa fully included the two new acquisitions Austrian Airlines and bmi in the scope of consolidation for the first time. On the other hand, overall Lufthansa Passenger Airlines Austrian Airlines demand for the Group’s transport performance increased accordingly. In the area of passenLong-haul (63%) Long-haul (33%) 3.7 l/100 pkm 2.95 l/100 pkm ger transport, over the past 20 years Lufthansa has been able to decouple these increases Medium-haul (19%) 4.25 Medium-haul (60%) 4.21 7.45 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm 5.15 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm in transport performance from environmental effects in a lasting manner: While the transport Short-haul (18%) Short-haul (7%) 7.45 l/100 pkm 7.33 l/100 pkm performance increased by 302 percent since 1991, fuel consumption and CO2 emissions SWISS bmi rose only by 170 percent (see graph on right). Long-haul (59%) 3.10 l/100 pkm Long-haul (32%) 4.25 l/100 pkm Fuel dumps: Safety comes first To ensure the safety of passengers and crews, Medium-haul (23%) 3.73 Medium-haul (35%) 5.09 4.25 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm 4.71 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm fuel dumps under exceptional circumstances cannot be avoided. Given the high levels of techShort-haul (18%) Short-haul (33%) 7.91 l/100 pkm 6.98 l/100 pkm nical aircraft maintenance, they occur exceeding­ ­ly rarely at the Lufthansa Group. Yet no airline in the world is entirely free of them. When pilots Specific CO2 emissions, passenger transportation are forced to make an unscheduled landing for active fleet in 2010, in kg/100 pkm technical or medical reasons, they first need Group fleet Lufthansa Passenger Airlines SWISS Austrian Airlines bmi to empty the fuel tanks until the aircraft’s maxiLong-haul 8.98 9.32 7.81 7.42 10.72 mum permissible landing weight is reached. Fuel Medium-haul 11.92 11.84 10.71 12.97 11.87 Short-haul 18.81 18.79 19.93 18.48 17.59 dumps affect only long-haul flights, as shortand Total medium-haul aircraft are able to land fully loaded averages 10.58 10.71 9.40 10.60 12.82 and with full tanks. 64 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a The Lufthansa Airbus A380 fully meets all expectations: During the reporting year, its specific fuel consumption was 3.41 liters per 100 passenger kilometers. Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 300% + 302% 280 % 260 % 240% Transport performance 220 % 200% 180 % + 170% 160 % Efficiency gain 140 % 120 % 100 % 80% Fuel consumption 60% 40% 20% 0% 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Fuel dumps changes Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 2010 compared to 2009 changes in percent Events, total 22 –5 2010 2009 change Quantity, total 605 tonnes – 15.5 % Group fleet 4.20 4.30 – 2.4 Medical reasons 6 – 11 Lufthansa Passenger Airlines 4.25 4.38 – 3.0 Technical reasons 16 +7 SWISS 3.73 3.88 – 3.9 Other reasons 0 –1 Austrian Airlines 4.21 4.14 +1.5 bmi 5.09 4.70 + 8.4 a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 65 Fuel consumption1 Specific emissions, passenger transportation 2010 (in tonnes) in kilograms, grams/100 passenger kilometers passengers freight total share CO 2, kg/100pkm 11.5 Scheduled flights2, 3 11.0 ­Lufthansa­ 4,535,845 1,731,801 6,267,646 (72.5 %) SWISS 864,878 330,829 1,195,707 (13.8 %) 10.5 Austrian Airlines 591,725 93,062 684,787 (7.9 %) bmi 295,433 15,682 311,115 (3.6 %) 11.73 11.39 10.88 11.00 11.08 11.05 10.88 10.93 10.84 10.58 8,459,255 (97.8 %) Third parties4 139,250 30,336 169,586 (2.0 %) NOX, g/100 pkm 54.0 Other flights 5 14,498 (0.2 %) 53.0 All flights 8,643,339 (100.0 %) 52.0 Emissions3, 6 51.0 2010 (in tonnes) 50.0 passengers ± 2009 freight ± 2009 total ± 2009 49.0 CO2 19,806,828 (+ 9.8 %) 6,839,827 (+ 11.0 %) 26,646,655 (+ 10.1 %) 54.8 53.3 51.0 50.6 50.8 50.5 49.8 50.6 50.0 53.5 NOX 100,152 (+ 20.4 %) 34,592 (+ 17.5 %) 134,744 (+ 19.6 %) CO 16,176 (+ 14.6 %) 3,461 (+ 6.3 %) 19,640 (+13.0 %) CO, g/100pkm 10.0 UHC 1,635 (+ 7.9 %) 473 (+1.5 %) 2,109 (+ 6.4 %) 9.5 Share of third parties4 9.0 2010 8.5 Flights 3.3 % 8.0 Passengers 2.4 % 10.1 9.7 8.8 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.6 8.5 8.5 8.6 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT7 tkm 1.3 % Fuel consumption tonnes 2.0 % UHC, g/100pkm 1.5 Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 2.0 % 1.0 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 Specific fuel consumption, freight transportation8 in liters/tonne kilometer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 0.3 0.2 Specific emissions, freight transportation8 in kilograms, grams/tonne kilometer 0.24 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.29 0.30 0.30 0.29 CO2, kg/tkm 0.8 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.60 0.58 0.58 0.59 0.58 0.58 0.72 0.74 0.77 0.73 NO X, g/tkm 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.6 3.4 3.6 3.7 3.7 CO, g/tkm 0.50 0.25 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 UHC, g/tkm 0.25 0.00 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 66 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Long-term testing of biofuel – Lufthansa secures tomorrow’s mobility by conducting research and development work today Worldwide mobility needs are on the increase, but fossil fuel resources are finite. This conflict demands new strategies for sustainable mobility and new approaches in the area of fuel. Little is known, for example, about the effectiveness and properties of biofuels under the conditions of routine operations. For this reason Lufthansa is carrying out pioneer work and will be the first airline worldwide to use biofuel for six months on regular flights. The primary goal of this long-term test is to gain on the environment, such as a reduction of CO2 experience with a view to large-scale use later on, emissions. “The goal of our work is to devel­ which will also create entirely new challenges for ­op a perspective for the technical feasibility, logistics on the ground. By making this committo demonstrate the economic and ecological ment, Lufthansa gives direction to the research on sense of biofuels and to ensure supply secuusing alternative fuels in aviation. rity for Lufthansa,” says Buse. The other airlines within the Lufthansa Group are closely inteBiofuels play a very important role for the future of grated into this initiative by means of regular aviation. It is a fact that biosynthetic fuels will replace exchanges. their fossil predecessors in air transport over the long-term because the industry – unlike all other The burnFAIR project: modes of transport – is only able to use internal Everyday operations with biofuel combustion engines for the foreseeable future and Lufthansa will be the first airline worldwide to test therefore must find practicable alternatives to fosbiofuel in normal flight operations. In the context of sil fuels. This task is interlinked with the aviation the research project burnFAIR, an Airbus A321 will industry’s commitment to climate protection: Until fly regularly between Hamburg and Frankfurt over 2020, an annual improvement of 1.5 percent in fuel a period of six months, using fuel that contains a efficiency will slow down the industry’s CO2 emis50-percent share of biosynthetic kerosene in one sions. And by 2050 the member airlines of the Interengine. The main goal of this long-term test is to national Air Transport Association (IATA) aim at cutgain experience and generate measurement data ting CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by half when over a longer period of time. At the same time, the compared with the levels of 2005. “We can meet effects of biofuels on the environment and on mainthese enormous challenges only by applying a tenance and engine life expectancy can be stud­ comprehensive package of measures, which in­­ ied. And a positive side-effect is that Lufthansa is cludes the use of biofuels,” says Joachim Buse, expected to avoid about 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emisVice President Aviation Biofuel at Lufthansa. In addisions. “This long-term test is pioneer work because tion to the industry’s goals, the Lufthansa Group has so far airlines have tested biofuels only on indiviset itself the goal of adding a share of synthetically dual test flights,” explains Buse. The total cost of the produced fuel to conventional kerosene in accordance with current availability until 2020. In this context, the company places great value on sustainable production methods. Towards an environmentally friendly future Long-term testing of biofuel with Pure Sky® • Duration: 6 months “Pure Sky®” is the name under which Lufthansa • Type of aircraft: Airbus A321 bundles all of the company’s activities con• Share of biofuel: 50 percent, cerning the future use of alternative fuels. It is on one engine managed by the Aviation Biofuel Department • Total investment: 6.6 million euros that was set up in 2009. Guiding this commit• Each liter of biofuel is produced to ment is part of the Group’s strategy, which is sustainable standards. reported directly to the Executive Board and thus has the highest level of priority. The prereq­ uisite for the use of biofuels is their availability, economic feasibility as well as positive effects a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 67 burnFAIR project will be about 6.6 million euros for many years of experience in the production of bioLufthansa. fuels. The fuel used by Lufthansa is based on pure biomass (Biomass to Liquid, BTL). The German Aerospace Center (DLR) is Lufthansa’s project partner for burnFAIR. Among other tasks, The raw materials for biosynthetic kerosene include DLR scientists are responsible for measuring rapeseed oil, palm oil and animal fats, and longexhaust gases directly at the engine and analyz­ term oil-rich energy plants such as Jatropha, Cameing all insights together with Lufthansa’s experts. lina or algae. For the production of fuel to be used Germany’s Federal Government supports burnon burnFAIR flights, Neste Oil uses Jatropha oil FAIR as well as the higher-ranking project FAIR from Indonesia and rapeseed oil, while animal fats, (Future Aircraft Research) with about 2.5 million the third component, come directly from Finland. euros each through the aviation research program From Lufthansa’s perspective, Jatropha is the best LUFO. Within the framework of burnFAIR, the Techbasis for biofuel. “But there’s not enough of it at the nical Universities in Hamburg-Harburg and Munich, moment,” explains Buse. “For this reason, we will Bauhaus Luftfahrt in Munich, Airbus Operations very likely not be able to buy the quantity of JatroGmbH, EADS in Munich, the engine manufacturer pha oil needed for the 1,400 test flights. We will MTU Aero Engines and Hamburg Airport are studycompensate for the discrepancy with certifiably ing the tolerability of biofuels. This is complement­ed sustainable palm oil in order to be able to carry out these flights in the first place. This is a temporary solution that we consider acceptable, given the excellent potential.” Protecting the rain forest is an important concern for “Biofuel can only make sense for Lufthansa. For this reason, the company is a memLufthansa if the entire test process ber of the Sustainable Alternative Fuel Users Group results in a positive CO2 balance (SAFUG) and thus also a member of the Roundtasheet, meaning a CO2 reduction. ble for Sustainable Biofuels (RSB). This latter places This long-term test is pioneer work strict criteria on the environmental compatibility of because so far airlines have tested generating biomass to prevent adverse effects on biofuels only on individual test flights.” agriculture and nature conservation. Among the Joachim Buse RSB’s members are WWF International, the InternaVice President Aviation Biofuel at Lufthansa tional Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Öko-Institut and the Gold Standard Foundation. “No rain forest is cleared for the biofuel used by Lufthansa. And there is also no competition with by comprehensive research topics concerning the food and animal feed production,” emphasizes analysis and assessment of production paths for Buse. different fuels. Here, the participating experts will select the most promising fuel types. A positive effect on the environment is another condition for the planned long-term test in normal Certifiably sustainable fuel flight operations. “Biofuel can only make sense for According to the current state of research, synLufthansa if the entire test process results in a posithetic fuel from biomass is the best alternative for tive CO2 balance sheet, meaning a CO2 reduction. tomorrow’s environmentally friendly and sustainable This is our own yardstick and it is the yardstick fuel supply. In the course of the long-term test, applied by others,” adds the head of the Aviation Lufthansa will use about 800 tonnes of biofuel that Biofuel Project. comes exclusively from raw materials grown with sustainable methods, whose certification can be Logistics and infrastructure are in place followed back to the respective growing areas. This Besides sourcing a sufficient quantity of biofuel, biofuel is not different from conventional jet A-1 fuel. the logistics needed for the test run proved to be a In purchasing this fuel, Lufthansa pays great attenchallenge during the preparation phase. Thus, for tion to an environmentally friendly production and logistical reasons, the Airbus A321 is only fueled in delivery system: The licensed suppliers must prove Hamburg. Lufthansa leases an aboveground tank the sustainability of their processes and raw materiat Hamburg’s port that is specifically equipped for als. The producer of the biosynthetic kerosene is the storing aviation fuel. At Hamburg Airport, two apron Finnish mineral oil company Neste Oil, which has tanker trucks are used to refuel the aircraft, which 68 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a is first fueled with jet A-1 and then with a blend of jet A-1 and HVO Biokerosene (Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil). To run this test, Lufthansa also has to modify numerous internal processes as its aircraft are usually not deployed exclusively on one route, but on rotations that include a number of destinations. Simultaneously, Lufthansa is completing important preliminary steps to set up a sustainable supply chain. Licensed fuel suppliers have to prove the environmental compatibility of their processes, among other criteria. Four pillars for climate protection The use of biosynthetic kerosene is one element of the proven four pillar strategy of the aviation indusEnergy plants containing oil, such as Jatropha, are raw materials for biosynthetic kerosene. try, designed to reduce the industry’s overall emissions and protect the Earth’s climate. This concept comprises innovations in aircraft and engine technology, which includes alternative fuels. In addition, the concept includes operational measures (such Lufthansa is preparing for emissions trading as optimal flight routes and speeds) and economic Climate protection continues to enjoy a high level of priority in the aviation tools, such as global emissions trading. However, industry. The industry has set itself ambitious goals concerning the worldwide the largest savings potential is provided by an reduc­­tion of CO2 emissions and developed a far-reaching four pillar strategy to improved infrastructure, especially in the guise of achieve these goals. On January 1, 2012, air transport will also be included in the planned implementation of a unified European the EU’s emissions trading. As a result, airlines must present CO2 certificates for airspace (Single European Sky or SES) as Europe’s all flights taking off and landing within the European Union. Compared to the largest climate protection program. Only a combiglobally-oriented four pillar strategy, the EU’s emissions trading is only a regional nation of different measures will allow the aviation regulatory approach with significant competitive disadvantages and cost-intenindustry to reach its ambitious environmental goals. sive effects for European airlines. The use of biofuel in scheduled operations is the consistent continuation of the sustainability strategy At Lufthansa, the preparations for participating in emissions trading are already that Lufthansa has been pursuing successfully for far advanced, despite difficult general conditions, highly complex issues and many years. numerous unanswered questions. For example, a unified EU standard is missing, which increases the bureaucratic efforts for all parties concerned. Accord­ ing to current information, 16 companies within the Lufthansa Group alone will participate in emissions trading, having to report to seven national authorities using different formats and applying different requirements. Lufthansa and the entire aviation industry contend that effective climate protection cannot be achieved by means of isolated regional measures, but only through global solutions. Therefore, a sensibly designed emissions trading system should include all countries and airlines so that competitive neutrality is ensured. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 69 Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group – Saving fuel efficiently and long-term Fuel efficiency is the prime example illustrating that in aviation economic and ecological goals do not have to be contradictory: As an airline reduces its fuel consumption, it saves money and simultaneously lessens the burden on the environment. The thrifty use of fuel was one of the key topics Comprehensive approach of the companywide initiative “Upgrade to Indusof the project Fuel Efficiency try Leadership” (see Balance, Issue 2010, pages Lufthansa Passenger Airlines took the importance 51-52), which was concluded successfully in of this subject into account when it initiated the mid-February 2010. Among the key results is the project Fuel Efficiency in October 2009. Its goal development of a system of indicators, or ratios. is to reduce fuel consumption in flight operaThe goal is to be able to analyze the efficiency tions by means of appropriate measures, so as of implemented conservation activities in a more to cut back one of the highest cost factors over detailed way and uncover further savings potenthe long-term. To this end, more than 100 internal tials. Lufthansa experts have identified more than subprojects have been launched. The measures 20 indicators related to fuel consumption. These implemented over the past years have helped to ratios cover different areas such as flight operaconserve fuel long-term and to limit CO2 emis­ tions, weight or technical aspects. sions correspondingly. All Group airlines pursue fuel conservation Perceptible conservation effects could be achieved measures independently and maintain regular by optimized flight procedures, efficient airspace exchanges on the subject. Different areas within management, more optimized processes on the the individual airlines, such as product manageground, reduced aircraft weight and technical ment or flight operations, cooperate with those improvements, for example. In addition, a punctual responsible for fuel management. But there is departure and an efficiently calculated flight plan also close cooperation between Group compacontribute to a flight’s profitability. There is no nies, for example with regard to testing lightsingle most effective method to save fuel, though. weight containers by Lufthansa Cargo, optimiz­ The optimum approach is the meticulous coordiing flight planning in cooperation with Lufthansa nation of all partners involved in a flight’s operaSystems or implementing technical measures tion – in other words, a comprehensive approach. by Lufthansa Technik. In addition, all employees are called upon to apply their knowledge. Active The following examples illustrate the diversity of communications, internal eLearning games conthese subprojects: cerning fuel efficiency, a number of exchange Weight reductions are a big lever to help conplatforms and Lufthansa’s ideas management serve fuel. New, more lightweight onboard trolleys ensure that the suggestions of all employees are from LSG Sky Chefs help to reduce fuel conheard and that awareness of the issue of fuel sumption significantly. Large quantities of fuel can conservation is raised in daily flight operations. also be conserved as a result of modernizing cabin interiors. This is the case for the European fleet, where new cabin interiors were installed, or the installation of more lightweight seats on the Lightweight Boeing 747-400s. The new lightweight trolley Quantum was developed by LSG Sky Chefs and offers a Among the technical improvements is the modiweight saving of up to 40 percent compared fication of the Trent 700 engines on the Airbus with conventional models. A jury of internation­ A330 fleet (for further examples see the overview ­al aviation experts gave it the “Crystal Cabin “Fuel Efficiency” on pages 72 and 73). Award” in the category “Most Innovative Cabin Product.” Following highly positive test results, the Quantum trolley is to be deployed on Lufthansa’s entire long-haul fleet. 70 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a The seats in the new European cabins impress with the combination of reduced weight and improved seating comfort. The influence of airspace structure An inefficient airspace structure leads to signifi­ cant increases in fuel burn. Close cooperation between politics, air traffic control and airlines is Saving kerosene with Lufthansa Systems needed in this area. To help improve the strucIn its role as one of the leading service providers of the aviation industry, ture of European airspace over the long-term, Lufthansa Systems also develops innovative IT solutions that help airlines Lufthansa supports the European project “Single conserve kerosene. European Sky” with a dedicated department (see “Air traffic management – Towards a unified Load planning European airspace” from page 74). By cooperaNetLine/Load by Lufthansa Systems allows airlines to optimize their load ting with air traffic control, partial improvements planning. The automatic calculation of the center of gravity allows airlines to can be achieved short-term, such as route shortreduce fuel consumption by up to 0.5 percent, which implies a saving of 5 cuts or flying at higher altitudes. A joint project by million liters of kerosene per year for a medium-sized airline. With more than Deutsche Lufthansa AG, DFS Deutsche 3,500 flights handled per day, NetLine/Load is one of the leading weightFlugsicherung and the German Forces means and-balance solutions worldwide. that the so-called Temporary Restricted Areas are opened for civil aviation when not used by Flight-route planning the military, and flying detours can thus be The flight-route planning solution Lido/Flight by Lufthansa Systems allows avoided. Furthermore, Eurocontrol, the air traffic airlines to calculate the optimum route among numerous options for each control authority responsible for upper airspace flight. For example, an aircraft en route from Frankfurt to Los Angeles can over western Europe, granted route shortcuts thus conserve 4 tonnes of kerosene and lessen the environmental burden that entailed significant fuel savings for Lufthansa by 12 tonnes of CO2. Additional savings can be realized because Lido/Flight Passenger Airlines in 2010. does not use standard values for calculating fuel requirements, but the exact consumption values of the individual aircraft. In this way, pilots avoid unnec­ Conserving fuel is a permanent task. Especially essary fuel reserves, the transport of which increases overall consumption. with regard to the planned inclusion of air transport in the EU emissions trade and the volatility Planning and control of oil prices, airlines do not have any other option Information technology can also make a contribution to sustainability through but to focus on fuel efficiency in flight operations. an airline’s planning and control, as high seat-load factors lead to lower fuel This is the only way for the company to remain consumption per passenger kilometer. This is possible thanks to IT solutions viable over the long-term and to be successful in that allow airlines targeted overbookings because they have precise data for competition. making booking prognoses available, for example. The Integrated Commercial Platform (ICP) by Lufthansa Systems interlinks all core processes of network management, from market analysis, longand mid-term flight planning, timetable and codeshare management to yield management and pricing. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 71 Fuel Efficiency – More than 100 measures in five areas The project Fuel Efficiency develops measures designed to reduce 6.20 Specific fuel consumption for the fleet kerosene consumption – and thus also CO2 emissions. of the Lufthansa Group 6 In liters per 100 passenger kilometers The scope ranges from engineering solutions, weight reductions and modifications in ground handling and network configurations, to political structural projects and procedures in flight operations. 5 4.57 Some measures have already been adopted as routine procedure, while others are being evaluated or introduced. Below are selected 4.20 projects from the five areas: 4 1991 2000 2010 1. Political structural projects Temporarily closed airspace This is a joint project between Bundeswehr (German armed forces), DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung (German Air Traffic Control) and Lufthansa. Its goal is to open airspace that is currently closed to transiting flights for use by civil traffic outside of military operating hours. Significant detours can be avoided in this way. 2. Flight operation / air traffic management / air traffic control 3. Technical performance Route shortcuts Cyclean engine wash In 2010, route shortcuts of 4.9 nautical miles on average per This engine wash procedure developed by Lufthansa Technik Lufthansa flight could be realized in airspace controlled by means that cleaned engines are subjected to less thermal stress, Eurocontrol. This reduces fuel consumption. which extends their life span and lowers maintenance costs. In addition, cleaned engines work more efficiently from a Random Routes East Trial – Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) thermodynamic perspective. In U.S. airspace on the East Coast, flying-time reductions of up to two minutes are to be realized by means of “random routes.” This Modification of Trent 700 engines affects up to ten daily Lufthansa flights. Currently, the FAA is Lufthansa expects that modifying the Rolls-Royce Trent 700 testing this procedure with support from Lufthansa. engines (Airbus A330 fleet) will reduce fuel consumption by about 1 percent. Without detours over the U.K. Direct routings in U.K. airspace are possible before 5.30 UTC, which shorten flying times by up to three minutes. This corresponds to fuel savings of up to 400 kilos per flight. The project is based on cooperation between NATS, Eurocontrol, IAA and the Center Maastricht. 4. Network / ground Optimization of standard routes Optimization of block times Putting to use the expertise and technical solutions of the Adapting standard block times to consumption-optimized block navigation software Lido OC, developed by Lufthansa Systems, times on six of the 11 most fuel-intensive routes helps achieve helps to optimize standard routes “preset” for flight operations. significant fuel savings. 72 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a 5. Reduction of aircraft weight Only 1 kilo less weight on all aircraft Catering Lighter-weight equipment • Modifications in • Lighter-weight on-board trolleys of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines saves on-board loads • Lighter-weight seats 25 tonnes of fuel per year. • Optimization • Lighter-weight cabin fixtures • Weight reductions (lighter-weight ovens, among other measures) • Lighter-weight oxygen masks • Removal of display shelves for promotional materials and postcards in the cabin Optimized tank fillings • Drinking water Cyclean Engine Wash • Fuel Lighter-weight loading materials • Freight containers • Baggage containers • Loading aids Four pillars for climate protection 1. Technological progress 2. Improved infrastructure 3. Operational measures 4. Economic measures • Innovation in aircraft and • Improved use of airspace • More efficient aircraft sizes • Global emissions trading to engine technologies • Airport infrastructures adapted • Optimal flight routes and complement the other three • Alternative fuels to needs speeds pillars • Optimized processes on the ground • Fleet modernization • Project Fuel Efficiency • Project Fuel Efficiency • Voluntary compensation of (see from page 27) • Commitment to the project • Flying at variable speeds CO2 emissions (optional for • Operation of state-of-the-art SESAR (see from page 74) • Maintenance: customers) engines, optimization of • Optimization of flight routings Efficient engine washes • Preparation for emissions engines in the existing fleet • Political structural projects • Optimization of aircraft trading (see on page 69) (see from page 82) • Investments in needs-oriented utilization (loads) • Project Fuel Efficiency infrastructure • Research on alternative fuels in the framework of the project Aviation Biofuel (see from page 67) Our measures (selection of examples) Lufthansa works continuously on optimizing operations-related measures on the ground and in the air, and to make processes even more efficient in order to reduce fuel consumption and thus CO2 emissions over the long-term. A four pillar model for climate protection was developed in cooperation with other airlines. This agenda covers the entire scope of feasible measures. It is the responsibility of politics to coordinate air traffic management in ways that avoid holding patterns in the air. This also includes the needs-oriented expansion of airports. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 73 Air traffic management – Towards a unified European airspace The Single European Sky is the largest climate protection project in European aviation. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), its implementation means a reduction in CO2 emissions of up to 12 percent. To reach this goal by 2020, the EU Commission and the European air traffic control authority Eurocontrol launched the Single European Sky ATM Research Program (SESAR). This pan-European initiative is working on standard­ More capacity, lower emissions izing, harmonizing and synchronizing the services It is one of SESAR’s goals to increase the capacity offered in the framework of European Air Traffic of European airspace by 73 percent by 2020 and Management (ATM). Among other points, SESAR even to triple it over the long-term, while increasing includes the introduction of new technologies and safety continuously. At the same time, the cost of air procedures in air traffic control that will allow the traffic control is to be halved from the current level organization of rising volumes of air traffic in more of 800 euros per flight on average to 400 euros by secure, economic and environmentally friendly 2020. Of course, the environment also benefits from ways. During the development phase, the most SESAR: According to the SJU, average flight duraimportant European authority is the SESAR Joint tion can be reduced by between 8 and 14 minutes Undertaking (SJU), with which Lufthansa closely on average, which reduces fuel consumption by cooperates as an Airspace User. In addition, between 300 and 500 kilos and CO2 emissions by Lufthansa is a member of the SESAR Airline Group, between 948 and 1,575 kilos. “The Lufthansa Group a forum in which many European airlines coordialone can conserve between 600,000 and 700,000 nate their activities with the aim of ensuring the liters of kerosene per day in this way,” says Manfred success of Single European Sky (SES). Mohr, Head of project SESAR at Lufthansa. In the framework of the SJU, all players active in SESAR is organized in three sections: definition, air traffic have joined forces for the first time in the development, and implementation. During the defihistory of European aviation: civil and military air nition phase, which was completed in 2008, the traffic control institutions, national and international participants developed a European master plan for legislative organizations, the aircraft industry, airair traffic management. The development phase, lines, aircraft operators and users as well as addiwhich will continue until 2016 under the responsitional partners on the ground and in the air. This bility of the SJU, comprises all activities necessary public-private partnership administers aid funds of to prepare the implementation of the previously 2.1 billion euros, provided in equal part by the Eurodefined master plan. This includes detailed action pean Union, Eurocontrol and the participating corplans and the necessary legislative measures. Furporations with the aim of sharing the development thermore, the participants are developing new syscosts of SESAR. tems and standards. They have to work through 21 task packages with currently more than 300 individual projects, of which about 250 have already been launched. For the implementation phase (2011 to 2020), the project partners have committed to coordinating, managing and applying in daily operations the measures previously agreed upon. “Lufthansa sees its participation in “Above all, people everywhere in the EU will benefit SESAR as an opportunity to make from SESAR. There will be less greenhouse gases, a contribution to protecting our less aircraft noise and fewer delays. At the same time, safety levels, which are currently at extremely environment. The goal is a type of high levels, will again be improved,” summarizes air transport that allows passengers Raymund Obst, pilot and manager at the project to travel quickly and easily, while office SESAR at Lufthansa. leaving the smallest ecological footprint possible.” Participating in more than 80 projects Manfred Mohr The airlines of the Lufthansa Group are participating Head of project SESAR at Lufthansa in more than 80 of the 300 projects. Experts from Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines, bmi, Germanwings and Lufthansa Cargo 74 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a contribute their professional knowledge from the accommodates departing traffic from Frankfurt. most diverse areas, such as flight route planning Currently, air traffic controllers guide Cologne’s trafand operations centers for air and ground, but also fic flows below those of Düsseldorf’s, which causes fleet management, information technology and increased fuel burn due to low altitudes. Under the finance. These experts participate in workshops, new procedures the traffic flows to the two cities accompany simulations, assess documentation on the Rhine both share higher altitudes for longer, and evaluate proposals, for example. In this way, which conserves fuel and reduces CO2 emissions. they support projects in areas such as aircraft sysFor Germanwings in particular, initial analyses show tems, operational changes in the air (four-dimena savings potential of about 200 kilos of kerosene sional flight path, 4D trajectory) and on the ground per flight at its home airport in Cologne. Further tests (the operative flight coordination center, for examare to follow in summer 2011. ple), information management as well as “umbrella topics” with a higher level of importance. In Switzerland, SWISS has joined forces with Flughafen Zürich AG and the air traffic control authority One example of this way of working is the active Skyguide to launch the project Greener Wave. Its participation of Lufthansa experts in improving goal is to better manage above all the first bank of ground-based approach procedures (Groundflight arrivals in the early morning hours by impleBased Augmentation System, GBAS). Several menting a range of operative measures. Among individual projects in the areas of aircraft systems, these is the assignation of defined time slots for an airport as well as ground and cockpit processes aircraft’s approach, which helps to shorten holding share the goal of reducing the number of deviated patterns and thus reduce CO2 and noise emissions. landings. They also aim at permitting smooth proAt Vienna Airport, Austrian Airlines and Austro Concesses even during fog conditions due to a high trol are working on a solution that will help shorten level of precision in positional data. Among other the aircraft’s taxiing phases and thus avoid related aspects, Lufthansa participates in developing the CO2 emissions. And at Brussels Airport, Brussels necessary onboard systems and solutions for highAirlines, Belgocontrol and the airport operator are frequency and regional airports. The experts also preparing measures that will allow landing aircraft contribute their know-how from other projects, such to use the Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) for as satellite-based approach procedures or optilonger, an approach procedure characterized by mized braking, which permits taxiing off the runparticularly low noise and pollutant emissions due to way with greater precision and reaching the correct reduced engine performance. parking position more quickly. “Lufthansa sees its participation in SESAR as an opportunity to make a contribution to protecting our environment. The goal is a type of air transport that allows passengers to travel quickly and easily, while leaving the smallest ecological footprint possible,” emphasizes Mohr. FABEC – One of SES’s cornerstones A milestone on the path towards SES was set by Germany and its five AIRE – Concrete climate protection neighbors France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland An important part of SESAR in the area of sustain­ in December 2010: They agreed to create a joint airspace, the Functional ability is AIRE (Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to Airspace Block Europe Central (FABEC), which is an important cornerstone Reduce Emissions), the transatlantic program to of the overall SES project. The FABEC program is implemented by civil and reduce emissions from air traffic, in which a total of military partners in the six countries: Representatives of the transport and 40 airlines, airports, air traffic control authorities and defense ministries as well as the civil and military air traffic control organiindustrial corporations participate. The SJU, which zations, including the control center in Maastricht, operated by Eurocontrol. is responsible for the European side of AIRE, has Lufthansa accompanied the development process in a consulting function. selected 18 projects worthy of support for this cliWith FABEC, one of the busiest airspaces worldwide is receiving standard­ mate protection initiative. The Lufthansa Group par­ ized air traffic control. About 240 airports – including the important hubs ticipates in four of these projects. in Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Paris – are located in an area measuring 1.7 million square meters in surface. Every year, more than 5.5 million flight This includes a joint project aimed at reducing emismovements are recorded here, which corresponds to more than half of all air sions, involving Germanwings, Lufthansa and DFS traffic in Europe. In line with EU law, the six signatory countries have agreed Deutsche Flugsicherung concerning new approach to implement the joint airspace by December 2012. procedures at Cologne/Bonn Airport. Due to their geographic proximity, the airports in Cologne and Düsseldorf share the same airspace, which also a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 75 Environmental management Lufthansa realigns Group-wide Environmental Forum One of the goals that Lufthansa set itself in its strategic Environmental Guidelines is to expand the environmental management at the Group level and within the Group companies, and to give it further importance. The company made an important step in this direction in 2010 by realigning the internal, Group-wide Environmental Forum. At Lufthansa, the corporate departments and all to make environmental factors within the Group companies with environmental relevance have measurable and thus also comparable. A second their own environmental department, an enviteam is compiling experiences at different comronmental commissioner or a contact partner for panies relating to the introduction of environmenthese issues. The Group-wide goals, strategies tal management systems in order to summarize and measures concerning the environment are them in a handbook or guideline that all comcoordinated by the department Group Environpany areas can use in the future for their own mental Issues. All environmental experts meet guidance. twice a year at the Environmental Forum to discuss activities and experiences, and to develop Simultaneously, the Environmental Forum now new projects. acts as a platform interlinking topics of relevance to the Group with activities in individual compaConcentrated environmental competency nies. “As the Lufthansa Group has become more As the number of companies under the roof of complex, it is especially important to ensure that the Lufthansa Group has increased, the tasks processes and coordination run both from top to of the Environmental Forum have become ever bottom and from bottom to top. This allows us to more complex. The company takes this devel­ speak with one voice despite diversification,” says opment into account by realigning the Forum, a Haag. Beyond that, the environmental experts move supported by the Executive Board. “The also regularly exchange information outside the Group’s concentrated environmental competency established structures. One such option is the is represented at the Environmental Forum, which competency network “Environmental Forum” on we will use more actively in the future. This is why the internal Web 2.0 platform eTeaming. since 2010 we have addressed selected topics in workgroups with the goal of developing possible Emphasis on climate protection solutions for the entire company from within the The unequivocal area of emphasis in Lufthansa’s Group companies,” says Dr. Karlheinz Haag, Vice Environmental Guidelines is the issue of how President Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa, international air transport can meet the challenges explaining the Forum’s new structure. One workof climate change. In response, the industry has group is currently developing a set of important developed a clear concept, the four pillar strategy indicators based on standard definitions that are and CO2-neutral growth from 2020, which now need to be implemented. Other important topics are the reduction of aircraft noise and an efficient use of resources on the ground. To ensure that “The Group’s concentrated environLufthansa reaches its environmental goals, the mental competency is represented Group’s environmental experts supported and at the Environmental Forum, which we implemented numerous measures in this area. will use more actively in the future. In 2010, the spectrum ranged from more lightThis is why – since 2010 – we have weight seats for the European fleet to the prepaaddressed selected topics in workrations for long-term testing of biofuel on groups with the goal of developing scheduled flights. possible solutions for the entire company from within the Group companies.” Dr. Karlheinz Haag Vice President Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa 76 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a News from the Group companies The following examples provide information about the most important environmental management activities at selected Group companies: Lufthansa Passenger Airlines • In the framework of the internal project Fuel Efficiency, Lufthansa Passenger Airlines is working on reducing its fuel consumption over the longterm by means of targeted measures (see from page 70). • E xperts at Lufthansa Passenger Airlines are help­ ing to create a unified European airspace, the Single European Sky (SES). Its implementation may reduce CO2 emissions from European air The environment is on board: SWISS regularly informs its passengers traffic by up to 12 percent (see from page 74). about the airline’s environmental activities. • A six-month trial designed to test alternative fuels in routine operations is being prepared. •T  he intradepartmental environmental project team analyzed more than 30 environmental Lufthansa CityLine projects SWISS-wide. Some examples of results • In April 2010, Lufthansa CityLine again are a reduction of paper consumption in ground successfully achieved ISO 14001 and EMAS handling, the introduction of lighter-weight crew recertification. cases and the implementation of regular • In 2010, the employees in the two areas of environmental communication in the in-flight administration and maintenance completed a magazine. computer-based training (CBT) on environmental protection. The goal of this campaign was Austrian Airlines to raise awareness among employees for the • In 2007, Austrian Airlines launched its own envineed to handle the environment with care. Furronmental management. The airline has partic­ thermore, the “Environmental Weeks” and the ipated in the EcoBusinessPlan Vienna since campaign “Cycle to Work” were well received 2006 and thus had significant parts of an enviby employees. ronmental management system at its disposal, • One of the areas of emphasis in 2011 is to such as an ongoing environmental program. reduce the aircraft hangar’s energy consump• In the mid-term, Austrian Airlines is to have a tion and to optimize the administrative building’s certified environmental management system. climate control. Lufthansa CityLine is currently •A  ustrian Airlines regularly publishes its own evaluating if an external energy consultant environmental report. needs to be called in. bmi SWISS •O  ne expert supports the two subjects of envi• In 2010, SWISS launched an eLearning on the ronment and safety in coordination with Groupsubject of the environment. The learning prowide subjects, and reports directly to the CEO. gram, which comprises six modules, is aimed at all SWISS employees and highlights problem areas and solutions as they apply to the interaction between aviation and the environment. The goal is to anchor the subject of environmental protection even more profoundly in the corporate culture. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 77 Lufthansa Technik • Lufthansa Technik has set itself the goal to reduce its CO2 emissions by 30 percent by 2012 compared with 2006. By the end of 2010 the company had achieved 23 percent of this target value. • In 2010, Lufthansa Technik’s operations in Sofia were certified according to ISO 14001 and the job safety specification OHSAS 18001. Thus, eight important subsidiary companies were certified by the end of November 2010. All overhaul locations are to be certified by 2013. • Lufthansa Technik has forbidden the use of solvents and paint removers containing chlorine, Lufthansa Cargo successfully certified all German stations according to ISO 14001. and replaced them with environmentally friendly substances. Moreover, the company recycles more than 70 percent of its waste materials. Lufthansa Cargo • In 2010, Lufthansa Cargo expanded the certiLSG Sky Chefs fication of its environmental management sys• LSG Sky Chefs published its first indepentem according to ISO 14001 to all German stadent environmental report in 2010, which protions, after its operations in Frankfurt and Leipvides comprehensive information about the zig had received this international seal of quality company’s environmental management. in previous years. The external experts did not • In the course of 2011 LSG Sky Chefs will idenobserve any deviations from the standard. tify environmental aspects of its activities and • At the employee party 2010, guests could learn services at six representative locations that have more about the topics of energy, fuel efficisignificant effects on the environment. The data ency and mobility at three stands. The biggest gathered will be used to further improve the attraction was an electric car and employees existing six environmental programs. They will also had an opportunity to test electric standup also be the basis for the future scope of the scooters. internal environmental management systems. • In 2010, Lufthansa Cargo continued to expand eFreight, its international system for paperless LZ-Catering air freight transport. It is now available at all • The wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary LZGerman stations. About 150 experts participatCatering is working on expanding its environed in the first German eFreight Conference, mental management and making it an integral organized by the company. part of corporate policy. The company’s goal is to achieve certification according to ISO 14001 in 2012. • In 2011 in Hamburg, LZ-Catering will participate in the Ökoprofit-Projekt, a support program for environmental protection carried out by companies. The company is set to implement a series of measures in the framework of this program, such as the optimization of all its pressure systems. • In 2011, LZ-Catering is aiming to increase the share of products from sustainable sources by 10 percent, compared with the previous year, and to prepare one-third of its seafood products from certified organic fish and from fish certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) standard. Lufthansa Technik is the first MRO company to hold an integrated, process-oriented certification in the areas of quality, environment, aviation law, employee safety and international standards. 78 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Lufthansa Global Tele Sales (GTS) • The wholly-owned subsidiary Lufthansa GTS introduced an environmental management system that was certified according to the European eco-audit regulation EMAS in September 2010. GTS is the first company in the service center industry in Europe to hold this validation. • In 2010, GTS published a comprehensive environmental declaration that informs about the company’s strategies, goals and measures. Thus, GTS is planning to use more Green IT and develop sustainability guidelines for suppliers. Trailblazer: Lufthansa Global Tele Sales is the first company in the European service center industry to be certified according to EMAS. Energy and resource management Alternative propulsion technologies tested in vehicles on the ground For some time now, Lufthansa has been evaluating a number of projects regarding the use of alternative propulsion technologies based on electricity and natural gas in Earth-bound vehicles. The focus is how aircraft handling and maintenance can be designed to save as many resources as possible. The following examples from daily practice proparking intervals and charging cycles, breakdown vide an overview of the activities in this area at statistics as well as possible changes in electric­ selected Group companies. ity requirements when the heating is turned on or a laptop is plugged in, for example. If the test Electric vehicles have been tested in daily operations at Lufthansa Technik Since November 2010, Lufthansa Technik has been testing the use of two electrically powered vehicles in its maintenance operations in Düsseldorf and Frankfurt. This seven-month practical test, which is supported by the German Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Development, is to show above all if these electric vehicles can meet the necessary requirements of reliabil­ ity, availability and constant load in the highly demanding working environment of aircraft maintenance. Each vehicle is equipped with a modern lithium-ion battery that gives it a range of up to 120 kilometers and can be recharged in a maximum of four hours thanks to its 400-Volt charging technology. The focus of the investigation is the Bernd Utesch (Mainova), Dr. Thomas Stüger (member of the Executive Board of recording and analysis of detailed measurement Lufthansa Technik), Gaby Schock (municipal utility company Düsseldorf) and data. This data is to provide information about Harald Weinand (Environmental Department at Lufthansa Technik) during the presentation average driving distances and times, durations of of the new electrically-powered cars being tested by Lufthansa Technik. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 79 Testing the TaxiBot system Another innovative alternative to operational towing is a technology called TaxiBot, currently being developed by Lufthansa LEOS in cooperation with Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI). TaxiBot is a diesel-electric aircraft tow truck that allows aircraft to taxi from gate to runway with their engines not yet running (dispatch towing). This method not only saves significant quantities of fuel, but it also considerably reduces CO2 and noise emissions at airport sites. TaxiBot is controlled by the pilots in the cockpit. An initial, comprehensive test run with a LEOS tow truck converted into a TaxiBot experimental vehicle in December 2010 at the Comprehensive test run at Frankfurt Airport, using a Leos tow truck Frankfurt hub was promising – and not only from reconfigured as a TaxiBot test vehicle. an ecological perspective. It demonstrated that the Boeing 747 used for the test could be steered yields a positive result Lufthansa Technik wants even more accurately by means of TaxiBot than if to switch its entire vehicle fleet associated with it had taxied under its own power. In addition, the aircraft maintenance to electric vehicles step by new technology does not require any modificastep. Both test cars, which are produced by tion of the aircraft. The first prototypes of the new CitySax in the German state of Saxony, are aircraft tow trucks are expected to be available in equipped with powerful three-phase-current early 2012. engines that are particularly suited for covering short distances. The energy consumption is 20 Natural-gas powered lift truck kilowatts per 100 kilometers, which is equivalent at LSG Sky Chefs to a fuel consumption of about 1.5 liters. Further examples for trial operations involving environmentally friendly propulsion technologies Trial operation of electrically-driven come from LSG Sky Chefs. In September 2010, tow trucks at Lufthansa LEOS the catering specialists of the Lufthansa Group Whether an electric tow truck can maneuver airtested an electrically-powered small car, equipcraft out of their parking positions to the point ped with a battery giving it a range of 120 kilofrom which they taxi under their own power meters, at Frankfurt Airport. In February 2011, the (push-back) is a question that Lufthansa LEOS Lufthansa subsidiary started a three-month test of investigated from July to December 2010 on the a lift truck powered by natural gas at its Munich apron of Düsseldorf Airport. The company, which location. This truck is used in the areas of cater­ is a wholly-owned Lufthansa Technik subsidiary ing and transport and has a range of about 300 and is specialized in providing ground han­dling kilometers. A conclusive evaluation of the test at large German airports, used an electric tow results is not yet available. truck designed specifically for this purpose by French manufacturer TLD. “It is astonishing to Lufthansa Systems consumes see that normal working procedures also func5 percent less electricity tion without an internal combustion engine and The data center operated by Lufthansa Systems the related exhaust gases,” says Armin Stadler, in Kelsterbach is one of the most modern in Head of Operative Services at Lufthansa LEOS. Europe. From 2008 to 2010 the company was But the TPX 100 E offers more than the potential able to reduce electricity consumption by 5 of cutting fuel consumption and thus the relat­ percent, while the server performance increased. ­ed CO2 emissions on the ground. It also works This reduction corresponds to a lowering of CO2 perceptibly quieter than diesel-driven tow trucks, emissions by 140 tonnes. A comprehensive does not produce any smells, and is easy to oper­ modernization project, which the IT service pro­ ate, low on maintenance and cost-efficient. The vider successfully concluded in 2010, made range of the electric tow truck depends on the a significant contribution to increasing energy distances that the environmentally friendly vehicle efficiency. The goal was to replace the server and has to cover on the apron. On average, the elecstorage systems and to modernize the networks tric charge suffices for 12 to 16 push-backs. and interruption-free electricity supply. 80 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Lufthansa Systems’ data center: A comprehensive modernization project resulted in a significant increase of energy efficiency. Apart from the use of energy-efficient servers, Group-wide Energy Forum Lufthansa Systems implemented further measures Lufthansa established the Energy Forum in 2004 to lower the energy consumption at its data center with the goal of creating a network linking all in Kelsterbach. One area where action was taken employees responsible for infrastructure across was air conditioning because the safe operation the company. This annual event serves as a basis of IT systems requires a constant room temperafor the exchange of experiences and opinions, ture, independent of external temperatures. After and also acts as an information exchange for having modernized ventilation, Lufthansa Systems current developments in the energy industry. has therefore begun to install modern high-performance cooling units that offer optimum cooling at the lowest energy consumption possible. Furthermore, the company uses heat recycling to heat offices with the data center’s warm waste air. Campaign week on energy efficiency in Frankfurt In 2010, the focus was also placed on raising awareness among the Group’s employees of the need to use energy resources even more consciously. Among the related activities was the Campaign “Energy Saving. All the smart ones join in.” which the Group organized with the energy provider Mainova from August 16-20, 2010 at the Lufthansa Aviation Center (LAC) in Frankfurt. The initiative’s goal was to lower the employees’ individual energy consumptions and the related CO2 emissions over the long-term by means of conscious behavior – both in the office and at home. The campaign week was part of Mainova’s Climate Partner Program, which received an award from BUND/Friends of the Earth Germany, and was accompanied by internal communications. Among the campaign’s central elements was an information area with display walls and videos related to the topic, a folder with energy-saving tips, and a daily energy quiz on the intranet in which about 2,500 Lufthansa employees participated. The quiz’s attractive main prize was an electric scooter. Campaign week on energy efficiency at the Lufthansa Aviation Center. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 81 Noise emissions Lufthansa is firmly committed to noise reduction Lufthansa continues its uncompromising commitment to reducing noise emissions generated by flying. The airline counts on the latest technology for new aircraft and their engines, and on continuously optimizing the aircraft in its existing fleet. A prime example of this approach is the latest investment in further perceptible noise-protection measures at Frankfurt Airport. By the end of 2011, the engines of the entire of every CFM56-3 engine is equipped with 12 Frankfurt-based Boeing 737 fleet will be fitted acoustic panels. Replacing these with new Hard with a new type of silencer, which will reduce Wall Forward Acoustic Panels (HWFAP) leads noise emissions during departure and approach to significantly lower noise emissions because by up to 2.4 decibels – a modification with an currently a large part of the sound energy is exceedingly high level of effectiveness. redirected to the outside at the joints of the old silenc­ers because their sound resistance differs This voluntary effort is part of the “First Package from the rest of the panel’s surface. By contrast, of Measures for Active Noise Protection” at Frankthe new HWFAP silencers form a homogeneous furt Airport, presented in June 2010 by the Forum hard-wall surface with uniform sound resis­tance, Airport and Region (FFR). At the same time, this which suppresses this effect. fleet modification also marks a success for the long-term research and development work that The positive result: A modified Boeing 737-300 Lufthansa and its partners carry out in their sys­ or 737-500 will take off and land more quietly. “As tematic search for practicable solutions in noise it has its effect both during landings and takeoffs, reduction. In the future, Lufthansa will operate this new noise-protection measure can be re­­ about one fifth of its aircraft movements in Frankgarded as exceedingly effective,” says Saueressig. furt with Boeing 737-300s and 737-500s. According to aircraft manufacturer Boeing, the noise levels at the certification measuring points New panels prevent sound propagation defined by the International Civil Aviation Organ­ “In cooperation with the German Aerospace ization (ICAO) decline significantly: During takeoff Center (DLR) and experts from Lufthansa Tech(still close to the ground) by about -0.5 EPN-dB; nik we thoroughly examined the properties of the during departure by about -1.5 EPN-dB; and silencers located directly in front of the fan on a during approach by about -2.4 EPN-dB. number of engines. This is also how we found the potential of achieving a significant noise Noise research for quieter flying reduction by exchanging the silencers on the Aircraft manufacturers solve this problem in new Boeing 737’s engines,” reports Dr. Gerd Sauer­ aircraft by producing the acoustic panels from essig, Manager Group Environmental Issues at one seamless piece, without joints. At Lufthansa, Lufthansa. On this type of aircraft, each inlet both the Airbus A380 and the ordered Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental are already equipped with such panels. By operating state-of-the-art aircraft, the aviation industry is able to fulfill step by step the ambitious targets of the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe (ACARE). “According to initial estimates, In its vision 2020, this European advisory body operations of the Airbus A380 and for aviation and astronautics has formulated the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental goals for European aviation research that include can reduce the number of people cutting by half the perceived noise emissions shown as ‘highly affected’ in the from aircraft. ACARE includes representatives of Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Index by EU member countries, the European Commis10 percent.” sion, manufacturers, airlines, airports as well as Dr. Gerd Saueressig research institutions. Its main goal is to develop Manager Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa and implement a strategic research agenda. 82 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a The Airbus A380 is about 30 percent quieter than comparable predecessor models. The systematic analysis of noise sources is a funthe data analysis and integration of the results damental condition for the development of effi­ into SIMUL have yet to be carried out because a cient noise reduction measures – this applies related project in the aviation research program both to sound generation and comparisons of Germany’s Federal Government, for which an between the importance of different sources of application has been made, has not been approved noise. Lufthansa has cooperated with the German until now. An expanded version of SIMUL could Aerospace Center (DLR) in the framework of the allow researchers to investigate and assess noise research network “Quiet Traffic” since 1999. The sources and measures more in depth with the goal is to carry out basic research and developgoal of identifying the most efficient solutions – ment work concerning the identification of noise not least under the consideration of costs. sources on aircraft and elaborate noise reduction measures based on these results. A lighter noise burden through fleet renewal However, airlines achieve the greatest advances In the context of several projects, such as in noise reduction by operating modern aircraft. FREQUENZ and LAnAb, the research partIn the framework of the largest fleet modernizaners realized five flyover measurements under tion program in its history, Lufthansa is planning Lufthansa’s guidance between 2001 and 2008, to acquire another 155 aircraft by 2016 that are involving different types of aircraft – three times more efficient and above all quieter (see “Investwith an Airbus A319 and once each with a ments in new aircraft pay off economically as well Boeing MD-11F and a Boeing 747-400. The as ecologically” from page 27). For example, the researchers analyzed individual sources of noise Airbus A380, the new flagship of the Lufthansa on the aircraft by systematically varying flying fleet, is about 30 percent quieter than comparaspeed, engine performance as well as the ble predecessor models. The same is true for the positions of flaps and landing gear. Targeted Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental, which Lufthansa measurements with a comprehensive microwill put into service in 2012. It is also about 30 phone system allowed the experts to track noise percent quieter than its currently still active presources in flight and to survey them. These decessor, the Boeing 747-400. “According to inimeasurements were complemented by analytial estimates, operations of the Airbus A380 and ses performed at an engine testbed, involving the the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental can reduce the latest microphone measuring technology. The number of people shown as ‘highly affected’ in resulting data also serve to improve the DLR’s the Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Index by 10 percent,” computer-based aircraft noise simulation proemphasizes Saueressig. gram SIMUL. As part of this fleet modernization, the Lufthansa To further develop SIMUL, which so far has been Group ordered Airbus A320 and A321 aircraft based on data relating to the Airbus A320, it is during the reporting year, of which engine manu­ necessary to expand the database to other types facturer CFM International will equip the A320s of aircraft. While the DLR and Lufthansa have with its latest engine, the CFM56-5B. Thus the realized measurements on the Boeing 747-400, aircraft’s noise emissions will again be reduced. a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 83 The list price for the engine order is about 300  million U.S. dollars. The aircraft will be integrated Active noise protection at Frankfurt Airport gradually into the Lufthansa fleet from 2013. The “First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection,” presented in June 2010 by the Forum Airport and Region (FFR), comprises seven projects. Noise levels on shortand medium-haul routes These will allow a reduction of the number of people highly affected by airalso decline with each new aircraft generation, craft noise in the airport’s vicinity by 16 percent during the day and even by as is proven by the new CSeries produced by 40 percent during the night. The FFR’s expert committee, in whose work Canadian manufacturer Bombardier, for example. Lufthansa has a significant share, evaluated all projects with support from Starting in 2014, SWISS will replace 20 Avro Lufthansa pilots with regard to feasibility and noise effect. These measures RJ100s with 30 CSeries aircraft flying on regional are: routes. A CSeries aircraft is 10 to 15 decibels quieter on average than an Avro RJ100, which 1. A significant contribution to lessening the noise burden by exchanging the human perception of noise will experience the silencers in the engines of Lufthansa’s Boeing 737 fleet, described in as a reduction of about one-half. According to the article above. This project is to be completed by October 2011, when the manufacturer’s data, the CSeries is to remain Frankfurt Airport’s new landing runway is to go into operation. below the limits of the ICAO’s so-called Chapter-4 by a significant 20 dB(A). 2. A speed limit is to be introduced for takeoffs for the first 11 kilometers on certain departure routes. The effect: The engines’ available thrust is Furthermore, Lufthansa counts on new E-190 and applied at higher altitudes, so that less noise reaches the ground. E-195 aircraft from the Brazilian manufacturer Embraer, which also gain points by featuring low 3. By better using the “tailwind component,” those periods when aircraft fly noise levels. And since 2006, the state-of-the-art over the built-up areas immediately to the west of the airport at particularly CRJ900, manufactured by Bombardier, has been low altitudes due to prevailing winds will be reduced. reinforcing the Group’s regional fleet. Outside an airport site, a CRJ900 taking off is usually no 4. The so-called Segmented Approach ensures that aircraft fly further to the louder than a passenger car passing by in traffic. south and thus around densely populated areas during the night. In 2010, Lufthansa ordered eight Embraer 195s and eight CRJ900 NextGens for operations at 5. During the night hours, when traffic is light, aircraft are consciously Lufthansa Regional. concentrated on specific runways and departure routes. A regular change of runways implies genuine and calculable pauses in noise emissions. 6. A different control system applied by DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung is to increase the share of landings using the Continuous Descent Approach (CDA). This type of approach requires lower engine thrusts and is therefore quieter and more fuel-efficient. 7. After the inauguration of the new runway, the approach angle is to be increased from 3 to 3.2 degrees under certain meteorological conditions, which implies overall higher altitudes during approach and thus a reduction of noise. In January 2011, test operations with the noise-reducing flight procedures contained in the “First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection” began. For example, Lufthansa Cargo is testing the Segmented Approach during night hours. The goal of this trial run is to gather experience and verify actual noise measurements from routine operations against forecast reductions of noise emissions. The state government of Hesse founded the FFR in 2008 as a venue where the aviation industry, municipalities, state government, associations and interest groups can discuss issues concerning the expansion and operation of Frankfurt Airport. An important component of the FFR is the “Expert Committee Active Noise Protection,” which develops and evaluates procedures to reduce noise. 84 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Margins below the noise limit of ICAO chapter-31 Lufthansa Group fleet (active fleet on 31.12.2010) The bar chart indicates the sum of the differences in EPNdB between the measured value and the threshold A330-200 LX – 13.8 / – 13.9 value at the three measuring points by type of A330-200 BD – 18.8 aircraft (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the A330-300 LH – 18.8 values based on the reduced maximum takeoff A330-300 LX – 18.4 A340-300 LX – 22.1 weight prevailing in flight operations are indicat­ A340-300 LH – 22.6 / – 22.9 e ­ d. To allow a more transparent depiction, an A340-600 LH – 23.0 / – 23.4 improved method of analysis was developed for A380-800 LH – 26.7 the previous issue of Balance, which includes the B 747-400 LH – 12.7 / – 13.3 B 767-300 OS – 16.6 / – 16.8 individual noise certificate data of all Group B 777-200 OS – 21.4 aircraft for the first time. Different versions of MD-11F LH – 13.4 / – 13.5 an aircraft model and its engines by year of A319-100 LH – 15.2 / – 19.3 construction are thus better taken into account. A319-100 LX – 18.2 While the conservative approach used until A319-100 BD – 19.0 / – 20.1 A319-100 4U – 17.4 / – 19.4 reporting year 2008 meant that only the values A319-100 OS – 18.3 / – 19.3 of the sub-fleet with the lowest cumulated marA320-200 LH – 13.2 / – 14.3 gin were reported to describe an aircraft fleet, A320-200 LX – 13.7 / – 14.5 the new analytical method used since report­ A320-200 OS – 14.1 / – 15.0 A320-200 BD – 19.1 / – 19.9 ing year 2009 means that the value ranges from A321-100 LH – 15.5 the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are A321-100 LX – 10.8 now indicated for many fleets. In addition, many A321-100 OS – 11.2 aircraft were recertified in reporting year 2010 A321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 14.7 A321-200 LX – 14.4 according to the new, more stringent ICAO ChapA321-200 OS – 8.6 / – 9.2 ter-4 standard. The new noise certificates also A321-200 BD – 14.1 take into account any modifications to aircraft B 737-300 LH – 10.3 or engines that have been made in the meanB 737-300 BD – 13.4 / – 15.1 B 737-500 LH – 10.8 time, thereby leading to modified noise data and B 737-500 BD – 15.8 cumulated margins in certain cases. In addition, B 737-600 OS – 16.7 numerous additions and withdrawals in individ­ B 737-700 OS – 16.1 ual fleets lead to changes in the value ranges B 737-800 OS – 12.9 / – 14.3 reported. ATR42-500 EN – 31.4 ATR72-200 EN – 25.9 Avro RJ-85 CL – 17.1 / – 17.6 Avro RJ-100 LX – 16.4 CRJ-200 EW – 28.0 CRJ-700 CL – 16.3 CRJ-900 CL – 16.6 CRJ-900 EW – 16.6 Fokker 70 OS – 24.3 / – 25.2 Fokker 100 OS – 16.2 Fokker 100 C3 – 16.2 ERJ-135 BD – 25.3 ERJ-145 BD – 23.3 / – 23.4 ERJ-195 EN – 14.9 ERJ-195 IQ – 15.0 4U = Germanwings ERJ 195 CL – 15.0 BD = bmi ERJ-190 IQ – 12.9 C3 = Contact Air ERJ-190 CL – 13.9 / – 15.1 CL = Lufthansa CityLine DHC8-400 IQ – 25.3 / – 25.6 EN = Air Dolomiti DHC8-400 OS – 24.5 / – 25.9 EW = Eurowings – 10.0 IQ = Augsburg Airways Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW: under 50 t 50 to 150 t above 150 t LH = Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS This division ordinarily corresponds to a grouping of regional, continental and intercontinental aircraft. OS = Austrian Airlines 1 New ICAO Chapter-4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006: – 10.0 EPN-dB when compared to Chapter-3 a Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 85 Research projects Climate research on scheduled flights Global climate change is one of the greatest challenges for humankind. Therefore, reliable prognoses about the future development of the earth’s climate are of fundamental importance. Lufthansa makes a significant contribution to observing the state of the Earth’s atmosphere and is the only airline worldwide to have been committed to climate research for almost two decades. Regular measuring flights, for example, produce Lufthansa Airbus A340-600. However, in spring the required basis of data to validate and continu­ 2010 the eruption of the volcano Eyjafjallajökull in ously improve climate models. This approach Iceland meant a special mission for the CARIBIC is the foundation for evaluating the effects of air measurement contain­­er: Three measuring flights transport on the environment in a factual manner took place on April 20, May 16 and 19 to deterand for implementing effective environmental care. mine the ash concentration in the cloud over Europe resulting from the volcanic eruption. In the area of climate research, Lufthansa works Lufthansa and the research partners par­ticipating closely with renowned scientific institutions in in the project received permission for these flights Belgium, England, France, the Netherlands, within two days. “This kind of short-term commitSweden, Switzerland and Germany. Among the ment was only possible because the Airbus is joint proj­ects are MOZAIC, CARIBIC and IAGOS already modified for climate research and (for more information see www.lufthansa.com/ Lufthansa has been conducting such work for responsibility). These cooperations aim at devel­ many years. We were the only airline to be able oping instruments, for example, that allow daily to make our own measurements to determine the and global measurements of climate-relevant concentration of volcanic ash. Thus Lufthansa has trace gases. Lufthansa gathers the necessary proven its pioneer­ing role in climate research once data and air samples on specially modified more,” emphasizes Dr. Andreas Waibel, Manager aircraft that operate scheduled services. Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa. CARIBIC container on special mission During the three research flights, the measuring “volcanic ash” instruments took air samples for precise analyses CARIBIC is an example of a project designed to that determined the size and number of ash partiresearch the fundamentals of the Earth’s atmo­ cles, among other tasks. They also gathered gen­ sphere. The measurement container deployed for eral data on the atmosphere. During these flights, this project is considered the best equipped worldonly relatively low concentrations of ash particles wide in climate research. Since December 2004, up to 2 micrometers diameter could be detected. this fully automated laboratory has taken one The majority of measuring values was situated research trip per month on average aboard a be­tween 20 and 125 micrograms per cubic meter of air. By comparison, the EU limit for fine particulate at ground level is 50 micrograms per cubic meter of air. With these measurements the researchers could demonstrate that the ash cloud had become highly diluted by being mixed with other air masses, as had been expected. A subsequent borescopic examination of the engines by Lufthansa Technik did not give any indication of possible damage from the ash cloud. The participating research partners have made their findings available to experts working on models of atmospheric propagation. In this way, the insights gained in spring 2010 will contribute to improving future forecasts concerning clouds of ash in the wake of volcanic eruptions or forest The CARIBIC measurement container is being loaded aboard the Lufthansa A340-600 “Leverkusen.” fires. 86 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 a Corporate Citizenship Responsible practice worldwide As an internationally operating aviation company that takes responsibility at home and in the world for social issues, the Group has supported selected projects in the areas of social concern, environment and nature, culture and education as well as sports. Beyond that, many employees work as volunteers in projects and initiatives. In this context, Lufthansa creates a framework of favorable conditions and recommendations for corporate volunteering. In the interest of the highest possible level of transparency and long-term effects, Lufthansa applies stringent quality standards to its social commitment. The pivotal point of all activities is defined by the company’s core competencies: transporting people and goods as well as providing technical and economic know-how. Given the numerous natural catastrophes in 2010, these competencies were above all applied to emergency humanitarian aid. a Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 87 Social commitment Humanitarian emergency aid: Lufthansa demonstrates its solidarity with the victims of natural catastrophes As an aviation company with worldwide activities, Lufthansa has provided comprehensive humanitarian emergency aid in the aftermath of natural disasters for many years. This aid helps to secure the survival of people in danger both quickly and efficiently. The Group again provided transport capacities on board Lufthansa Passenger Airlines aircraft as in 2010, this time to get aid supplies to help deal well. From there, the U.S. military transported the with the earthquake catastrophe in Haiti. “Lufthansa supplies to the capital of Port-au-Prince via an air immediately contacted the crisis team of the bridge. federal government to offer support,” said Wolfgang Mayrhuber, who was the Lufthansa Group’s Management and employees join forces Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO until In response to the impact of the earthquake the December 2010. Executive Board called for a donation campaign, as it did after the tsunami in southeast Asia. Transport of 200 tonnes of aid supplies Employees donated work time and money valued free of charge in total at 220,000 euros, which Lufthansa Just a few days after the disaster, Lufthansa doubled to 440,000 euros. Cargo sent an MD-11F freighter aircraft to Haiti on behalf of the Technical Relief Organization (THW). Reconstruction of six “small schools” On board were 80 tonnes of aid supplies, above The total sum was transferred to a donation all food, medication and technical equipment. account that the HelpAlliance set up specifiOne month later, the cargo airline sent another cally for Haiti. The money allows the employee MD-11F to Haiti at cost price to ship 65 tonnes organization to provide long-term support for of aid supplies to the disaster area on behalf of reconstruction in Haiti – especially with regard to the Metro Group – including tents, satellite teledestroyed educational facilities. An example phones, diesel generators and hygiene articles. is the HelpAlliance’s cooperation with the neighLufthansa Cargo transported about 200 tonnes borhood initiative “small schools,” which Salesians of aid supplies in the framework of emergency of Don Boscos set up in the 1950s. The goal is to aid for Haiti. In addition, the Lufthansa subsidiary reconstruct six of these small schools by summer granted release for numerous employees who 2011 and to ensure financing for teacher salaries, supported the teams of the Technical Relief Orgaschool books, pencils, notebooks and school nization (THW) on the scene. Emergency aid supmeals. The HelpAlliance was also able to secure plies were shipped to Miami as quickly as possible financing in cooperation with the Catholic order for 300 “schools in a bag.” Flood disaster in Pakistan In the same way, Lufthansa provided emergency aid after the deluge-like inundations in Pakistan, which flooded large parts of this country in August 2010. In the face of this new natural catastrophe, Lufthansa employees’ willingness to help was enormous: donations quickly reached 100,000 euros, which management again doubled and transferred to the HelpAlliance’s dedicated account for Pakistan. In addition, the HelpAlliance provided a base amount of 10,000 euros as an immediate measure. As there was above all a dearth of clean potable water, the employee organization made possible the Fast and unbureaucratic: Three special Lufthansa Cargo flights transported a total of about purchase of 600,000 water purification tablets, 200 tonnes of aid supplies in the framework of emergency relief for Haiti. which a special Lufthansa Cargo flight trans88 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a ported to Islamabad. “Thus, six million liters of drinking water could be purified,” explained Rita Diop, First Chairwoman of the HelpAlliance. To ensure that the water purification tablets really reached people in need, a Lufthansa Cargo general agent took delivery of the shipment, personally forwarded and distributed it in emergency camps. “Each and every cent donated by Lufthansa employees therefore also reached people in Pakistan,” said Carsten Hernig, Re­­ gion­al Director South Asia and Middle East at Lufthansa Cargo. Also on board the Lufthansa Cargo freighter were an additional 50 tonnes of aid supplies, such as medical supplies for the Carsten Hernig, Regional Director South Asia and Middle East at Lufthansa Cargo, United Nations Population Fund. Furthermore, coordinates the HelpAlliance’s aid project in Pakistan. on another special flight to Karachi the logistics company transported 23 tonnes of a sugar-salt Earthquake, tsunami and mix on behalf of UNICEF free of charge, to be reactor catastrophe in Japan used as a specific treatment for children suffer­ On March 23, 2011, Lufthansa Cargo operated a ing from diarrhea. Given the critical situation, the special flight to Tokyo free of charge and in coHelpAlliance closely cooperated with the German operation with the EU Commission to provide swift general consulate in Karachi to provide 200 tents support for the Japanese population affected by for a refugee camp in the south of the country, for the severe earthquake. On board the MD-11F example. freighter were above all blankets, which were urgently needed in the north of Japan, where In the meantime, thanks to Lufthansa Cargo’s cold winter weather prevailed. The aid supplies good connections in Pakistan, long-term aid were donated by the governments of Denmark, measures have been launched. These concen­ the Netherlands and Lithuania. “It is a matter of trate above all on giving about 500 families in 15 course for Lufthansa Cargo to provide swift and villages a new basis for their livelihoods, so that unbureaucratic help in the face of a humanitar­ in the future they will be able to ensure their ecoian catastrophe of such proportions,” said Karl nomic existence themselves. Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman and CEO of Lufthansa Cargo AG. Hurricane in El Salvador The victims of hurricane Ida also depended on a The employee aid organization HelpAlliance also sign of hope after the storm left a trail of devastademonstrated its solidarity with the people of tion in El Salvador in November 2009. Aiming at Japan and called upon all Group employees for helping to reconstruct some of the totally destroyed donations – as it did after the earthquake in Haiti houses in this Central American country, the and the flood catastrophe in Pakistan. As the HelpAlliance and employees of Lufthansa Systems HelpAlliance is not an emergency aid organizacollected more than 16,000 euros in 2010 for the tion in the strict sense, its support will concentrate victims of the tropical storm. The money benefited on reconstruction after the donation campaign is the aid organization Un Techo para mi País completed. Decisions about the use of donated (UTPMP, literally “A Roof for my Country”), using funds will be made as soon as it is clear where it to build 15 new houses in the region of La Paz. long-term help can be provided most effectively. Hands-on support also came from employees of the IT service company, who nailed boards, fitted and installed doors and windows. “These families were happy to finally have their own solid roofs over their heads,” said Franz Simon, Service Manager at Lufthansa Systems TACA. a Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 89 HelpAlliance: Hand in hand for education, nutrition and health The “HelpAlliance – Employees lend a helping hand” is a humanitarian organization that has grown over time and provided help for self-help for more than ten years. The registered charity, which is politically and denominationally independent, was founded by Lufthansa employees in 1999 and supports social aid, especially in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The focus is primarily on business start-ups, eduthe HelpAlliance has been committed to this part cational facilities, orphanages, street-kid projects of the world from the first day of its existence. At and bush hospitals, which the employees accomthe end of 2010, the number of projects supported pany personally and voluntarily during their time in Africa stood at 19 – more than on any other off or during their vacations. Lufthansa has supcontinent. In some cases, support has been given ported the commitment of the HelpAlliance to its for more than ten years. In 2010, the HelpAlliance best ability ever since it was founded: by granting made a total budget of 404,000 euros available full-time and part-time releases, providing office to support projects in Africa. This money is well space at Frankfurt Airport complete with the IT and in­vested. “Many success stories big and small telecommunications infrastructure required. Addishow that it is worthwhile not to write off the people tionally, the Group provides logistical and commuin Africa,” affirms Rita Diop, First Chairwoman of nications support. the HelpAlliance. The range of projects supported by the An example is the long-term project Abéni in HelpAlliance is broad and is divided in long-term, Djougou in the north of Benin which gives girls short-term results-oriented projects as well as between the ages of 9 and 18 years the opportuactivities in the framework of Emergency Aid, such nity to obtain a school education. The HelpAlliance as in the wake of the tsunami in southeast Asia, finances not only tuition, learning materials and the earthquake in Haiti and the flooding in Pakitutors, but also regular meals, doctor’s visits and stan. The number of projects that the cooperative inoculations. In the meantime, the first graduate initiative has launched, coordinated and supported from the school has received a stipend for universince its foundation reached 70 at the end of 2010, sity studies. By contrast, the circle of friends “East with a total budget volume of almost 5.5 million Africa” is dedicated above all to the moder­nization euros. This success has been made possible by or new construction of clinics in and around Mom13 full-time members, 1,514 Supporting Membasa. A significant element of this type of longbers and a worldwide network of volunteer helpers term HelpAlliance project is the acute care for inside and outside the Lufthansa Group. undernourished and malnourished children in dedicated wards. As life-threatening disorders Cornerstone for a better life re­lated to malnutrition are not only due to a dearth Poverty, violence and the lack of educational of food, but also to the mothers’ lack of knowledge, opportunities are the order of the day in large parts providing information and imparting the basics of of Africa. To provide a long-lasting signal of hope, child nutrition plays an important role in the concept of this help project. The aim is above all to give everyday tips that can help young mothers to combine available foods in ways that provide their “Again and again I am fascinated by children with all vital nutrients and vitamins. the devotion with which Lufthansa employees work for the shared goal of Closing educational gaps making the future of others a bit better. Whether children in developing countries have During my visit to the Prana Project a future depends in large part on whether they in India I found this objective of the receive access to education. To achieve this goal HelpAlliance confirmed in impressive is the purpose of the iThemba preschool project ways. And that is why I am very happy in the township of Capricorn in the South African to be involved myself.” metropolis of Cape Town. Thanks to numerous Bettina Lauer donations from passengers and Lufthansa Patroness of the HelpAlliance employees as well as the considerable commitment of employees at Lufthansa Global Tele Sales Cape Town, 75 children up to the age of six 90 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a A course for seamstresses and dressmakers from different castes is part of the Prana Project, an initiative in Pondicherry in southern India supported by the HelpAlliance. years have been able to take advantage of this and give them affection. The association generates offer since January 2010. The preschool comfunds needed for the operation of these houses pound consists of several classrooms, a playon the basis of sponsorships: As little as 15 euros ground and administrative buildings. As sufficient is enough to provide a child for one month with and healthy nutrition is the condition for the everything that is necessary every day. children’s ability to learn, they receive three www.help-alliance.com meals a day. “Studies show that children in townships lag two to three years behind the educational level of other boys and girls,” explains Rita Diop. “We want to close this gap with well-trained teach­ers and instruction in the English language.” Future prospects for children in India Pronounced poverty and social misery prevail not only in Africa, but also in India. Those who suffer the most are once more children because parents often do not have the means to provide the essenOn-board collection program “Small Change – It’s a Big Help” tials in an appropriate way. In this situation the The on-board collection program allows Lufthansa and Condor passengers so-called boarding houses of Patenschaftskreis on long-haul flights back to Germany to donate coins and bank notes left in Indien e.V. – also a long-term HelpAlliance proj­ foreign currency to a good cause. This option has been offered since May ect since 2004 – resemble a silver lining on a 2001. Small sealable envelopes for this purpose are provided in the seat dark cloud. In most cases the children live yearpockets; the cabin crews collect and forward these to the HelpAlliance. Speround at one of the 20 boarding houses, where cial donations pillars in the employee areas and Lufthansa lounges at Gerthey receive clothing, a school education, regular man airports, in the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs, and at meals and medical care. In addition, the associaselected lounges outside of Germany serve the same purpose. tion covers the costs of teacher salaries and smallscale pharmacies that keep a stock of all vital On-board collection program Development of donation volumes1 medications, so that villagers, who are ordinarily 2001 € 207,175 excluded from medical attention, can be treated in 2002 € 203,692 an appropriate manner. To ensure that the about 2003 € 216,539 3,000 children will be able to organize their lives in 2004 € 238,023 their own strength, they also learn the fundamen2005 € 294,870 2006 € 279,575 tals of farming and cattle breeding at some board­ 2007 € 260,939 ing houses. Beyond that, Patenschaftskreis Indien 2008 € 230,433 looks after children of all age groups who were put 2009 € 224,053 on trains by their parents in the hope that some2010 € 286,184 Start of Condor’s participation: October 2003 one might take pity on them and care for them in the future. These children often find shelter in spe1 All figures quoted in this article for 2010 are preliminary, as the final cial children’s houses, where trained personnel figures were not available by the copy deadline. provide them with clothing, food and education, a Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 91 Cargo Human Care: Help for children and the sick Lufthansa Cargo currently has 10,606 containers and 16,739 palettes in circulation. In 2010, one very special specimen was among them for a period of two months: the LD-3 lightweight container AKE63603LH, printed with images from the cargo world and visionary statements of more than 300 managers at the logistics specialist. The preparations for the world tour of this contain­ since its foundation. Support is given in the guise e ­ r were made by Lufthansa Cargo in the context of freight capacities on board the MD-11F freight­ of an international executive conference at the ­er aircraft, provided free of charge, and in the end of September. Subsequently, it flew at week­ly form of air tickets for the German doctors who fly intervals to a different Lufthansa Cargo station. to Africa on three occasions per month to provide For each segment flown the logistics specialist medical aid on a voluntary basis for three days donated 100 euros to the humanitarian aid proj­ each. ect Cargo Human Care (CHC). Finally, in January 2011, the container reached its intended destinaInauguration of the extension building tion, the CHC-supported Mothers’ Mercy Home of the Medical Center in Kianjogu, north of the Kenyan capital Nairobi. In January 2011, the newly-built extension build­ The inside of this loading device was filled with ing of the Medical Center at the MMH was put numerous gifts. This campaign was also linked to into service. The reason for its construction was presenting a donation of 2,200 euros to CHC. a steady rise in the number of patients. To be able to treat anyone showing up and to use all Medical help free of charge medical facilities, such as the dentist’s chair Cargo Human Care e.V. is a registered charity or the ultrasound equipment, more space and that was founded by employees of Lufthansa more treatment rooms were urgently needed. Cargo together with German physicians in 2004. The expansion also means that the pharmacy The initiative was launched by Fokko Doyen, has more space and personnel have their own MD-11F Captain and Lufthansa Cargo Fleet Chief lounge. as well as First Chairman of the aid organization with currently 640 members. He had discovered Library for small and big readers alike the Mothers’ Mercy Home by coincidence during One further successful step was marked by the a vacation. Another area of CHC’s emphasis is inauguration of the library at the Mothers’ Mercy medical services performed at its own medical Home on January 15, 2011. Excitedly anticipated center, located right next to the orphanage. In by the children who live there, the collection of addition, the CHC supports the Medical Center books is considered an additional education offer at the SOS Children’s Village in Buru Buru. The that complements school lessons. While small association has been able to count on support readers find above all short stories and picture from the Executive Board of Lufthansa Cargo books, adults can select from a wide range of novels, knowledge-related books and textbooks. 15 more children find a home Furthermore, the Mothers’ Mercy Home has been home for another 15 orphans since March 2010. To make it easier for the newcomers, the boys and girls were assigned to one of the older children, who took over the role of a godfather or godmother. Three highly motivated nurses, who were hired by the MMH at the same time, ensure proper care for the new residents. In August 2010, the currently 99 children of the MMH enthusiastically took part in a summer camp, which offered plenty of opportunities for handicrafts and trade work. The children at Mothers’ Mercy Home are just as delighted as Fokko Doyen, MD-11F Captain and Lufthansa www.cargohumancare.de Cargo Fleet Chief, by the numerous gifts that could be presented to them in the framework of the Cargo Spirit Tour. 92 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a Corporate volunteering Talking is silver, taking action is golden – Corporate volunteering at Lufthansa Corporate volunteering – the employees’ voluntary commitment to citizens’ responsibilities – is an element in Lufthansa’s concept of corporate citizenship. The Group promotes the volunteer work of its employees with a wide range of offers to get involved on a project basis or long-term during their time off. This includes not only existing initiatives such as School project JUSTAment the HelpAlliance, business@school and Teach Lufthansa employees who have taken their retireFirst Germany. It also includes numerous social ment or will do so in the near future are active in projects that organizations and associations have the school project JUSTAment. It gives them an set up near locations of Lufthansa in Germany. opportunity to pass on their professional knowl­ To make the first steps in this direction easier for edge and experience to young people by being Lufthansa employees, a list of organizations that a “senior partner.” The mentoring project was are grateful for every helping hand is available developed by the Association for International on the intranet for guidance. All projects have in Youth Support Frankfurt in cooperation with the common that they provide concrete social benecity of Oberursel near Frankfurt. The goal is to fits while simultaneously widening the employees’ improve the long-term job opportunities of peoscope of competencies and experiences. ple who have left junior high school or secondary school. JOBLINGE supports training qualifications http://frankfurt.vij.de One such example is the initiative JOBLINGE of the management advisory company Boston Mentor program Big Brothers Big Sisters Consulting Group (BCG). It has set itself the goal Another charity that can count on reliable supto improve the level of trainability of low-qualiport from Lufthansa employees is Big Brothers fied young people between the ages of 15 and Big Sisters Germany (BBBSD). It supports children 25, and make them fit for the challenges of a job and young people between six and 16 years of or an apprenticeship within half a year. Carefully age by assigning them a volunteer mentor for one selected mentors from partner companies – year. The mentors act as role models and persons in­­cluding Lufthansa – support the young people of trust. This independent charity is supported by in this process. the Benckiser Foundation for Youth Support and www.joblinge.de several corporations. www.bbbsd.org business@school – Imparting knowledge in practice-oriented ways Since 2002, Lufthansa has supported the education initiative business@school, which was founded by the management advising company Boston Consulting Group. Every year, more than 70 high schools with senior classes participate in the initiative. The goal of business@school is to make students of grades 10 to 13 familiar with business topics in practice-oriented ways and to encourage them to develop their own business ideas. In 2010, more than 50 Lufthansa employees participated in the project as volunteers, including Andrea Pernkopf, Director Product Development Leisure Travel at Lufthansa. The business@school patroness describes her impressions: “It is impressive to see with how much commitment and keenness the students picked up business knowledge in the course of a school year and how much crea­ tivity went into developing a new business model including a business plan.” Students of the boarding school Hansenberg with business@school patroness Andrea Pernkopf (center). a Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 93 Environmental sponsorship Imparting knowledge: Traveling exhibition “World Champions of Nature” The year 2010 was marked both by biodiversity title of a traveling exhibit that Lufthansa developed and numerous international sports events. Animal in cooperation with the environmental foundation species also perform at the highest levels every NatureLife-International. The exhibit presents extraday. Therefore, “World Champions of Nature” is the ordinary physical abilities and phenomena in the animal world and is meant as a concrete contribution to deepen people’s knowledge of nature and make them more aware of species protection at the same time. The exhibit’s premiere was celebrated on August 10, 2010 at the Museum of Natural Science in Stuttgart, at Castle Rosenstein, and subsequently continued its tour at the Museum of Hunting and Fishing in Munich. It will be on view in Aachen from June 29 to July 15 and in Pforzheim from November 29 to December 16, 2011. Further stops will be in Frankfurt, Berlin, Hamburg and other major German cities. Additional information is available at www.naturelife-international.org A film presentation in the context of the exhibition “World Champions of Nature.” Rainforestation Farming creates species-rich secondary forests Since 2007, the Lufthansa Environmental Sponsive use. In this region, the environmental foundasorship Program has supported the project Raintion NatureLife-International is committed above forestation Farming in western China, in an area all to the Tian Zi Biodiversity Research and De­­ close to the borders with Laos and Myanmar. The velopment Center in the Bulang Mountains. Over goal is to establish a sustainable system of land the past four years, work was started to renatuuse to lessen the effects of many years of excesralize an area of about 6 square kilometers. The model project demonstrates that it is possible to turn remnants of primeval forests into speciesrich secondary forests by means of reforestation. Apart from making a contribution to the protection of nature, species and climate, this project creates jobs that give the rural population an economic perspective. The method of Rainforestation Farming was developed on the island of Leyte in the Philippines by the Visayas State University, Hohenheim University and the foundation NatureLife-Interna­­­­­ tional. In the meantime the model project on Leyte has become established. Numerous farmers and municipalities on the island use it with success. The project partners during an information visit to the island of Leyte. 94 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a Crane protection Sponsorships at Frankfurt Zoo New “cranemobile” for Groß Mohrdorf For the first time since 1962, a Demoiselle crane The Crane Information Center in Groß Mohrchick hatched at Frankfurt Zoo in May 2010. dorf, Mecklenburg Western Pomerania, received Lufthansa agreed to sponsor the newly-born a new vehicle in September 2010. As part of its offspring and the parents for a number of years. work in environmental sponsorship, Lufthansa For some time, the company has maintained a presented a van with an attractive paint scheme sponsorship of a pair of Red-crowned cranes at to the Crane Protection Germany Working Group, Frankfurt Zoo. which has its headquarters there. The “cranewww.zgf.de mobile” serves rangers and employees on their trips to the resting and breeding areas of these Lufthansa supports the reintroduction of the impressive large birds, located in the RügenEurasian crane in England Bock region. Additionally, the van is an adverThe Eurasian crane has been considered extinct tising medium for the information center, which in the UK since the 17th century. However, the welcomes more than 15,000 crane enthusiasts Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust (WWT) and the per year. Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) www.kraniche.de have been working for some time to reintroduce the crane as a breeding species. With support from Lufthansa, the first eggs from breeding crane pairs at the biosphere reserve Schorfheide-Chorin in Brandenburg were flown to England in 2010, using special breeding containers that had already been tested in air transport. Over the next five years, 30 crane eggs per year are to find their way to the British Isles. Breeding and raising the young birds will take place at the Slimbridge Wetland Centre in Gloucestershire, which has already gathered experience with raising crane chicks. 7th European Crane Conference In addition to the Crane Protection Germany Working Group, At the invitation of the Crane Protection Germany Lufthansa supports the crane protection projects of the Working Group and with significant support from following environmental and nature conservation organizations: Lufthansa, about 130 scientists and committed crane protection activists from more than 20 EuroNatur Foundation countries met from October 14-17, 2010 in StralProject countries: Spain and Israel sund for the 7th European Crane Conference. The www.euronatur.org program included presentations and discussions on topics such as the state of crane research, Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel (SPNI) breeding and resting behavior, and the influence Project country: Israel of climate change on migration behavior, in parwww.birds.org.il ticular on the Eurasian or Common crane. The participants adopted two resolutions demanding NatureLife-International that the relevant states and governments impleProject country: South Africa ment additional measures to protect endangewww.naturelife-international.org red crane populations. In particular, they demanded that illegal hunting of cranes in the area of International Crane Foundation the Adriatic Flyway be stopped and that proProject country: USA, worldwide tected areas along the local migratory routes www.savingcranes.org be declared and guaranteed. The experts also appealed to Armenia, Georgia, Turkey and Iran to South African Crane Working Group protect the migratory routes, breeding and resting Project country: South Africa areas of the Eurasian crane in those countries www.ewt.org.za and set up cross-border reserves. a Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 95 EuroNatur and Lufthansa: Commitment to secure migratory routes In 2010, about 300 professional and amateur photog­ fly to their certain deaths every year. The responraphers from 22 countries participated in the 17th sibility lies with bird hunters along the coastal area edition of the EuroNatur photography competition between Slovenia and Albania, who threaten bird “Nature Treasures of Europe.” The charitable founpopulations. Among the victims are birds of prey dation EuroNatur has organized the competition for that are threatened worldwide as well as species many years together with Lufthansa, the magazine such as skylark and quail, but also the crane. In natur+kosmos and the nature-film festival “NaturViAlbania, Croatia and Montenegro, hunters concension.” The participants submitted almost 1,400 pictrate above all on the coastal areas because this is tures of European flora, fauna and landscapes. The exactly where the few remaining intact resting areas 12 most beautiful pictures were used for EuroNatur’s used by migratory birds are located. After an ardu2011 calendar and given an award. Proceeds from ous flight across the Mediterranean Sea, the birds the sale of the calendar are used by EuroNatur to arrive at the coast in a state of exhaustion, where finance part of their nature protection projects. they are already being expected by the hunters. Among these projects is the long-standing camSince its foundation in 1987, EuroNatur has been paign “Crime scene Adriatic – Bird hunting in working intensely on making the Adriatic Flyway the Balkans,” which Lufthansa accompanies with more secure for migratory birds. The campaign communications and logistical measures. On the mentioned aims at generating public awareness of Adriatic migratory route, which leads from central, this highly charged topic by providing comprehennorthern and eastern Europe and Siberia in the sive information. direction of Africa, about 2 million migratory birds www.euronatur.org Research for the protection of migratory animal species Lufthansa has endowed an international disserta8,000 to 10,000 migratory animal species. The tion prize since 2004, with the goal of supporting research competition “UNEP/CMS Thesis Award the efforts of the Convention on the Conservaon Migratory Species Conservation” addresses tion of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS). young researchers worldwide, whose doctoral The research award, which includes prize money dissertations provide new insights into the biol­ worth 10,000 euros, will be presented for the ogy and ecology of migratory species and addithird time already in November 2011; the registionally suggest concrete protection measures – tration deadline was April 15, 2011. The signatory for example concerning cranes, whales, bats and nations to the CMS have worked for more than elephants. 30 years to protect the habitats of the estimated www.cms.int One tree per passenger: Lufthansa supports the “Million Tree Project” For each passenger who traveled in September 2010 on the inaugural flight of the new Lufthansa Airbus A380 “Peking” from Beijing to Frankfurt, one tree was planted in the Kulun Qi province in Inner Mongolia. The aviation company thus supports the “Million Tree Project” of the Shanghai Roots & Shoots Foundation, which intends to plant 1 million trees by 2015. The foundation aims at limiting the advance of deforestation in areas that were used by humans until recently and to reduce emissions in China. Each passenger received a planting certificate to commemorate the occasion. www.jgi-shanghai.org 96 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a Species protection on vacation – Lufthansa in-flight video points the way Many animal and plant species as well as their genetic resources and entire ecosystems are threatened by extinction today. To cast a light on the decline in biodiversity, Lufthansa has for many years regularly provided information about the issue of species protection in the in-flight programs of many long-haul flights. In 2010, the company produced a new short film in cooperation with the environmental foundation NatureLife-International. Entitled “Fascination Nature,” it informs about the background and goals of species protection. The video provides tips for a responsible way of handling nature and makes a contribution to further increase awareness among travelers and the public at large of the need to conserve biodiversity. The film is also appropriate The short film “Fascination Nature” is also available on DVD including a brochure for use as a medium in environmental education and can be ordered free of charge at www.lufthansa.com/responsibility and for information work in environmental and species protection. Cultural commitment and education Lufthansa is “First Global Partner” of the Gürzenich-Orchester Cologne For the first time, Lufthansa made a long-term has already inspired more than 50,000 students commitment to a German symphony orchestra: and about 10,000 teachers since the 2000/2001 In 2010, the aviation company became the season. Another area of emphasis is placed on “First Global Partner” of the historic Gürzenichsupporting Gürzenich-Orchester guest perforOrchester Cologne, which was founded in 1827 mances at important musical venues and by citizens of this cathedral city and ranks as one of Germany’s finest ensembles. “With this commitment we want to take responsibility and give a clear signal for our close ties to Cologne,” said Stephan Gemkow, Chief Financial Officer at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. “Cologne is home to Lufthansa’s tradition, its legal corporate headquarters and more than 2,500 committed employees.” The company’s financial support allows the orchestra to strengthen “Ohren auf” (literally: “Open your ears!”), its educational program for children and young people, over the long-term. It facilitates visits to rehearsals and concerts, music projects, workshops and encounters. Having taken the role of a trailblazer in imparThe partnership with the Gürzenich-Orchester underscores both Lufthansa’s understanding ting musical education, the Gürzenich-Orchester as a premium brand and the orchestra’s elevated artistic rank and prestige. a Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 97 renowned festivals, pursuing the goal of promot­ every year at the Cologne Philharmonie. The start ing the international renown of Cologne as a city of Lufthansa’s commitment was also the occasion of music. At the same time, the musical public to launch the “Gürzenich-Orchester Sponsor’s in this city on the Rhine will also benefit audibly Club.” It is to set the foundations for generating from the sponsoring agreement: Regular engage­ more than one million euros per year in sponsor­ ments of first-rate soloists and guest conductors, ing revenues over the long-term. who will add their special touch to the 40 or so www.guerzenich-orchester.de symphonic concerts that the orchestra plays Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music in London The 26th Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music The public, including numerous Lufthansa cus­ took place in 2010 under the motto “Fountain of tom­­ers, was just as enthusiastic as the press. The the Baroque – Italian Pioneers from Monteverdi to Daily Telegraph summed it all up in two senVivaldi.” From May 13-22, the particular influence tences: “The ten-day Lufthansa Festival doesn’t of Italian composers of the 17th and early 18th try to be all things to all men. It just explores one century on the development of music was illus­­­thing – Baroque music – superlatively well.” And trated in 12 concerts: Italy as the cradle of baroque in its review of cultural events in 2010, the editors music, a source of inspiration for all subsequent elected the concert given by the ensemble Imag­­­generations and pioneer of a “modern” music inarium directed by violinist Enrico Onofri the freed of dogmas and ossified rituals. In the “Classical Concert of the Year.” A novelty in 2010 Lufthansa Lecture entitled “Monteverdi the was the availability of the “Festival-Friends” offers Modern Man,” Robert Hollingworth, singer and for concertgoers who booked tickets for several director of the ensemble I Fagiolini, very clearly concerts and feel closely connected to the festiillustrated the context from the perspective of val. The public took up this offer so well that it musical history to festival visitors. The event will be continued in the years to come. The longpresented internationally renowned ensembles standing cooperation with the Lufthansa system such as the Gabrieli Consort & Players, the Europartner Rolls-Royce and the media partnership pean Union Baroque Orchestra, La Risonanza, with BBC Radio 3 again proved to be successSt James’s Baroque with the Westminster Abbey ful. The concerts broadcast by the BBC had an Choir as well as La Venexiana, who gave a granaudience of about 800,000 listeners around the diose opening concert of Monteverdi’s Vespers. world. In addition, Baroque Fever, Imaginarium and Paolo Pandolfo were ensembles and a soloist The next Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music less well known but artistically absolutely of equal takes place in May 2011. Under the motto rank who came to St. John’s, Smith Square. “Hanseatic to Adriatic – Journey through the Heart of Europe” the latest edition of the festival describes a wide arc from northern and central Germany to Venice by way of Poland, Bohemia and Austria. From Buxtehude and Bach, Telemann, Zelenka and Biber to Vivaldi. Among the performing artists are the Collegium Vocale Gent conducted by Philippe Herreweghe, The English Concert, Gustav Leonhardt, Cantus Cölln, Hille Perl, St James’s Baroque and the Sonatori della Gioiosa Marca. www.lufthansafestival.org.uk The Gabrieli Consort & Players have been among the top ensembles of ancient music for many years. They created one of the festival’s highlights at St. John’s, Smith Square with Handels “La Resurrezione.” 98 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a A good tradition: The Lufthansa New Year’s Concert For connoisseurs of classical music the Lufthansa Wojciech Wieczorek, who is exceptionally talent­ New Year’s Concert in Berlin is always one of e ­ d, gave an impressive performance of their art. the first highpoints in the musical calendar of The musical repertoire included masterworks by the year. The traditional event, which took place Mendelssohn-Bartholdy and Beethoven. For the for the 14th time on January 18, 2011, attracted first time, concertgoers were not welcomed by about 1,200 guests to the concert hall at GendarWolfgang Mayrhuber, but by Christoph Franz, the menmarkt – among them numerous Lufthansa new Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO status customers and representatives of politics, of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. business and culture. The RIAS Youth Orchestra directed by the American conductor Garrett Keast and the young Polish violinist Entirely public: “Kunst privat!” In the context of the project “Kunst privat!” (literally: Private art!) the company opened the doors of the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt (LAC) on June 19 and 20, 2010 to give interested citizens the opportunity to view the artwork specifically created for this building by seven artists. The annual initiative of the Hesse Ministry of Economics, Transport and Development, which took place for the sixth time in 2010, counted 30 international corporations and regional companies in Frankfurt, Wiesbaden and Darmstadt among its participants – includ­ing numerous banks, insurance companies and medium-sized companies. The private collections, which underscore the cultural commitment of companies, are usually open only to employees. The picture on the left shows the enormous neon sculpture by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans in the LAC. School’s in for equal opportunity: “Teach First Deutschland” Lufthansa supported the charitable initiative tions and guided tours of Lufthansa facilities. “Teach First Deutschland” for the third year in www.teachfirst.de 2010. The Group was the first DAX-30 corporation to get involved in this project in 2008. Teach First For information about activities that Lufthansa has aims at creating better educational opportunities jointly organized with universities, see the chapter for children and young people. The initiative facili“Corporate training and continuing education” on tates the school education of pupils with adverse page 57. starting conditions by enabling additional, competent teaching staff (fellows) to become active for two years at selected schools. Since the start of the school year 2010, about 100 fellows have been active at schools in Baden-Württemberg, Berlin, Hamburg and North-Rhine/Westphalia. The Lufthansa School of Business supports this involvement with free seminars for these new teachers. In addition, the Group offers the fellows opportunities to get to know the Lufthansa world and its options for starting a career at presentaa Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 99 Sports sponsorship Lufthansa – The “Airline of Sports” Lufthansa further expanded its role as the “Airline with the slogan “Your name for Germany,” which of Sports” in 2010. At the beginning of the year, aims at generating additional funds for high-perthe commitment focused in particular on the Winformance sports among the Group’s employees, ter Games and Paralympic Games in Vancouver. passengers and customers. In the reporting year, The company looked after the German national the number of donations could be increased teams on the way to their competitions and significantly by the use of a truck that toured Gerserved as first contact in all questions of mobility many, as well as other events and campaigns. on location for the athletes and officials of the German Olympic Sport Confederation (DOSB) Since January 2010, Lufthansa has also been and the German Paralympic Sports Confederation National Sponsor of the organization promoting (DBS). Munich’s candidature for the Winter Games and Paralympic Games 2018. With compreIn the context of the patronage program of the hensive communication measures the comGerman Sports Aid Foundation, three young athpany is making a contribution to increasing the letes sponsored by Lufthansa were able to crown population’s level of acceptance of the applicatheir participation in the disciplines of Nordic tion and creating a positive environment for the combination, Alpine skiing and biathlon with a vote of the International Olympic Committee. For medal. This kind of advancement of highly talent­ example, in March 2011 a large-scale welcome ­ed young athletes is one central area of supgate above the highway access road at Munich port given by the German Sports Aid Foundation Airport drew attention to the application. The through Lufthansa. Currently, ten athletes receive airport’s Terminal 2 also sported an Olympic look a financial supplement to the foundation’s basic under the motto “Winning the Games.” Lufthansa support. In 2011, the emphasis will be on the also offers the opportunity to anyone interested to Summer Games that will take place in 2012 in support the Olympic application via a dedi­cated London. Web site. Lufthansa has been the foundation’s first nation­ The different facets of Lufthansa’s commitment ­al sponsor since 2007 and regularly supports to sports are described in the current brochure events such as the “Golden Sports Pyramid,” “Lufthansa – Airline des Sports” (available in the “Sports Ball,” the “Festival of Encounter” and German only) the “Elite Forum” in Liebenberg. Furthermore, www.lufthansa.com/verantwortung Lufthansa supports the campaign of the German Sports Aid Foundation, launched in January 2010 In addition, Lufthansa has compiled everything that sports fans might want to know about sports events on its Internet page (available in German only) www.lufthansa.com/fanflug Lufthansa underscores Munich’s application for the Winter Games and the Paralympic Games 2018 on the Internet page (available in German only) www.lufthansa.com/muenchen2018 Lufthansa employees support top athletes: Impressions of the Sports Aid Foundation Day at the Lufthansa Aviation Center with the participation of biathlete Miriam Gössner, one of the athletes sponsored by Lufthansa. 100 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 a Glossary ACARE – Advisory Council for Aeronauat 8 to 12 kilometers above sea level at tion process. Currently, about 2 percent tics Research in Europe the poles. The temperature in the troof man-made CO2 emissions are due to Created in 2001, the ACARE council popause, the transition layer between worldwide air traffic. consists of representatives from the EU troposphere and stratosphere, drops to Source: IPCC/WRI 2007 member states, EU Commission, Euroonly about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It control, the European aerospace indusrises again in the stratosphere. The soCarbon monoxide (CO) try, research institutions and others. Its called ozone layer is also located in the Chemical compound consisting of one main task is to develop and implement stratosphere at altitudes of about 25 to carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in the strategic research agenda (SRA) for 30 kilometers. Today’s commercial airthe incomplete combustion process of Europe’s aerospace sector. craft fly at cruising altitudes of between substances containing carbon. For airwww.acare4europe.org 8 and 13 kilometers. According to the craft engines, the level of CO emissions latest research, air traffic emissions do depends greatly on the thrust level: The AEA – Association of European Airlines not contribute to the reduction of the emissions per kilogram of fuel burned www.aea.be ozone layer. are higher at idle settings, while taxiing and on approach than during the climb­ AIRE – Atlantic Interoperability Initiative B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeitsing and cruising phases. to Reduce Emissions kreis für Umweltbewusstes Management Transatlantic program in the framework e.V. – Federal Working Group for EnviChapter-4 aircraft of SESAR to reduce emissions from air ronmentally-Aware Management Aircraft that meet the regulations of the transport. B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the strictest noise protection standard curfirst independent environmental initiative rently in force – the Chapter-4 noise ASPI – Advanced Sustainable Perforof German business. At currently 450 standard. The Environmental Commitmance Indices members, it is the largest of its kind in tee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this Lufthansa features in the ASPI Index, Europe. Lufthansa has been a member standard in September 2001. As a result, which was set up in 2001. This index of the Working Group since 1997. all aircraft newly certified from 2006 depicts the financial performance of the www.baumev.de must remain cumulatively below the 120 best companies of the Dow Jones Chapter-3 noise levels by 10 decibels EURO STOXX according to the criteria of BDI – Bundesverband der Deutschen or more. The maximum noise emission sustainability. The prerequisite for being Industrie e.V. – Federal Association of values for aircraft were introduced by listed in the ASPI Index is the systematic German Industry the ICAO under Annex 16 to the convenintegration of the long-term interests of www.bdi-online.de tion on international civil aviation. Noise stakeholders in the context of corporate levels depend on the aircraft’s maximum policy, strategy and activities. The index BDLI – Bundesverband der Deutschen takeoff weight and number of engines. is run by the agency Vigeo in cooperaLuftund Raumfahrtindustrie e.V. – tion with Stoxx Ltd. Federal Association of German Aviation Cash flow www.vigeo.com and Space Industry www.bdli.de Indicator used to assess a company’s financial strength and earnings potential. ATM – Air Traffic Management BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen It is calculated as the difference between Air Traffic Management ensures both the Luftverkehrswirtschaft – Federal Associthe inflow and outflow of cash and cash safe and efficient movement of aircraft in ation of the German Aviation Industry equivalents generated from ongoing all phases of operations. www.bdl.aero business activities during the financial year. Atmosphere Carbon dioxide (CO2) The whole mass of air surrounding the Gas resulting in nature from the burning CDA – Continuous Descent Approach Earth. It is divided into various layers, or decomposition of organic masses (e.g. Procedure for a flight’s approach phase distinguished from one another by plant material) and from the breathing that reduces noise emissions 20 to distinct differences in vertical bands process of humans and animals. The 40 kilometers ahead of the runway of temperature. Important for air trafgreenhouse gas CO2 remains for about threshold (Frankfurt). At Frankfurt Airport, fic are the two lower layers: the tropo­ 100 years in the atmosphere. Scientists it can only be used at night due to ca­­ sphere and, above it, the stratosphere. attribute the increase of atmospheric pacity restrictions. The troposphere’s upper boundaries CO2 over the last 100 years to the burn­ vary depending on season and latitude. ing of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural CO see “Carbon monoxide” They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilomegas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 CO2 see “Carbon dioxide” ters above sea level at the equator, and tonnes of CO2 result from the combus­ a Balance 2011 101 Codeshare 1,000 Hz) and the pain threshold at the econsense – Forum for Sustainable A codeshare is a flight segment that is value “130.” An increase of 10 dB corDevelopment of German Businesses sold under the flight number of one airresponds to a tenfold increase in the An association of globally active corline, while being operated either partly or sound’s intensity. For the perceived porations and organizations in German entirely by another airline. Both compavolume, a difference of 10 dB correindustry that have integrated the guiding nies maintain their independent profiles sponds to half or double the volume. principle of sustainable development in the market. However, the human ear is not equally into their corporate strategies. Lufthansa sensitive across the entire range of freis a founding member of this crossCompliance quencies. Low and high sounds are not industry network, which was set up in Compliance describes the entirety of all perceived as being equally loud even at 2000. www.econsense.de measures that ensure the lawful conduct the same intensity. For measurements, of companies, their management bodies this difference is equalized and noted EMAS – Environmental Management and their employees with regard to legal accordingly. The best known such notaand Audit Scheme directives and interdictions. tion is the “A value,” marked by the index Colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the regulations. European regulations Corporate responsibility (CR) EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Deciconcerning environmental management Corporate responsibility expresses to bel) unit is used internationally. and certification. which degree a company assumes accountability for the effects its business Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik Equivalent continuous noise activities have on employees, customers, (DNWE) – German Network for Busilevel (Leq) society and the environment. ness Ethics The Leq is a measure for the energetic DNWE is a nonprofit organization, in average of all sound pressure levels Corporate University which Lufthansa has been a member over a defined period of time. All sound Corporate education institution for prosince January 1998. DNWE has about events that differ in intensity and duration fessionals and managers. See also 600 current members, including many are summarized according to mathemat­ Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB). from German business, politics, religion ical rules. The resulting average value is and science. At the same time, DNWE is an accepted and proven measurement Customer Profile Index (CPI) a national association of the European of the “noise quantity” occurring over an The Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, in Business Ethics Network (EBEN). observed time interval. cooperation with renowned institutes, www.dnwe.de continuously conduct worldwide surveys Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index and thus assess the level of customer Diversity The independent Belgian agency Ethibel satisfaction. These data are compiled In a corporate context, diversity refers has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investin the Customer Profile Index, which to all characteristics that distinguish ment Register and the Ethibel Sustainainforms the entire company in the form employees from one another. Diverbility Index (ESI). The ESI offers institu­ of a single figure about the current status sity management offers approaches tional investors, asset managers, banks of customer satisfaction. for handling human differences for the and investors a comprehensive overbenefit of company and employees alike. view of the financial results of compaCVA – Cash Value Added nies that distinguish themselves by purIndicator for mea­suring performance DLR – German Aerospace Center suing sustainable business practices. of value creation. When the cash flow The DLR serves scientific, economic Since the merger with Vigeo and Stock generated in a period (EBITDAplus) is and social purposes. It maintains 30 at Stake in 2005, this index is part of greater than the minimum cash flow institutes, testing facilities and operaVigeo. However, Forum Ethibel continues required to cover the cost of capital, the tional sites. Its goal is to help – using to be responsible for the ethical criteria CVA is positive and value is created. the means of aviation and space flight and the composition of the ESI. Updates – to secure and shape the future. In its of and calculations for the index are perDecibel (dB) work, the DLR also seeks cooperation formed by the internationally renowned Measuring unit for the intensity and and allocation of research tasks among index provider Standard & Poor’s. pressure of sound. The difference in European partners. www.dlr.de www.ethibel.org intensity between the softest sound the human ear can perceive and the pain Dow Jones Sustainability World Index FAB – Functional Airspace Block threshold is 1:10 trillion. To depict this The leading sustainability index worldInstrument of the Single European Sky to enormous range objectively, acoustics wide lists the top 10 percent of compaevolve the fragmented ATM over Europe, uses the logarithmic decibel scale. On nies in each industry, whose sustainable oriented by national airspace bound­ this scale, the value “0” is assigned to approach to corporate management is ar­ies, into a cross-border coordinated the perception threshold (for a sound of exemplary. ATM. Currently, there are nine different 102 Balance 2011 a FAB projects in the EU that have reached Great Circle Distance genous hard-wall surface at the engine different levels of development. Accord­ Shortest distance between two points on inlet that significantly reduce noise ing to SES regulations, the EU member the Earth’s surface, measured in kilomeemissions. states must take the measures necesters (great circle kilometers) or nautical sary to implement the FABs by Decemmiles. The center of a great circle is the IATA – International Air Transport ber 4, 2012. center of the Earth. Association The umbrella organization of interna­ FABEC – Functional Airspace Block Greenhouse gases tional commercial aviation. Europe Central Gaseous substances that contribute www.iata.org Shared airspace that Germany, France, to the greenhouse effect and have Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands both natural and human (anthropoICAO – International Civil Aviation and Switzerland intend to set up by genic) causes. The most important Organization December 2012. natural greenhouse gases are water A United Nations agency that develops vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2) and internationally binding norms for civil Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT) methane (CH4); the most important aviation. www.icao.int Airlines distinguish between freight peranthropogenic greenhouse gas is carformance offered (FTKO, freight tonne bon dioxide from the combustion of fosICC – International Chamber of kilometers offered) and its sold freight sil fuels. It accounts for about 77 percent Commerce performance (FTKT, freight tonne kiloof the greenhouse effect attributable The ICC was founded in 1919 as the meters transported). See also tonne to human activities. Methane, primarily World Business Organization. More than kilometers. generated by agriculture and large-scale 1,500 business organizations and over animal husbandry, contributes about 14 5,000 corporations are organized in the FTSE4Good percent to the anthropogenic greenworldwide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa Index introduced by the Financial Times house effect. Other artificial greenhouse has been a member since 1955. and the London Stock Exchange in gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorowww.icc-deutschland.de 2001. The FTSE4Good lists only compacarbons (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexanies with above-average performance in fluoride (SF6) and chlorofluorocarbons ILO standards the areas of human rights, social stan(CFCs). Source: World Resources InstiWork standards of the International dards and environmental protection. tute (WRI), 2005. Labor Organization, which include Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. among others the bans on child labor, www.ftse4good.com Hub forced labor and discrimination as well In air transport, a hub refers to a central as the fundamental right of freedom of Fuel Dump traffic point or an airline’s transfer airassociation for employees. Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency port. Passengers as well as freight are situations. A procedure used on long-haul transported from their original starting Pro Recycling Paper Initiative aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g. point to one of the airline’s “home airFounded in 2000, the initiative unites in the event of technical problems or ports” (hub). From there, they are carvarious industries and aims at promoting serious passenger illness) to decrease ried to their destination by a second an intensive usage and the acceptance the aircraft’s weight to the maximum perflight alongside passengers and freight of recycling paper. Lufthansa is one of missible landing weight. In the event of a from other departure points, but with the the initiative’s founding members. fuel dump, special air­space is assigned to same destination. www.papiernetz.de the aircraft, if possible above uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually HVO biofuel – Hydrotreated IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on dumped at altitudes of 4-8 kilometers. A Vegetable Oil Climate Change minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a Biofuel based on hydrotreated plant An international UN panel of experts minimum speed of 500 km/h are required. oil, which Lufthansa is testing for six on climate change, founded in 1988 The aircraft may not fly a fully closed months under regular operating conby the World Meteorological Organicircle. The dumped kerosene forms a ditions. Hydrotreated vegetable oils zation (WMO) and the United Nations fine mist in the turbulence behind the are plant oils that are transformed into Environmental Program (UNEP). The aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive hydrocarbons by means of a catalatest worldwide scientific, technical and methods of analysis, no contamination lytic reaction involving hydrogen socio-economic information, relevant for has been determined so far in plant or soil (hydrogenation). climate change, are analyzed and prosamples after fuel dumps. cessed to advance the understanding of HWFAP – Hard Wall Forward climate change. Global Compact see Acoustic Panels www.ipcc.ch “UN Global Compact” Noise-absorbing panels with a homoa Balance 2011 103 ISO 14001 – International environmental meters have been increased in modern Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT) management system aircraft engines to significantly reduce Measure for transport performance in Companies hereby receive an effective fuel consumption as well as emissions passenger carriage (number of passeninstrument that allows them to take enviof carbon monoxide and unburned gers multiplied by distance flown). Here ronmental aspects into consideration in hydrocarbons. However, future combus­ one distinguishes between available decisions relating to corporate policies tion chambers of an advanced design transport performance (PKO, passenand to continuously improve the situacould help reduce NOX emissions by ger kilometers offered or synonymously tion of environmental care in relation to 85 percent. Depending on the type of SKO, seat kilometers offered) and actual all daily tasks. www.iso.org aircraft and operational conditions, this transport performance (PKT, passenger value varies between 6 and 20 kilos per kilometers transported). Kerosene tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic has a Fuel for jet and propeller engines that share of 2-3 percent in man-made NOX RSB – Roundtable for Sustainable is chemically similar to petroleum. Like emissions. Climate models show that Biofuels diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is nitrogen oxides have increased the conInternational initiative to develop a global produced by distilling crude oil; unlike centration of ozone at cruising altitudes standardization and certification system these fuels, kerosene does not contain by a few percentage points. for agrofuels. halogenated additives. NOX see “Nitrogen oxides” SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) Users Group Germany’s first corporate university. It No-frills carrier Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufactur­ has received multiple awards for the Airline which largely offers low ticket ers and providers of refinery technology worldwide standards it establishes for prices but with reduced service levels whose goal is to accelerate the developthe development and training of profesand sometimes additional charges on ment and commercialization of sustain­ sionals and managers. The LHSB supboard and on the ground. Flights are able fuels for the air transport industry. ports processes of change within the mostly from secondary airports and Group and promotes a shared managetherefore outside population centers. SES – Single European Sky ment culture. Describes the efforts of the European Operational towing Commission undertaken since the late Mentoring Procedure of pushing aircraft back from 1990s with the goal of restructuring the Instrument for targeted support of junior their parking positions by means of tracEuropean airspace in terms of optiemployees. Focuses on regular personal tors or tow trucks until they reach the mizing traffic flows and dissolving the contacts between mentor and mentee. point from which they taxi under their airspace’s fragmented structure, defined own power. by national borders and interests, by MRO creating a limited number of Functional Acronym standing for maintenance, Ozone Airspace Blocks (FABs). repair and overhaul of aircraft Molecule consisting of three oxygen atoms formed in the stratosphere. The SESAR – SES Air Traffic Management MSC standard – Marine Stewardship ozone layer located in the stratosphere Research Council has an important protective function, This project is carried out by Eurocontrol Leading worldwide certification program as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. within the EU project SES with the proj­ for fish and seafood from sustainable While ozone at higher altitudes is broect partners and in close coordination fishing. ken down massively by chlorofluorowith the ICAO. carbons (CFCs), it develops close to the MTOW ground under the influence of sunlight SJU – SESAR Joint Undertaking Acronym standing for maximum takeoff from numerous precursor substances A publicly and privately funded EU proj­ weight of an aircraft (“summer smog”) and irritates the ect involving Eurocontrol and industrial mucous membranes. At current levels, partners (e.g. Airbus). Nitrogen oxides (NOX) nitrogen oxide emissions from air traffic Chemical compounds consisting of one at cruising altitudes cause an increase Seat kilometer nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX in atmospheric ozone, analogous to the Measure for the transport capacity is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 generation of summer smog, estimated available (SKO, seat kilometers offered). compounds. Natural sources include by scientists at 3-4 percent on the heav­i­ lightning and microbes in the soil. Nitroly-flown North Atlantic routes. Seat load factor (SLF) gen oxides are also generated in comPassenger-related measure of utilizabustion processes under high pressures tion of aircraft: The ratio of transport perand temperatures. Both of these paraformance (PKT, passenger kilometers 104 Balance 2011 a transported) to capacity (PKO, passenTransparency International Work-life balance ger kilometers offered). Anti-corruption organization, of which Refers to a healthy equilibrium between Lufthansa has been a member since work and private life. Slot 1999. www.transparency.de Designated point in time at which an WRI – World Resources Institute airline may use an airport’s runway for UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons Founded in 1982 as a nonprofit organitakeoff or landing. Organic mixture of carbon and hydrozation. This independent environmengen that results from the incomplete tal think tank has its headquarters in Stakeholder combustion of fuels containing hydroWashington, D.C. and is concerned with Groups or individuals who formulate carbons or from the evaporation of fuel. subjects related their demands on a company (e.g. to global warming, diverse ecosystems, attainment of corporate goals) and purVOC – Volatile Organic Compounds government systems and structures, sue these either personally or through Volatile organic substances that are renewable energies and the use of representatives. This includes share­ characterized by high steam pressure resources. The WRI’s work goes beyond holders, employees, customers, and thus evaporate easily into the atmoscientific research and aims at finding suppliers and others. sphere at room temperature. VOCs are pragmatic solutions to protect the envipresent in solvents, cleaning agents, ronment, advance sustainable developSustainable development fuels and other substances. In the pres­ ment and improve people’s general life According to the guiding principle of ence of nitrogen oxides and intense situation. www.wri.org sustainable development formulated sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of in 1987 by the World Commission for ozone. Development and the Environment (Brundtland Commission), “sustainable UNEP – The United Nations Environdevelopment is a form of development mental Program www.unep.org that meets the needs of today’s gener­ ation without jeopardizing the abilities UN Global Compact of future generations to satisfy their Global network in whose context the own.” For businesses, this means acting United Nations cooperates with privateresponsibly not only in economic matsector corporations and civil action ters but also in environmental and social organizations to advance human rights, issues. All three aspects – economic, labor standards, environmental protececological and social – must be kept in tion and anti-corruption measures. Deutbalance. sche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT) www.unglobalcompact.org Measure of transport performance (payload multiplied by distance). One disWater vapor tinguishes between available transport The most important greenhouse gas, performance (TKO, tonne kilometers even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without offered) and the actual transport perforwater vapor from natural sources, the mance (TKT, tonne kilometers transEarth’s surface would be around 22 ported). In calculating payloads, passendegrees Celsius cooler. This makes gers are taken into account by means of water vapor responsible for two-thirds a statistical average weight. of the natural greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilo of keroTrace gases sene burned, 1.24 kilos of water vapor Gases of which there are only very small are released. Concerns that air trafamounts present in the atmosphere fic might increase the concentration of (e.g. ozone, methane, nitrous oxide, etc.) water vapor in the stratosphere and thus but which are of great significance for change the climate have been refuted the Earth’s climate and the chemical by scientific research. The German processes in the atmosphere. Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that even a one hundred-fold increase in the quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal. a Balance 2011 105 Contact partners Environment Human Resources/Social Issues Group Environmental Issues Group Human Resources Policies Dr. Karlheinz Haag Dr. Martin Schmitt Vice President Group Environmental Issues Senior Vice President Executive Personnel Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 94974 Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 62328 karlheinz.haag@dlh.de martin.schmitt@dlh.de Jan-Ole Jacobs Monika Rühl Environmental Management Director Change Management and Diversity Telephone: +49 (0)30 8875 3020 Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 28300 ole.jacobs@dlh.de monika.ruehl@dlh.de Dr. Gerd Saueressig Employee Safety Noise Research Volker Schierle Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 90890 Director Employee Safety gerd.saueressig@dlh.de volker.schierle@dlh.de Dr. Andreas Waibel HelpAlliance e.V. Emissions/Climate Rita Diop Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 93816 First Chairwoman andreas.waibel@dlh.de Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 47872 rita.diop@dlh.de Jürgen Briese Cosmic Radiation Cargo Human Care e.V. Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 93964 Fokko Doyen juergen.briese@dlh.de First Chairman fokko.doyen@dlh.de Corporate Communications Investor Relations Stefanie Stotz Team Leader Corporate and Finance Frank Hülsmann Communications Senior Vice President Investor Relations Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 51014 Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 28001 stefanie.stotz@dlh.de investor.relations@dlh.de Dr. Peter Schneckenleitner Jobst Honig Spokesman Politics, Environment and Investor Relations Manager Sustainability Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 28011 Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 94969 jobst.honig@dlh.de peter.schneckenleitner@dlh.de Lufthansa Group companies Environmental Sponsorship Program Axel Kleinschumacher You can find contact partners in the Lufthansa Director Corporate & Internal Communications Group companies at: Lufthansa Group www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 36899 axel.kleinschumacher@dlh.de Please note that www.lufthansa.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service. Under the header “Help & Contact” you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa. 106 Balance 2011 a Memberships Lufthansa also documents its striving for responFurthermore, Lufthansa is an active member in sible business practices with numerous mem­ a number of sustainability and environmental berships in environmental and sustainabilityworking groups and committees, including: re­lated organizations. Furthermore, in the context of different initiatives the aviation company seeks • AEA – Climate Change Working Group active exchanges with other economic organizations and social groups. The goal is to partici• BDI – Committee on the Environment pate in shaping the future of sustainable business practices and social responsibility, and to further • BDLI – Working Group “Eco-efficient Flying” develop the company’s own activities. • DRV – German Travel Association – • B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis für Environmental Committee Umweltbewusstes Management – Federal Working Group for Environmentally-Aware • econsense – Management Circle and several Management project groups (Sustainability Management, www.baumev.de Renewable Resources, Sustainability/Financial Markets) • BDI – Initiative Wirtschaft für Klimaschutz – Initiative of German Industry for Climate Protection • IATA – Environmental Committee www.wirtschaftfuerklimaschutz.eu • Star Alliance – Environmental Concept Team • BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen Luftverkehrswirtschaft – Federal Association of the • VDR – The German Business Travel German Aviation Industry Association – Sustainability Committee www.bdl.aero • DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik – German Network for Business Ethics www.dnwe.de • E ABA – European Algae Biomass Association www.eaba-association.eu • econsense – Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V. – Forum for Sustainable Development of German Business www.ecosense.de • ICC – International Chamber of Commerce, German chapter www.icc-deutschland.de • German Air Transport Initiative www.initiative-luftverkehr.de • Pro Recycling Paper Initiative www.papiernetz.de • SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group www.safug.org • Transparency International www.transparency.de • UN Global Compact (see on page 20) www.unglobalcompact.org a Balance 2011 107 Deutsche Lufthansa AG Corporate Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany Balance is a registered title. © May 2011 www.lufthansa.com/responsibility 108
