Volvo Car Corporation 2010/11 CORPORATE REPORT WITH SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 4 CONTENTS HIGHLIGHTS 1 CEO COMMENT 2–3 OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY 4–5 GLOBAL SITUATION 6–7 ONE TONNE LIFE 8–9 PROFITABILITY 10–11 O view Our i i bl development t i bilit Sustainable off sustainability S d l is ENVIRONMENT – ELECTRIFICATION 12–14 development that meets the needs of the present without SAFETY – ELECTRIFICATION 15 compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Read more about Volvo Cars’ approach to PRODUCTS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 16 sustainability. PRODUCTION AND THE ENVIRONMENT 17 PAGE 20 SAFETY 18–21 REPORTING PRINCIPLES 22 STAKEHOLDERS 23 EMPLOYEES 24–27 SUPPLIERS 28–29 SUSTAINABILITY FACTS 30–31 PRODUCTS 32 CORPORATE FACTS 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 34 R Roadd trains t i Th i i i l test off a road The initial d train i at Volvo’s V l test track provided positive results. Volvo Cars is participating in the EU EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 35 Sartre project in which seven companies in four countries are THIS IS VOLVO CARS 36 developing systems for road trains, or platooning, which may become a future complement to driving oneself. CONTACT INFORMATION “ An increasing number of customers are looking for fuel efﬁciency, alternative fuels and innovative electric cars to achieve sustainable mobility. And that doesn’t mean having to compromise on the pleasure of driving a luxury car. Stefan Jacoby, CEO INNEHÅLL PAGE 8 PAGE 10 One O ttonne lifelif C Can an average S Swedish di h ffamily il meet the UN’s P Proﬁ ﬁttability bilit V l C Volvo ill iinvest USD 10 billi Cars will billion in an climate goals? In January 2011, Volvo Cars and various business aggressive product plan in the next ﬁve-year period. The partners launched a six-month project to help a Swedish family aim is to sell proﬁtable cars in the luxury segment. The key lead a climate-neutral life. to success is in designing cars based on human needs, to facilitate people’s everyday lives. PAGE 26 PAGE 33 E l Employees V l C Volvo Cars’’ ffamous crash-test h llaboratory b celebrated C Corporatet ffacts t IIn 20 2010 0 sales 2010, l iincreaseddbby 11 11.6 percent its tenth anniversary in 2010. It encompasses a number of to 373,525 cars. The result was transformed into a proﬁt of professions, from crash dummy engineers to biomechanics and 2,340 MSEK. A large share of this upturn is attributable to trafﬁc-safety researchers. Some ﬁfty different dummies contribute increased sales of eco-sound cars, in particular. The largest to the creation of world-class crash safety. market is the US, followed by Sweden and the UK. HIGHLIGHTS Volvo Cars ended 2010 with a global sales increase of 11.6 percent Volvo V50 DRIVe was the year’s best-selling eco-certiﬁed car model in compared with 2009, and sales amounting to 373,525 cars. The Sweden for the third consecutive year. During 2010, environmentally company returned to proﬁtability during the ﬁrst quarter of 2010, and certiﬁed Volvo cars were ranked ﬁrst (V50 DRIVe), third (V70 Flexifuel) the positive trend continued throughout the remainder of the year. and fourth (V70 DRIVe) on the sales list. Eco-certiﬁed cars accounted for about 20 percent of the Company’s total sales during 2010. After a year of negotiations, Zhejiang Geely Holding Group acquired Volvo Cars from Ford Motor Company, as of August 2, 2010. Geely Volvo XC60, equipped with City Safety, was awarded the Euro NCAP and Volvo Cars continue to operate as two separate companies under advanced safety award for new and exceptional safety technology, a one owner, which guarantees Volvo’s continued independence. certiﬁcate bestowed for the ﬁrst time at the Paris Motor Show. The all-new Volvo S60 and V60 received a warm reception and An electric-powered Volvo is just as safe as every new Volvo model: favourable media reviews, combined with several international awards. at the Detroit International Auto Show in January 2011, Volvo Cars The S60, with its globally unique Pedestrian Detection with Full Auto was the ﬁrst car manufacturer to exhibit a crash-damaged electric car. Brake was unveiled at the Geneva Motor Show. Although the car, a C30 Electric, collided with a barrier at 64 km/h, its vital electrical components were not damaged. Volvo Cars is one of the strongest brands in environmental work and social responsibility, according to the Sustainable Brands survey, in which more than 3,000 Swedish consumers ranked the most sustainable brands in the Swedish market. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 1 CEO COMMENT 2010 was a historic year for Volvo Car Corporation. After 11 years as a subsidiary of Ford Motor Company, Volvo Cars became an independent company under the ownership of Zhejiang Geely Holding. The sale was completed on August 2 and a new board was appointed. SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY THROUGH ELECTRIFICATION “ Irrespective of whether the centre of gravity is in the West or the East, climate change and sustainable mobility are vital issues facing society and industry. 2 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 CEO COMMENT As the new CEO it is encouraging to be able to show positive results and Environmental focus on a wide front increased volumes during a year that has brought immense changes to the Electric cars are one of several tracks that make up our environmental and elecautomobile industry in general and to Volvo Cars in particular. triﬁcation strategy. At the Geneva Motor Show in early March we revealed our March 2010 saw the launch of our new sedan model, the Volvo S60, at next move – the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid. This car packs the best features of the Geneva motor show. Its sibling model, the Volvo V60 Sportswagon, was three different car types into one – an attractive sports wagon with all the added launched in Paris in October. Both cars have attracted signiﬁcant attention for appeal of leading-edge hybrid technologies. Through a partnership with energy their design and world-leading safety technology; Pedestrian Detection with full company Vattenfall, we will be the ﬁrst car-maker to have this new-generation auto brake. hybrid on the market already next year. In the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid, the electric engine is supplemented by an Recovery and restructure for the automobile market economical diesel with carbon dioxide emissions averaging just 49 grams per The global car industry is gradually recovering from the crisis years of kilometre. This corresponds to fuel consumption of 1.9 litres per 100 km. 2008–2009. Volumes are increasing but weak labour and housing markets – In 2010, we launched a pioneering project in Sweden, together with partprimarily in the USA and southern Europe – continue to have a negative impact ners, to ﬁnd out if it is possible to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from seven on private consumption. tonnes to one tonne per person and year – the level considered as sustainable The vehicle industry is undergoing a restructure, with focus increasingly for our planet. Hence the project’s name: “One Tonne Life”. As of January 2011, shifting towards Asia. With expected annual new-car sales of 17 to 18 million a family has the opportunity to test a future climate-smart lifestyle and housing units in 2011 and 2012, China will remain the most important growth market. alternative just outside Stockholm. The technically advanced villa in which they The developing markets are also rapidly expanding their role. live generates its own energy from the sun, and even recharges the family’s car – a Volvo C30 Electric. Sustainable mobility continues to be a key issue Irrespective of whether the centre of economic gravity is in the west or east, Responsibility throughout the chain climate change and sustainable mobility are vital issues facing society and As a car maker our responsibility stretches throughout the value chain. From industry. The environment is in focus at Volvo Cars, along with safety and quality initial order at the supplier, through the production process and the car’s entire – values that have been the cornerstones ever since Volvo was founded back lifetime, to ﬁnal material recycling. We aim to run a responsible operation and in 1927. the demands we impose on our own production units also apply to those of our The developments in the ﬁeld of electriﬁcation are clear for all to see, suppliers. That is why the company’s values on issues such as human rights and not least at the international car shows. In 2010, we launched the Volvo C30 good working conditions are emphasised as clear-cut demands on our suppliers. Electric, an electric car which offers exactly the same levels of safety, comfort The fact that Volvo Cars is now under new ownership does not alter this basic and interior space as the standard version. The difference is that it is powered requirement. Neither is there any compromise on the company’s view of and support by electricity – so it emits no exhaust emissions into the local environment. for the Global Compact’s ten principles, which encompass human rights, working Volvo Cars has carried out a number of tests in our advanced crash test conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. laboratory to verify the car’s safety. Our excellent results would have given As before, this year’s corporate report has been integrated with our sustainability ﬁve stars had this been a EuroNCAP test – and this clearly demonstrates our report. We have adopted this approach in order to demonstrate that sustainability leadership within car safety. issues are part and parcel of our everyday work here at Volvo Cars. A complete GRI In early January we shipped our crash-tested C30 Electric to the Detroit report can be read on our website. Do please submit any ideas you have about how Auto Show to publicise our results after a collision at 40 miles per hour. Both we can further develop our sustainability commitment at Volvo Cars. the battery and the electric cables remained intact after the collision. And, what was most important, the signals from the crash dummies translated into minor Stefan Jacoby injury risks. President and CEO, Volvo Car Corporation VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 3 OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY Volvo Cars’ view of sustainable development is based on Brundtland’s deﬁnition of future generations’ requirements and a ﬁnancial statement comprising three elements: Economy, Environment and Social Responsibility. VOLVO CARS’ APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY “ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS DEVELOPMENT THAT MEETS THE NEEDS OF THE PRESENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE ABILITY OF FUTURE GENERATIONS TO MEET THEIR OWN NEEDS. BRUNDTLAND Proﬁtability Environmental care The goal of Volvo Cars is to sell cars proﬁtably in the luxury segment. The key Environmental care is based on a holistic perspective, involving the environmento success is to design cars around people – cars that match customer dreams tal adaptation of a car’s entire lifecycle. Volvo Cars has selected electriﬁcation and requirements. The luxury concept includes Scandinavian design, smart as the gateway to sustainable mobility. This choice entails radical changes for engineering art and intuitive application. An aggressive product plan, including the company’s product strategy, as well as research and development, for which investment in new plants and a research centre in China, offers the potential for considerable expertise has been built up around electrically powered mobility. proﬁtable growth. Sustainable proﬁtability will be attained by delivering attributes A new Volvo is now available with carbon-dioxide emissions as low as 99 grams that customers demand and for which they are willing to pay. per kilometre. The targeted objective is a future without hazardous emissions. As early as 2012, the ﬁrst series-produced Plug-in-Hybrid will be available from Volvo Cars. Safety Volvo Cars’ vision is that by 2020, no serious injuries or fatalities will occur in or by a new Volvo car. That the company’s safety focus applies equally to new, electric cars has been demonstrated in unique crash-safety tests in which highvoltage batteries and cables remained undamaged following collision. Safety programmes are based on research in the behavioural sciences and ﬁndings from real trafﬁc situations, which have paved the way for successful pioneering innovations. 4 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY REVENUE AVERAGE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FOR THE EU CAR FLEET NUMBER OF CARS WITH TOP MARKS IN SAFETY TESTS SEK, billion g/km % 130 200 100 120 190 80 110 180 100 60 90 170 80 40 160 70 20 60 50 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Volvo Cars’ revenue amounted to 113.1 billion SEK, Volvo Cars’ average emissions in Europe declined from 173 g In 2010, Volvo Cars gained the highest ranking in up 18 percent from previous year. Carbon dioxide/km to 157 g Carbon dioxide/km. With DRIVe 59 of 67 completed tests, or 88 percent. and electric hybrid technology, we anticipate strongly reduced emissions in the next few years. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 5 GLOBAL SITUATION Output rose in line with the global economic recovery. Meanwhile, the spiralling crisis in the Euro countries and rising public sector debt in the US, UK and Japan had an adverse impact on the overall economic trend. GLOBAL DRIVING FORCES “ During 2011, emerging markets worldwide are projected to account for 75 percent of global economic growth. Following a number of years during which the climate question topped the In the immediate future, 75 percent of luxury car sales are expected to derive political and media agenda, interest in the issue faded over the course of 2010. from Europe and the US, where sales levels are forecast to rebound to the This is not to suggest that the issue has become less urgent, on the contrary. record heights of 2007. But the widespread disappointment after the Copenhagen Climate ConferIn the years ahead, Asia and the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China) are ence, combined with the debate surrounding the UN’s climate panel and the expected to represent an increasingly signiﬁcant share of the global economy repercussions of the ﬁnancial crisis, meant that the climate issue gained less and a key growth market for the vehicle industry. Emerging markets are projmedia coverage than previously. However, the year ended in success at the ected to account for 75 percent of global economic growth in 2011. Cancún Climate Change Conference. As a result, there is still potential to reach agreement covering the majority of global emissions at next year’s summit Global economic factors meeting in South Africa. Growth rates during 2010 varied from robust economic growth in developing countries to a sluggish recovery among mature economies. Also in Europe, we Recovery for the automotive industry see a major difference between stable growth in the North – with the exception The automotive industry saw an upturn after the ﬁnancial crisis, with 58.7 milof the UK and Ireland – and feeble expansion in the South. lion passenger cars registered in 2010, an increase of 6.3 percent. The market Commodity markets are readily factoring a rapid recovery from the ﬁnancial is expected to continue recovering and already during 2011 new car sales are crisis into future commodity prices, with steel manufacturers attempting to raise expected to surpass the 2007 record of 62.9 million cars. prices despite declining demand. This suggests a dip in steel prices during the latter half of the year. 6 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 GLOBAL SITUATION NEW CAR SALES Proportion of eco-sound cars in Sweden PASSENGER CARS WORLDWIDE TREND IN OIL PRICES TREND IN EXCHANGE RATES USD/barrel EURO/USD 140 1.60 130 1.55 120 1.50 110 1.45 100 1.40 90 1.35 80 1.30 70 1.25 60 1.20 50 1.15 40 1.10 Jan Jan Jan Feb Jan Jan Jan Jan Mar 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 WTI Crude Oil, Spot Brent, ICE, Average Oil prices remained relatively stable during the ﬁrst three quarters of the year, Swedish transport sector with prices hovering around USD 77 per barrel. Prices began to advance, A buoyant Swedish economy and pent-up demand following the ﬁnancial crisis however, during the fourth quarter. led to a 35.6-percent surge in new car registrations in 2010. The proportion Interest-rate policy in various economies governs the readiness and capacof eco-sound cars reached a record 40.1 percent, with the Volvo V50 DRIVe ity to lend funds for car purchases, for instance. The European and US central topping the sales list. banks are expected to maintain their current – very low – interest rates far into Despite the rising number of eco-sound cars in Sweden, the trend over the 2011, and perhaps even into 2012, while the Swedish Riksbank has already past two years of declining emissions from transport has now been broken. The commenced a round of interest-rate hikes. reason is the ever-increasing number of cars and their longer use. The rising The US dollar is expected to weaken in the long term, mostly against Asian proportion of more fuel-efﬁcient new cars and renewable energy consumption currencies, while the Euro remains under pressure as a result of budgetary and does not sufﬁce to offset the increase in trafﬁc. credit problems among a number of Euro-zone countries. A contributory factor In terms of trafﬁc safety, Sweden tops the global league – according to data to the weakening of the dollar is that during the year, China abandoned its ﬁxed from the Swedish Transport Administration (Traﬁkverket). During 2010, Sweden exchange policy in relation to the dollar and permitted its currency to rise in noted 270 fatalities, the lowest ﬁgure for the past 100 years. It is also the lowvalue. The sharp upturn in the Swedish krona exchange rate during the year is est number of trafﬁc fatalities worldwide in relation to population size. a matter of concern for the Swedish export industry, which is again looking at narrower margins. Regulations and legislation relating to environmental issues continue to be marked by a major lack of international coherence and political consensus. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 7 ONE TONNE LIFE What can the average Swedish family do to meet the UN’s climate goals? Can a family’s emissions of greenhouse gases be reduced from the Swedish average of 7–8 tonnes per person annually to a more sustainable level of about one tonne? In January 2011, Volvo Cars and several business partners launched a six-month project to help a Swedish family try to lead a climate-neutral life. PAVING THE WAY WITH GREEN COOPERATION “We believe a great deal can be achieved without any major restrictions on become reasonable and amusing. And the project makes a tangible contribupersonal freedom. Volvo’s target group consists of active people with leisure tion to spreading knowledge about how people can lead sustainable lifestyles interests. This is an ordinary family willing to move in the right environmental with a reasonable effort. direction,” says Malin Persson, Manager Safety & Environment Communication All interested parties can monitor the family’s learning process; from their at Volvo Cars. everyday life in Stockholm to details about how the family members meet the challenge of making green choices and, in the ﬁnal analysis, hopefully transform Volvo C30 powered by renewable energy them into everyday routines. Volvo Cars, Vattenfall, a major Swedish power company, and A-hus, a home “We haven’t lived on one tonne of CO2 in Sweden since 1948. Today, we’ve builder, have signed a cooperation agreement, according to which the test made vast improvements with respect to energy efﬁciency, but our consumption family will be provided with the necessary products, advice and services. The has skyrocketed. The general perception is that we could meet the one-tonne home is a climate-smart house that generates more electricity than it uses. challenge in about 100 years from now. Our project, however, is changing that Volvo Cars has contributed a Volvo C30 Electric – an all-battery-powered car – perspective and we are taking a giant step into the future,” notes Malin. that is included in the research project with a view to evaluating the feasibility of a broad-based launch of the model. A wish to be independent “A highly energy-efﬁcient car is deﬁnitely a product of focal interest in a Designed by Swedish architect Gert Wingårdh, the house is situated in climate-smart future. We want to show how our electric car can help a perfectly Hässelby Villastad, outside Stockholm. A model house has also been built ordinary family adopt an environmentally sustainable lifestyle,” says Malin opposite Liseberg, an amusement park in central Gothenburg. Persson. Through solar panels on the roof and walls, the family generates its own energy both for the house and their car. This small-scale approach, with a Planning is the key total lack of dependence on outside energy sources, is expected to attract Living green is a matter of planning – as well as bargaining and compromising widespread interest. At certain times of the year, for example during winter cold in terms of what is important. If the family decides to travel north to the mounsnaps, the in-house electricity generation has to be combined with electric tains on their Easter vacation, their plans for a more distant summer vacation power produced on a larger scale, which is when Vattenfall comes into the destination may have to take a lower priority. Organic products and weekly purpicture with supplies of sustainable energy. chases of locally produced seasonal food become a natural part of everyday life. A fully charged car has a range of 150 km, which covers the family’s The project was launched in early 2009 when A-hus contacted Volvo Cars. transport requirements on the home front. The car is charged from an ordinary It was soon widened, when it was linked to the UN climate challenge, and wall socket in the garage, or at charging stations throughout the city. Volvo Vattenfall was asked to join and provide an electric power solution based on Cars is Sweden’s largest player in car pools and, for longer distances, the family environmentally certiﬁed electricity from hydroelectric or wind power plants. can borrow other eco-sound cars from one of Volvo’s conveniently situated car Vattenfall has also provided a climate coach, helping the family consume pools. energy as efﬁciently as possible and measuring all energy consumption in the house. Chalmers Institute of Technology in Gothenburg calculates the family’s Smart solutions available today CO2 emissions. As part of efforts to include all requirements, industrial partners The commercial aspect of the project is to show what can be achieved with such as Siemens and ICA are responsible for providing household appliances the help of leading-edge technology and informed choices. The house and the and food products, respectively. car are modern, but by no means futuristic. Series production of Volvo’s Plug-in “All the project partners are striving to test cutting-edge products that hybrid will commence in 2012, and A-hus already displays the home in its reduce climate impact. At the same time, we want to provide counterproof to product catalogue. debunk widespread myths that electric cars are not as safe as conventional “There has never been a problem with the drive and creativity of the project, passenger cars, or do not have enough luggage space for family requirements, which focuses equally on learning and achieving its goals,” explains Malin. or that they are generally difﬁcult to live with,” Malin adds. “We want to make a difference on the day-to-day level with the help of commitment combined with technology that is already available for mass production. A project that changes the perspective Technology that is accessible – also in terms of costs – for the average family.” The world can monitor the family’s energy consumption on the Internet*, where the family blogs about their challenges – and accepts helpful hints from read*) Read more and follow the family at www.onetonnelife.com ers. Supported by careful planning in the form of a CO2 budget, the challenges 8 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 ONE TONNE LIFE Key data on the Volvo C30 Electric engine 111 bhp (82 kW) Torque 220 Nm Maximum speed 130 km/h Acceleration 0–70 km/h in 6.5 seconds Batteries Lithium-ion 24 kWh Charging 230 V, 16/10/6 ampere Charging time 16 ampere ≤7 hours Range Up to 150 km Battery weight 2 x 140 kg Weight increase compared with standard car + 300 kg VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 9 PROFITABILITY Over the next ﬁve years, Volvo Cars plans to invest USD 10 billion in an aggressive product plan globally. The volume target is to achieve sales of 800,000 cars by 2020. PROFITABILITY CENTRED AROUND PEOPLE The core strategy is to continue to strengthen the presence in mature markets, consecutive year. Eco-certiﬁed cars accounted for 20 percent of Volvo’s total while also fully capitalising on the potential offered by emerging growth markets. sales in the domestic market in 2010. The past year commenced with robust Volvo Cars’ goal is to sell proﬁtable cars in the luxury segment. The key to sales in the European and US markets. The electriﬁcation of Volvo Cars’ models success is to design cars around people – cars that fulﬁl customers’ dreams moved into the commercial phase. In addition to the commencement of sales, and requirements. the company also initiated extensive programmes aimed at training engineers As an independent company, Volvo Cars is now going its own way in meetand personnel at the dealer level. ing and surpassing customer expectations. Facilitating people in their everyday lives is a natural feature of the Scandinavian luxury concept. Volvo Cars puts People at the centre people in the centre – and offers Scandinavian design, advanced engineering Volvo is a small player in the global car industry, a position that offers advanand intuitive cars. tages and disadvantages. On the positive side, there is the potential for greater ﬂexibility. A small company is more nimble and can be redirected fairly promptly. Positive sales ﬁgures Meanwhile, however, a small company has fewer resources. It is imperative Following two challenging years, Volvo Cars reported a proﬁt for the ﬁrst quarter to make deﬁnite choices in research and development programmes. To date, of 2010 and the positive trend continued for the remainder of the year. Earnthe focus has been on efﬁciency, alternative fuels and electriﬁcation. To these ings for the entire year point to a proﬁt in all quarters – a sharp recovery comtechnical solutions, Volvo Cars is now adding “soft” values such as design and pared with 2009, for which the company recorded a loss of USD 653 million. experience. Eco-sound cars were a major factor underlying the upturn during the year. Attracting the right customers entails daring to adopt a speciﬁc proﬁle. During 2010, global sales rose 11.6 percent (373,525 cars) compared with Current efforts in analysing and developing the brand are clearly linked to proﬁtthe preceding year. The most successful markets included Russia, with a sales ability: moving potential customers from brand awareness to making an active surge of 54.5 percent compared with 2009, Belgium (up 35.9 percent) and decision to purchase. In the luxury segment, such decisions are frequently based Norway (up 38.9 percent). Demand for the fuel-efﬁcient DRIVe models remains on emotions. buoyant, with XC60 sales outperforming all other models in the Volvo range. Volvo Cars’ historic and sensible core values – Environment and Safety – are The Swedish market recovered surprisingly fast following the recession, well anchored globally and continue to be core brand features. In these areas, as reﬂected in the sharp increase to more than 55,000 new vehicle sales. the company is consistently at the leading edge with a series of unique soluThe Volvo V50 DRIVe was Sweden’s best selling eco-certiﬁed car for the third tions – ranging from innovative electriﬁcation technology to vehicle road-train systems and collision-avoidance solutions. volvo CARS’ New VISION To be the world’s most progressive and desired luxury car brand. 10 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 PROFITABILITY Improvement of BILLION sek REVENUE Earnings before interest and taxes sales SEK, billion SEK, million Number of cars sold 130 2,500 500,000 120 0 400,000 110 100 -2,500 300,000 90 80 -5,000 200,000 70 -7,500 100,000 60 50 -10,000 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Volvo Cars’ revenue amounted to 113.1 billion SEK, 2010 operating earnings before interest and taxes amounted to During 2010, global sales rose 11.6 percent (373,525 cars) up 18 percent from previous year. 2.3 billion SEK, an improvement of 7.5 billion SEK compared to compared with the previous year. prior year. Luxury to meet human needs Key second domestic market The new brand strategy, which will be implemented throughout the organisation The growth strategy in China means that Volvo Cars plans to build new plants in 2011, adds new values in the form of a re-interpretation of the concept of and make major investments that will contribute to the development of new “Scandinavian Luxury” – values that awaken feelings and attract the targeted global car models. In addition, the number of dealers will double and an entirely customer group. Scandinavian Luxury involves understanding people and ofnew car model will be manufactured. The goal is to sell 200,000 vehicles in fering products that centre on their requirements. Brand, products and services China by 2015 by capitalising on sharp growth in luxury car sales in the jointly signal Volvo Cars’ new cornerstones: Designed around people, ContemChinese market and by expanding market share. porary Luxury Experience, Strength in every sense. The initial plant will be built in Chengdu. Manufacturing will get underway Volvo Cars has always been an innovator in terms of technical solutions. We in 2013, with an annual production capacity of more than 100,000 cars. The must now perform to an even greater degree in terms of offering customers next step to be studied is the construction of a second plant in the Northern added value. In a sense, one could say that technology must primarily assist the Chinese city of Daqing, which is planned to produce an additional 200,000 cars car owner to live an uncomplicated life. Volvo Cars’ CEO, Stefan Jacoby, refers annually. to the concept of the car industry’s “Apple”, meaning cars that are intuitive, The supplier base in China will be optimised for the global market. Wherever simple to use, beautifully designed and always at the leading edge in terms of the cars are developed and built, the focus will always be on quality and safety. innovative solutions. Volvo Cars’ global manufacturing and quality systems apply irrespective of where the cars are produced. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 11 ENVIRONMENT – ELECTRIFICATION Volvo Cars has opted for electriﬁcation as its gateway into the future. This choice has entailed radical changes for the company’s production strategy and the direction of its research and development programmes. ELECTRIFICATION – TOWARD ZERO EMISSIONS Just a few years ago, Volvo Cars’ expertise in the area of electric cars was “ limited to a department in Product Development. Today, electriﬁcation permeates just about every aspect of the company. In a very short time, considerable expertise has been built up around the electric powering of cars in all areas – from battery safety to fuel cells. Volvo Cars is convinced that electricity is the future power source for the transport sector. Electric powering offers many beneﬁts. An electric motor is four times more efﬁcient than a combustion engine. An electric car from Volvo Cars is no This means that electric cars and cars based on hybrid fuel sources consume compromise. In most cases, the range is less energy and thus emit fewer emissions than cars using only a combustion engine. Electric powering also means substantially less fuel cost, no local ample for everyday driving. carbon-dioxide emissions and quieter performance. The power consumption of electric cars imposes a relatively low load on the power grid. In Europe, the Lennart Stegland, President of Special Vehicles subsidiary rising power requirement is amply covered by ambitious plans for renewable energy. An average wind power turbine produces sufﬁcient energy to run 3,000 electric cars. Volvo c30 electric Volvo’s initial electric car series is on the way The ﬁrst all-electric cars will be delivered to customers already during 2011. The Volvo C30 Electric features an electric motor driven solely by batteries and thus offers zero emissions. Carbon dioxide The Volvo C30 Electric has an electric engine that is driven exclusively on batteries, thereby generating zero emissions. 12 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 ENVIRONMENT – ELECTRIFICATION Volvo Cars’ electriﬁcation strategy – three elements Launching electric cars on a large scale represents a pioneering move in the automotive industry, and one that Volvo Cars has accepted with considerable effort and energy. Fifty of the ﬁrst 250 vehicles are part of a research programme for preparations for a large-scale launch of electric cars. Electric cars: Cars powered solely by electricity Volvo Cars and the Swedish Energy Agency initiated the research proare a key component of Volvo Cars’ electriﬁcation gramme. This is aimed at raising insight into how customers use electric cars and identifying the factors that determine battery service life. The 50 cars have strategy. Already during 2011, the initial custombeen deployed in four locations in Sweden: Umeå (northern Sweden), Gotheners will receive delivery of the Volvo C30 Electric, burg (western Sweden), Stockholm (central Sweden) and Malmö (southern Sweden). an all-electric car with a range of up to 150 km. Various research programmes are in progress to How is service life affected? The research vehicles gauge a wide range of variables so that Volvo Cars can extend the range, such as the use of fuel cells. diagnose and log how the customer handles the battery pack. An electric car is a commuter vehicle for everyday use. According to the Plug-in hybrids: A plug-in hybrid features both New European Driving Cycle (NEDC), the C30 Electric can be driven over a range of 163 kilometres, although Volvo Cars currently rates the distance at an electric motor and a conventional combustion 120 kilometres. Many functions in the car require energy. Few drivers have even engine. This is charged using a cable connected noticed that a conventional car uses more fuel when such functions as heating, air conditioning, radio or headlights are activated. In the case of an electric car, to the public power grid. The Volvo V60 Plug-in energy consumption affects the range. Hybrid, which was exhibited at the Geneva Motor No compromise Show in 2011, has a range of up to 1,200 kilo“An electric car from Volvo Cars is no compromise,” notes Lennart Stegland, metres. President of the Special Vehicles subsidiary. “In most cases, the range is ample for everyday driving.” 90 percent of commuters worldwide drive less than 100 kilometres daily, Full hybrids: A full hybrid is a car ﬁtted with both and in practice eight out of ten journeys are to or from work. an electric motor and a combustion engine and is The Volvo C30 Electric vehicles scheduled for production during the period 2011–2012 that are not included in the Swedish Energy Agency’s research self-charging. For example, energy from braking project will be leased out to companies in Sweden, Belgium, Germany, Norway, is deployed to charge the batteries. Volvo Cars China and the US, where considerable interest has been noted. So far, no cars have been sold but have instead been leased out on contract. aims to combine its new, fuel-efﬁcient combustion “Discussions are in progress concerning who should pay extra for cars with engines with electric cars to gain very low fuel zero emissions – the customer, the car maker or the State. We imagine that it consumption. will be a combination of all these,” says Lennart. The next step – a knowledge boost As yet, electric cars are only at the inception of their development and, thus, widespread information programmes are now in progress. Volvo Cars assumes responsibility beyond that for the actual car and informs customers and dealers alike of the special requirements that an electric car imposes in terms of daily use and workshop service. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 13 ENVIRONMENT – ELECTRIFICATION At the Geneva Motor Show in March 2011, Volvo Cars presented the world’s ﬁrst diesel plug-in hybrid. This type of car permits the driver to personally select the combination of driving performance and environmental impact. The plug-in hybrid will be available from dealers in 2012. VOLVO V60 PLUG-IN HYBRID – A WORLD INNOVATION The car has three temperaments, all with different features: 6 amp fuses requires 7.5 hours to charge, while a 10-amp fuse reduces the Pure: the car makes maximum use of the electric motor. The range extends to period to 4.5 hours, and a 16-amp fuse will provide a fully charged car in just 50 kilometres with zero carbon-dioxide emissions when the battery is charged three hours. using renewable energy. Whatever the electricity source, the tailpipe discharges no emissions. A climate smart interior, too Hybrid: in this case, the electric motor and diesel engine interact to provide a In addition, the car offers a pleasant interior climate right from the start thanks combination of driving pleasure and low environmental impact. The car emits to the potential to heat or cool the car during charging. This also means that 49 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre and has a fuel consumption of battery capacity does not need to be used to heat or cool, instead all power is 1.9 litres /100 kilometres. The range in the hybrid mode is 1,200 kilometres. focused on driving the car. Power: the car adjusts to provide optimal performance. Combined, the diesel Vattenfall, a major Swedish power producer, has been a partner in the engine and electric motor have 215 + 70 hp and a torque of 440 + 200 Newdevelopment of the electric car and contributed its solid electrical expertise. The ton metres. The electric motor’s instantaneous torque helps to accelerate the Plug-in Hybrid is partly the result of the V2Plug-in-Hybrid Vehicle Partnership, car from zero to 100 km/h in just 6.9 seconds. in which Volvo Cars and Vattenfall have cooperated since 2009 in testing and With the simple push of a button, drivers personally select which car they developing plug-in technology. wish to drive – Pure, Hybrid or Power. “We’re taking a major step toward our vision of zero emissions ‘DRIVe The front wheels on the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid are powered by a ﬁvetowards zero’,” says Stefan Jacoby, Volvo Cars’ CEO. “When the Volvo V60 Plugcylinder diesel-electric engine that delivers 215 hp and a maximum torque of in Hybrid is driven only on electricity and charged with renewable energy, then 440 Newton metres, just as in a conventional Volvo V60. we’re already there.” The rear wheels, however, are powered by an electric motor that provides 70 hp. It gets it energy from a 12-kWh lithium–ion battery. The system is called Fuel cells extend the electric car’s range ERAD (electric rear axle drive). A control system manages the interaction Volvo Cars is researching vehicles that run on fuel cells as part of efforts to exbetween the two systems, totally unnoticed by the driver. tend the electric car’s range to 250 kilometres without carbon-dioxide emissions. The ﬁrst step of the project involves a feasibility study of the effects of a Additional choices fuel cell with a reformer. The task of the reformer is to break down a liquid fuel The Plug-in Hybrid also offers a number of other possibilities: the driver can and form hydrogen. In the fuel cell, the hydrogen is transformed into electric select between diesel and electric power and thus save battery capacity during energy to drive the car’s electric motor. Petrol is used in the feasibility study, in-town driving, for instance. but the technology works for all liquid fuels and can also be modiﬁed to handle A button on the instrumental panel activates electric-powered, four-wheel renewable fuels. drive with the torque distributed both to the diesel-powered front wheels and The process takes place without any emissions of carbon dioxide, nitrogen the electric power rear axle. The driver can set the driving distance, permitting oxides, sulphuric oxides and particles. Thanks to the high efﬁciency rate, the car’s control system to optimise the balance between diesel and electric carbon-dioxide emissions are sharply reduced compared with a conventional power to attain minimum carbon-dioxide emissions for the particular stretch. vehicle. The ﬁnal products from a fuel cell coupled with a reformer are electricity, A Plug-in-Hybrid is charged using a conventional cable from a regular 230-volt water and a minor amount of carbon dioxide. wall socket. The charging time depends on the strength of the fuse. Using a VOLVO V60 PLUG-IN HYBRID EMITS CARBON DIOXIDE 14 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT RE PORT R POR T 2010/2011 2010 010/20 /20 2 111 SAFETY – ELECTRIFICATION Volvo Cars’ production of electric cars does not compromise on safety. The company should always be a world leader. In the event of an accident, both the passengers and batteries are effectively protected. LEADING IN BATTERY SAFETY Electriﬁcation entails the greatest change for the car since its invention – and in essentially all areas. From a safety perspective, the car’s 400-volt battery pack raises a number of issues that must be systematically considered. One basic demand that Volvo Cars must meet is that safety functions as well in practice as it does in the laboratory. One of the company’s strengths is its solid expertise in how cars perform in real accidents. Accordingly, the company imposes strict requirements on its electric cars, which extend far beyond legislated stipulations. Copes with rigid poles “For us, electriﬁcation technology is an additional exciting challenge in our quest to build the safest cars on the market,” notes Thomas Broberg, Volvo Cars’ safety expert. One Volvo requirement is that an electric car must even cope in collisions with rigid poles, which present the most difﬁcult situation. With the Volvo C30 Electric, the body is modiﬁed to deal with this difﬁcult situation, too. Volvo’s safety approach to electric cars focuses on battery safety in the event of a collision. In everyday use, an extensive and advanced monitoring At the Detroit International Auto Show in 2011, Volvo Cars proudly displayed a crashed system checks that each cell has the right voltage and ensures, by means of Volvo C30 Electric. The vehicle had undergone a frontal collision test at 64 km/h. The cooling, that the cell’s working temperature is optimal, an important feature batteries and crash dummies remained undamaged. for safety and working capacity. In the event of any deviation, the battery is automatically shut off for preventive reasons. “The primary aim is to protect people. So, we have redesigned the car and Robust encapsulation created structures around the safety cage and reinforced the beams in certain In the Volvo C30 Electric, the batteries are ﬁtted in the traditional fuel tank posipoints,” explains Jan Ivarsson, Senior Manager, Safety Strategy & Requirements tion and in the tunnel area. The batteries are robustly encapsulated. Beams and at Volvo Cars. other parts of the car’s structure around the battery pack are reinforced. All the In the event of a collision, the collision sensors ensure that power is cut in cables are shielded for maximum protection. 50 milliseconds. The system has several fuses that cut directly if an earth fault is detected. The function shuts off the battery if the voltage ﬂows in the wrong direction, such as when a cable comes into contact with the body frame. Reinforcements under the bonnet “ For us, electrification technology In a conventional car, the engine is the heaviest component. An electric car is considerably lighter and this gives rise to issues involving energy distribution. is an additional exciting challenge When a conventional car crashes, the engine distributes the impact force between the front beams. In an electric car, the engine compartment is reinforced in our quest to build the safest using a lattice beam structure that absorbs these forces and also helps to absorb the higher collision energy created by the car’s higher overall weight. cars on the market. Volvo Cars’ safety approach also encompasses events after a collision. A heaver collision triggers the crash sensor in the airbag to automatically cut Thomas Broberg, the power so that the car is safe for rescue personnel and passengers. Volvo has close cooperation with the rescue services, which have detailed instrucVolvo Cars’ safety expert. tions as to how they can most safely handle various Volvo cars in the event of an accident. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 15 PRODUCTS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Today’s combustion engines are more efﬁcient than ever. In 2010, Volvo’s cars reduced carbon-dioxide emissions from the EU car ﬂeet by 9 percent. CONVENTIONAL ENGINES INCREASINGLY EFFICIENT While electriﬁcation represents a key gateway to the future, carbon-dioxide emissions and fuel consumption must continue to be reduced in current car models. Volvo Cars is fully committed to this task. In the domestic market, Sweden, Volvo Cars notes an extreme trend reversal in terms of fuel. The proportion of petrol-powered Volvo cars in Sweden has gone from more than 95 percent in 2002 to less than 4 percent in 2010. The fuels that have taken over are primarily diesel and Ethanol E85 (FlexiFuel). The major high-sales vehicles in the past year were the fuel-efﬁcient DRIVe vehicles, while a distinct decline has been noted for fuels such as ethanol and gas. Fuel preferences differ among markets. In Europe, diesel has long been the most popular fuel. In North America and other parts of the world, the overwhelmingly popular choice is petrol. Accordingly, Volvo Cars seeks to offer energy-efﬁcient engines to match a variety of fuels. Each new engine generation from Volvo is considerably more energy efﬁcient than its predecessor. 2010 saw the launch of the D3 – a ﬁve cylinder two-litre engine rated at 163 hp. With manual transmission, fuel consumption is as low as 5.5 litres per 100 kilometres. 2010 marked the launch of a number of diesel engines, including the four-cylinder GTDi engine with a stroke volume of two litres and 203 hp, and a rated fuel consumption of 8.1 litres per 100 kilometres. Another innovation was a dual version of the 1.6 litre GTDi engine: the T4 with 180 hp, and the T3 with 150 hp. Torque for both engines is 240 Nm. The new T6 inline six-cylinder petrol engine proved a major success in the US where it secured a ranking on Ward’s 10 Best Engines list, beating off competition from 38 rivals. “Incredibly smooth” was the consensus of the jury. By reducing internal friction, the engine is 10 percent more energy efﬁcient than its predecessor and now delivers 304 hp and fuel consumption of 10.2 litres per 100 kilometres. FUEL MIX VOLVO IN SWEDEN VOLVO’S MARKET SHARE, ECO-SOUND CARS IN SWEDEN % 100 50 Carbon dioxide emissions 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 J Petrol J Diesel J DRIVe TO 157 G/KM IN THE EU J Bi-fuel J Flexi-fuel J DRIVe +120 g 16 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 PRODUCTION AND THE ENVIRONMENT For more than four decades, Volvo Cars has actively pursued environmental programmes that have enabled the company to make substantial progress in terms of environmental considerations in production – notably in decreasing emissions to air, an area in which the company is world leading. FOCUS ON WATER AND ENERGY Viewed from a life-cycle perspective, vehicle utilisation is the primary factor that Focus on water impacts the environment. But in line with the improved environmental performVolvo Cars has long worked in a targeted manner to reduce the company’s ance of cars, a keener focus is turning towards reducing environmental impact emissions to water and is endeavouring to be the leader in the automotive in respect of materials selection, production and the ﬁnal vehicle scrapping. industry. During the year, the environmental protection department worked with adapting the Global Water Footprint method for the automotive industry to New environmental strategy thereby gain a comprehensive picture of Volvo Cars’ impact on water. Since summer 2010, the company’s environmental planning has been shaped The Global Water Footprint is used to calculate Volvo Cars’ water footprint. to form an overarching environmental strategy that covers operations and Water management is divided into two areas: the grey water footprint, meaning product alike. Environmental strategy, which is monitored and updated annually, the quality of the water released from plants; and the blue water footprint, is coordinated with Volvo Cars’ business strategy. The objective is that environmeaning the quantity of water used in production. mental issues should be every bit a natural component of business strategy as ﬁnancial issues. Experience shows that a sharper focus on reducing environProject to upgrade waste management mental impact of products and production is good for business. During 2010, the company reviewed its overall waste management system in For each strategy area, the company has conducted a SWOT-analysis of the an effort to identify a joint working approach for the entire company. The project current status and the desired position in the short, medium and long terms. provided environmental and ﬁnancial beneﬁts, and resulted in a new joint waste The strategy areas are: Zero environmental accidents, Water footprint, Energy management process that will be used globally as of spring 2011. efﬁciency and climate neutral operations, Waste management, Sustainable One example of the new measures is a company-wide sorting-at-source transport and Emissions to air. book, which notes the synergism and good examples in the organisation. There are several concrete examples in which waste in various ways can be recovered Reduced energy consumption or recycled in other processes, such as for ﬁller in road construction. One overall objective is to continuously reduce Volvo Cars’ total energy consumption, which represents a large share of the company’s overall environmenExtremely low emissions to air tal impact. A core component of the environmental strategy is, for example, The paint shops in Gothenburg and Ghent are among the best worldwide in to recycle spill heat from our operations and those of other industries and to terms of minimising solvent emissions to the air. When the new Gothenburg replace fossil fuel with renewable fuel. paint shop was constructed in 1991, the most advanced technology at the time Since January 2008, the European plants have used climate-neutral elecwas selected. Almost 20 years later, the choice of design continues to perform tric power, primarily from hydropower. At the Ghent plant, 15 percent of energy well vis-à-vis the competition. The Gothenburg paint shop is among the top consumption derives from three wind power turbines on the company’s site. three in Europe and emits a mere 15 grams of solvents per square metre of During the past ﬁve years, the company’s carbon-dioxide emissions have been painted car body. The average value for Europe’s combined body paint shop reduced from 150,200 tonnes to the current 64,700 tonnes. units is about 40 grams. The company’s aim is to retain this position, irrespecEach production location has a local energy manager to coordinate all tive of where in the world we establish new operations. energy-related activities. Energy mapping is undertaken continuously in the company’s buildings and processes. Logistics reduce transport Every year, hundreds of thousands of tons of production material are transported into Volvo Cars’ plants and hundreds of thousands of ﬁnished cars, spare parts and accessories are delivered to dealers. To reduce the climate impact Total water consumption Volvo Cars PLANTS from such goods transport operations, the company is working actively on m3 1,000 logistics solutions to reduce its carbon emissions. 800 600 400 200 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 REDUCTION IN CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS SINCE 2005 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 17 SAFETY Each year, 1.3 million people die in trafﬁc – the vast majority in the Third World. Volvo Cars’ aim is to build cars that do not crash. Already by 2020, nobody is to be injured in a new Volvo car. INTERACTION OF CAR AND DRIVER SKILLS Volvo Cars – which has safety as a core value – sells cars worldwide and is “ keenly aware that the car’s system must function in widely differing environments and situations. Thus the cars are modiﬁed to meet real conditions, and More than 90 percent of all not just those of the laboratory. “Volvo is a small brand worldwide. We can’t unilaterally create an accidentaccidents are due to the human free trafﬁc environment, but our role is to work at the forefront of safety programmes,” says Anders Eugensson, safety expert at Volvo Cars. factor. The more knowledge we have Using a systematic and targeted approach, the company’s safety experts have consistently presented innovations in car safety. First out was the threeabout the driver, the more we can point seat belt, the Volvo innovation that has saved most lives, and remains the absolutely most important safety feature in all cars. Along with high speed and do to prevent accidents. drunk driving, unused seat belts are the most common factor in fatal accidents. Anders Eugensson, SAFETY EXPERT VOLVO CARS Driver’s behaviour Nowadays, crash safety in a Volvo car is particularly advanced. Today’s Volvo cars provide warning signals to drivers who are too tired, drive unwittingly outside their lane, or have a car at a blind angle. Volvo Cars invests a great deal of The guiding principle for Volvo Cars’ safety work is to avoid conﬂict situations time and considerable resources in understanding how drivers actually think. and accidents. This is a task that nowadays involves a series of systems in the “More than 90 percent of all accidents are due to the human factor. The cars and insight regarding the driver. In the future, the system can be custommore knowledge we have about the driver, the more we can do to prevent ised to match the driver’s general capacity as a vehicle operator. accidents,” says Anders Eugensson. The car signals and brakes Volvo Cars’ safety experts are attempting to learn to gauge the driver’s overall capacity. The acute capacity in a given situation is monitored continually. If the driver does not react in an emergency situation, the car’s safety system responds by warning, preparing and, ﬁnally, braking automatically. FIVE PHASES OF THE ACCIDENT SEQUENCE If the safety experts knew more about each driver’s ability to drive, they would be readily able to customise cars. The car’s systems could be modiﬁed to suit everybody, from a Formula 1 champion to an elderly driver who perhaps 1 Drivers are kept informed of their status and attention. suffers from poor eyesight or inferior reaction capacity. “The day a car is capable of compiling knowledge of the driver’s skills level, 2 The driver can cope with the situation. both in particular situations and his/her general capacity, we’ll be faced with a dilemma between personal integrity and increased trafﬁc safety,” says Anders Eugensson. 3 The driver has reduced ability to cope with the situation. The vehicle can manage the situation. 4 Driver and vehicle incapable of avoiding collision. Preparation for collision, reduction of collision impact. NORMAL DRIVING CONFLICT AVOIDANCE DAMAGE REDUCTION AFTER COLLISION 5 Offer of assistance and rescue. The sequence of events for a trafﬁc accident can be divided into ﬁve phases – from the normal driving situation to the time after the accident has occurred. Volvo Cars develops new, and improves existing, safety solutions based on these ﬁve phases. 18 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 INNEHÅLL SAFETY Active safety systems prevent accidents The human factor There are different ways of gauging a driver’s capacity. One common method is to measure how long the driver looks away and how often. In the case of a driver with low capacity or one that is clearly distracted, the car can give an earPedestrian Detection with Full Auto Brake is a lier warning, reverse or increase the brake pressure earlier when a critical situapioneering technical solution. It can detect a tion arises. The safety level is approaching the autonomous stage at which the vehicle takes over much earlier in a critical situation. And that is good in view of pedestrian who walks out in front of a car, then the fact that more than 90 percent of all accidents are due to the human factor. warn the driver – and automatically activate full Volvo Cars does not believe that better driver training is required. “We can’t educate the problems away. Driver training is important but we braking power if the driver does not react in time. believe that the level we have reached in Sweden, for example, is about as Using this technology, Volvo’s automatic brakgood as one can reasonably attain,” says Anders. “ All drivers can be distracted ing system moves from 50 percent to full braking or have a bad day. There is no training in the world that can make them better drivers, it’s a matter of having systems that can assist.” power. In an emergency situation, the driver ﬁrst Volvo Cars’ zero vision entails that minor errors should not lead to drastic hears an audio signal combined with a blinking consequences. Conscious infringements, such as driving at 180 km/h through a housing area, cannot be covered by the trafﬁc system. But regular natural light in the windscreen’s heads-up display. The mistakes should not lead to drastic outcomes. car’s brakes are pre-charged at that moment. Safer trafﬁc environment If the driver does not react to the warning and In addition to developing safe cars and attentive drivers, Volvo Cars is also an accident is imminent, full braking power is focusing on creating a safer trafﬁc environment. Various technical solutions automatically activated. The system uses informapermit the car to be updated with the latest information on the surroundings. For example, the highway infrastructure can assist by signalling where there are tion from both radar and an advanced camera to queues and road works underway, where there is a risk of skidding or whether identify human shapes in movement patterns. you are driving on an accident-prone road and should drive very carefully. In an emergency situation, however, infrastructure and the vehicle cannot communiPedestrian Detection with Full Auto Brake can cate and the vehicle must take over. avert a collision with pedestrians at speeds up to Over time, the high-tech safety features of luxury class vehicles will also be introduced into the mass market cars. The safety system will move from being 35 km/h if the driver does not personally react in an extra to being a standard feature with the passage of time. Eventually safety time. systems will also be part of a budget car. ABS brakes are a good example of At higher speeds, it’s a matter of slowing down this. With record low trafﬁc fatalities in Sweden in 2010, the lowest in a hundred the car speed as much as possible before a colliyears, it is easy to believe that the situation is in hand. But from a global persion. This reduces the risk of serious injury. If the spective, the fatalities curve worldwide has only ﬂattened out but not declined. Between 1.2 million and 1.3 million people die in trafﬁc each year, most of them speed declines from 50 to 25 km/h, the pedestriin the developing countries. Comparing this with the aviation industry, this is an’s chance of surviving rises by up to 85 percent. equal to the crashing of seven Boeing 747s each day, all year round. Pedestrian Detection with Full Auto Brake has been launched for the Volvo S60/V60 and is progressively introduced in the other Volvo models. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 19 INNEHÅLL Successful road train test The initial test of a road train at Volvo’s test track provided positive results. A truck acted as the lead vehicle and a passenger car followed behind without the driver personally steering, braking or accelerating. Volvo Cars is participating in the EU Sartre project in which seven companies in four countries are developing systems for road trains, or platooning. At year-end 2010, all component systems were combined and test driven in real vehicles. Representatives from the participating companies were satisﬁed with the results on the test track. The next step is to build and develop more vehicle road trains and ensure that more vehicles can drive faster and even closer to each other. For Volvo Cars, the road train is a further development of the existing Adaptive Cruise Control system, in which the car itself keeps its distance and can brake. To this is added automatic steering and a number of communication systems, which, among other features, can ensure that the lead truck has contact with the vehicles behind. 20 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 INNEHÅLL “ THE TECHNOLOGY HAS BEEN DEVELOPED FOR THE MOST PART. WE’RE NOW STUDYING THE BUSINESS POTENTIAL AND THE POSSIBILITY TO OFFER ADDED CUSTOMER VALUE. ERIK COELINGH, TECHNICAL EXPERT VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 21 REPORTING PRINCIPLES Volvo Cars is reporting responsibility issues for the tenth consecutive year, and for the past three years in the form of an integrated corporate report featuring sustainability. Volvo Cars is positive to the progress towards greater transparency and comparability in work involving sustainable development. TRANSPARENCY AND COMPARABILITY For Volvo Cars, it is important to be reliable and live up to being a visionary Volvo Cars supports Global Compact company with sound ideas. Volvo Cars gives its explicit support to several The Global Compact also sets requirements for increased transparency. important international initiatives aimed at fostering conditions for increased Volvo Cars was one of the ﬁrst companies to sign the Global Compact, the clarity in the company’s sustainability efforts and sustainability reporting. UN’s initiative for companies to promote human rights, good working condiThe two initiatives below, and regular dialogues with stakeholders, provide tions, taking responsibility for the environment and ﬁghting corruption. Volvo the basis and guidelines needed to conduct diligent and appropriate sustainCars also participates in the Global Compact Nordic Network, an associaability efforts. tion of Nordic companies that meets regularly to discuss and share experiences within the framework of the Global Compact’s ten principles. Global Reporting Initiative Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent institution that develops Signiﬁcant issues for stakeholders global guidelines for sustainability reporting. The guidelines are voluntary Volvo Cars bases its sustainability efforts on an active stakeholder dialogue and are developed on an ongoing basis in dialogue with stakeholders. Volvo and regular follow-ups of issues that stakeholders feel are the most imporCars applies and complies with GRI’s international standards, which helps tant, which is referred to as a materiality analysis. The results of the latest ensure transparent and clear accounting based on content that is important survey from 2009 show that the issues that stakeholders assign the highest to stakeholders. Volvo Cars conducts its accounting in accordance with priority are climate change and safety, along with fuel efﬁciency. Internal GRI’s third-generation guidelines G3 at the B level, which means that a stakeholders make similar priorities, while emphasising ﬁnancial results as number of criteria for strategies and proﬁles are accounted for, along with at a key issue. Water consumption is also a matter that is considered increasingly important. This is reﬂected in the fact that safety, the environment and least 20 outcome indicators, of which at least one shall come from each of proﬁtability are the three principal areas in the sustainability report. Also, the following areas: economy (EC), environment (EN), labour (LA), human environmental responsibility in production was expanded to include water conrights (HR), social responsibility (SO) and product responsibility (PR). A GRI sumption. The stakeholders believe that Volvo Cars’ stakeholder commitment index and a full GRI report are available on Volvo Car Corporation’s website: is of even greater importance now compared with previous surveys. www.volvocars.com/sustainability/GRI GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES Human rights Principle 6 Principle 1 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their sphere of inﬂuence; and Environment Principle 2 Principle 7 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should support the precautionary principle as regards environmental challenges; Labour standards Principle 8 Principle 3 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 9 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 4 technologies. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 Anti-corruption the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 22 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 STAKEHOLDERS An open and constructive dialogue with our stakeholders is central to Volvo Cars continued success. Each stakeholder contributes new perspectives and expectations that the company strives to consider and balance to the greatest possible extent. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE DRIVES DEVELOPMENT The objective is that each stakeholder group feels that it is heard and favourably received. An example is the company’s sustainability issues, in which stakehold“ It was impressive to see how much Volvo is committed to sustainability and future mobility. Jens Haug, Greenmotorsblog standards in such areas as labour conditions and environmental care. Longterm cooperation encompasses training courses, follow-ups and other related ers have contributed to identifying the areas and aspects that they consider activities. should be given priority in operations. Research and universities Owners In its efforts to remain at the forefront in technical and conceptual development, Volvo Cars reports back on a continuous basis to its principal owner, Zhejiang Volvo Cars conducts extensive research related to climate, environmental and Geely Holding Group, and, through continuous dialogue, develops ambitions social issues. Concurrently, the company participates in a number of research and focus in strategic areas, from customer relations and new models to future and knowledge projects and works to direct resources to those solutions that issues and sustainable mobility. generate the best effect for society, the environment and the economy. Longterm sustainable solutions are based on active cooperation between industry Employees and research. Volvo Cars pursues a creative, open and inclusive working environment, with substantial development opportunities. Routine employee surveys and Authorities employee discussions are important tools for listening and creating an open Overriding social issues that impact operations, including the environment and culture, which opens the way to continuous development. safety, require an ongoing dialogue with government authorities. An example is the long-term cooperation with the Swedish National Road Administration to Non-proﬁt organisations jointly create the necessary prerequisites for improved trafﬁc safety in the future. The dialogue with non-proﬁt organisations provides additional perspectives and is an important source for identifying topical social issues. Partnerships with Customers organisations that represent various interests promote a shared understanding Volvo Cars’ most important task is to focus on people and design cars based of challenges facing society. on the customers’ needs. This requires listening to customers, fulﬁlling their expectations and building life-long relations. The aim is to identify the wishes Suppliers of both existing and potential customers. Suppliers are of considerable signiﬁcance to Volvo Cars’ successes and a central part of operations. Volvo Cars’ social responsibilities include imposing clear demands on suppliers and supporting them in the implementation of high VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 23 EMPLOYEES Volvo Cars has long been world leader in building safe cars. Moreover, fuel-efﬁcient, eco-sound cars now account for more than 20 percent of the company’s total sales – a successful development that provides scope for new ventures. LEADING-EDGE EXPERTISE FOR TOMORROW’S CARS “ A creative environment breeds new ideas that are captured and industrialised thanks to individual employees and teams receiving the requisite scope and confidence. Cecilia Nesser, head of leadership and organisational development. Some 1,200 employees are to be recruited, especially in product developaddition to specialists. During the autumn a further 300 employees were ment. recruited for production and customer service. More employees skilled in sustainable development are required. This applies not only to technical car design and fuels, but also to sustainable Diversity creates innovative ideas operations and efﬁcient production. As an employer, Volvo Cars offers a creative, open and inclusive work environment with major potential for individual development. This creates commitCross-discipline teamwork ment, which in turn creates success such as the DRIVe family, that includes Employee commitment and innovation are stimulated by the company’s Sweden’s top-selling eco-certiﬁed car in 2010. cross-discipline collaboration between the natural sciences, technology and 2010 marked the launch of the 2010–2012 diversity plan, which encomdesign – which in turn has opened the way to innovations in focused areas passes activities for a respectful and inclusive environment, equal opportunisuch as the top-selling DRIVe family, plug-in hybrids and the all-battery driven ties, brand and employer, products and offerings, and customers and markets. C30 Electric. Involvement, which covers all employees, reﬂects our social responsibility “A creative environment breeds new ideas that are captured and indusas well as a purely business-like attitude, as Cecilia Nesser sees it. trialised thanks to individual employees and teams receiving the requisite “Both research and our experience conﬁrm that non-homogeneous scope and conﬁdence. One example is DRIVe, for which a team was given groups are more creative and make better-based decisions. So, we are the thumbs up to continue working with the challenge of attaining record-low focusing on activities that assist our leaders to remember the importance of carbon-dioxide emissions from our cars,” notes Cecilia Nesser. differences in groups when they make their choice.” The car industry has recovered following the ﬁnancial crisis. During 2010, Volvo Cars is a driving force behind the Swedish branch of the Diversity Volvo Cars recruited 350 employees primarily in product development, in Charter, a European business initiative in diversity that was founded in Sweden in 2010 by Volvo Cars, Scandic, Sodexo and others. 24 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 EMPLOYEES SATISFIED EMPLOYEES FEMALE MANAGERS EMPLOYEES (31 DECEMBER 2010) NUMBER OF WOMEN IN SENIOR POSITIONS Number % 30,000 100 18.0 18.0 18.5 18.7 19.6 25,000 80 20,000 60 15,000 40 10,000 5,000 20 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 J Women J Men Future leaders More employees are satisﬁed “Generally, we seek enterprising people who are marked by creativity, involveThe 2010 Attitude Survey showed that the proportion of satisﬁed employees ment, customer focus and the right personal characteristics. But in particular increased to 84 percent (from 82 percent), which is the best result to date. we must be very focused on the employees we already have, give them the The level of satisfaction in the different business areas varies, but the overall potential for development, good leaders, feedback, appreciation and a chance ﬁgures have risen. In particular, more employees are satisﬁed about how to exert inﬂuence. Few people leave the company if they are content and feel the company is generally managed, which is an incentive for the continuing involved – that applies both to Sweden and other countries,” notes Cecilia. improvement programmes. During autumn 2011, a new round of the Graduate Programme com“It is very pleasing that the result has improved in Production, where menced. This three year development programme is aimed at identifying executives are responsible for larger groups than is otherwise the case in the future leaders in marketing, sales, HR, production, product development, company. We continue to focus on management development in, for example, purchasing and ﬁnance. The 57 participants are recruited externally and work communications and on using a coaching approach to highlight the potential parallel with their participation in joint development activities. in each employee and strengthen consciousness of the signiﬁcance of “During the ﬁrst year, you work in the business area that recruited you. dialogue,” says Cecilia Nesser. Most of the participants also gain the opportunity to try other business areas 2010 saw Volvo Cars moving up the list of attractive employers drawn up or work internationally to gain a broader perspective,” explains Cecilia. by Universum, the employer branding company. The increase in popularity is Meanwhile, in China, Volvo Cars is planning to have employed a few hunreﬂected among students and young professionals alike. dred people already towards the end of 2011, primarily in product development and production preparation to secure local production capacity, not least in the new plant in Chengdu. In addition, recruitments will be made in areas ranging from purchasing to HR and ﬁnance. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 25 INNEHÅLL World-class crash safety Annika Ryding is team leader at the “Dummy Lab”, part of Volvo Cars’ famous crash-test laboratory that celebrated its tenth anniversary during 2010. As a crash dummy engineer, Annika is responsible for selecting which dummy individuals are best suited for the various tests, as well as for their maintenance and recalibration. Some ﬁfteen models hang in the lab: men, women and children of various sizes and ages – all designed for frontal collisions, side collisions and whiplash tests. Each crash dummy, which costs SEK 1 to 1.5 million, represents an advanced measuring instrument, fully equipped with accelerometers, status sensors and force sensors located in various parts of the body. The work requires deft employees who assemble and disassemble crash dummies, take care of the calibration programme in the computer, ﬁnd solutions and think for themselves. The numerous features mean that employees need to remain in the job for a protracted period to become really skilled. The crash-test laboratory as a whole employs all sorts of occupations from mechanics and engineers to analysts, requirements engineers, bio-mechanics, trafﬁc safety researchers, photographers and computer operators. Like many others, Annika started her Volvo career at the assembly line, but has now worked for 11 years at the dummy lab and enjoys her work. “The best aspect of the job are my colleagues, and the work itself is so varied, with both theoretical and practical aspects. It’s really enjoyable to work with safety, which is one of Volvo’s core values, and to participate in such innovative work,” says Annika. To date almost 3,000 full-scale tests have been conducted in the new crash-safety lab, which Volvo opened in 2000 and they have produced results. Nowadays, the risk of being involved in an accident or injured in a new Volvo has been more than halved compared with a Volvo from the ‘70s. 26 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 INNEHÅLL “ Each CRASH dummy, which costs SEK 1 to 1.5 million, represents an advanced measuring instrument, fully equipped with accelerometers, status sensors and force sensors. AnniKa ryding, Team leader at the crash-safety lab VOLVO CAR CORPORATION || CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 27 SUPPLIERS Volvo Cars was integrated with Ford for more than ten years, which involved a joint organisation and shared work processes in many areas. Following its demerger from Ford, Volvo Cars now operates as an independent company and is reviewing its work processes – both internally and in relation to suppliers. CLOSE COOPERATION WITH SUPPLIERS “ To strengthen relations, the 100 largest suppliers were invited to a Suppliers’ Day, at which participants met the management team and testED the new S60/V60 and C30 Electric. The transition from Ford is progressing in stages. The organisation is continuCooperation with suppliers commences frequently as early as the design ing with its existing guidelines and will update them steadily during 2011. stage for new models, as part of efforts to shorten lead times for development and construction. New supplier portal During 2010, Volvo Cars arranged a number of activities to strengthen During spring 2011, a new supplier portal was launched, a website that relations with its suppliers. One example was the “Suppliers Day”, for which enhances communications between Volvo Cars and its suppliers. the company’s 100 largest suppliers were invited to test-drive the new The portal provides suppliers with information on Volvo Cars’ working S60/V60 and C30 Electric, among other activities. Participants also took methods, purchasing terms and conditions and overall operational requirepart in an information meeting with some of Volvo Cars’ executive managements. This also communicates Volvo Cars’ requirements, guidelines and ment. The primary focus was on quality, products, relations and growth. expectations in such areas as the environment and social responsibility. This new tool permits rapid communication of news and key information Responsibility all the way for suppliers. A responsible operation covers the entire value chain, of which the supplier stage represents a key link. Volvo Cars imposes high demands in terms of Long-term cooperation quality, product development, cost effectiveness, delivery capacity and enviLong-term cooperation with suppliers worldwide is of major importance for ronmental consideration. Fundamental requirements in relation to production Volvo Cars’ success. Currently, some 450 suppliers supply car components suppliers include environmental certiﬁcation according to ISO 14001 and and approximately an additional 3,000 suppliers provide Volvo Cars with other quality certiﬁcation pursuant to ISO TS 16949. Other areas include quality products and services. Overall, some 70 percent of the car’s value derives assurance of suppliers’ manufacturing processes and the assessment of a from suppliers. supplier’s delivery quality and delivery capacity. 28 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 SUPPLIERS A supplier who focuses on the environment Bridge of Weir, a Scottish company that supplies Volvo Cars with leather for car upholstery and interiors, has a zero vision, which means that waste Geographic distribution of suppliers, 2010 (2009) that cannot be used in manufacturing must be recycled at the production site. Belgium, 22% (17) Germany, 23% (20) A major step was taken in this direction during France, 5% (9) 2010 when the company managed to halve its United Kingdom, 7% (8) carbon-dioxide emissions by means of a completely Sweden, 20% (20) Others*, 23% (27) new heat plant. Thanks to this plant, 30,000 * Poland, 4% (4) – Spain, 3% (3) – Czech Republic, 2% (3) tonnes of waste that the company produces annuItaly, 2% (2) – Turkey, 1.5% (2) – Others, 11% (13) ally was transformed into 45 million kWh hours of energy, which in turn is used to heat the company’s facilities. The heat and steam are used to dry and heat the leather. Oil, which is also derived from the leather fat, is used as fuel. The ﬁnal residual product, mineral ash, is sold to the construction Volvo Cars’ values as regards human rights and good working conditions are industry. communicated in the form of very clear demands to suppliers. Since 2003, Since 2003, Bridge of Weir has had a biological Volvo Cars has had a code of conduct regarding basic working conditions treatment plant to handle its wastewater. that is communicated to suppliers through the company’s purchasing Terms and Conditions and the Social Responsibility Webguide. The code of conduct is based on the internationally recognised principles governing human rights in working life. Training makes rings on the water Volvo Cars supports suppliers in exercising conscious and responsible leadership. Via the former owner, Ford Motor Company, Volvo Cars has participated in a global training programme on the fundamental working conditions for suppliers. The purpose was to highlight the value of good working conditions and also to clarify Volvo Cars’ expectations of suppliers. In Volvo Cars’ new role as an independent company, the company will continue to cooperate with other car manufacturers in this global training programme for suppliers. The company also participates in an international network, whose purpose is to develop a joint approach to working conditions in the supplier chain. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 29 SUSTAINABILITY FACTS SUSTAINABILITY FACTS 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trend1) Comment CREATING VALUE Customer satisfaction, rankings A Fulﬁllment of customer satisfation targets (%) 33 — — — n/a Percentage of independent surveys in which Volvo Cars was ranked among the top ﬁve carmakers (%) 12 33 29 22 (–) Employee satisfaction (%) 84 82 n/a 80 (+) Total sales (retail deliveries) 373,525 334,808 374,297 458,323 (+) B Revenue – excl. special items (SEK million) 113,100 95,700 95,120 121,620 (+) Earnings before interest and taxes – excl. special items (SEK million) 2,340 –5,185 –9,493 –1,117 (+) ASSUMING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Product responsibility C Safety test results Share of independent tests where Volvo Cars received the highest rank (%) 88 80 70 69 (+) Occupational health and safety D Health Sick leave per hours worked (%) 4.5 4.7 5.0 5.5 (+) Occupational injuries Number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per 200,000 working hours 0.6 0.5 0.9 1.5 (–) Diversity and equal opportunity Gender balance Share of women in leading positions (%) 19.6 18.7 18.5 18.0 (+) Equal opportunity Ratio of basic salary of women to men (blue collar; average for grade levels SG2-SG6) 0.790 0.994 0.947 n/a (–) Ratio of basic salary of women to men (white collar; average for grade levels SG4-LL3) 1.010 1.034 1.027 n/a (+) Employment Workforce Total workforce 19,494 19,650 22,732 24,384 (–) Turnover Rate of employee turnover 3.32) 12.8 9.2 9.1 n/a Supply chain and human rights E Number of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights n/a3) 615 476 — n/a PROMOTING ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY Emissions from product F Fuel efﬁciency Fleet average CO2 emissions in EU (g/km) 157 173 182 190 (+) Harmful emissions G Share of Volvo cars sold complying with Euro 5/ULEV standards (%)4) 54 — — — n/a Alternative fuels Number of alternative fuels cars sold 9,098 11,260 25,771 10,899 (–) Energy use in car production H Total energy consumption in car production (MWh) 861,121 713,079 816,581 916,669 (–) (MWh/car) 1.61 1.71 1.59 1.42 (+) Emissions from production Total carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes) 67,585 58,980 68,367 126,735 (–) (kg/car) 190 158 151 311 (–) NOx emissions (tonnes) 85 71 90 101 (–) SOx emissions (tonnes) <1 <1 <1 1 (=) VOC emissions (tonnes) 738 527 712 740 (–) (kg/car) 1.98 1.80 2.01 1.66 (–) Hazardous waste (tonnes) 9,087 5,594 9,320 11,395 (–) Supply chain and environment I Share of the 500 largest suppliers, based on number of purchased articles, that are certiﬁed according to ISO 14001(%)5) 99.6 — — — n/a 1) Trend indicates our progress in terms of Volvo Cars’ goals and vision. A plus sign (+) indicates that the company is moving in the right direction toward our goals, while a minus sign (–) indicates that more needs to be done to develop in our desired direction. 2) 2010 only Sweden, formerly Sweden and Belgium. 3) Volvo Cars was previously covered by Ford’s programme for the supplier reviews. 4) New metric replacing Euro4/ULEV. 5) New metric replacing the share of employees at ISO 14001 certiﬁed units. 30 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 SUSTAINABILITY FACTS COMMENTS ON THE SUSTAINABILITY FACTS A. Customer satisfaction progress. A new code of conduct was prepared during the year with guidelines It is ultimately the customer who assesses our performance and we gauge our that also apply to suppliers and a supplier portal was developed and launched customer satisfaction based on a broad market perspective that covers 44 in 2011. In addition, the company also completed internal training programmes independent studies in 11 of Volvo Cars’ most signiﬁcant markets. During focused on responsibility speciﬁcally aimed at the purchasing department. 2010, we noted declining ﬁgures in the number of independent customer surveys in which Volvo Cars was ranked among the ﬁve top car brands, and thus F. Fuel efﬁciency and alternative fuels during the year we also began to analyse the results and established goals of Volvo Cars’ environmental programmes and its focus on the development of our work to improve the company’s customer satisfaction. Volvo Cars’ longpowertrains to reduce carbondioxide emissions are yielding results. The averterm goal is to be ranked among the ﬁve leading brands in independent market age emission levels for the company’s car models in the EU declined from 173 surveys. to 157 grams of CO2 per kilometre and will continue to fall during the years ahead as a result of continuing product improvements. One objective that B. Sales Volvo Cars is working toward is that carbon emissions for the entire ﬂeet are Following two difﬁcult years, Volvo Cars reversed the negative trend and adapted to the EU’s target of a maximum of 95 grams not later than 2020. raised its sales 11.6 percent compared with 2009. Overall, Volvo Cars sold Examples of efforts to achieve this objective are the current and future DRIVe 373,525 vehicles during the year. In China, sales rose 36.2 percent and in models and the development of fuel-efﬁcient technology. Looking ahead, the Northern Europe by 29 percent. In the key US market, however, the downward company’s ambitious electriﬁcation strategy is in focus, including a test ﬂeet trend continued, with Volvo Cars selling 7,474 fewer cars than in 2009, of C30 Electric and the introduction of plug-in hybrids on the market in 2012. representing a decline of 12.2. G. Environmental classiﬁcation of products C. Product safety During 2008 and 2009, information was presented regarding the proportion of Volvo Cars’ vision is a completely accident-free trafﬁc environment and the cars sold that met the requirements of Euro 4. However, for 2010, Volvo Cars goal for 2020 is that no one is killed or injured in a new Volvo car. To attain instead presents the proportion of cars sold that meet the more demanding this vision, Volvo Cars is continuing its lengthy research tradition and its requirements of Euro 5. The proportion of Volvo cars sold that met the requireefforts to strengthen safety in and around its cars to achieve a safer driver ments of Euro 5/ULEV during 2010 was 54 percent. ULEV is an abbreviation environment and a collision-free future. Each year a large number of indefor Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle and is an environmental classiﬁcation that pendent safety tests are conducted and Volvo Cars’ objective with these tests applies in the US state of California and imposes more stringent emission is to be among the very best in its class. In 2010 Volvo Cars gained the top requirements than Euro 5. ranking in 59 of 67 tests completed, which corresponds to 88 percent of the tests. This represents an improvement of 8 percentage points compared with H. Production and environment 2009 (when 56 tests were completed). Volvo Cars has an overarching objective of continuously reducing total energy consumption and our goal is to be climate neutral. All purchased electric D. Employee health and safety power used by Volvo Cars in Europe derives from certiﬁed hydropower. HeatVolvo Cars’ work environment directive describes our work environment policy. ing, which derives mainly from district heating facilities, originates largely from One of Volvo Cars’ objectives is to attain world-class status in terms of waste heat and biofuel. During 2010, total energy consumption from direct employee health and safety. Sickness absenteeism among Volvo Cars’ workand indirect energy utilisation increased. This was primarily due to the uncomforce in Sweden and Belgium has declined steadily in recent years. During monly cold winter in Northern Europe and drastic rise in our demand for 2010, Volvo Cars attained the lowest level to date for sickness in the comdistrict heating. The increase in purchased energy for in-house consumption pany, namely, 4.5 percent. Also, the company is continuing to monitor workis mainly associated with more intensive vehicle production and the higher related accidents carefully and follows up all injuries in a bid to achieve number of cars produced and sold. Overall energy consumption increases improvements and avoid future accidents. During 2010, the company achieved while energy consumption per vehicle decreased to 1.61 MWh/vehicle in a result of 0.6 LTCR (number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick2010, compared with 1.71 MWh/vehicle in 2009. ness absenteeism per 200,000 hours worked), which is actually very close to the 2009 level and lower than a year earlier. I. Supply chain and environment Environmental work undertaken by suppliers is a quality issue and Volvo Cars E. Supply chain and human rights During the period 2003 to 2010, Volvo Cars participated in Ford Motor Comseeks to ensure that the suppliers conduct such programmes as methodically pany’s global programme for the training and review of direct materials supplias possible. For 2010, the company elected to gauge this directly by means ers. Consequently, the reported data currently show the reviews conducted of a key metric that is deﬁned as the proportion of 500 largest suppliers, through Ford Motor Company. Since the change ownership of Volvo Cars in the based on the number of purchased articles that are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. The mid-2010 ﬁnancial year, work aimed at developing new processes has been in company reached 99.6 percent in terms of this metric. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 31 PRODUCTS MODEL RANGE S Stylish Sedans XC Luxurious SUVs/Crossovers S80 XC90 S60 XC70 S40 XC60 V Versatile Wagons C Charismatic Coupés/Convertibles V70 C70 V60 C30 V50 32 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 CORPORATE FACTS THE PAST YEAR IN FIGURES Earnings before interest and taxes, SEK million Revenue, SEK million The ten major markets 2010 (2009), 2010 2,340 2010 113,100 number of cars 2009 –5,185 2009 95,700 USA 53,952 (61,426) 2008 –9,493 2008 95,120 Sweden 52,894 (41,826) 2007 –1,117 2007 121,620 United Kingdom 37,940 (34,371) 2006 –296 2006 122,076 China 30,522 (22,405) Germany 25,207 (25,221) Sales ﬁgures for past ten years, number of cars Sales by model, number of cars Belgium 17,969 (13,223) 2010 373,525 2010 2009 % Italy 17,509 (15,896) 2009 334,808 XC60 80,723 61,667 31 Netherlands 14,308 (14,035) 2008 374,297 V50 56,098 54,062 4 France 12,211 (11,596) 2007 458,323 V70 48,877 45,836 7 Russia 10,650 (6,894) Others 100,363 (87,915) 2006 427,747 XC90 37,597 32,754 15 Total 373,525 (334,808) 2005 443,947 C30 35,981 32,409 11 2004 456,224 S40 31,688 36,954 –14 The US is Volvo Cars’ biggest market. In Sweden, Volvo has a market share of about 20 percent. 2003 415,046 XC70 22,068 18,032 22 Sales are deﬁned as cars delivered to end customers. 2002 406,695 S80 19,162 21,065 –9 2001 412,390 S80L 11,778 7,106 66 2000 409,059 S60 14,786 14,131 5 * As of 2002, sales are deﬁned as cars delivered to C70 10,158 10,792 –6 end customers. V60 4,609 — — Total 373,525 334,808 11,6 Sales per fuel type 2007–2010, number of cars 2010 % 2009 % 2008 % 2007 % Petrol 146,695 39 147,544 44 179,350 48 262,622 57 Diesel 141,170 38 129,372 39 168,725 45 184,802 40 Methane* (Bi-fuel) 0 0 43 0 8 0 1,217 1 Bioetanol (Flexifuel) 9,098 2 11,217 3 25,763 7 9,682 2 DRIVe** 76,562 21 46,632 14 451 — — — Total 373,525 100 334,808 100 374,297 100 458,323 100 * The manufacture of Bi-Fuel cars ceased in 2007 owing to poor demand. Modiﬁcation may occur through an external supplier in some markets. ** DRIVe cars are Volvo’s series of fuel-efﬁcient diesels cars with very low CO2 emissions. Car production by model and plant 2010, number of cars Göteborg Uddevalla Gent Chongqing Thailand Malaysia Totalt S40 — — 22,779 5,509 — 378 28,666 S60 — — 27,579 — — — 27,579 S80 16,803 — — — 531 120 17,454 S80L — — — 11,495 — — 11,495 V50 — — 53,982 — — 320 54,302 V60 13,404 — — — — — 13,404 V70 48,585 — — — — — 48,585 XC60 — — 83,529 — — 141 83,670 XC70 21,156 — — — — — 21,156 XC90 36,375 — — — 240 96 36,711 C30 — — 35,248 — — — 35,248 C70 — 9,532 — — — — 9,532 Total 136,323 9,532 223,117 17,004 771 1,055 387,802 (Production in 2009: 311,413 cars) Number of employees 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Sweden 12,9171) 13,928 16,573 17,616 18,212 1) Sweden 2010 Belgium (Ghent) 4,484 3,685 3,791 4,110 4,537 Torslanda plant 2,873 Thailand* 0 0 1 256 264 Gothenburg – Other 6,532 Malaysia 282 187 228 274 374 Skövde incl. Floby 1,951 Market companies 1,811 1,850 2,139 2,128 2,163 Olofström 1,561 Total 19,494 19,650 22,732 24,384 25,550 Total 12,917 * The production plant in Thailand was divested in December 2008. VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 9 11 10 7 8 12 13 3 2 4 1 5 6 1 Winnie Kin Wah Fok 2 Hans-Olov Olsson 3 Stefan Jacoby 4 Li Shufu Director. Born 1956, from China. Vice-Chairman. Born 1941, from President & CEO Chairman of the Board Has long experience of the ﬁnance Sweden. Joined Volvo in 1966. Born 1958, from Germany. Born 1963, from China. sector. Currently employed as an President of Volvo Cars 2000–2005. Appointed in August, joining from Founder of Zhejiang Geely Holding. advisor at Investor and is a Board Head of global marketing at the Ford Volkswagen in the US, where he was member of SKF and G4S. Motor Company 2005–2006. company president. 5 Håkan Samuelsson 6 Lone Fønss Schrøder 7 Sören Carlsson 8 Dr Herbert Demel Director. Born 1951, from Sweden. Director. Born 1960, from Denmark. Union representative (Unionen) Director. Born 1954, from Austria. President and Chairman of truck Began her career with shipping comBorn 1964, from Sweden. Began professional career at Bosch manufacturer MAN 2005–2009. Has pany Möller-Maersk. President of Joined Volvo in 1985. in 1984. Has worked for companies also been head of Scania. Currently a Wallenius Lines, 2005–2010. Memincluding Audi, Volkswagen and Fiat. member of the Board of Siemens. ber of the Boards of Vattenfall and Since 2010, President of Magna in Handelsbanken, among others. China, South-East Asia, India, Africa and South America. 9 Glenn Bergström 10 Marko Peltonen 11 Björn Olsson 12 Magnus Sundemo Union representative (IF Metall) Union representative (IF Metall) Deputy union representative Deputy union representative Born 1955, from Sweden. Born 1965, from Sweden. (IF Metall) Born 1963, from Sweden. (Akademikerna) Born 1954, from Joined Volvo in 1974. Joined Volvo in 1984. Joined Volvo in 1981. Sweden. Joined Volvo in 1979. 13 Freeman Hui Shen New member as of Director. Born 1970, from China. Has 10 November, 2010: worked for Borg Warner and Fiat. Peter Zhang (not featured) Currently director of Zhejiang Geely Replaces F Shen as Director. Holding, with responsibility for the Born 1966, from China. company’s international operations. . 34 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 2 4 6 8 1 3 5 7 9 10 11 12 1 Jan Gurander 2 Bernt Ejbyfeldt 3 Peter Mertens 4 Paul Gustavsson Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Purchasing Research & Development Business Ofﬁce 5 Stefan Jacoby 6 Magnus Hellsten 7 Elisabet Wenzlaff 8 Björn Sällström President & Chief Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Executive Ofﬁcer Manufacturing General Counsel Human Resources 9 Lex Kerssemakers 10 Paul Welander 11 Olle Axelson 12 Doug Speck Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Acting Senior Vice President Product Strategy & Vehicle Line Quality & Customer Public Affairs Marketing, Sales & Service Management Satisfaction Freeman H Shen (not featured) Senior Vice President China Operations VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 35 THIS IS VOLVO CARS The ﬁrst series produced Volvo car rolled off the production line in Gothenburg in 1927. Since then, Volvo Cars has delivered a steady stream of Volvo models equipped with world-leading innovations. Today, Volvo Cars is one of the bestknown car brands in the world with sales in over 100 countries. THIS IS VOLVO CARS Until 1999, Volvo Cars formed part of Sweden’s Volvo Group when the represented some 14.4 percent of the total sales volume in 2010, followed company was bought by Ford Motor Company. In 2010, Volvo Cars was by Sweden (14.2 percent), the UK (10.2 percent), China (8.2 percent) and acquired by the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group of China and the growth Germany (6.7 percent). strategy is to establish China as the company’s second home market. A new Volvo Cars’ head ofﬁce, product development, marketing and administraChinese head ofﬁce is located in Shanghai, a completely new plant is being tion are located in Torslanda, outside Gothenburg, in Sweden, where the built in Chengdu and the number of dealerships in the country is to double. largest assembly plant is located, as is the crash test centre. The Uddevalla In addition, the possibility of establishing a further plant in Daqing is being plant in Sweden and the plant in Ghent, Belgium, manufacture the smaller car looked into. models. In 2010, Volvo Cars sold a total of 373,525 cars, an increase of 11.6 In 2006, Volvo Cars commenced manufacturing in Chongqing, China, in percent. The company’s best-selling model was the Volvo XC60 with 80,723 a company owned jointly by the Chinese company run by Changan, Ford and cars sold, of which 9,261 went to the US. This was followed by the Volvo V50 Mazda – Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Corporation Ltd. Since the 1930s, and V70 with 56,098 and 48,872 cars, respectively. In Sweden, almost every Volvo Cars has been manufacturing engines in Skövde, Sweden and body ﬁfth car sold is a Volvo. components have been produced in Olofström, Sweden since 1969. Relative to the strength of the brand, Volvo Cars is a comparatively small Sales are handled through approximately 2,300 local dealers. Most of producer, with market shares of 1–2 percent in its main markets. The model the dealerships are independent companies. In addition to new-car sales, range comprises sedans (S), versatile estates (V), SUV/Cross Country activities include the sale of accessories, workshop services, pre-owned cars vehicles (XC) and coupés/convertibles (C). The largest market, the US, as well as ﬁnancial services. At the end of 2010, the Volvo Cars work-force numbered 19,494 employees, of whom 12,917 were employed in Sweden. Car production Design centre Volvo Cars’ history Gothenburg Gothenburg Volvo Cars was founded in Gothenburg, Sweden, in 1927 by the engineer Ghent, Belgium Barcelona, Spain Gustaf Larson and the economist Assar Gabrielsson. Mass production comUddevalla (Pininfarina Sweden) Camarillo, California menced the same year with the Volvo ÖV4, nicknamed the “Jakob”, which Chongqing (Changan Ford), China rolled out from the production plant on 14 April. Since then, the company has produced over 15 million cars. Component manufacturing Assembly plants Skövde Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Floby Bangkok, Thailand Olofström Car production 2010 % 2009 % Head ofﬁce, product development, marketing, administration Gothenburg, Sweden 136,323 35.2 102,762 33.0 Gothenburg Uddevalla, Sweden 9,532 2.4 9,124 2.9 Ghent, Belgium 223,117 57.5 183,869 59.0 Chongqing, China 17,004 4.4 15,145 4.9 Employees (December 31, 2010) 19,494 Assembly plants Malaysia 1,055 0.3 396 0.1 Represented in about Thailand 771 0.2 117 0.1 100 countries worldwide 2,300 local dealers Total: 387,802 100 311,403 100 36 VOLVO CAR CORPORATION | CORPORATE REPORT 2010/2011 CONTACT INFORMATION Contact us This is the tenth report on corporate responsibility published by Volvo Car Corporation. Our aim is to address areas and issues that are important for our stakeholders, and also for us as a company. We welcome feedback on the report and will gladly answer any questions you have regarding Volvo Car Corporation’s sustainable development programmes. You are welcome to contact us by e-mail: citizen@volvocars.com or Telephone: +46 (0)31–59 00 00. Contact person: Linn Fortgens, Director Sustainability & Financial Communication. Volvo Personvagnar AB Public Affairs, Sustainability SE-405 31 Gothenburg, Sweden www.volvocars.com/sustainability C ECOL A R DI NO BE L Solberg Volvo Personvagnar AB PA/PV 501252803-11 EN
