Our Commitment to UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” April 2011 TATA ELXSI LIMITED ITPB Road Whitefield Bangaluru 560 048 India Tel 91 80 2297 9123/2297 9113 Fax 91 80 28 41 1474 E-mail pandurao@tataelxsi.co.in www.tataelxsi.com Communication on Progress Introduction We are signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2006. We are committed to the ten principles of the Compact which foster better Corporate Responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress (COP) provides an insight into our recent activities in support of the Global Compact’s objectives. Statement of Continued Support We follow the principles of corporate governance and a code of ethics (called the Tata Code of Conduct) very similar to the Global Compact. This code of conduct is signed by all our officers and has been shared with our suppliers and customers too. For further information of the Company, please visit www.tataelxsi.com S.Pandu Rao Authorised Signatory UN Global Compact – “Communication on Progress” Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial Data Collected from the Direction year internal departments / (GRI indicators (Approach / Process / functions (Champions) correlated with) Deployment) (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) Human Rights HR/IR Principle 1 We follow the 1. Employee concerns are aired and addressed Businesses should International Declaration regularly through one-on-one dialogues [Employee support and respect of Human Rights. Our Touch Base] Sessions at all Company locations the protection of HR policies and conducted at regular intervals by internationally procedures reflect, 1.) Employee Relations Executive 2.) HR Manager proclaimed human pursue and review these 3.) HR Head. rights on an annual basis. (HR 1,2,3,4) 2. Company also has an Online System called “Reach HR” wherein an employee can raise concerns w.r.t HR issues. Action plan based on employee feedback is developed to address employee concerns. 3. Company’s Design and Development Centres all over India & abroad follow standard working hours as laid down in the Shops & Establishment Act and other relevant acts, as applicable. 4. We ensure that all our units as well as Supply Chain Units and the personnel employed through contractors do not employ child labour. 5. To reinforce the ‘Tata Code of Conduct’ a printed version is shared in English, with all our employees, across India & abroad. An online version is also available on Tata Elxsi intranet. HR/IR Principle 2 Our HR processes by 1. Care is taken by the Company to ensure that it does Make sure they are way of consultative business with suppliers, contractors and service not complicit in committees are at all providers who comply with the relevant standards human rights abuses times constantly and under the Universal Declaration and the Fundamental proactively addressing Human Rights Conventions of the ILO and also meet (HR 2, 3) issues in possible areas the statutory requirements like registration for of conflict with the Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, employees. Workers Minimum Wages Act, for its personnel and refraining from using child labour. 2. Company has a comprehensive “Whistle Blower Policy” that safeguards the interests of the employee who make protected disclosures regarding any violations w.r.t Tata Code of Conduct. 3. Company is committed to maintain a productive work environment free of sexual harassment, whether physical, verbal or psychological. The “Sexual Harassment Redressal” Policy protects the dignity of every single employee of the company and safeguards their interests. For this financial year we had zero cases registered under this point. Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial Data Collected from the Direction year internal departments / (GRI indicators (Approach / Process / functions (Champions) correlated with) Deployment) (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) Labour Standards HR/IR Principle 3 1. Tata Elxsi 1. The Company’s Senior Management reviews the Businesses should benchmarks its salary structure of all the employees once in a year uphold the freedom process as per the based on salary surveys, market conditions, the of association and Industry standards. employees’ welfare and well being are addressed. the effective The last revision in salary to all the employees took recognition of the place in April, 2011. right to collective bargaining &4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 2. Forced and 2. There is no forced and compulsory labour in Tata compulsory labour compulsory labour Elxsi Limited. is banned by the (HR 5, 7 LA 3, 4) Government of India. Materials Division. Principle 5 All suppliers are told that 1. The Company’s Recruitment Policy ensures that The effective the Company shall take the Company employs only adults over 18 years of abolition of child serious note if the age. labour contactor in any way employs child labour, 2. The Company has a written policy with its (HR 6) directly or indirectly. suppliers, supply chain units, service providers and contractors to employ adults over 18 years of age only and does not resort to employment of child labour. 3. The monitoring is by way of periodic review of suppliers/ contractors; all the contracts /agreements are reviewed annually. Entry of labour (to Prevent entry of Minor Labour) is regulated at entry point of site itself. 4. For civil constructions or any labour oriented job the contractors are strictly warned not to employ child labour below 18 years of age. Monitoring is done by way of Security checks and reviewing with Contractors/Consultants. HR/IR Principle 6 The company’s policy on 1. The Company has a systematic recruitment Eliminate selection, recruitment process, which ensures that there is no discrimination in and confirmation of discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality or respect of employment includes an religion. employment and explicit understanding occupation that we are equal 2. The Company gives employment or contract work opportunity employers opportunities to physically challenged people (HR 4, LA 10,11) as per the Tata Code of wherever possible. 2 physically challenged Conduct (Clause 4). individuals are gainfully employed with us. With respect to disability, the incumbent shall get the job if she or he fulfils the basic requirements. Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial year Data Collected from the Direction internal departments / (GRI indicators (Approach / Process / (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) functions (Champions) correlated with) Deployment) Environmental Protection Principle 7 The company is Precautionary approaches to environmental challenges Admin/Facility Division Businesses should traditionally proTowards Sustainable Development support a precautionary environment and approach to specific policies and 1. Rain Water Harvesting environmental guidelines exist to set challenges direction that 2. Stop use of banned items addresses these (HR 3.13) Principles and beyond. 3. Have norms for treated effluent water. The company has an Principle 8 Environmental Policy. 4. Dishwasher for reducing consumption of water at Undertake initiatives to Kitchen/café. promote greater environmental 5. Helping recycling of solid and liquid waste. responsibility Initiatives to promote greater environmental (EN. 1 to 16) responsibility &9 1. Have set up 100KLD Sewerage Treatment Plant, Encourage the for Recycling waste water. development and diffusion of 2. Ground and Roof water harvesting. environmentally friendly technologies 3. Greenery by design. Have planted about 100 trees and have created green lawn in about 70,000 (EN-17 for Principle 9) sq.ft area in the campus. 4. Mass Transportation is being provided and Car pooling initiated there by discouraging employees to use their own conveyance. 5. 60% of employees use company transport facility while about 25 Senior Executives make use of the car pooling Facility. 6. Adapted effective energy saving methods (reduced energy consumption by margin of 15%). 7. About 1800 incandescent bulbs are replaced with Compact Florescent Lamp (CFL). 8. Solar water heater for café 9. About 25KLD treated water being used for garden. 10. Optimum use of captive power equipments with maximum load. 11. Funded for commissioning of a Biogas Plant for Mahila Mandiram at Trivandrum, South India. 12. Proposal for installation of Bio gas convert or in progress. Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial year Data Collected from the Direction internal departments / (GRI indicators (Approach / Process (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) functions (Champions) correlated with) / Deployment) Anti-Corruption and prevention of Bribery Principle 10 As a Tata company 1. Every employee has to sign the Tata Code of Conduct Chief Ethics Counsellor Businesses should there is an elaborate (TCOC). Every year, every new employee signs the work against corruption system and process Tata Code of Conduct. in all its forms, for the ‘management including extortion and of business ethics’. 2. Hotline: an e-mail id has been in use since 2005 to bribery The company has the ease the reportage of ethical concerns by employees head of the Company and suppliers and partners. In this financial year we as the Principal Ethics have no cases registered in this email id. Officer, a Senior Manager as the Chief Ethics Counsellor and 3. The Tata Code of Conduct is included in all the each Location has an Purchase Orders) Ethics Counsellor responsible. There is a Lady Ethics Counsellor to cater to the sensitivities of women employees. All employees sign the Tata Code of Conduct. The Tata Code of Conduct is sent to all suppliers with the contract, for their perusal in respect of relevant clauses. Clauses 5, 6 and 7 address these issues.
