ANNUAL REPORT 2010 This report is printed on 100% recycled paper, and has been designed to optimize paper usage. Mission To be recognized as one of the top five global logistics and express transportation service providers. Purpose To enable and facilitate regional and global trade and commerce responsibly. Table of Contents • Letter from the CEO 6 • Aramex Overview 8 About this report 9 Our Performance 9 Sustainability as a Strategic Investment 11 Our Services 11 • Strategic Direction 14 Growth 14 Investing in our people 15 Creating value for our customers 15 Being active corporate citizens 15 • Key Non-Financial Goals for 2011 16 • Awards and Memberships 18 • Governance 20 Management (Approach and Systems) 22 Global Compliance 23 • Stakeholder Engagement 24 • Our People 28 • Customers 34 • Sustainability Focus Areas 38 Education & Youth Empowerment 39 Entrepreneurship 41 Community Development 42 Emergency Relief 44 Sports 45 Environment 47 • Reporting Process 52 • GRI / UN Global Compact Index 54 • Acronyms 58 • Glossary 59 • Consolidated Financial Statements 61 • Independent Assurance 109 6 Annual Report | 2010 Abdulla M. Mazrui Fadi Ghandour chairman founder and ceo LETTER FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholder, 2010 was another year of delivering on our promises to our stakeholders, from reporting robust financial results, investing in our people, innovating new solutions, to overcoming challenges, exploring new frontiers, and creating value for our shareholders, customers, business partners and communities. At Aramex, we have long believed that a company’s success is intertwined with the wellbeing of all its stakeholders. Four years ago, we released the first independently assured sustainability report in the Arab world, underlining our holistic stakeholder approach and long-term vision. Today, in our efforts to further enhance stakeholder communications, we are releasing the first integrated annual report, which combines our financial and non-financial reporting and further highlights the strategic role that sustainability plays in our operations and performance. Throughout the past year, we achieved impressive operational and financial results, continued to nurture our people’s development, and exceeded many key sustainability goals we set for the period. On the financial front, the strong performance of our key services across all markets resulted in an 11% increase in net profits, reaching AED 204 million, while revenues for the period witnessed double-digit growth of 13%, reaching AED 2,212 million. Moreover, we maintained a very healthy balance sheet, with a cash balance of AED 555 million. Our strong financial position, coupled with our dedicated, highly skilled and entrepreneurial team—which has grown to over 8,600 people—allowed us to confidently and aggressively pursue expansion opportunities in emerging markets. In 2010, we concluded a series of acquisitions and partnerships in each of Ghana, Turkey, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Vietnam. Additionally, we are investing in e-business platforms and actively working with start-ups and SMEs in the Middle East to facilitate economic growth through increased electronic trade and commerce. Building on our efforts to enhance customer service and boost our responsiveness to customers’ needs, we have deployed the new Aramex Global Contact Center and improved the various existing channels for 7 customer engagement. Our customer service efforts were recognized at the Middle East Call Center Awards for the Best Small Outsource Provider and for the Best Quality Assurance Program. In line with our ongoing commitment to invest in our people, we have launched the ‘Global Change Leaders’ program, which, by focusing on a holistic approach to leadership, aims to empower Aramex senior managers to emerge as future global leaders. In addition to receiving executive education and global exposure during the year-long program, the program nurtures the leaders’ spirit of responsibility by putting their knowledge and skills at the service of communities. We are also increasingly encouraging employee volunteerism across the network, and cooperating with new partners to link our people with more projects in their local communities. In keeping with our responsibilities as active corporate citizens, throughout the year, we continued investing in our main areas of focus—education and youth empowerment, entrepreneurship, community development, sports, emergency relief and the environment. Moreover, our sustainability initiatives are impacting a greater number of people, as we further expanded our activities in countries such as Sri Lanka, India, Palestine, Egypt and Lebanon. We continue to celebrate the entrepreneurial spirit within the company and to leverage our resources to support platforms that promote the same spirit in the wider community, such as Wamda; an innovative platform that facilitates entrepreneurship by sharing knowledge and resources across the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia. Another priority for us, of course, is reducing our negative impact on the environment. Our efforts in this area continue to bear fruit; as a result of our environmental initiatives, we decreased our per-shipment fuel consumption by 3% in 2010. We continue to explore the use of alternative energy technologies to further reduce our carbon footprint and we are committed to complying with the highest environmental management systems. This integrated report is maintained in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and it reaffirms our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Following a third-party audit, we have maintained our reporting performance by receiving an independently assured rating of A+ on the GRI rating system. We expect more challenging business conditions in 2011 and maintain a cautious outlook for the year, with an anticipated increase in operating costs as a result of inflationary pressure and higher fuel prices. However, global challenges are not unfamiliar to Aramex, and we will continue to carry out our long-term growth strategy and we will put all efforts towards delivering on our promises to all of our stakeholders. Abdulla M. Mazrui Fadi Ghandour chairman founder and ceo 8 Annual Report | 2010 ARAMEX OVERVIEW As a leading global provider of comprehensive logistics and transportation solutions, Aramex enables and facilitates trade and commerce for over 60,000 customers around the world through responsible business practices. Established in 1982, our company rapidly evolved into a global brand recognized for its customized services and innovative multi-product offering, and became the first company from the Arab world to trade on the NASDAQ in 1997. 9 After five years of successful perspective and approach since and initiatives that deliver on our trading, the company moved the early days of the company. For sustainability commitments to into private ownership through a Aramex, sustainability is a stratestakeholders. leveraged management buyout gic decision; it is embedded in our This year, we are merging our finanwith Dubai-based Abraaj Capital. business model and reflected in all cial and non-financial information Today, Aramex is a publicly traded our practices. in the first integrated Aramex company on the Dubai Financial annual report to further highlight Market (DFM: ARMX), employing About this Report the inseparable role of sustainabilmore than 8,600 direct employees ity in our operations, performance, and around 1000 indirect employOur financial statements are and strategic direction. ees in over 53 countries across the maintained in accordance with the The report is in compliance with GCC, Levant, Africa, Asia, Europe International Financial Reporting the local regulations in the UAE and North America, and leads a Standards (IFRS) and reported in and the Global Reporting Initiative strong alliance network of more line with the regulatory require(GRI), and has been self-declared as than 40 companies further enhancments of the Securities and GRI Level A, maintaining a rating of ing its global presence. Commodities Authority (ESCA) A+ following an independent assurof the United Arab Emirates. We ance, and also covers the ten prinActing responsibly towards all released our first sustainability ciples of the United Nations Global stakeholders — our customers, report in 2007; since then we have Compact. We are pleased to share business partners, shareholdconsistently reported on our comthis report as part of an ongoing ers, people, communities, and mitments and progress, and have dialogue on our progress and comthe environment — has been our implemented policies, procedures, mitments with our stakeholders. Our Performance Key Financial Information Consolidated Income Statement (In Thousands in UAE Dirhams) (Year ended December 31) 2007 2008 2009 2010 Revenues International express 519,085 610,343 626,588 689,111 Freight forwarding 823,993 912,599 758,790 924,101 Domestic express 224,988 295,665 302,302 331,153 Logistics 106,766 132,654 124,485 103,764 Publications and distribution 35,952 35,955 31,745 30,035 Others 73,004 92,738 116,877 133,832 Total Revenues 1,783,788 2,079,954 1,960,786 2,211,996 Shipping costs 948,133 1,041,971 852,745 1,021,830 Gross profit 835,654 1,037,983 1,108,041 1,190,166 Share of profits from JV's 130 (256) Operating expenses 268,548 364,961 412,798 444,596 Selling, general and administrative expenses 424,095 497,797 489,334 519,087 Operating income 143,011 175,225 206,039 226,227 Interest income 8,070 5,375 14,204 16,283 Interest expense (4,131) (3,442) (1,830) (1,166) Gain (loss) on sale of fixed assets (298) (853) (259) (458) Exchange gain (loss) 3,442 1,771 (1,090) 1,264 Other income (loss) 422 1,869 1,100 2,362 Income before income taxes 150,516 179,945 218,163 244,512 Provision for income taxes (9,450) (10,573) (11,441) (14,935) Non-controlling interests (19,515) (22,051) (22,435) (25,485) Net Income 121,551 147,321 184,287 204,092 10 Annual Report | 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data (In Thousands of UAE Dirhams) (as of December 31) Consolidated balance sheet data 2007 2008 2009 2010 Working capital 344,452 447,668 570,611 650,340 Total assets 1,674,836 1,845,307 2,058,222 2,286,458 Total liabilities & Non-controlling interests 389,661 437,768 462,566 505,459 Total shareholders equity 1,285,175 1,407,539 1,595,656 1,780,999 Results of Operations: The following table sets forth –for the period indicated– the percentages of total revenues represented by certain items in the company’s consolidated statement of income: 2007 2008 2009 2010 ٪ ٪ ٪ ٪ Revenues International express 29.1 29.3 32.0 31.2 Freight forwarding 46.2 43.9 38.7 41.8 Domestic express 12.6 14.2 15.4 15.0 Logistics 6.0 6.4 6.3 4.7 Publications and distribution 2.0 1.7 1.6 1.4 Others 4.1 4.5 6.0 6.1 Total Revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Shipping costs 53.2 50.1 43.5 46.2 Gross profit 46.8 49.9 56.5 53.8 Share of profits from JV’s 0 0 Operating expenses 15.1 17.5 21.1 20.1 Selling, general and administrative expenses 23.8 23.9 25.0 23.5 Operating income 8.0 8.4 10.5 10.2 Income before income taxes 8.4 8.7 11.1 11.1 Provision for income taxes 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.7 Non-controlling interests 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.2 Net Income 6.8 7.1 9.4 9.2 Key Non-Financial Information 2008 2009 2010 % of Pre‐Tax Profits for Corporate Activism 2.70% 2.50% 2.60% Our People Number Of Employees 7607 8101 8675 % Of Increase in Employment 20% 6% 7% % of Female Employees From Total Aramex Employees 12% 11% 11% % of Females in Management 23% 25% 25% # of Locally Hired Management 255 277 338 21 (For reporting Average Training hour per employee 17 21 period 2007-2008) Health and Safety Performance Index Summary Fatalities 3 0 2 Accidents per Million Shipments 25 20 14.3 Percentage change in accidents per Million Shipments 62% -28% -21% Lost Time Injuries per Million Shipments 1.27 1.1 2.6 Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate 0.44 0.51 0.41 Environment Fuel consumption per shipment reduction NA 21% (2006-2009) 3% Paper consumption Savings 35 Tons 34 Tons 72 Tons 11 Sustainability as a To facilitate knowledge sharing Strategic Investment about our sustainability initiatives, we are utilizing our dediOur commitment to sustainabilcated web portal www.aramex.org ity is a reflection of our long-term as an interactive platform and a management approach which virtual space where stakeholdaims to create shared value for ers can engage in discussions all stakeholders, and stems from regarding latest sustainability our conviction that sustainable trends and case studies. Addibusiness practices and strong tionally, we are utilizing online financial results are intertwined. social media channels to engage our stakeholders in an effort This year, and for the first time, to enhance our communication we are presenting our sustainabiltools and to increase awareness ity performance in an integrated of corporate activism. annual report, which combines our financial and non-financial Environmental responsibility is Our Services information, further affirming our at the core of our strategy, and commitment to a holistic manwe have been keen to monitor International Express agement approach, and to act and minimize our impact on the Delivery as a platform for inclusive and environment by deploying various transparent dialogue about our systems and technologies. We We provide global door-to-door performance, commitments, and strive to reduce our resources shipping solutions for time-senplans for responsible growth. consumption while adhering to sitive documents and packages Being embedded in our daily international standards for envito customers in various indusoperations, sustainability directs ronmental protection, as well as tries; including banks, trading, every decision we make at all best practices for health, safety pharmaceutical, manufacturing levels in the company; our agile and security. and regional distribution combusiness model enables us to panies. Our express services swiftly respond to forces of offer a range of options that change, while the company’s Full-year net profit allow customers to balance cost federal, decentralized strucreaches AED 204 million, and speed, and include features ture empowers our people to be up 11% such as real-time online tracking responsive to evolving customer updates, automatic delivery notineeds. Furthermore, being a local fications, proof of delivery, and a entity in areas where we operate The following section is an wide range of import, export, and creates local job opportunities overview of our business operacustoms clearance services. and enables us to effectively tions, with various sustainability address the needs of the commuaspects related to our services In 2010, we institutionalised nities we belong to. discussed alongside each service the use of environment-friendly description. biodegradable pouches1 for all Our corporate activism model is express shipments and introbuilt on strategic partnerships duced biodegradable plastic in order to ensure long-term windows to our recycled cardviability and impact. We have board envelopes, in addition prioritized our efforts over the to all activities performed and following areas of focus: educareported in previous years, such tion and youth empowerment; as electronic invoicing and online entrepreneurship; community pick-up requests. Please see the development; emergency relief; aramex.org for previous sustainsports and the environment. ability reports. 1 www.aramex.org 12 Annual Report | 2010 Freight Forwarding Our freight services cover air, land, and ocean transportation, providing cost-effective delivery for heavier packages with less time-sensitive delivery requirements compared to express shipments. Our comprehensive menu of freight services on offer to our customers range from portto-port to door-to-door delivery and include customs clearance, advanced online tracking, temperature-controlled haulage, third-party shipping, regional or next-business-day deliverAramex logistics centers are distribution, chartered aircraft or ies, package collection, return strategically located in key areas vessel services, exhibition hanservice, and cash on delivery. of the GCC, Middle East, North dling, and other services. We continue to promote our Africa, Western Europe, and Asia, technology tools to customers and are powered by state-of-art Land freight is a less costly which enable them to use shiptechnologies providing worldand more environment-friendly ping labels instead of convenclass security and real-time visalternative to air freight and tional waybills, thereby reduce ibility at all levels. the former is increasingly being paper consumption considerably. offered to and demanded by Furthermore, our fleet is in comIn our efforts to continuously our customers. Today we have pliance with our responsible proaddress environmental chalone of the most extensive and curement policy which ensures lenges, all newly constructed advanced land freight networks that car engines are a minimum Aramex logistics centers will be in the Middle East, Ireland, and of Euro 4 emissions standard and LEED certified to achieve energy the United Kingdom. We have promotes the adoption of altersavings, water efficiency, and also focused on expanding our native energy technologies such CO2 emissions reduction. We ground transportation reach in as battery operated scooters1, have also maintained our policy the GCC and Levant regions due hybrid vehicles, and bikes2 . to use only electric-powered forkto rising demand for efficient lifts in our warehouses. inter-regional delivery services. Integrated Logistics, Warehousing, and Supply Information Management Domestic Express Delivery Chain Management Solutions (InfoFort) For many businesses such as Our end-to-end logistics solutions InfoFort is a wholly-owned subsidpharmaceutical and telecom efficiently manage the transiary of Aramex and is the leading companies, financial institutions, fer, storage, and distribution of secure records and information NGOs, governmental organizaproducts and information during management solutions provider tions, and e-commerce busiall stages of the supply chain, in the Middle East and North nesses, our Domestic Express from the moment our customer’s Africa. InfoFort’s solutions cover service provides door-to-door inventory leaves their suppliers the full information life-cycle delivery of urgent packages or factories until it reaches their and include the secure storage within a country or a city. The retailers or end consumers. We and management of physical and service can be customized to also provide third-party facility electronic records, media vaultmeet customers’ specific needs, management and consultancy ing and rotation, secure shredwith options including same-day services. ding, IT escrow services, cheques 1 www.aramex.org/Public_Articles 2 www.aramex.org/Public_Articles 13 management, and consultancy purchased goods from US and UK We provide a range of solutions to services. online stores easily, quickly and help start-ups as well as estabaffordably. The service is prolished retailers set up or expand The document automation servvided in more than 25 countries their e-commerce operations, ices provided reduce the need for across the Middle East, Africa, including warehousing and intepaper and its production, and help Europe, and Asia. For more inforgrated logistics, payment collecclients discard unneeded papers. mation about Shop and Ship, visit tion services, order processing, The impact of InfoFort’s papershopandship.com and outsourcing of customer reducing practices is measured service through various contact by certificates received for the E-Commerce Solutions centers. number of trees saved. InfoFort As the e-commerce sector witalso encourages environmentnesses continuous growth in the For more information about our friendly practices by facilitatMiddle East and other emerging company and services, visit ing the recycling of customers’ markets, Aramex is utilizing its aramex.com electronic and IT waste. For more logistics expertise and infrainformation about InfoFort, visit structure to partner with entreinfofort.com preneurs and online retail sites, Company maintains further enabling trade and comstrong cash position of E-Business Solutions merce and creating economic AED 555 million; debt opportunities in these emerging -to-equity ratio remains Shop and Ship markets. The growing trend in extremely low Shop and Ship is an online e-business also has potential shopping delivery service that beneficial environmental effects enables thousands of customsuch as reductions in energy and ers around the world to receive paper consumption. Geographic Breakdown of Revenues (In Millions of UAE Dirhams) (as of December 31) Freight ForwardInternational ing Domestic & Others Total Revenue Year 2010 Express 31% 42% 27% 100% Middle East 755.55 76% 655.43 60% 484.73 78% 1895.71 70% Europe 83.47 8% 300.75 27% 97.17 16% 481.40 18% North America 59.32 6% 43.51 4% 1.48 0% 104.31 4% Asia 102.77 10% 99.82 9% 36.09 6% 238.68 9% Elimination (312.00) (175.41) (20.69) (508.11) Total 689.11 100% 924.10 100% 598.78 100% 2212.00 100% International Freight Domestic & Others Total Revenue Year 2009 Express 32% Forwarding 39% 29% 100% Middle East 717.54 78% 592.78 64% 472.21 79% 1782.53 73% Europe 77.16 10% 248.48 27% 99.97 17% 425.61 17% North America 51.07 2% 26.49 3% 2.60 0% 80.16 3% Asia 76.25 10% 57.25 6% 23.06 4% 156.55 6% Elimination (295.44) (166.20) (22.42) (484.06) Total 626.59 100% 758.79 100% 575.41 100% 1960.79 100% 14 Annual Report | 2010 STRATEGIC DIRECTION We aim to strengthen our position acquisitions and joint ventures management. By integrating as one of the top global logistics in high-growth economies that with our established IT systems, and transportation companies enjoy political stability, parglobal network, and branding, by expanding our worldwide ticularly in Africa, Asia, and the our franchising program provides network, continuously innovating Commonwealth of Independent growth opportunities to local solutions to meet our customers’ States (CIS). and regional transportation comevolving needs, and serving our panies looking to offer a global communities. The following sumAdditionally, there are a number service. At the same time, we marizes the key elements of our of small to medium-size busibenefit from the local knowlstrategy for achieving profitable nesses within our core markets edge of franchisees to facilitate growth and sustainable value that can be integrated with market entry, grow our revenue creation for all stakeholders in existing operations and produce base, expand brand awareness, the long-term. considerable efficiencies. We and improve our service offering. continuously seek to identify Furthermore, franchising relationGrowth such companies to grow revships build mutual understanding enues and profits at higher in terms of corporate values and In line with our strategic goals efficiencies, and to enhance our adopting sustainable business and in response to customers’ services and deliver more value practices. needs, Aramex is pursuing a to our customers. multi-faceted growth strategy consisting of the following In 2010, Aramex concluded acquicomponents: sitions in Turkey, Bangladesh, Ongoing focus on Malaysia, Vietnam, and Ghana. As strategic expansion, Acquisitions and Joint part of our broader strategy, the including anticipated Ventures in Emerging increased presence in Vietnam acquisitions in East Markets and Malaysia will strengthen Africa our existing Southeast Asian We see tremendous value in the network in Singapore and Indoexpansion of our global network nesia, while the acquisition in Investing in Infrastructure in emerging markets. Taking the Bangladesh will complement our and Technology to Support Aramex business model into new operations in the Indian sub-conOrganic Growth markets and establishing industinent. By building a comprehentry leadership will strengthen sive logistics and transportation There are various opportunities our position as one of the top network in these regions, we aim in our core markets to further five global logistics and transto become the company of choice develop products and services portation solutions providers. in these emerging markets and using existing infrastructure, Sustainability is part and parcel expect to build on this strategy such as expanding the offering of our strategy, and we expect well into 2012. of supply chain and information our service offerings to enhance management services to existing domestic economic conditions Globalizing the Brand Aramex locations. Since wareand support local businesses by Through Franchising housing is a critical pre-requisite enabling and facilitating comfor offering these services, we merce in developing regions. As an expansion strategy, franwill continue to invest in purchising provides Aramex with pose-built logistics facilities to For the medium-term, we are puradditional revenue streams and meet the increasing demand in suing smalland medium-scale requires minimal capital and the Middle East and South Asia 15 imperative for our sustainable growth. We believe in continuously investing in our people by developing employee training programs through our corporate university as well as partnering with leading academic institutions, promoting local leadership, ensuring good working conditions, enhancing our human resource management systems, and various other areas. For details read ‘Our People’ section of the report on page 28. Creating value for our customers As a customer centric organizaAnnouncing a series of strategic acquisitions and partnerships in Turkey, Malaysia, tion, we view our customers as Bangladesh and Vietnam. long-term partners and always strive to deliver on our promises. for outsourcing these services. Furthermore, Aramex continues We achieve that through close In line with our commitment to to forge strategic partnerships engagement and responsiveness, adopt the highest environmental with world-class institutions to clear communication, continuous standards, all newly constructed provide direct mentorship and service improvement and innovaAramex logistics centers will be support for aspiring entrepretion, and customizing our soluLEED certified. neurs. Our efforts in this area tions to meet customer needs. are detailed in the Sustainability For details see ‘Our Customers’ Additionally, we will continue to Pillars section of this report. section of the report on page 34. invest in technology to achieve constant improvements in our Meanwhile, with the e-commerce Being active corporate communications network and sector projected to witness sigcitizens information systems, which will nificant growth in the Middle yield continued enhancements East, Aramex is utilizing its We believe that being a responin the quality and efficiency of logistics expertise and infrasible, active partner in the comoperations and customer service. structure to partner with online munities where we operate and retail sites to facilitate robust preserving the environment are Supporting Entrepreneurship payment and delivery systems, strategic investments integral and E-Businesses to and spur further growth in trade for achieving long-term growth. Encourage Growth in Trade by enabling SMEs to expand their We have devised a framework markets using online platforms. to guide our corporate activStemming from our values and ism efforts along several areas entrepreneurial history and Investing in our of focus, which are detailed in culture, and our understanding people the ‘Sustainability Focus Areas’ of the important role that entresection of the report on page 38. preneurship plays in job creation Our people’s satisfaction and and macroeconomic growth, we motivation is at the forefront of actively work with local startour priorities. Building a corpoups and SMEs to encourage rate culture that attracts and and support small businesses. nurtures talent is crucial and 16 Annual Report | 2010 Key Non-Financial Goals for 2011 The following table outlines the our key non-financial issues and the corresponding goals we have set to achieve in 2011. Employees Human Resources Management System Expanding the adoption of our HRMS in 10 stations. Employee Satisfaction and Motivation Developing action plans in response to employee satisfaction survey results. Workplace Conditions Piloting SA8000 certification in 2 stations Providing Human rights and labor rights training programs in major stations Revamp and update the career development plan ensuring alignment with the competency Learning and Development Framework framework and required learning direction Quality of Training Review and update Aramex training material Expanding the delivery of soft skills training Monitoring and enforcing the alignment of trainers with the Aramex trainer selection criteria Implement On-line Education Practices Run and test an on-line learning management system at Aramex Executive Education Hold at least one executive education program Health and Safety Training Continue the delivery of job specific health and safety training to all employees Achieving OHSAS certification in 4 additional stations Policies and Procedures Update emergency evacuation plans Update Health, Safety and Security related policies and manuals. Performance Reduce accidents per shipment by 10% Achieve Zero fatalities Reduce Lost time frequency rate by 10% Monitoring Upgrade the data collection system for incidents/ accidents and root cause analysis. Safety Upgrade safety and physical security measures in all facilities Quality Achieving ISO 9001 in 3 additional stations Pilot Cargo 2000 certification Develop a supplier evaluation form and piloting implementation with major suppliers *Environment Internal Awareness Expanding the delivery of the environment awareness training program to all stations Materials Develop a packaging materials tracking system Implement a waste measurement system in Six major stations Performance Conduct carbon footprint analysis with a third party Facilities Achieving LEED certification in all newly constructed logistics centers in 5 locations Achieving ISO14001 in 10 stations Corporate Activism Engagement Conduct 3 sessions of stakeholder dialogues Reach Expand corporate activism into emerging markets where we expanded Support the education of around 200 youth Empower entrepreneurs and SME's by providing training programs * More environmental targets will be developed based on the Carbon foot-print results and recommendations 17 Customers Customer Satisfaction Surveys Identify and upgrade customer satisfaction measurement tools Pilot the customer satisfaction measurement tools initiative at one of Aramex locations Service Excellence Drive 50% of total transactions to be done electronically via Aramex e-tools Deploying the new customer service application in 9 locations Upgrade our current customer service policies and procedures Upgrade our contact center auditing system Conduct customer service training for all frontline employees Enhance incentive schemes for frontline employees Provide customized solutions to support SME’S and entrepreneurs Complaint Handling Upgrade our customer complaint system Expand our complaint capturing mechanism to include all customer touch points Customer Engagement Upgrade our social media engagement and reporting 18 Annual Report | 2010 Awards and Memberships Awards for 2010 Quality of Service AwardWorld Freight Alliance Supply Chain & Transport Awards Best Small Outsource Provider (Middle East Call Center Awards) Express Logistics Provider of the Year (SCATA) Outstanding Achievement of the year award (SCATA) Best Quality Assurance Program (Middle East Call Center Awards) Receiving the Middle East Call Centre Awards for best practices. Being recognized as Express Logistics Provider of the Year and winning the Outstanding Achievement Award at the Supply Chain & Transport Awards 2010 in Dubai. Memberships Freight International Air Transport Association (IATA) We are IATA-approved agents with individual CODE/ CASS numbers in Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Canada, China, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malta, Mauritius, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Shanghai, Singapore, Slovakia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, UAE, UK, USA, and Vietnam. Some main stations are individual members; remaining stations are in the process of becoming IATA-approved. The International Air Cargo Association (TIACA) Members Fédération Internationale des Associations de Transitaires et Assimilés/International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations Founders (FIATA) World Freight Alliance (WFA) President Freight Forwarding Syndicate Members Air Cargo Netherlands (ACN) Members Fenex Members EVO 1 Members Logistics and Ground Operations Supply Chain and Logistics Group Members Express Global Distribution Alliance (GDA) Founders Express Delivery and Logistic Association Members 1 www.evo.nl 19 Information Technology Information Technology Association of Jordan (INTAJ) Members Business Improvement and Efficiency BSI Registered (British Standards Institute) Members Security Transported Assets Protection Association (TAPA) – Jordan Members Transportation Security Association (TSA) – USA Aramex is an indirect air carrier. Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) USA / TwoWay and Priority are listed agents. Customs Dept Department of Transport (DfT) UK Environment Arab Forum for Environment and Development (AFED) Members Jordan Green Building Council (JGBC) Members Abu Dhabi Sustainability Group (ADSG) Members Others KAMCO: Brokerage USA Members ABANA: Association of Arab Banks for North America USA Members MCAA: Messenger Courier Association of America USA Members Forums, Foundations, Associations, and NGOs INJAZ INJAZ al-Arab covering the Middle East We have been members since 2007. We are now involved in huUnited Nations Global Compact (UNGC) man rights, anti-bribery and corruption working groups World Economic Forum (WEF) • Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative Advisory Committee • Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) • Sustainability work stream working on Supply Chain De-carbonization The Arab Foundation for Sustainable Development “Ruwwad” Founders The American Chamber of Commerce in Jordan (AmCham-Jordan) Members World Trade Center Jordan Chapter Jordan European Business Association (JEBA) Members Global Reporting Initiative Organizational Stakeholder Arab Sustainability Leadership Group Part of the founding group Chambers of Commerce in all countries of operations Members Women Against Violence Conference – AmmanJordan Women Against Violence Association (Wav). Supporters www.womenav.org Arab Distributors conference in Lebanon Members Digital Opportunity Trust DOT Board Members AMIDEAST Lebanon Board Members 20 Annual Report | 2010 GOVERNANCE We strive to be a leader in corporate governance. Aramex is overseen by a Board of Directors, comprised of eight members who are responsible for the adherence to and implementation of our Board of Directors’ Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines. 21 The following table sets forth Chair or other Board members policies such as the environmenthe names of the Company’s can identify a potential conflict tal policy, responsible procureDirectors: of interest involving another ment, and whistleblowing policy. Board member. These strategic sustainability• Mr. Abdullah Mazrui, related decisions and issues are Chairman. The Board meets regularly, as discussed at Board meetings, • Mr. Fadi Ghandour, Founder, per the internal corporate govwhere the Board signs off on any Chief Executive Officer and ernance code. Two standing major sustainability initiatives or Director. Committees—the Audit Comtargets before their implemen• Mr. Helal Al-Marri, Director. mittee and the Nomination and tation, adhering to the Board • Mr. Ahmed Al-Badi, Director. Remuneration Committee—have of Directors code of conduct. their own charters for their In line with AA1000 principle • Mr. Arif Naqvi, Director. responsibilities and tasks. In line of inclusivity, shareholders and • Sheikh Tareq Qassimi, with Emirates Securities and employees are encouraged to Director. Commodities Authority (ESCA) provide recommendations and • Mr. Ayed Aljeaid, Director. corporate governance code, the input via the Board of Directors’ • Mr. Mana Al-Mulla, Director. Audit Committee receives direct Charter and through the Whistlereports from Aramex’s Internal blowing mechanism available Aramex strives to be a leader in Audit function and briefs the through the company intranet. corporate governance. Aramex is Board accordingly. The Internal The Whistleblowing policy and overseen by a Board of Directors, Audit function, in line with the tool, implemented to emphasize comprised of eight members who Institute of Internal Auditors’ our commitment to transparare responsible for the adherstandards, uses a systematic and ency, ensures discrepancies are ence to and implementation of disciplined approach to evaluate reported and dealt with promptly our Board of Directors’ Charter and improve the effectiveness to ensure ethical business pracand Corporate Governance Guideof risk management, control, tices while protecting employlines. Seven members (87%) and governance processes, and ees. The Board generally does are non-executive independent provides the Board of Directors, not have direct contact with the directors, including the chairperAudit Committee and the Manemployees, but learns of their son; the only management repagement of Aramex with indeconcerns and considerations via resentative on the Board is Mr. pendent assurance that financial the feedback processes within Fadi Ghandour, the Founder and and operational mechanisms are the Aramex system. CEO of Aramex. Any shareholder functioning as intended, reasoncan raise an issue during the able assurance that appropriate Each year the Board recommends Annual General Meeting. Sharecontrol mechanisms are in place to the company’s shareholders holders are engaged in the selecto manage areas of high-risk and the amount of remuneration to be tion process of Directors, who benchmark policies, procedures paid to the company’s directors. are highly-qualified individuals and activities to help implement For the year ended December 31, ultimately chosen by shareholdbest practices. 2010, the Board recommended ers and through nominations by and the Company’s shareholders Board members, a process that Aramex CEO and Founder Mr. Fadi approved that directors would adheres to the Board of Directors’ Ghandour briefs the Board on receive US$54,795 each. Charter and Corporate GovernAramex’s strategic stakeholder ance Guidelines while staying approach and sustainability iniThere is currently one sharefaithful to broader consideratiatives and performance, and holder with the highest percenttions, such as awareness of matetheir relation to overall corporate age of shares, which is less than rial, environmental and social performance, reflecting Aramex’s 10%. With regards to shareholder issues. Conflicts of interest and commitment to being a responresolutions, a shareholder must independence are self-declared sible corporate citizen. Aramex own 10% of the company to by members of the Board, who are strives to continuously engage automatically succeed in placing then excused from the relevant in sustainability at a corporate an item on the agenda, which is discussion. Where necessary, the level, and implements internal at the discretion of the Board. 22 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex is listed on the Dubai Recognizing that our core servstations and we are planning to Financial Market. The Emirates ices of transportation and logiscertify four stations in the GCC Securities and Commodities tics have a direct impact on by 2011. As well, we are in the Authority have released Corpothe environment, we continue process of adopting SA8000 rate Governance Regulations seeking mitigation measures international labour standards, for Joint Stock Companies and through the development and and incorporating and complying Institutional Discipline Criteria, instatement of responsible poliwith the AA1000 principles into for which compliance is mandacies. As an example, our procureour business model. tory by 2010. Extending from our ment policy requires the careful commitment to being transparconsideration of vehicle emisContinuous Improvement ent, we have produced an indesion levels before inclusion in pendent governance report in our fleet, while our selection of The pursuit of continuous compliance with the ESCA, which consumables is based on enviimprovement remains at the core is available here1. ronmentally-friendly criteria. Our of our management approach. recent upgrades have included The adoption of innovative techManagement the use of labels instead of nologies and standards is a stra(Approach and paper-intensive waybills, and the tegic need and commitment, one Systems) automation of processes with the that results in better monitoring aim of reducing paper consumpand higher quality performance. Aramex remains committed tion. Furthermore, we continue to to delivering on its promises engage our employees in internal Number of locations certified during prosperous and challengawareness campaigns and trainCertification as of December 31, 2010 ing times. Thanks to our agile ings that focus on the conservabusiness model, entrepreneurial tion of energy, water and paper ISO 9001:2008 28 people, and holistic management among other issues. Our ongoing OHSAS 18001 14 approach, we achieved robust commitment towards responsible ISO 14001 8 financial results and continued to environmental management is TAPA 6 deliver value to all stakeholders reflected by the maintenance of throughout the global recession. ISO 14001 certification at eight stations and our plans to receive Our global network remains conthe certification in Eight stations nected through an integrated Once again this year, in MENA, GCC and Europe in 2011. communication system, ensurAramex has exceeded ing seamless flow of information its annual allocated Our people are at the heart of across our global operations. In budget for sustainability Aramex. Accordingly, we uphold addition to the ongoing deployinvestments our policies as an equal opportument of advanced tracking nity employer, while investing in systems, Aramex is actively the ongoing training and career developing IT solutions that conOur federal structure allows us development of our existing tinuously enhance our services. to directly contribute value to human capital. By building and Meanwhile, our specialist Busilocal communities by providing maintaining a culture that fosters ness Improvement and Efficiency job opportunities and economic innovation, empowerment and team monitors and assesses stimulus in our areas of operaintrapreneurship, we continue to our adherence to corporate polition, while our partnership model provide job satisfaction and drive cies, standards and procedures with social entrepreneurs and better productivity. Furthermore, as set forth in the network wide local, regional, and global NGOs we ensure employee well-being by ‘InfoHub’. This system is continufurther augments our corpoimplementing the highest health, ously updated according to needs rate activism efforts which are safety and security measures. that arise and is certified by the focused on developing nations. Currently, we are in compliance British Standards Institute (BSI). with OHSAS18001 principles, and maintain certification at eleven 1 http://sca-wb1.sca.ae/ARABIC/Secured/Companies/Financial_Reports/CorporateGovernance/ARMX2009CG.pdf 23 To further improve the safety of We are guided by the business practices training. our operations and ensure quality AccountAbility (AA1000) Stakeof service, under our ‘Together holder Engagement Standard that As a proud signatory and active for Safer Roads’ campaign in includes the principles of incluparticipant in the United Nations 2010 we deployed an upgraded sivity, materiality and responGlobal Compact (UNGC), Aramex Global Case System for tracking siveness to nurture our corpoembraces and enacts core values and responding to complaints, rate culture. Aramex’s belief in in the areas of anti-corruption, where the public can identify inclusivity and in an open-door human rights, labour standards Aramex cars and contact us in policy enables and encourages and the environment. Throughout case of complaints. The system collective participation in deciour international operations, we is also used to follow up on noise sion making. This is further remain committed to protectcomplaints. encouraged through effective ing human rights and respecting utilization of our online portals, labour standards. Additionally, In our efforts for continuous creating a forum for multiour human resource governance improvement we have achieved stakeholder communication and structure is founded on the prinISO 9001:2008 certification actively engaging investors, cusciples set forth by the United in 28 stations and maintained tomers, suppliers, employees and Nation’s International Labour ISO 14001 certification in Eight the broader community. Aramex Organization (ILO). stations. Additionally, we have strives to assess and respond maintained certification by the to material issues in a timely In keeping with our policy of Transport Asset Protection Assoand effective manner through continuous improvement, we ciation (TAPA), which provides the localization of knowledge, have recently initiated the adoprigorous guidelines and assessemployee awareness campaigns tion of the Social Accountability ment criteria to ensure that every and management endorsement (SA8000) standard, as developed company meets a specified level efforts. And finally, The Princiby Social Accountability Interof security, in Six of our stations ple of Responsiveness leads us national. Designed for independand we aim to obtain this certito judge our success based on ent auditing and certification fication for other facilities in our the company’s ability to address of labour practices, this standnetwork. stakeholder concerns through ard has been deployed through policy making and the implemeninternal organizational audits in Global Compliance tation of community and environEgypt, England and Ireland. The mental initiatives. outcomes of these efforts have While striving for profitable and been analyzed and have helped responsible growth, Aramex Aramex’s financial reporting identify focus areas that must be remains firmly committed to systems, based on the Interaddressed to meet certification compliance with local and international Financial Reporting requirements. national laws, regulations and Standards (IFRS), are designed to standards. Fundamental to our meet the requirements set forth Compliance with environmental efforts towards organizational by the International Accounting standards is implicit to Aramex’s improvement, policy making and Standards Board (IASB). Transoperations. Through our comsocial activism is the pursuit of parency in our financial reporting mitment to the United Nations best practices in: is integral to our belief in ethical Global Compact and as elabobusiness practices. We continue rated throughout this integrated • stakeholder engagement our involvement with the Partreport, we aspire to be an indus• financial reporting nering Against Corruption Initry leader in adopting and propa• anti-corruption measures tiative (PACI), established under gating policies that help build a • human rights the World Economic Forum and cleaner and greener planet. • labour rights are progressing towards robust • environmental impact internal controls via our finanmitigation. cial policies, code of conduct and recently-launched ethical 24 Annual Report | 2010 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Engaging with our stakeholders is a critical part of our sustainability strategy. It highlights a commitment to continuous and transparent long-term engagement and a recognition that we are not accountable only to shareholders but to a wider community of stakeholders. 25 In 2010, Aramex continued its our performance information values with our stakeholders. efforts to initiate open dialogue provides a foundation for future with our stakeholders. Our focus dialogue and enhanced comThis section provides an overhas been on enhancing our tradimunication with our stakeholdview of Aramex’s main stakeholdtional stakeholder engagement ers and helps align our business ers and the processes, priorities processes with the integration of practices with stakeholders’ and outcomes of our engagement online portals and social media needs and aspirations, allowwith each group. outlets. Effective reporting of ing us to further develop shared EMPLOYEES Our diverse workforce is comprised of over 8,600 direct employees and around 1,000 indirect employees across the globe. Engagement Processes Operational meetings Station meetings, functional meetings and regional meetings Team brainstorming sessions Individual performance appraisals Internal surveys Employee social events Management retreats Annual leaders conferences Online communications (social media, email shots, video channels) Internal collaboration tools Training, education and workshops Priorities Development through internal training, executive education and workshops Knowledge sharing Empowerment and ownership of work Performance-based progression opportunities Healthy work environment Maintaining strong corporate culture, values and reputation Job security and safety Competitive salary and benefits Efforts and Outcomes Feedback-based enhancements to the Aramex Corporate University to improve the quality and effectiveness of training and career development Conducted an independent and comprehensive employee satisfaction survey Launch of the ‘Global Change Leaders’ program Celebrated our frontline employees in ‘Aramex Courier Day’ Regional leader meetings held in Egypt, Jordan, and India Organized sports events, such as the Aramex Gulf Cup soccer tournament and Jordan Football Championship CUSTOMERS We serve over 60,000 customers1 spanning from the Middle East and North Africa, across Europe and Asia, to North America. Engagement Processes Personal feedback meetings Online communication forums, such as social media and live chat Branches and outlets Contact centers Customer service surveys Priorities Provision of customized services that cater to customers’ needs 1 This number excludes Shop and Ship customers 26 Annual Report | 2010  CUSTOMERS High-quality service and responsive customer support Cost-effective solutions that offer competitive value for money On-time delivery Safety and privacy Efforts and Outcomes Enhancements to the customer complaint system to drive ongoing operational improvements Enhanced customer service through social media, web and desktop tools, iPhone application, and live chat Deployed a state-of-the-art Aramex Contact Center system that centralizes communications, provides automated integration with the global customer database, and logs workflow activity for quality analysis and assurance purposes BUSINESS PARTNERS Our partners include airlines, sea liners, vehicle leasing companies, subcontractors, and NGOs. Engagement Processes Ongoing negotiations, transactions and service provision Priorities Long-term business relationship with Aramex Accessibility to new business ventures with Aramex Providing increasing value to partners Preservation of ethical values Efforts and Outcomes Maintenance of open communication channels that support compatible operational standards Provision of logistical support to NGOs Annual General Meetings to actively engage partners in the World Freight Alliance (WFA) and the Global Distribution Alliance (GDA) Support for SMEs and entrepreneurs SHAREHOLDERS As of 2010 year end, Aramex had 25,987 shareholders, with the largest individual shareholder owning less than 10%and institutional investors holding approximately 45% ownership. Engagement Processes Annual General Meetings Annual Reports Quarterly Earnings Reports Press releases Online section for ‘Investor Relations’ Direct contact through the Investor Relations Office Priorities Above average return on investments Effective and efficient governance Outstanding corporate reputation and brand Sustainable and long-term growth High integrity and transparency Efforts and Outcomes Consistent shareholder engagement through investor calls and meetings Sustained profitability and growth through 2010 Sound business integrity 27 COMMUNITY The broader society to which Aramex services and connections extend. Engagement Processes Direct and indirect feedback from local communities, customers, employees and their families Participation and investment in community events Focus groups to address specific community issues (such as noise pollution, traffic congestion, or road safety) Priorities Remaining an engaged and proactive corporate citizen by creating shared values, responding to community needs, forging partnerships to address challenges and contributing to development Job creation, local hiring and competitive wages Disaster response and facilitating individual contributions towards disaster relief Noise management Road safety and traffic reduction Inclusion of marginalized communities Efforts and Outcomes Direct community engagement via major initiatives such as our partnership with Ruwwad for Development Expansion of community activism in the emerging markets of India, Sri Lanka, Palestine, Lebanon and Egypt among other countries Partnership with INJAZ al-Arab in ten countries and with INJAZ Gaza to provide local schools and universities with volunteers from Aramex employees in the region Utilization of Aramex’s logistics network for emergency relief efforts in Pakistan, Egypt and India Encouragement and support of employee volunteerism and fundraising efforts through partnerships such as Volunteer in Dubai (VID) and ‘Alashanek Ya Balady’ Support of team spirit through sports initiatives in India and Jordan Supporting entrepreneurship through partnerships such as WAMDA and MIT THE ENVIRONMENT Those NGOs and other environmental stakeholders who act on behalf of future generations. Engagement Processes Internal environmental training and awareness campaigns Ongoing communication with NGOs to proactively respond to any concerns or inquiries Collaboration with institutions and networks with a focus on the environment Priorities Increased environmental awareness Carbon foot-print reduction Green Building operation Regulatory compliance Efforts and Outcomes Logistical support for the first Arab version of National Geographic’s ‘EarthPulse’ report and the Arab Forum for Environmental Development (AFED) magazine Introduction of alternative technologies in our ground transportation fleet – including hybrid electric and battery operated scooters Intensified pursuit of environmental compliance standards such as LEED for newly constructed logistics centers, and ISO14001 certification for stations Continued tree planting efforts in Lebanon and Jordan, in association with YARA and IBSAR Support of biodiversity through the transportation of wild animals from Jordan to South Africa, in collaboration with the Princess Alia Foundation, and of the ‘Changing Oceans Expedition’ Partnership with Purdue University to support Master’s level Palestinian students in their research on water resources in Jericho city 28 Annual Report | 2010 OUR PEOPLE We believe that investing in our people, the company’s most valuable asset, will drive the sustained and long-term growth of Aramex. Over the past few years, with the assistance of specialist third-party consultants, we have made significant changes to our human resources management systems in the areas of performance appraisals and grading structure across the network. 29 In 2010, we continued to dediWith 81% of our employees 8675 9000 8101 cate our efforts for enhancing our aged between 18 and 40 years, 7607 8000 HR management systems, parAramex remains a young institu7000 ticularly to refine employee pertion. In that light, we actively 6000 formance metrics (through evalupromote career development 5000 ation of KPI’s and competencies), and professional growth within 4000 enhance employee training prothe company. In 2010, 60% of all 3000 grams and career development new team leaders, managers and 2000 995 plans, and improve performance senior managers were promoted 1000 700 623 evaluation mechanisms. internally. 2008 2009 2010 Aramex is a young Ultimately, a strong employee Direct Employees Indirect Employees organization with 81% of retention rate is a good measure Direct Vs Indirect Employees our people aged between of job satisfaction. Presently, 18-40 64% of our people have been with Aramex for three years or The growth of the company more, reflecting on their desire reflected on our workforce, which to maintain a long-term relationhas increased by 7% in 2010. ship and pursue a career path within the company. Our federal structure, where each station is a local entity in The number of direct its country of operation, creates employees increased Employee per Region local job opportunities. We also by 7% Asia 10% encourage local leadership which Europe 5% has the benefit of harnessing North America 1% region-specific expertise and Gender Equality Middle East & Africa 84% cultural perspectives. In view of In line with our policies as an that, the number of locally hired equal opportunity employer, we managers increased by 3% in have been actively working on 2010. enhancing workplace diversity and inclusivity, principles proAramex embraces diversity in moted by AccountAbility through its people as its global network the empowerment of women. spreads across all regions of the world. Such diversity in backConsidering that 82% of Aragrounds and outlooks enriches mex’s workforce is made up of our discussions, perspectives ground couriers, customer manand willingness to experiment. agement teams and other ‘onGender the-field’ front-liner posts; which Female 11% Female 11% The number of locally typically appeal to males more Male 89% Male 89% hired managers increased by 3% Employees Per Age Percentage 18-25 15% 26-40 66% 41 and above 19% 30 Annual Report | 2010 than females and more so due to Employee Development These efforts are supported by cultural aspects in the regions a system of quarterly reviews, that constitute our core markets; Recognizing that the sustained aimed at ensuring the delivery women tend to be reluctant on growth of Aramex is dependent of the Basic Training Program to taking jobs in the fields that make on our people’s development, new hires and the implementaup the majority of our employee we continue to invest in enhanction of the annual training plan base. Consequently, the percenting our employee development for each station. age of men in our workforce far programs. exceeds the number of women As we continue to seek better (89% vs. 11%). However, our poliCorporate University learning methods for our employcies do not exclude the employThe Aramex Corporate University, ees, we have increased the ment of women in any posts and launched in 2007, has focused on number of new online training currently 10% of Aramex’s frontthe development and delivery courses in 2010 to 318 courses, line employees are made up of of human resource education totaling 3150 training hours. women. Furthermore, we ensure programs as per its comprehenIn response to employee trainthat the ratio of male-female sive ‘career development plan’. ing needs and in compliance salaries remains one-to-one in all Furthermore, the Corporate Uniwith AccountAbility principle of operational locations. versity has pursued an ongoing responsiveness, our total traineffort of improving training ing hours increased by 23% over As part of our commitment materials and strategies. the previous year, reaching an to empowering women within average of 21 training hours per Aramex, we continue to encourAll new hires are enrolled in a employee in 2010. We attribute age the growth of women in Basic Training Program (BTP), this increase to a rise in utilizing leadership posts. Presently, 25% giving them a comprehensive online training courses, trainemployees in managerial posiunderstanding of Aramex’s ing of new hires via the Basic tions are women. business operations, strategy, Training Program, and the quarstakeholder approach, culture terly reporting and monitoring 25% of employees in and values. In addition, a variety processes. We also continue to managerial positions are of internal and external training monitor and improve the quality women programs give our people the of training provided to our people. opportunity to enhance their knowledge and skills, such that Training hours increased In our efforts against discrimithey are better equipped for their by 23% since 2009 nation, Aramex ensures that roles both in the company and in reaching average of the ratio of men’s salaries to their community. 21 training hours per women’s remains one-to-one in employee in 2010 all our locations of operation. We In order to ensure consistent are pleased to report that there quality of our employee develophave been no allegations of disment programs, we have deployed Additionally, we continued develcrimination in this regard during a content review committee to oping our executive management 2010 or in previous years. ensure that training material and team through a specialized execuprograms meet expectations and tive education program in collaboIn 2010, 60% of all new a field training manger has been ration with the American Univerteam leaders, managers, assigned the task of reviewsity of Beirut (AUB), where fifty and senior managers were ing and monitoring the quality leaders enrolled for twelve busipromoted internally of training across the network. ness days in the program which aimed to enhance and unlock their leadership potential. Percentage of Female employees 2008 2009 2010 % of Female Employees From Total 12% 11% 11% Aramex Employees % of Females in Management 23% 25% 25% 31 Fostering our leaders at the Aramex Global Change Leaders Program. Celebrating our couriers, the people behind every shipment made The Global Change Leaders their knowledge and skills at the In an effort to encourage a motiProgram service of their communities. vating work environment, we As part of our commitment to have been active in setting up invest in our people’s developUltimately, the program will social committees for the planment and promoting from within, enable the leaders to take on ning and execution of events that we have devised a leadership larger roles within Aramex and bring our employees together in development program that aims help the company in achieving its constructive social activities. In to empower our senior managstrategic objectives. 2010, the Aramex GCC Gulf Cup ers to emerge as future global was held, a two-day event that leaders, and nurture their spirit Employee Involvement brought football teams totaling of responsibility towards all 96 employees from 10 stations stakeholders. Engagement to an event that encouraged Aramex continues to promote healthy competition and boosted Thirty one senior leaders were an ‘open-door’ policy, amongst team spirit. Additionally, basketcarefully selected as part of the other internal communication ball tournaments were held in first group to participate in the mediums, such that employees at Jordan and in Bahrain. program. With full support and all levels remain engaged in decidirection from the CEO and the sion-making processes. To this Volunteerism management team, the year-long end, we encourage our people to Our people enact Aramex values program kicked off in an orientaexpress themselves via various of corporate activism by putting tion session and a team-building channels such as our corporate their skills and expertise at the retreat at the ancient city of blog and micro-blogging tools. service of communities. Through Petra in Jordan. Throughout a partnership with INJAZ, our the program calendar, enrolled We aim to create a vibrant workemployees actively delivered leaders will gain global expoplace for our people. This year, numerous programs to universure by working on challengAramex launched a unified inisities and schools in Egypt, ing projects across the Aramex tiative to celebrate the efforts of Morocco, Bahrain, Lebanon and network, participate in internaour ground couriers in 21 major Jordan. As part of a similar effort tional conferences and forums, stations. As part of ‘Aramex in Jordan, our employees created and receive executive education Courier Day’, office executives ‘Erada’ in cooperation with in world class academic instituand leaders spent a day on the Ruwwad, to rebuild children’s tions. Additionally, in partnership ground delivering packages, as schools. These opportunities with NGOs and social entreprea symbolic way of celebrating allowed employees to partake in neurs, the leaders will participate the ground couriers for their vital activities that benefit members in volunteer initiatives by putting contributions on the frontline. of tomorrow’s generation. 32 Annual Report | 2010 Furthermore, Aramex’s partnerretirement pension plans. Other of the results. The survey was ship with Volunteer in Dubai and benefits offered to our employees sent both online and physically Abu Dhabi1 involved the mobiliinclude corporate special offers to cover employees who have no zation of employees for several and discounts, stock options and online access and the results are projects, including the Pakistan special rates for company servexpected in second quarter of emergency relief effort. ices. Finally, monetary bonuses 2011. are distributed to employees Working Conditions based on regular performance appraisals. Health, Safety and Upholding the rights of employSecurity ees as an ethical responsibility Employee Satisfaction and that Aramex takes seriously. We Affinity Our commitment to our people adhere to international laws on Nurturing our human resources includes the provision of a human and labour rights while is essential to the success of working environment that is monitoring our practices to the company. New and existing healthy, safe, and secure. Accordcomply with local laws, as part employees have access to the ingly, we have expanded our of the overarching guidelines set Aramex Employee Handbook and adherence to the OHSAS 18001 forth by the UN Global Compact Code of Conduct, which outlines management standard, of which and International Labour OrganiAramex’s principles, policies, we have thirteen certified stazation. The guidelines include culture, values and employee tions across Europe and the the prevention of child labour by rights. Moreover, it provides an Middle East. We are pursuing a thorough review of employee overview of policies and procertification in Muscat, Bahrain, documentation during the hiring cedures designed to ensure a Kuwait and Doha in 2011 and process and combating of forced healthy, safe, ethical and secure aim to adhere to OHSAS in other labour caused by the holding of working environment. In compliregions to ensure the consistent workers’ passports. We did not ance with the UN Global Compact implementation of these standencounter any detrimental hiring and the International Labour ards across our network. incidents during 2010. Organization, Aramex does not have policies against labour We have continued the delivery Salary and Benefits unions and collective bargaining. of awareness training to help our Aramex aims to attract and mainAramex employees in Bahrain people avoid work-related injutain talent by providing competiestablished a union and elected ries. Training courses that are taitive working conditions, salaries, its board of directors. Additionlored to employee’s specific jobs benefits and an attractive corally, many of our employees are provided to new hires, includporate culture. To this end, our are members of external labour ing general health and safety, efforts include the monitoring unions. healthy back and safe driving. of local minimum wage requireIn order to measure employee We also continue to log all health ments at our stations. In 2010, satisfaction and the practice and safety incidents to monitor we met and exceeded minimum of Aramex values such as trust, our performance and guide our wages throughout the network. respect and empowerment, we efforts towards continuous conducted a comprehensive improvement. The statistics of In terms of employee benefits, survey with a third party to the logs are summarized below: Aramex provides health insurensure anonymity and accuracy ance where it is not provided by the government, in addition to Health and Safety Summary 2008 2009 2010 life insurance in some stations. Our employees in Jordan are proFatalities 3 0 2 vided additional health insurance Accidents per million shipments 25 20 14.30 for cancer. We also contribute Percentage change in accidents per million shipments 62% -28% -21% towards governmental social Lost Time Injuries per million shipments (days) 1.27 1.72 2.60 security funds for employee Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate 0.44 0.51 0.41 1 www.aramex.org/Public_Articles 33 The total accidents per Normalizing Indicators 2008 2009 2010 million shipments have Total Shipments 27,564,432 25,455,130 29,797,799 been reduced by 21% Total lost time (days) 737 462 577 since 2009 Total Lost Time Injuries 35 44 28 Total working hours across the network 16,246,416 17,303,736 18,506,304 Total working days 2,030,802 2,162,967 2,313,288 The normalized results indicate The statistics specific to vehicle Some of the measures taken to that our training and awareness and warehouse related inciimprove safety in 2010 included: campaigns have contributed to dents are presented below. As • Recruiting regional ‘Area, the reduction in work-related is evident, the total lost time Safety and Security Managers’ accidents and injuries. The total was reduced significantly, even • Redefining the roles and accidents per million shipments though the number of reporting responsibilities for all safety have been reduced by 21% since stations has increased in 2010. and security employees 2009 while the total time lost Vehicle accidents resulting in • Upgrading our policies and from injuries was reduced by 36% injuries were reduced by 70% over procedures for Land Freight from the previous year. We did, the past year, while warehouse Transportation Safety Manual however, suffer Two very unfortulost time injuries were reduced in compliance with internanate fatalities in 2010. by 64% over the same period. We tional safety requirements All work-related injuries are are committed to tracking acci• Revising procedures to reintreated through the health insurdents and continuously upgrade force the use of Personal Proance provided either by the govthe tracking system to identify tective Equipment (PPE) ernment or by the company to our opportunities to improve our Physical security standards employees. health and safety practices. were also upgraded to ensure that activities are monitored to Vehicle accidents Warehouse lost time prevent intrusion or unauthorized resulting in injuries were injuries were reduced by access to facilities. Additionally reduced by 70% in 2010 64% in 2010 incident reporting procedures were also refined to ensure accurate logging and execution of corrective action. Vehicle Related Incidents 2008 2009 2010 Aramex has received TAPA (TransVehicle Lost Time (days) 353 323 426 ported Asset Protection AssoVehicle Accidents (resulting in injury) 25 34 13 ciation) certification for six staVehicle Accidents (no injury) 628 403 413 tions, and is striving to increase Vehicle Lost Time Injuries 25 44 76 this number in the future. As a C-TPAT (Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) certified Warehouse Related Incidents 2008 2009 2010 provider, security measures at Warehouse lost time (days) 384 139 151 Aramex meet the latest requireWarehouse Accidents (no injury/minor injury) 11 20 55 ments established by the US Warehouse Accidents (resulting in Lost Customs and Border Protection 10 10 15 Time Injuries) Agency. Furthermore, Aramex Lost time per million shipments 26 15 5 remains compliant with the US Lost time/total time 0.036% 0.023% 0.025% BioTerrorism Act, designed to prevent bioterrorist threats from Aramex is a non-smoking organization with hitting food supply in United designated outdoor areas for smoking. We also have States. We have not encountered strict policies against substance use and abuse which any instances of non-compliance are clearly highlighted in the employee handbook. in 2010. 34 Annual Report | 2010 CUSTOMERS We believe that close engagement with our customers is fundamental to our goal of delivering innovative products and high quality services. In 2010, we continued our efforts towards developing mechanisms that enable us to receive and act upon customer feedback in a timely manner. 35 The restructuring of our customer management teams, aimed to fulfill customer needs more effectively, has expanded to include five additional stations during the past year. Long-Term Partnerships In 2010, we continued to actively seek long-term partnerships with customers, translating to an increase in the retention and loyalty of our existing customer base. The largest segment of our customers, those who have been with Aramex for five or we had to postpone the survey Currently, this system is deployed more years, has grown to 45%; an till 2011, after the conclusion of among 29 entities to be fully increase of 6% since 2009. Furthe customer management team deployed for the rest in 2011. thermore, as is indicated below, restructuring. 78% of our customers have been 2010 also witnessed the folwith us for at least two years In 2010, Aramex’s customer lowing feedback-driven service (Data excludes customers of our service efforts were recognized introductions: Shop and Ship service). by the Middle East Call Center • In response to the global eco45% Awards for the Best Small Outnomic conditions, Aramex source Provider and for the Best expanded its offerings to Customer Retention Quality Assurance Program. include Value Express Service in Europe. This provided 22% our customers the option of 15% delivering non-urgent pack9% 9% 45% of our customers ages at reduced rates. have been with Aramex • Acting upon our commitment for five or more years towards the provision of 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years & above services that support susResponsiveness tainability, Aramex obtained SKAL Certification for the Also, Aramex continues to solicit Reflecting our commitment to handling, storage, and distrivaluable feedback through custhe principle of stakeholder inclubution of organic foods in the tomer satisfaction surveys. In sivity as outlined in AccountAbilNetherlands. cooperation with a Third party, ity principles, the value in all our • We expanded our customer we designed a comprehensive customer engagement efforts is engagement through social survey and conducted a pilot evaluated based on our ability to media (for full details, see test to ensure that customer respond to customer needs sucthe Online Presence and responses yield in-depth and cessfully, quickly and effectively. Social Media section). actionable feedback. This survey In 2010, we rolled out Aramex will be rolled out to the rest of Global Case System, which capCustomer Experience the network throughout 2011. tures customer requests, inquirTo ensure a more insightful ies and complaints and generWe are dedicated to providing survey that would be reflective ates a case that is routed to our customers with the best of the dynamic changes in our different parties to follow-up and experience possible, from the customer management teams, solve within a set time standard. moment they first interact with 36 Annual Report | 2010 us in person, on the phone, or dealing with frequent inquiries, Online Presence and Social online, until the conclusion of to the quality of the customer Media the service. In line with this, we service skills. To further improve continue to improve operational our performance, we are also We continued to expand our excellence across our network actively reviewing and amendactivities online and on social and enhance our customer intering our customer service policies media in 2010 to engage with our action tools and tracking faciliand procedures, updating our job stakeholders, listen to and serve ties. Accordingly, we have dedidescriptions and KPIs of our cusour customers, communicate our cated significant efforts towards tomer service team, assessing corporate announcements and the ongoing refinement of Aratraining for all frontline teams solicit feedback to improve our mex’s global tracking system. As and improving our incentive/ services. a result, we have merged existawards scheme for our teams. The primary point of contact for ing tracking system locations in In 2011, we will expand this iniour external stakeholders, includorder to better control quality tiative by conducting a complete ing customers, is our website and to deliver a more consistent assessment of touch points, aramex.com. Our ongoing effort customer experience. Over the resources, and technology at our to effectively utilize the latest in past two years, the total number major stations. web technologies has attracted of tracking system locations has increasing usage over the been reduced from 181 to 169. Our most recent efforts towards years. In 2010, aramex.com was Furthermore, we have successcustomer engagement included expanded to cater for Frenchfully met this year’s target of the introduction of a live chat speaking users and visitors. executing over 90% of our delivservice to support our Shop and We aim to increase awareness of eries on time. Ship operations in the UAE, KSA, sustainability issues by engaging Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan and In addition, to ensure seamless Lebanon. This live chat service 202,502 interaction with our customers, gives our customers the ability aramex.com users we have deployed a state-ofto share their feedback. We also 155,622 the-art Aramex Contact Center expanded our service channels 122,792 system that centralizes commuto include a new iPhone applicanications, provides automated tion for tech-savvy customers integration with the global and a new version of ClicktoShip, customer database and logs a desktop application for compaworkflow activity for quality nies that ship extensively with us. 2008 2009 2010 analysis and assurance purposes. Presently, centralized contact centers offering standardized services have been launched in: • Jordan (Global Support Office in Amman), • UAE (Dubai office), and • India (Mumbai office) As part of our commitment to continuously monitor and improve of our operations, we have rigorously updated our contact center auditing systems so as to yield detailed data on key performance indicators (KPIs) ranging from the level of knowledge required to 37 our stakeholders through a dedicated portal at aramex.org. For further details on aramex.org, please refer to the 2009 Sustainability report. 2010 witnessed impressive expansion of Aramex’s presence in online social media. In fact, Aramex was voted on Mashable, online newsletter, The Navigator, a world leader in social media which is a service-centric internews and web tips, as one of the active tool with the latest infortop five companies providing mation on services, customer customer service through social case studies, service updates, media in the world. and commenting capabilities. In 2010, we increased our emphasis Most notably, Aramex started on providing valuable content, We expect to continue deploymonitoring and engaging cusnews, and interactive tools, ment of a targeted plan for tomers via websites such as Yelp, and integrated geo-specific increased online engagement MouthShut, eBay, LinkedIn, and functionality to the newsletter across the network. consumer forums in India. 2010 website. The tool has allowed the was marked with an impressive promotion of Shop and Ship in In 2010, Aramex engaged increase in social media interacIndia; the strengthening of local with 3,153 customer tions, as number of fans at our engagement activities in Egypt; requests, doubled the Facebook surged from 1,598 to and the launch of an interactive number of Facebook fans nearly 5,000 and the number of map with region specific news. to over 5,000 and tripled followers on Twitter increased These efforts have reflected in the number of Twitter from 585 to over 2,000. More its readership, as total visits followers to over 2,000 importantly, we have increased increased from 1970 for the May the number of monthly tweets issue to 4,647 visits at the end of from 94 at the beginning of 2010 the year. We have also continued to around 283 at the end of 2010, providing corporate information bringing the number of customer via The Explorer, a magazine served on Twitter to 2,153. Our that explores the global world efforts in this regard have been of logistics and the behind thecompliant with the principle of scenes stories of how logistics responsiveness and inclusivity, drive and enable modern life. The as per AccountAbility principle. total number of online viewership for the Explorer reached 3,143 In addition, Aramex has continreaders and 24,472 page views ued to enhance its customer for our latest issue. 38 Annual Report | 2010 SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Since our first Sustainability Report of 2006, we have maintained a consistent framework for the planning, execution, monitoring, reporting and ongoing improvement of our efforts towards sustainability. This framework serves as a platform for our partnership model and helps us maintain consistent engagement across a broad range of issues. 39 Our Sustainability Focus areas This effort is expected to focus partnership with NLC has supinclude: on the provision of educational ported the following initiatives: • Education & Youth programming that would encour• Train the Teacher Project that Empowerment age the propagation of healthy facilitated the training of 17 • Entrepreneurship lifestyles, while providing the teachers to deliver LeapFor• Community Development necessary skills for income genWord’s Level 1 programming • Emergency Relief eration through entrepreneurial on the ‘Ability to Read & Spell’. • Sports activity. The training of the teachers • Environment from five Bombay Municipal This section is designed to highCorporation (BMC) schools At the forefront of Aramex’s light the various challenges and and two residential schools efforts towards community successes, as pertaining to the impacts a total of 575 school development has been its coindividual Sustainability Pillars. students. founding and long-standing • LeapForWord Teacher Project support of Ruwwad, a regional Education & Youth that trained BMC school initiative led by the private Empowerment teachers in the delivery of sector that empowers disadvanLevel 2 programming on ‘Eletaged communities to overcome Aramex firmly believes that the mentary Vocabulary Building marginalization through youth ability for a society to prosper & Comprehension of W/H activism, civic engagement, and and to sustain itself is founded Questions’. This initiative education. in the appropriate education and impacted a total of 340 stuempowerment of its youth. To dents across 6 schools. 2010 saw the transition of that end, we continuously partic• English Language Program Ruwwad into a self-sustaining ipate in initiatives that support that functioned as an eduorganization, geared towards the education and empower youth to cational outreach initiative long-term empowerment of its seek development opportunities impacting 800 students community stakeholders. To this and allow them to engage with, across 18 schools, through end, Aramex worked closely with and contribute towards, their the engagement of two local Ruwwad in the development of its local communities. non-profit organizations. internal organizational systems, We are happy to report that 2010 • Urban Youth Project that supparticularly in the departments was a successful year for our ported of 22 youths studying of Finance, Marketing, Auditing, educational and youth empowat a night college that aims Human Resources and Informaerment initiatives across the to groom students who are tion Technology. Middle East and South-East Asia. seeking better job opportunities to match their existing Ruwwad’s broader goals for 2011 India education and English skills. include advances in communiAramex has established a cations with stakeholders; the grassroots partnership with Egypt implementation of robust moniNareshwadi Learning Center1 Aramex continued its support toring and evaluation systems (NLC) to help facilitate projects of youth through the sponsored for the various programs and under LeapForWord2 , a non-profit enrolment of 52 students. The activities; building accountabilinitiative geared towards develinitiative has broadened the parity across all operations; deepoping a skilled pool of teachers. ticipants’ horizons and bridged ening community participation This model has proved successthe gaps between education and and engagement and further ful with the appointment of a industry, by exposing students enrichment of the youth program. former LeapForWord rural youth to the corporate world via knowlFurthermore, Ruwwad intends on student as a teacher who is now edge transfer from committed extending its efforts towards delivering Level 1-3 programs to Aramex volunteers. community development through 100 students across two resithe empowerment of women. dential hostels. Furthermore, our 1 www.nareshwadi.org 2 www.leapforword.org 40 Annual Report | 2010 The graduation ceremony of youth in the Mousab Khorma Youth 200 children graduated from Ruwwad’s 2010 Summer School. Education Scholarship Fund, named in honor of a Jordanian Ruwwad is an Aramex founded community-empowerment entrepreneur who passed away in the Amman bombings of 2005. organization. Jordan infrastructure at two primary countries to provide local Our efforts towards educating schools impacting a total of schools with volunteers from and empowering Jordanian youth 500 students. The program regional Aramex stations in included: also encourages other private support of various programs. • Supporting the Industrial sector companies to support Additionally, Aramex is supEngineering faculty at the the schools. porting INJAZ Gaza to help University of Jordan, helping • Finalizing the Anna Lindh 12,800 students complete students with their graduaChild Literature Project their programs over the next tion projects. through Ruwwad, which will three years. • Encouraging the pursuit benefit eight children librar• Our employees received trainof science and innovation ies across Jordan. ing from INJAZ and entered amongst youth in a Robotics long-term commitments to Competition. Palestine deliver various mentorship • Facilitating the education of Aramex supported the expansion programs to school and uni170 students in 2010 through of the successful student-toversity students. Aramex’s annual contribution student program, where 20 youth towards the Mousab Khorma from six universities received a We have initiated programs in Youth Education Scholarship sponsored education in return for India, Lebanon, and Egypt, to Fund1 (Fund), totalling 470 their contribution to local commusupport the education of the chilstudents since the inception nities by tutoring young students dren of our Ground Couriers. of the Fund in 2005. Furtherin their homes due to difficulty in more, the Fund has reached commuting to schools. Supporting Research out to 162 marginalized • Palestine: Aramex supported families through a variety Saudi Arabia Purdue University in their of creative and sports proWe participated in an initiative research on water resources grams. Meanwhile, the Fund by the Ministry of Education to in Jericho city involving Five continues signing MOUs with recognize and honour the achievepost graduate students from universities and colleges in ments of outstanding students Berzeit University. an effort to facilitate its busiin 110 schools across Aldiraea ness leadership programs. province. • Egypt: • Launching of ‘Erada’ in – In support of the John partnership with Ruwwad. Regional D. Gerhart Center for PhiErada is a school support • Aramex partnered with lanthropy and Civic Engageinitiative that retrofitted the INJAZ al-Arab across 10 2 ment3, and in partnership 1 www.ruwwad.jo/mousab-khorma-youth-education-scholarship-fund 2 www.injazalarab.org 3 www.aucegypt.edu/research/gerhart 41 with the American University in Cairo, Aramex provided financial support for the ‘Corporate Sustainability Capacity Building Program’. Furthermore, two senior Aramex employees are on the steering committee of the program. – To promote knowledge transfer and a culture of entrepreneurship, Aramex partnered with El-Khazindar Business Research and Case Center (KCC) School of Business1 at the American Aramex leverages its experience and resources to enable an entrepreneurial ecosystem, and to empower young innovators and business owners. University in Cairo in developing regional case-studies on inspiring entrepreneurs Entrepreneurship as a platform for developing and innovative companies. new ideas and sharing best – We supported the extenAt Aramex, we believe that our practices from around the sive research effort of profilpursuit for socio-economic and world. ing Izzbeit Khairalla, one of environmental sustainability • Aramex participated in the Cairo’s biggest slum areas. must, inherently, be self-sustainArab Social Media Forum5 The outcome of this assessing. Accordingly, we leverage our and shared our experiences ment of community needs is knowledge, resources, and experby engaging our stakeholdexpected to enable a parttise to enable and encourage ers through social media nership between Ruwwad tomorrow’s business leaders. channels. and Tawasol, an Egypt• Aramex supported Ruwwad based NGO, which would In 2010, Aramex focused on at ‘Ideas Festival’6 and parfacilitate civic engagement developmental initiatives for fosticipated as “Theme Leader and empowerment of the tering emerging change leaders for the Environment”, delivcommunity. who are willing to embrace risk ering environment-oriented and confront hurdles in order to workshops. • Lebanon: Aramex supported create opportunities for themthe American University of selves and others. Below we highDubai Beirut2 in the research and light those initiatives that are Aramex supported WAMDA7, an development of policy for aimed towards realizing a vision innovative platform that faciliyouth in the Arab world. of a more entrepreneurial Middle tates entrepreneurship in the East. MENASA (Middle East, North • Regional: Aramex supported Africa, and South Asia) region. In research by the al-Hakawati Jordan its first year of launch, WAMDA Arab Cultural Trust3 on the • Aramex sponsored Global brought together over 1,500 history of business in the Entrepreneurship Week entrepreneurs from the region to Levant region, Saudi Arabia 2010 , an event that engaged 4 a ‘Celebration of Entrepreneurand the Gulf countries. students, educators, and ship’ event in Dubai to inspire, business leaders, and served empower, and connect. 1 www.aucegypt.edu 2 www.aub.edu.lb 3 www.al-hakawati.net 4 blog.qrce.org/global-entrepreneurship-week-concluded 5 www.arabsocialmediaforum.com 6 www.ideasfestival.me 7 www.wamda.com 42 Annual Report | 2010 Partnering with Arabnet, the first regional event for web and Partnering with the MIT Enterprise Forum of the Pan-Arab mobile entrepreneurs. Region in support of Arab entrepreneurs. Lebanon Key Partnerships network for the benefit of • Aramex supported Yalla • A partnership with George Arab entrepreneurs. Start-up Weekend , bringing 1 Washington University4 was together 250 entrepreneurs announced in late 2010 to • Partnership with American from all over the world to colconnect American students University of Cairo (AUC) to laborate on new start-ups. of Arabic language studies produce 13 case studies on The weekend produced an with NGOs and social entreentrepreneurs in the region. astonishing 34 start-ups in preneurs operating in the only three days. region. This will not only Community expand the study of Arabic Development • Aramex participated in the in the US, but will also faciliStart-up Demo at the ArabNet tate a cross-cultural learnAramex believes that commuConference2, giving young ing opportunity between nity-oriented initiatives should Arab entrepreneurs the American students and Arab be sustainable by design and opportunity to share their entrepreneurs. have long-term impact; empowerexperiences and to showcase ing the community and enabling their innovations. • The MIT Enterprise Forum for it to seek, contribute and pursue the Pan-Arab Region5 organopportunities for development. Syria izes an annual Arab Business We continued our support of SYEA Plan Competition that is now 2010 has been an active year in Ventures3, a program to assist in its fourth successful year. terms of Aramex’s involvement entrepreneurs in their implemenIn 2010, Aramex announced with community development tation of ideas and to deploy straa partnership to establish initiatives. Presented below are tegic projects that would lead to an entrepreneurship support the highlights. a sustainable Syrian economy. unit to assist MIT Arab Business Plan Competition semiDubai Regional finalists with the support Aramex partnered with Volunteer Aramex sponsored Creaneeded to grow their busiin Dubai (VID) in the developtive Commons Iftar in Dubai, nesses. Together, Aramex ment of logistical services in Amman, Damascus and Cairo. and the MIT Enterprise Forum the UAE. This initiative seeks to As a networking event, this iniof the Pan-Arab Region will contribute towards VID’s longtiative linked youth with creative leverage their collective term expansion plan across professionals. expertise, infrastructure, and the Gulf region. Some of the 1 www.yallastartup.org/startupweekend 2 www.arabnet.me 3 www.syea.org 4 www.gwu.edu 5 www.enterpriseforum.mit.edu 43 related activities include: finding job opportunities in • Transfer of donated matAramex. tresses, sheets and pillows from the Arabian Resort in • UNICEF: Aramex partnered Dubai to the Naher El Bared with the United Nations ChilRefugee Camp. dren’s Fund (UNICEF) in the deployment of 14 computers • Aramex, in collaboration for 10 NGOs. with VID and Safe and Sound, launched the Pink Ribbon Jordan Book Club drive to collect • Aramex organized English donated books from employlanguage training classes for ees and customers for fundits ground courier and office raising purposes. helper staff. Helping to build schools in the Sri Lankan countryside. • As VID volunteers, Aramex • To develop safe play zones employees assisted Senses, in planting Mango trees, one for for children, we partnered a residential care center, in each of the 42 children. with the ‘Mala3eb’ initiative its move to another location. by Hikmat Road Safety. Ten • Aramex donated 10 refurSaudi Arabia playgrounds were supported bished computers and set We partnered with the Saudi by Aramex. up a computer lab at Arabtec Ministry of Labour in providing to teach low income workers Aramex internships for 33 Saudi • We partnered with Nakhweh’s English and basic computer citizens. ‘Give Back’ Initiative for NGO skills. fundraising. Bahrain • Aramex subsidiary, InfoFort, Aramex staff coordinated with • We supported the ‘We Love actively participated in VID’s the Bahrain Blood Bank to execute Reading’ Campaign to efforts at community devela blood donation campaign. encourage social literacy opment in Pakistan. The through the development of emergency relief campaign Egypt libraries in under-privileged included the furnishing of an • Alashanek ya Balady: Aramex neighbourhoods, orphanage. collaborated with the Wazefty Initiative in deploy• Aramex provided enabling Sri Lanka ing a training and employsupport in the form of scholThe remote village of Parannaddment model for 30 Ground arships for university educaaka, situated in Vauvniya in the Couriers from marginalized tion to eight Bedouin youth north of Sri Lanka, was left with areas. Upon successful comin Beida Wadi Musa, in south destroyed schools due to floods, pletion of the training, some Jordan. and many children were in need trainees were retained as of primary education. Aramex new Aramex employees. Lebanon supported the construction and • UNRWA: Aramex supported opening of a school with four • Wayna International Founthe United Nations Relief and class rooms and an office hosting dation: We sponsored the Works Agency (UNRWA) in 42 children. School stationary, Loyalty Day Fair and used the development of a center bags, water bottles, shoes and the opportunity to showin ‘Naher el-Bared’ Palestintwo sets of uniforms were procase career opportunities ian refugee camp to provide vided for each student. Moreover, in Aramex. Furthermore, a rehabilitation services that an art competition was organized protocol was signed to train include a children’s library for the students, and Aramex 10 individuals with disabiliand a computer lab. employees assisted the children ties and to assist them with 44 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex helps NASMA Lebanon reopen its doors. Partnering with Global in Kuwait to NASMA is an NGO that provides a wide range of learning opportunities for deliver supplies to flood victims as part schoolchildren. of the Support Pakistan Relief Campaign. • Nasma: In partnership with • In support of the William Soler while over 100 local residents the Al-Huda Society, Aramex Pediatric Heart Center in volunteered to support the camprovided the financial Havana and Hospital Convenpaign. In addition, Aramex subsupport necessary for Nasma tion Baptiste D’Haiti, Aramex sidiary InfoFort partnered with to re-open its doors after sussponsored Elaine Kelly, one volunteers in Dubai to support pending their activities at its of 24 individuals who went the Pakistan Emergency Relief Ras Beirut Centre in August on a fundraising cycling trip Campaign where our employees 2009. The partnership has across Cuba, raising approxihelped in the sorting and packing enabled Nasma to provide a mately AED 500,000. of aid material. wide range of learning opportunities for more than 50 Emergency Relief In Dubai and as part of schoolchildren. the Pakistan Emergency Given Aramex’s capacity and Relief Campaign, we Syria experience in global logistics collected more than 25 Aramex supported BASMA, an and transportation, we utilize tonnes of aid supplies association for children with our resources and expertise to and mobilized over 100 cancer, through an internal fundorganize relief campaigns and volunteers to support the raising campaign where Aramex facilitate the transportation of campaign employees donated one day’s aid supplies to disasterand warsalary as part of their contribustricken areas. Aramex Support Pakistan/Kuwait tion – which, in turn was matched Global Investment House (Global) to double the amount by Aramex. Our emergency participation in and Aramex collaborated in the relief activities during 2010 is collection of donations from Regional summarized below. employees, and in the delivery • Aramex expanded its colof aid supplies to the affected laboration with the United Aramex Support Pakistan/Dubai regions of Pakistan through AraNations Children’s Fund Two-week disaster relief effort mex’s logistics network. (UNICEF) to further support organized by Aramex in partnertheir logistical needs in the ship with Emirates National Oil Egypt Gulf, which includes UNICEF’s Company (ENOC) and its subsidiAramex served as the logistics greeting cards program and ary Emirates Petroleum Products partner for Bank il-Taam (Food outreach to Aramex’s cusCompany (EPPCO). More than Bank in Egypt), and aided in the tomer base in Dubai and Abu 25 tonnes of aid supplies were delivery of food donations to areas Dhabi. donated by local residents, affected by the flood in Aswan. 45 Sports • Amman Marathon, Jordan: Salameh Al Aqra placed 2nd We view sports as a healthy and Mohammed Al Suwaiti reflection of values embedded in ranked 4th. Aramex culture: positive competition, teamwork, perseverance, India agility and drive. Our sponsorship Young female marathon runners and support of sporting activities were sponsored to participate in are focused on those initiatives a 7km run in the village of Dhunthat target underprivileged areas dalwadi in Maharashtra State. and on extracurricular activities The athletic potential of the girls at public schools. Furthermore, was identified by Aramex marawe strongly encourage the uptake thon runners Salameh al-Aqra and of sports by the employees. As a Mohammad al-Sweity during their Launching a relief campaign in Dubai to result, Aramex has a number of visit to the village. Aramex signed support Pakistan in response to a tragic active and competitive sports an agreement with Nareshwadi flooding. teams. Learning Center to ensure continued support through the appointSingapore for India Our activities in support of sports ment of a trainer who will coach A total of 204kg of donated initiatives in 2010 are highthe students and prepare them items were collected by Aramex lighted below. for marathons. employees in Singapore during September of 2010, for distribuAramex sponsored marathon Jordan tion across the flooded areas runners Salameh al-Aqra and • Al Riyadi Club: Youth basin Ladakh. Upon reaching Puga, Mohammad al-Sweity had an ketball teams from the however, the Aramex team learnt active year competing in numerAramex sponsored Al Riyadi that the Puga Nomadic Govt. ous marathons. Their impressive Club won three out of four School had run out of food due achievements are summarized as National Titles. The Underto logistic problems. Accordingly, follows: 15, Under-17, and Under-19 the team gave the school of 78 • Mumbai Marathon, India: teams won their respective residing children the vegetables Salameh Al Aqra ranked 26 national championships, stock they were transporting, out of 3600 contestants. while the Under-13 team along with the children’s clothing • Marathon Des Sables, in placed second. Meanwhile, and other items collected from Morocco: Salameh Al Aqra the Senior Women’s Basketthe donation drive. placed 2nd and Mohammed ball team attained second Al Suwaiti ranked 8th. place. The Senior Men’s Haiti • Ötscher Ultra Marathon, team participated in the Aramex employees donated genAustria: Salameh Al Aqra and preliminary round of the erously to the relief efforts for Mohammed Al Suwaiti placed West Asia club Champions the Haiti earthquake of January 1st and 5th, respectively. League in Aleppo (WAL) and 2010, sending their donations via This year’s event marked Al qualified to the final eight. the International Medical Corps Aqra’s seventh consecutive Recently, Al Riyadi Club (IMC). The company matched win at the marathon. has launched a new team each individual contribution, • Cyprus Marathon: Salameh program, BABYBASKET, for doubling the amount donated. Al Aqra and Mohammed Al boys and girls between the Suwaiti placed 1st and 2nd, ages of three and six. The aim respectively. of this program is to improve • The 10th Pharaonic Race, their mobility skills, while Egypt: Salameh Al Aqra and allowing them to develop Mohammed Al Suwaiti placed social connections. 1st and 2nd, respectively. 46 Annual Report | 2010 • Dead to Red Marathon: For the Third consecutive year, Aramex’s team of employees, including veteran runners Salameh Al Aqra and Mohammad Al Suwaiti, were the first to cross the finish line of the 246km race from Jordan’s Dead Sea to the port city of Aqaba on the Red Sea. • Ruwwad: 50 children from Amman’s less privileged Aramex-sponsored Al Riyadi basketball team wins the Jordan National Championship. areas benefitted from a football training course with top trainers. Eight finalists then travelled to France, where they gained further experience through a training camp in Marseille, while also enjoying a cultural exchange. In their competition with French little leagues, the trainees succeeded in winning all their matches. Additionally, ten children from Ruwwad received marathon training from Aramex Aramex runners excel at the Marathon de Sables in Morocco with Salameh Al Aqra placing in second place. veteran runner Salameh Al Aqra and Mohammad Al Suwaiti. • Kitteh Club: Providing support for a local handball team. Aramex-sponsored runners give kids in India valuable lessons on how to run marathons. 47 Environment Aramex remains dedicated to mitigating the negative environmental impacts resulting from our operations, and to support initiatives that encourage environmental awareness and preservation following the principles of materiality as per AccountAbility principles. By adopting the United Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC) principles, Aramex has embraced Members of the Aramex Green Champions program, which provides training in environmentally friendly practices at the workplace and at home. environmental sustainability as a management imperative. main stations was designed to • Furthermore, Aramex supOur environmental policy outcommunicate relevant environported the training of 25 jourlines our strategic commitment mental management information nalists as part of the IUCN/ to environmental leadership. We to our employees, with the aim of UNESCO ‘Media Training for are keen on adopting environraising awareness to the ecologiSustainable Development mental management systems cal footprint of our organization of Journalists’. This effort is and we comply with international and of our employees, and to expected to contribute to standards to ensure continuinfluence their behavioural patincreased public awareness ous improvement in mitigating terns at the office and in their across the region. our negative impact. In 2010, homes. Furthermore, Aramex has we have introduced a responsicontinued engaging employees Our Operations ble procurement policy which in discussions on environmental encourages the selection of ecoissues at our Annual Conference, Aramex’s logistics and transporfriendly alternatives. in an effort to reinforce ecotation fleet is in compliance with friendly values. our responsible procurement This section highlights our policy, whereby fuel-efficient, ongoing efforts towards estabAramex is committed to raising Low Emission Vehicles (LEV) and lishing Aramex as a leader awareness of environmenalternative technologies are in corporate environmental tal issues through strategic mandated addressing our materesponsibility. partnerships. rial impact in accordance to AccountAbility principle of mateEnvironmental Awareness • In 2010, Aramex established riality. Along with the growth and an agreement with the Emirexpansion of our operations gloRaising environmental awareates Foundation for the provibally, our fleet size grew by 23% ness, both within our organization sion of logistics support for in 2010. The composition of the and in the wider community, is a the first Arabic version of fleet, based on vehicle counts high priority for Aramex. In 2010, National Geographic’s ‘Earthand types, is presented below. a Third-party environmental Pulse’ report. audit of our Global Support Office • Aramex also continued its in Jordan was conducted in order partnership with the Arab to assess employee awareness Forum for Environmental levels and to guide the developDevelopment (AFED) for the ment of effective training matethird year2, where it handled rial. The subsequent launch of the the distribution of AFED’s internal training campaign1 in our magazine and annual report. 1 www.aramex.org/Public_Articles 2 www.afedonline.org 48 Annual Report | 2010 In 2010, we have fulfilled our at a minimum, and Hybrid vehicommitment of developing a cles, unleaded fuel and alternacomprehensive Fleet Managetive technology where availment System (FMS) that allows able. In 2010, we witnessed a 3% us to track fuel consumption and growth in our fleet that meets emissions across our fleet in 30 these minimum standards. 74% stations. The utilization of elecand 7%of the Aramex fleet is Aramex Fleet Composition tronic scanners to track delivery now compliant with Euro 4 and Trucks 25% times in all our stations has Euro 5 standards respectively. Bikes 27% further reduced the consumpMini-Vans 19% tion of paper resources. These In response to global Vans & Pick-ups 29% efforts have yielded significant growth our fleet grew operational advantages by reducby 23% in 2010, while ing system update times and reaching 81% of our fleet allowing customers to track shipcompliance with Euro 4 ments updates almost as soon as and above they occur. Most recently, Aramex has Furthermore, we are particularly piloted electronic capturing of keen on reducing emissions in signatures through the scanners, highly polluted cities. We have in an attempt to further reduce introduced 14 battery operpaper consumption. Full-scale ated scooters in Mumbai, India, deployment of this technoland have piloted the use of a ogy is dependent on local legal hybrid bike in Lebanon to reduce requirements. emissions and overall carbon footprint. Reducing our Emissions We have been working closely The impact of our initiatives, with with an independent entity in Our fuel consumption was regards to vehicle emissions, has order to calculate Aramex’s reduced by 24% since been evident in the reduction of carbon footprint. We expect this 2006 fleet-wide fuel consumption. In analysis to produce guidance 2010, Aramex has succeeded in for our strategy to reduce total reducing per-shipment fuel conemissions. Given the nature of sumption by 3%, in addition to our operations and their intercon21% reduction over the previous nection with third parties, it has three years. Although 2010 witbeen challenging to quantify our nessed growth in the number of environmental impact. However, shipments and in the size of the we are working closely with our fleet, by 16% and 23%, respecpartners (airlines, in particular) tively, our increased efficiento compile the necessary inforcies have allowed us to prevent mation for a carbon footprint increases in total fuel consumpanalysis. tion levels and total emissions. Our responsible procurement policy outlines the required features of new vehicle leases or purchases opting for Euro 4 standard 49 Introducing hybrid bikes in Lebanon. Introducing battery operated scooters in Mumbai, India. Warehouses and Facilities eight stations in MENA, GCC and the consumption of paper through Europe by 2011. the automation of internal procAramex is always aware of the esses, enforcement of printing environmental implications of Additionally, as part of our conrestrictions, and increased utilibuildings and facilities. Accordtinuous efforts to improve energy zation of the company intranet ingly, in addition to extending efficiency, we have conducted for internal communications. our environmental policies to all pilot third-party audits of faciliAs an example, our responsible existing warehouses, operations ties in two countries, where cusprocurement policy dictates that and offices, we are committed tomized plans were developed for all printer purchases must be to ensuring that all new logistics the reduction of energy consumpcapable of double-sided printing centers adhere to LEED1 (Leadertion. These plans undergo rigor– theoretically reducing paper ship in Energy and Environmental ous assessment in order to incorconsumption by up to 50%. Our Design) standard and receive porate findings into our training environmental awareness traincertification. To fulfill this comand awareness campaigns, as ing stresses on the responsible mitment, we have partnered with well as for establishing best use of paper and encourages expert entities in Jordan, Egypt, practices that may be deployed the development of innovative Dubai, Oman and Lebanon to be throughout the network. re-used paper products. Furthercommissioned by 2011, so that more, we are strongly promoting our facilities meet LEED criteria. Waste Management electronic shipping systems to We expect the implementation of our clients, allowing them to LEED requirements to conserve Operational waste generation print labels instead of consumenergy, reduce water consumpat Aramex comprises, preing paper waybills. Aside from tion, improve indoor environmendominantly, of office related reducing costs, this effort has tal quality, and to reduce our paper, packaging material and achieved paper savings of 72 emissions. electronic waste. While we are tonnes in 2010. strongly promoting policies that In terms of our existing facilities, encourage ‘Reducing, Reusing Our further reduction of we have maintained ISO14001 and Recycling’, we admittedly waybill printing resulted Certification in Eight stations, face challenges in the measurein saving 72 tons of paper and have met our targets for the ment of our waste output. The in 2010 implementation of procedures systemization of waste monithat would make the rest of our toring shall be a focal point of network compliant for the same 2011-2012. certification, which we intend to accomplish by the end of Over the past few years, we have 2011. We are planning to certify achieved significant reduction in 1 www.usgbc.org 50 Annual Report | 2010 As encouraged by our responsible procurement policy, Aramex maintains the consistent use of biodegradable plastic pouches, recycled cardboard, and recycled wooden boxes for packaging purposes. Furthermore, we are now using recycled plastic consolidation bags in Lebanon, and are working towards deploying this practice across the network. In terms of electronic waste generation, Aramex has been pursuing recycling efforts through Promoting energy conservation in the “Save Energy Oman” campaign. partnerships in India, Dubai, and Qatar. As the logistical partner for the Qtel ‘Big Drop’ Campaign1 Resource Consumption In 2010, Aramex signed a pledge in Qatar, Aramex assisted with to save energy in Oman, in partthe collection and recycling of The effort to increase efficiency nership with the Electricity electronic waste by Enviroserve. of resource usage is expected to Holding Company (EHC), and has InfoFort, Aramex’s subsidiary for remain an ongoing process for introduced a Greywater harvestinformation management soluAramex. Presently, we are striving system in the new operations tions, remains committed to the ing to improve our efficiency facility in Lebanon. Furthermore, responsible collection and recylevels through a combination of we are working on incorporating cling of IT waste. Encouraged by awareness campaigns and techa Blackwater harvesting system, its success, InfoFort now actively nological upgrades. in line with LEED recommendaextends this service to facilitate tions, at our newly constructed electronic waste recycling for its Our baseline year for measuring warehouses in Dubai. customers. water and electricity was set at 2009, and the number of stations Due to the nature of our operaThe creative efforts of an Aramex actively measuring and reporttions, water consumption is employee have initiated a project ing consumption has increased limited to domestic use only. with Ruwwad youth to conby 14% for water and 8% for All output is restricted to the struct products from Aramex’s electricity. Despite an increase public sewage systems, and does waste material. This initiative in the number of stations and not pose any risk of pollution to has helped raise awareness of employees, we have succeeded nearby water resources. environmental concerns, while in maintaining or improving engaging youth and encouraging upon resource consumption effiemployee volunteerism. The pracciencies. For instance, we have tice of recycling internal waste reduced our per-shipment eleccontinues to expand across our tricity and water consumption by network, particularly in regions 2% and 3%, respectively. where recycling entities were previously unavailable. We have reduced our We reduced 3% of our electricity consumption water consumption per per shipment by 2% in shipment in 2010 2010 1 www.qtel.qa 51 Tree Planting As part of our commitment to preservation of the environment and engaging our employees in corporate activism, Aramex employees and Ruwwad volunteers supported the Youth Association for Reality & Awareness (YARA) and 7iber.com in their tree planting campaign. Olive trees were planted on a plot of 10,000 square meters in Mafraq, Jordan. This campaign was part of the global 350.org event, where 188 Transporting two lions and five other animals back to their homes in South Africa. countries participated in hosting 7,347 events around the world. In Lebanon, Aramex supported IBSAR1 in the ‘Seeds of Hope, Trees of Tomorrow’ campaign, where trees were planted. As well, Aramex supported Jouzour Loubnan in the ‘Lebanese Cedars The following table includes additional sustainabilityPlantation Campaign’. related events that Aramex supported in 2010: Biodiversity Event Support As Aramex continues the expanSponsoring the YPO-WPO Columbia Presidents Seminar – Strategic Leadership at the Columsion of its operations, we are YPO-WPO Seminar bia University Middle East Research Centre committed to ensuring that ecoin March 2010 as part of the YPO Executive Education program. logical biodiversity is preserved. In this effort, we have cooperated Sponsored the forum which aims build a with the Princess Alia Foundation network of thought and action leaders from Global Social Innovators Forum around the world and support collaborative (GSIF) 2010 by facilitating the safe transporinnovations that build a more inclusive and sustainable world. tation of three cubs, one lion, one lioness and several hyenas from Supported their annual conference which aims Amman, Jordan, to their natural to harness the potential of diverse groups of Harvard alumni living in the region in order habitat at Lionsrock Big Cat Harvard Arab Alumni Association to identify innovative trends and successful strategies that pertain to the globalizing secSanctuary in South Africa. Finally, tors of business, culture, education, health, Aramex has continued its support and media in the Arab world today. of the ‘Changing Oceans ExpediBarnard College of Columbia University organtion’ to discover and assess the Barnard-Sponsorship for Women in ized Women in the Arab World conference in Arab World Symposium state of marine life. Dubai. For comprehensive coverage of United NationsWorld Food ProProviding support for fundraising. gram our commitment towards the environment, please visit Supporting their conference on business www.aramex.org Al Iktissad wal Amal Conference activities in the region as well as supporting Phoenicia the Arabic magazine and distributing it across the region. 1 www.ibsar.org & www.aramex.org 52 Annual Report | 2010 REPORTING PROCESS This is Aramex’s first Integrated Report, combining our financial and non-financial data for the calendar year 2010. Scope of the Report considered and believe that we have identified all of our key Determining our Priority Issues: stakeholders and have outlined We have reviewed our sustainhow we engage them, our underability issues using a process standing of their interests and consistent with the GRI’s G3 expectations, and how we have Guidelines and its “Reporting responded. Principles for Defining Content”: Sustainability context: We Materiality: We believe we have considered our sustainability covered all topics (and included context, taking into account associated indicators) that global trends towards sustainreflect the organization’s signifiability, but also considering cant economic, environmental, regional and local contexts in and social impacts, or that would which we operate. In some cases substantively influence the we point out the different priassessments and decisions of orities among these contexts, stakeholders. and how we try to best address these issues from multiple This includes main issues raised perspectives. by stakeholders, issues reported on by our peers, standards and Ensuring Quality in our guidelines including the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Reporting Guidelines and the GRI Logistics and Transportation We have used the GRI ‘Reporting Sector Supplement regulations Principles for Defining Quality’, and laws in our countries of operincluding the following aspects: ation, critical factors for enabling success including our corporate Balance: We reported and evaluculture, the state of existing ated our performance based systems within the company, and on material issues and future the significant potential of our targets onwards, presenting our core competencies to contribute positive performance, as well as to sustainable development. areas still requiring significant Stakeholder inclusiveness: We improvement and reevaluation. 53 Comparability: Wherever possible operations, while human Data Measurement we have provided year-on-year resource data does not include Techniques data, and have been following the franchisees. the GRI Indicator Protocols. The financial data in this report Unless otherwise stated, indihas been generated using audited cators include global coverage Accuracy: We have aimed for financial figures from our finansubject to the above mentioned maximum accuracy. Where esticial statements. We have also considerations and limitations. mations or other limitations to achieved third-party verification Different indicators may have difthe data are involved, this is using the parameters expressed ferent levels of preciseness. For identified. in the auditor’s statement. example, the company already has in place strong manageTimeliness: We committed ourLimitations ment and information systems selves to report annually our susfor financial data and human tainability performances. We preAramex generally does not mainresources data, and therefore viously reported our progress in tain heavy assets and instead this data is more accurate than a two year sustainability report, uses the services of other transother areas. This necessarily however we will be reporting on portation providers (such as airinvolves some level of estimation. annual basis in the future. lines), and leases the majority of We have provided an explanation its vehicles (Aramex does mainof any estimation including the Clarity: We have stated clearly tain a small vehicle fleet). level of accuracy and approach to our performance against our data collection for the relevant targets from our previous susIn some markets, most notably indicator. tainability reports. India, the company also subcontracts pickup and delivery of Feedback Reliability: We have obtained express packages to local comthird-party assurance for this panies. Our calculation of fuel We welcome any comments by report for parameters expressed consumption (from which emisour readers. Feedback should be in the assurance statement. sions might be derived) includes sent to: only fuel used for owned and raji.hattar@aramex.com Reporting Boundaries leased vehicles, and not include airplane fuel or the third‐party The data in this report covers all contractors. We recognize that of our operations in all regions, this underestimates our overall unless otherwise indicated. The emissions levels. However, we exception is our franchisee operaim to include these third parties ations. For example, the finanin our emissions calculations in cial data in this report include the coming two years. our proceeds from franchisee 54 Annual Report | 2010 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)/ UN Global Compact Index GRI Indicator Page UN Global Compact Principle Strategy and Analysis 1.1 P.6-7 1.2 P.11-13 Organizational Profile 2.1 P.8 2.2 P.11-13 2.3 P.8-9 2.4 P.47 2.5 P.9,38-51 2.6 P.9 2.7 P.9,13 2.8 P.8,9,29 2.9 P.14-15,21-22 2.10 P.18 Report Parameters 3.1-3.11 P.52-53 3.12 P.54-57 Assurance 3.13 P.9,23,109-113 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 P.21-22 4.2 P.21-22 4.3 P.21-22 4.4 P.21-22 4.5 P.21-22 4.6 P.21-22 4.7 P.21-22 4.8 P.21-23 4.9 P.21-22 4.10 P.21-22 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection 4.11 P.24-27 of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection 4.12 P.22-23 of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection 4.13 P.18-19 of internationally proclaimed human rights. 4.14 P.25-27 4.15 P.25-27 4.16 P.25-27 4.17 P.25-27 55 GRI Indicator Page UN Global Compact Principle Economic Performance Indicators EC1 P.9-10 EC2 P.47-51 EC3 P.32 EC4 None Principle 6: Businesses should support EC5 P.32 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 8: Businesses should P.11 Aramex code of conduct addresses EC6 undertake initiatives to promote local suppliers greater environmental responsibility. Principle 8: Businesses should EC7 P.29 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EC8 P.11,38-51 EC9 P.11 Environmental Performance Indicators The systemization of waste monitoring shall be a focal point of 2011-2012 EN1 which includes capturing information related to materials used. The systemization of waste monitoring shall be a focal point of 2011-2012 EN2 which includes capturing information related to materials used. EN3 P.49-50 EN4 P.49-50 Principle 7: Businesses should EN5 P.49-50 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should EN6 P.47-51 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 8: Businesses should EN7 P.47-51 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN8 P.50 EN9 P.50 EN10 P.50 EN11 P.51 EN12 P.51 EN13 P.51 We are planning to calculate our Carbon EN16 footprint in 2011 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and EN18 P.47-48 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN21 None known EN22 P.49 EN23-EN25 None known Principle 7: Businesses should EN26 P.47-50 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 7: Businesses should EN27 P.47-50 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 56 Annual Report | 2010 GRI Indicator Page UN Global Compact Principle EN28 None Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 P.29-30 We are working on unifying our systems LA2 to accurately calculate turnover by 2011 Principle 6: Businesses should support LA3 P.32 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Aramex employees are members of a company union. Many are members of national trade unions. Also, we do not LA4 have any policy against Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. The percentage will be reported by 2013 LA6 P.32-33 LA7 P.32-33 LA8 P.32-33 LA9 P.32-33 LA10 P.30 LA11 P.29-32 LA12 P.29-32 LA13 P.32 Principle 6: Businesses should support LA14 P.32 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Human Rights Performance Indicators Aramex is in the process of issuing HR1 supplier code of conduct Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection HR2 P.21-23 of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 1: Businesses should P.16,19,23 We started a training support and respect the protection HR3 program in 2009 which includes human of internationally proclaimed human rights which will be concluded in 2011. rights. Principle 6: Businesses should support HR4 None Reported the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold P.32 We do not have any policy against the freedom of association and the HR5 Freedom of Association and Collective effective recognition of the right to Bargaining. collective bargaining. P.32 No operations faced incidents of Principle 5: Businesses should support HR6 child labor. the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 4: Businesses should support HR7 P.23,32 None the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 1: Businesses should We started a training program in 2009 support and respect the protection HR8 which includes human rights which will of internationally proclaimed human be concluded in 2011. rights. HR9 None Society Performance Indicators SO1 P.22-23 All units have been analyzed for risk SO2 related to corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work SO3 P.21-23 against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 10: Businesses should work SO4 P.21-23 against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 57 GRI Indicator Page UN Global Compact Principle SO5 P.19-23 SO6 None SO7 None SO8 None Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR2 None PR3 P.11-13 PR4 None PR5 P.35 P.37 We adhere to local and international laws and respect the PR6 confidentiality and privacy of customer communication and information. PR7 PR9 None Sector Supplements We have one boat operating within the city of Dubai. It is registered in Dubai with Dubai Port’s World. It does LT1 not require registration in a shipping registry as this boat cannot go into deep sea. LT2 P.47-48 LT3 P.47-51 LT4 P.47-51 Principle 8: Businesses should LT5 P.47-51 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 7: Businesses should LT6 P.47-51 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. LT7 P.22-23 LT8 Not Relevant LT9 As relevant LT10 P.22-23 LT11 P.33 LT12 P.32-33 LT13 Not Relevant LT14 As relevant LT15 P.44-45 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection LT16 P.23, 29-32 of internationally proclaimed human rights. When short-term workers are required, Aramex typically hires workers through Principle 1: Businesses should agencies and companies that specialize support and respect the protection LT17 in temporary supply of manpower, thus of internationally proclaimed human increasing job security and continuity rights. for these workers. 58 Annual Report | 2010 Acronyms ABANA Arab Banks of North America HQ Headquarters ADSG Abu Dhabi Sustainability Group HR Human Resources ADSG Abu Dhabi Sustainability Group IST Istanbul AED United Arab Emirate Dirham IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature AFED Arab Forum for Environment and Development JEBA Jordan European Business Association AmCham The American Chamber of Commerce in Jordan JED Jeddah ASLG Arab Sustainability Leadership Group Kg Kilograms AMM Amman KPI Key Performance Indicator AUH Abu Dhabi KRT Khartoum BAH Bahrain KWI Kuwait BEY Beirut LBG London Benchmarking Group BOM Bombay LEV Low Emission Vehicles C-TPAT Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism LPG Liquid Petroleum Gas Messenger Courier Association of AmeriCAI Cairo MCAA ca CAS Casablanca MCT Muscat CEO Chief Executive Officer MKYEF Mousab Khorma Youth Empowerment Fund CH4 Methane N/A Non Applicable CMB Colombo NGO Non-Governmental Organization CMT Customer Management Team NOx Nitro oxide CO2 Carbon Dioxide PJSC Public Joint Venture CTS Click to Ship PZEV Partial zero-emissions vehicle DAM Damascus RUH Riyadh SMS DfT Department for Transport (Text) Short Message Service DHA Abu Dhabi SO2 Sulfur Dioxide DOH Doha SSN Shipment Status Notification DQMS Data Quality Management System SULEV Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicles DXB Dubai TAPA Transport Asset Protection Association EDI Electronic Document Interchange THR Tehran eINVOICE Electronic Invoice TIP Tripoli EMS Electronic Management System TSA Transportation Security Association ePOD Electronic Proof of Delivery UAE United Arab Emirates GCC Gulf Cooperation Council UK United Kingdom GDA Global Distribution Alliance ULEV Ultra Low Emission Vehicles GHG Greenhouse Gases UN United Nations GPS Global Positioning Satellite UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund GRI Global Reporting Initiative US United States GSO Global Support Office USD United States Dollar H&S Health and Safety VP Vice President HKG Hong Kong YEA Young Entrepreneurs Association 59 Glossary AccountAbility1000(AA1000): is Global Support Office (GSO): is capture the outputs and longera series of principle-based standthe company’s Headquarters in term impacts of CCI projects on ards intended to provide the Amman, Jordan. society and the business itself. basis for improving the sustainability performance of organizaISO14000: is a set of international OHSAS 18001: is an international tions. The AA1000 Framework environmental management occupational health and safety was developed to help organistandards that brings worldmanagement system that prozations build their accountwide focus to the environment, vides specifications to help ability and social responsibility encouraging a cleaner, safer, organizations control through quality social and ethical healthier world for us all. As part occupational health and safety accounting, auditing and reportof the ISO standards, ISO14000 risks. ing. It addresses the need for exists to help organizations miniorganizations to integrate their mize how their operations negaSocial Accountability 8000 stakeholder engagement process tively affect the environment (SA8000): is promoted as a volinto their daily activities. (cause adverse changes to air, untary, universal standard for water, or land), and comply with companies interested in auditing Carbon Dioxide: is a chemical applicable laws, regulations, and and certifying labor practices in compound often referred to as other environmentally-oriented their facilities and those of their CO2, and is present in the Earth’s requirements. suppliers and vendors. atmosphere. ISO9001:2000: is a set of standSustainability: is an attempt to G3 Reporting Guidelines: is a ards for quality management provide the best outcomes for framework for reporting on an systems intended for use in any the human and the natural enviorganization’s economic, environorganization which designs, ronment, both now and into an mental, and social performance. develops, manufactures, installs indefinite future. and/or services any product or Global Distribution Alliance provides any form of service. It (GDA): is a partnership of more provides a number of requirethan 40 leading logistics and ments which an organization transportation companies. needs to fulfill if it is to achieve With operations throughout the customer satisfaction, through world, the GDA is strategically consistent products and servpositioned to provide swift and ices which meet customer reliable global transportation expectations. solutions. Each member of the alliance provides extensive London Benchmarking Group coverage and expertise in each (LBG): is a group of over 100 region of the world. companies working together to measure Corporate Community Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Investment (CCI). The LBG model is a long-term, multi-stakeholder, provides a comprehensive and international process whose consistent set of measures for mission is to develop and dissemCCI professionals to determine inate globally applicable Sustaintheir company’s contribution ability Reporting Guidelines. to the community, and to also Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2010 62 Annual Report | 2010 Directors’ Report Dear Shareholders, Following the strong financial results in the year 2009, we maintained our robust financial performance in the year 2010. Our revenues grew from AED 1,961 million to AED 2,212 million , an increase of 13% compared to year 2009 , Furthermore , net profits attributed to the equity holders of the parent company increased by 11% over the same period , from AED 184 million to AED 204 million. 2010 was a year of significant expansion for us as we strengthened our presence in emerging markets such as Turkey, Malaysia, Bangladesh and Vietnam through as series of strategic acquisitions and partnerships. We will continue to execute our long – term growth strategy in 2011, focusing on expansion opportunities in key markets in Africa and Southeast Asia. Despite more challenging conditions this year, however, we have a clear vision for the company in 2011 as we continue to focus carrying out our long – term growth strategy and meeting the operational milestones we have set for Aramex in the year to come. Abdullah M. Mazrui Fadi Ghandour Chairman Founder and CEO 63 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ARAMEX PJSC Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Aramex PJSC (the ”Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2010 and the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s responsibility for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the applicable provisions of the articles of association of the Company and the UAE Commercial Companies Law of 1984 (as amended), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate for the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Aramex PJSC as at 31 December 2010 and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements We also confirm that, in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements include, in all material respects, the applicable requirements of the UAE Commercial Companies Law of 1984 (as amended) and the articles of association of the Company; proper books of account have been kept by the Company; an inventory was duly carried out; and the contents of the report of the Board of Directors relating to these consolidated financial statements are consistent with the books of account. We have obtained all the information and explanations which we required for the purpose of our audit and, to the best of our knowledge and belief, 64 Annual Report | 2010 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ARAMEX PJSC (CONTINUED) no violations of the UAE Commercial Companies Law of 1984 (as amended) or of the articles of association of the Company have occurred during the year which would have had a material effect on the business of the Group or on its financial position. Signed by Joseph Alexander Murphy Partner Registration No. 492 For Ernst and Young 27 February 2011 Dubai, United Arab Emirates 65 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION At 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Asset Notes aed’000 aed’000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4 332,144 246,917 Goodwill 5 863,199 853,427 Other intangible assets 6 8,927 5,730 Available-for-sale investments 7 3,988 4,965 Investments in joint ventures 8 19,165 7,772 Deferred tax assets 9 2,530 1,476 Other non-current assets 39 18 1,229,992 1,120,305 Current assets Accounts receivable 10 404,028 349,060 Other current assets 11 97,699 86,995 Bank balances and cash 12 554,739 501,862 1,056,466 937,917 TOTAL ASSETS 2,286,458 2,058,222 2010 2009 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES notes aed’000 aed’000 Equity Share capital 13 1,464,100 1,331,000 Statutory reserve 14 62,274 40,923 Foreign currency translation reserve 14 (6,335) (2,561) Fair value reserve 14 1,268 2,245 Reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests 14 (12,397) Retained earnings 15 272,089 224,048 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent 1,780,999 1,595,655 Non-controlling interests 24,577 28,143 Total equity 1,805,576 1,623,798 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16 6,503 6,463 Employees’ end of service benefits 17 66,958 59,618 Deferred tax liabilities 9 1,295 1,037 74,756 67,118 Current liabilities Accounts payable 18 129,148 118,435 Bank overdrafts 19 6,863 8,951 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16 6,715 7,482 Other current liabilities 20 263,400 232,438 406,126 367,306 Total liabilities 480,882 434,424 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,286,458 2,058,222 The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 27 February 2011. Abdullah Al Mazrui Fadi Ghandour Emad Shishtawi (Chairman) (Founder & CEO) (Senior Vice President Finance) 1 The attached notes from 1 to 33 form part of these consolidated financial statements 66 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Notes AED’000 AED’000 Rendering of services 21 2,211,996 1,960,786 Cost of services 22 (1,021,830) (852,745) GROSS PROFIT 1,190,166 1,108,041 Share of results of joint ventures 8 (256) 130 Selling and marketing expenses (108,285) (98,814) Administrative expenses 23 (410,802) (390,520) Operating expenses 24 (444,596) (412,798) Other income (expenses) 25 3,168 (250) OPERATING PROFIT 229,395 205,789 Finance income 16,283 14,204 Finance expense (1,166) (1,830) PROFIT BEFORE TAX 244,512 218,163 Income tax 9 (14,935) (11,441) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 229,577 206,722 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent 204,092 184,287 Non–controlling interests 25,485 22,435 229,577 206,722 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the Parent: basic and diluted earnings per share 27 AED 0.139 AED 0.126 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 AED’000 AED’000 Profit for the year 229,577 206,722 Other comprehensive income, net of tax: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (3,603) 3,555 Net (loss) gain on available-for-sale financial assets (977) 1,664 Other comprehensive (loss) income for the year, net of tax (4,580) 5,219 Total comprehensive income for the year 224,997 211,941 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 199,341 189,516 Non-controlling interests 25,656 22,425 224,997 211,941 • The attached notes from 1-33 form part of these consolidated financial statements Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2010 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Reserve arising from Foreign acquisition currency of nonNon-conShare capiStatutory translation Fair value controlling Retained trolling tal reserve reserve reserve interests earnings Total interests Total AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 At 1 January 2009 1,210,000 25,698 (6,126) 581 177,386 1,407,539 28,956 1,436,495 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,565 1,664 184,287 189,516 22,425 211,941 Issue of share capital 121,000 (121,000) Transfer to statutory reserve 15,225 (15,225) Directors’ fees paid (1,400) (1,400) (1,400) Dividends of subsidiaries (23,794) (23,794) Non-controlling interests 556 556 At 1 January 2010 1,331,000 40,923 (2,561) 2,245 224,048 1,595,655 28,143 1,623,798 Total comprehensive income for the year (3,774) (977) 204,092 199,341 25,656 224,997 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (12,397) (12,397) (1,376) (13,773) Issue of share capital 133,100 (133,100) Transfer to statutory reserve 21,351 (21,351) Directors’ fees paid (1,600) (1,600) (1,600) Dividends of subsidiaries (21,702) (21,702) Non-controlling interests (6,144) (6,144) At 31 December 2010 1,464,100 62,274 (6,335) 1,268 (12,397) 272,089 1,780,999 24,577 1,805,576 67 • The attached notes from 1-33 form part of these consolidated financial statements 68 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 notes aed’000 aed’000 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 244,512 218,163 Adjustment for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4 47,741 44,837 Amortisation of intangible assets 6 962 889 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 17 13,002 12,471 Provision for doubtful accounts, net 7,974 8,792 Net finance income (15,117) (12,374) Share of results of joint ventures 256 (130) Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 459 259 299,789 272,907 Working capital changes: Accounts receivable (60,854) (5,472) Accounts payable 9,912 1,569 Other current assets (10,978) 13,938 Other current liabilities 23,840 (1,257) Cash from operations 261,709 281,685 Employees’ end of service benefits paid 17 (5,795) (5,511) Income tax paid (9,534) (11,701) Net cash from operating activities 246,380 264,473 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment 4 (136,893) (52,294) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1,841 2,901 Interest received 16,283 14,204 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 3 (13,773) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 3 (11,908) (25,982) Other non–current assets (21) 4,332 Margin deposits (3,513) (1,022) Intangible assets 6 (13) (234) Investments in joint ventures (12,487) (7,642) Net cash used in investing activities (160,484) (65,737) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Interest paid (1,166) (1,830) Repayment of loans and borrowings (908) (13,520) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (21,702) (23,794) Non-controlling interests (8,234) 556 Directors’ fees paid (1,600) (1,400) Net cash used in financing activities (33,610) (39,988) NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 52,286 158,748 Net foreign exchange difference (834) 3,614 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 485,090 322,728 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 12 536,542 485,090 • The attached notes from 1-33 form part of these consolidated financial statements 69 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 1. ACTIVITIES Aramex PJSC (“the Parent Company”) is a Public Joint Stock Company registered in the Emirate of Dubai, United Arab Emirates on 15 February 2005 under UAE Federal Law No 8 of 1984 (as amended). The Parent Company was listed on the Dubai Financial Market on 9 July 2005. The Principal activities of the Group are to invest in the freight, express, logistics and supply chain management businesses through acquiring and owning controlling interests in companies in the Middle East and other parts of the world. The Parent Company’s registered office is Business Center Towers, 2302A, Media City (TECOM), Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2011. 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and applicable requirements of UAE Federal Law No. 8 of 1984 (as amended). The consolidated financial statements are presented in UAE Dirhams (AED), being the functional currency of the Parent Company. Financial information is presented in AED and has been rounded to the nearest thousands, except where otherwise stated. The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for available for sale investments and derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value. Basis of consolidation Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2010. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full. Losses within a subsidiary that are attributable to non-controlling interests are attributed to the noncontrolling interests even if that results in a deficit balance. 70 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.1 Basis of preparation (continued) A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: • Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary • Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest • Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity • Recognises the fair value of the consideration received • Recognises the fair value of any investment retained • Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss • Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. Basis of consolidation prior to 1 January 2010 Certain of the above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis. The following differences, however, are carried forward in certain instances from the previous basis of consolidation: • Acquisitions of non-controlling interests, prior to 1 January 2010, were accounted for using the parent entity extension method, whereby, the difference between the consideration and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognised in goodwill or as negative goodwill. • Losses incurred by the Group were attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil. Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these. • Upon loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control was lost. 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except for the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations effective as of 1 January 2010: • IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions effective 1 January 2010 • IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements(Amended) effective 1 July 2009, including consequential amendments to IFRS 2, IFRS 5 IFRS 7, IAS 7, IAS 21, IAS 28, IAS 31 and IAS 39 • IAS 19 Employee Benefits • IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items effective 1 July 2009 • IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective 1 July 2009 • Improvements to IFRSs (May 2008) • Improvements to IFRSs (April 2009) 71 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) The adoption of the standards or interpretations is described below: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment (Revised) The IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 that clarified the scope and the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions. As the Group did not enter in cash settled share-based transactions, it did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Amended) IFRS 3 (Revised) introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring after becoming effective. Changes affect the valuation of non-controlling interest, the accounting for transaction costs, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent consideration and business combinations achieved in stages. These changes will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs and future reported results. IAS 27 (Amended) requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary (without loss of control) is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners. Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will it give rise to a gain or loss. Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary. The changes by IFRS 3 (Revised) and IAS 27 (Amended) affect acquisitions or loss of control of subsidiaries and transactions with non-controlling interests after 1 January 2010. The change in accounting policy was applied prospectively and had no material impact on earnings per share. IAS 19 Employee Benefits The Group has assessed its accounting policy with regard to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses arising from its end of service benefits plan. The Group recognised only the net cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains and losses of the previous period, which exceeded 10% of the higher of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets in accordance with IAS 19.93. As a consequence, the Group carried unrecognised gains and losses outside its statement of financial position. The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 19 which states that the Group can voluntarily change its accounting policy to recognise actuarial gains and losses in the period in which they occur in total in other comprehensive income. The Change into the new accounting policy will be applied retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, resulting in the restatement of prior year financial information. No material actuarial gains or losses have arisen on the Group’s plan and, hence, the change in accounting policy had no impact on the Group’s net results or net equity for the year or prior years. IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items The amendment clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item. This also covers the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations. The Group has concluded that the amendment will 72 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) have no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not entered into any such hedges. IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes noncash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends. The Group has concluded that the interpretation will have no effect on either, the financial position nor performance of the Group, as The Group did not enter into such arrangements. Improvements to IFRSs In April 2009, the IASB issued omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. There are separate transitional provisions for each standard. The adoption of the following amendments did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the group. Issued in April 2009 • IFRS 8 Operating Segments: clarifies that segment assets and liabilities need only be reported when those assets and liabilities are included in measures that are used by the chief operating decision maker. As the Group’s chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has continued not to disclose this information in Note 29. • IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: States that only expenditure that results in recognising an asset can be classified as a cash flow from-investing activities. This amendment has not impacted the presentation of the statement of cash flows. • IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: The amendment clarifies that the largest unit permitted for allocating goodwill, acquired in a business combination, is the operating segment as defined in IFRS 8 before aggregation for reporting purposes. The amendment has no impact on the Group as the annual impairment test is performed before aggregation. Other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: Issued in April 2009 • IFRS 2 Share-based Payment • IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discounted Operations • IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements • IAS 17 Leases • IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting • IAS 38 Intangible Assets • IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement • IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives • IFRIC 16 Hedge of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 73 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Standards issued but not yet effective Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements are listed below. This listing is of standards and interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects to be applicable at a future date. The Group intends to adopt those standards when they become effective. IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Amendment) The amended standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. It clarified the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application. The revised standard introduces a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for government related entities. The Group does not expect any impact on its financial position or performance. Early adoption is permitted for either the partial exemption for government-related entities or for the entire standard. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition. The completion of this project is expected in early 2011. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial assets. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture. Improvements to IFRSs (issued in May 2010) The IASB issued Improvements to IFRSs, an omnibus of amendments to its IFRS standards. The amendments have not been adopted as they become effective for annual periods on or after either 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. The amendments are listed below: • IFRS 3 Business Combinations • IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures • IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements • IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements • IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes The Group, however, expects no impact from the adoption of the amendments on its financial position or performance. 2.4 Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period. Such estimates are necessarily based on assumptions about several factors and actual results may differ from reported amounts. 74 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.4 Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions (continued) Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty, and critical judgements in applying accounting policies (that have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the financial statements) are discussed in note 33. Identifiable assets and liabilities taken over on acquisition of subsidiaries The Group separately recognises assets and liabilities on the acquisition of a subsidiary when it is probable that the associated economic benefits will flow to the acquirer or when, in the case of liability, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the fair value of the asset or liability can be measured reliably. Intangible assets and contingent liabilities are separately recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition set out in IFRS 3. Intangible assets, acquired on acquisition, mainly represent lists of customers, bound by a contract, valued on the basis of minimum cash flows. 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and/or accumulated impairment losses, if any. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group recognises such parts as individual assets with specific useful lives and depreciation, respectively. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred. Except for capital work in progress, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: • Leasehold improvements over 4-7 years • Buildings over 14-15 years • Furniture and fixtures over 5-10 years • Warehousing racks over 15 years • Office equipment over 3-7 years • Computers over 3-5 years • Vehicles over 4-5 years Land is not depreciated The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and their value in use. 75 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off. Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property, plant and equipment. All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated income statement as the expense is incurred. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and carrying amount of the asset) is included in the consolidated income statement in the year the asset is derecognised. The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed at each financial year end, and adjusted prospectively if appropriate. Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses. When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity. Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. 76 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cashgenerating unit retained. Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is its fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses, if any. The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their economic lives which are between 3 to 10 years. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value. After initial measurement, availablefor-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the fair value reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement in finance costs and removed from the fair value reserve. Impairment losses on equity instruments are not reversed through the consolidated income statement; increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in the fair value reserve. Investments in joint ventures The Group’s investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. A joint venture is a jointly controlled entity whereby the venturer has a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity. 77 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture is carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net asset of the joint venture. The consolidated income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the joint venture. Prepaid agency fees Amounts paid in advance to agents to purchase or alter their agency rights are accounted for as prepayments. As these amounts are paid in lieu of annual payments they are expensed to consolidated income statement over the period equivalent to the number of years of agency fees paid in advance. Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators. The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s cash-generating units to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations are generally covering a period of five years. For longer periods, a long term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for a property previously revalued where the revaluation was taken to other comprehensive income. In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation. Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances, and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts and cash margin. 78 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility of recovery. Foreign currency translation The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in AED, which is also the Parent Company’s functional currency. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group entities at their respective functional currency rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of all monetary items that provide an effective hedge for a net investment in a foreign operation. These are recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are also recorded in equity. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. Group companies The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into AED at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation subsequent to 1 January 2005 and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. Loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method (EIR). Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated 79 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through (EIR) amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisations are included in finance cost in the consolidated income statement. Other financial liabilities including deferred consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries are measured at amortised cost. Accounts payable and accruals Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods or services received, whether billed by the supplier or not. Employees’ end of service benefits The provision for employees’ end of service benefits, disclosed as a long-term liability, is calculated in accordance with IAS19 for Group’s entities where their respective labour laws require providing indemnity payments upon termination of relationship with their employees. Pensions and other post employment benefits The Group provides for a number of post employment defined benefit plans required under several jurisdictions in which Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries operate. These benefits are un-funded. The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses for the defined benefit plans are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in other comprehensive income. Such actuarial gains and losses are also immediately recognised in retained earnings and are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. The past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. The defined benefit liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligations using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds. The Group has not allocated any assets to such plans. Social security Payments made to the social Security Institutions in connection with government pension plans applicable in certain jurisdictions are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans, where the Group’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan. The Group pays contributions to the social security institutions on a mandatory basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the period to which the employees’ service relates. Revenue recognition Revenue represents the value of services rendered to customers and is stated net of discounts and sales taxes or similar levies. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 80 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) received, excluding discounts and rebates. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: • Express revenue Express revenue is recognized upon receipt of shipment from the customer as the sales process is considered complete and the risks are transferred to the customer. • Freight forwarding revenue Freight forwarding revenue is recognized upon the delivery of freight to the destination or to the air carrier. • Catalogue shopping and shop ‘n’ ship services revenue Catalogue shopping and shop ‘n’ ship services revenue is recognized upon the receipt of the merchandise by the customers. • Revenue from magazines and newspapers distribution Revenue from magazines and newspapers distribution is recognized when it is delivered to the customers. • Revenue from logistics and document storage services Revenue from logistics and document storage services is recognized when the services are rendered. • Interest income Interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement. Borrowing cots Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Taxation • Current income tax The Group provides for income taxes in accordance with IAS 12. As the Parent Company is incorporated in the UAE, profits from operations of the Parent Company are not subject to taxation. However, certain subsidiaries of the Parent Company are based in taxable jurisdictions and are therefore liable to tax. Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises of current and deferred tax on the profits of these subsidiaries. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years. 81 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) • Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided for using the liability method on all temporary differences at the statement of financial position date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date. Going concern Management has made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and is satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis. Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as a liability when the fair value is negative. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are taken directly to the consolidated income statement. Impairment and uncollectibility of financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults. 82 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.5 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Earnings per share The Group presents basic earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period and for all periods presented is adjusted for the issue of bonus shares. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation (legal or constructive) arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured. 3. BUSINESS COMBINATION AND ACQUISITION OF NON –CONTROLLING INTEREST Business acquisitions – year ended 31 December 2010 During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group acquired a controlling stake in a number of companies specialising in courier and logistics services, based in Africa and the Far East. The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquirees’ at the proportionate share of the acquirees’ identifiable net assets. The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entities, as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before the acquisition were: 83 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 3. BUSINESS COMBINATION AND ACQUISITION OF NON –CONTROLLING INTEREST (continued) fair value recognised on acquisition Carrying value AED’000 AED’000 Assets Property and equipment 177 177 Trade and other receivables 1,812 1,812 Intangible assets 4,146 Bank balances and cash 4,499 4,499 10,634 6,488 Liabilities Trade and other payables (1,729) (1,729) Term loan (180) (180) (1,909) (1,909) Total identifiable net assets at fair value 8,725 Non-controlling interests (2,090) Goodwill arising on acquisition 9,772 Purchase consideration transferred 16,407 Cash flow on acquisition AED’000 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 4,499 Cash paid (16,407) Net cash outflow on acquisition (11,908) The group has finalized the purchase price allocation (PPA) exercise. The goodwill of AED 9.77 million comprises the value of expected synergies arising from the acquisitions. Goodwill was allocated to International Express, Domestic Express, Freight Forwarding and Logistics. From the date of acquisition, the new companies have contributed AED 8.6 million of revenue and AED 771 thousand to the net profit before tax of the Group. If the combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, revenue for the Group would have been AED 2,231 million and the profit before tax for the Group would have been AED 244.4 million. Transaction costs of AED 139 thousand have been expensed and included in administrative expenses. Acquisition of additional interest in Aramex Hava Cargo – year ended 31 December 2010 On 1 December 2010 the Group acquired an additional 50% interest of the voting shares of Aramex Hava Cargo, increasing its ownership interest to 100%. A consideration of AED 13.77 million was paid to the non-controlling interest shareholders. The carrying value of the net assets of Aramex Hava Cargo at the acquisition date was AED 2.75 million. The carrying value of the additional interest acquired was AED 1.38 million. 84 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 3. BUSINESS COMBINATION AND ACQUISITION OF NON –CONTROLLING INTEREST (continued) The difference of AED 12.4 million between the consideration paid and the carrying value of the interest acquired has been recognised in equity as a reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests. Transaction costs of AED 51 thousand have been expensed and included in administrative expenses. Acquisition of Metrofile Middle East L.L.C – year ended 31 December 2009 On 21 January 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Metrofile Middle East L.L.C, a company specialising in archiving services, based in the United Arab Emirates. The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Metrofile Middle East L.L.C, as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before the acquisition were: Provisional fair value recognised on acquisition Carrying value AED’000 AED’000 Assets Property and equipment 2,348 5,176 Trade and other receivables 9,034 9,479 Intangible assets 3,609 14,991 14,655 Liabilities Trade and other payables (6,307) (6,307) Employees’ end of service benefits (686) (686) Bank overdrafts (524) (524) (7,517) (7,517) Total identifiable net assets at fair value 7,474 7,138 Goodwill arising on acquisition 47,984 Purchase consideration transferred 55,458 Cash flow on acquisition: AED’000 Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (524) Cash paid (25,458) Net cash outflow (25,982) 85 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 3. BUSINESS COMBINATION AND ACQUISITION OF NON –CONTROLLING INTEREST (continued) The purchase consideration at the date of acquisition included a deferred amount of AED 30 million, which was short term in nature and was carried at amortised cost. During 2010, the provisional values were finalised within the timelines specified under IFRS 3 Business Combinations based on the completion of the purchase price allocation (PPA) exercise. The final PPA did not result in any material adjustments to the provisional values or goodwill reported as of 31 December 2009. The goodwill of AED 47,984 thousand comprises the value of expected synergies arising from the acquisition. Since Metrofile operations have been merged with existing operations, it was not practicable to separately disclose revenues and profits arising as a result of this business combination from the date of acquisition, or the total impact on the results for the year had the acquisition taken place at the beginning of the year. Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Capital Leasehold imFurniture Warehousing Office work-inLand provements Buildings and fixtures Racks equipment Computers Vehicles progress Total AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 Cost At 1 January 2010 12,529 43,091 74,392 22,687 33,773 57,274 89,933 61,950 30,872 426,501 86 Additions 6,501 3,492 2,760 5,047 7,472 18,565 16,815 76,241 136,893 Acquisitions of a subsidiary 20 64 57 737 878 Transfers 1,040 (849) 393 (5,610) 1,621 3,405 Disposals (5,461) (4,039) (182) (6,655) (26,036) (16,175) (58,548) Exchange differences (250) (573) (703) (197) (948) (1,211) (638) (4,520) At 31 December 2010 12,279 44,598 77,884 19,876 38,834 51,597 82,929 66,094 107,113 501,204 Depreciation At 1 January 2010 22,245 12,498 13,625 9,714 28,860 58,102 34,540 179,584 Charge for the year 4,899 4,856 2,142 2,200 6,587 13,501 13,556 47,741 Annual Report | 2010 Acquisitions of a subsidiary 17 55 40 589 701 Transfers 1,000 (798) 300 (4,076) 1,161 2,413 Disposals (5,378) (3,829) (160) (6,253) (25,256) (15,372) (56,248) Exchange differences (63) (282) (96) (833) (884) (560) (2,718) At 31 December 2010 22,703 17,354 10,875 11,958 24,340 46,664 35,166 169,060 Net carrying amount At 31 December 2010 12,279 21,895 60,530 9,001 26,876 27,257 36,265 30,928 107,113 332,144 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) Capital Leasehold imFurniture Warehousing Office work-inLand provements Buildings and fixtures Racks equipment Computers Vehicles progress Total AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 Cost At 1 January 2009 8,921 42,913 72,830 37,703 65,906 82,485 56,516 29,617 396,891 Additions 4,591 3,953 1,562 246 9,142 2,804 12,600 16,141 1,255 52,294 Acquisitions of a subsidiary 3,323 946 4,269 Transfers (1,257) (13,334) 21,534 (6,943) Disposals (997) (2,543) (1,885) (342) (3,776) (5,540) (11,717) (26,800) Exchange differences 14 25 (43) 116 (717) 388 64 (153) At 31 December 2009 12,529 43,091 74,392 22,687 33,773 57,274 89,933 61,950 30,872 426,501 Depreciation At 1 January 2009 19,528 7,771 16,523 29,686 50,907 32,109 156,524 Charge for the year 5,208 4,727 1,926 2,461 6,028 12,177 12,310 44,837 Acquisitions of a subsidiary 1,145 776 1,921 Transfers (133) (3,203) 6,176 (2,840) Disposals (2,373) (1,630) (124) (3,526) (5,305) (10,682) (23,640) Exchange differences 15 9 56 (488) 323 27 (58) At 31 December 2009 22,245 12,498 13,625 9,714 28,860 58,102 34,540 179,584 Net carrying amount At 31 December 2009 12,529 20,846 61,894 9,062 24,059 28,414 31,831 27,410 30,872 246,917 Capital work in progress includes a warehouse under construction in Dubai. Property, plant and equipment includes: • Vehicles with a net book value of AED 11.45 million (2009: AED 12.05 million) that have been obtained under finance leases ( note 16). • Vehicles amounting to AED 0.13 million have been pledged against bank facilities as of 31 December 2010 (2009: AED 0.1 million). 87 88 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 5. GOODWILL 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 At 1 January 853,427 805,443 Goodwill resulting from acquisition of Metrofile Middle East Limited 47,984 Goodwill resulting from acquisition of Expo Express Services 2,718 Goodwill resulting from acquisition of Avanti Worldwide Express 7,054 At 31 December 863,199 853,427 Annual impairment testing for goodwill has been carried out by the management at 31 December 2010. The impairment test is based on the “value in use” calculation. These calculations have used five year cash flow projections based on actual operating results and future expected performance. A discount rate of 12% has been used in discounting the cash flows projected. The goodwill was allocated to the following groups of cash generating units: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Express shipping 291,576 285,394 Freight forwarding 190,146 190,035 Domestic shipping 183,826 182,442 Logistics 79,075 76,980 Documents storage 109,388 109,388 Publication and distribution 9,188 9,188 863,199 853,427 Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations The calculation of the value-in-use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: • Transaction volumes these are based on budgeted performance of individual cash generating units. • Discount rates Discount rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each cash generating unit. The discount rate was estimated based on the average percentage of a weighted average cost of capital for the industry which is 12%. • Growth rate estimates – Growth rate used of 3% is based on actual operating results and future expected performance. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount. 89 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 6. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Cost At 1 January 9,276 5,433 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4,146 3,609 Additions net of amounts written off 13 234 At 31 December 13,435 9,276 Amortisation At 1 January (3,546) (2,657) Amortisation during the year (962) (889) At 31 December (4,508) (3,546) Net carrying amount at 31 December 8,927 5,730 7. AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS This item represents investment in shares of a listed company in the Dubai Financial Market. All available-for-sale financial instruments are measured using level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 8. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES The Group has a 50% interest in Aramex Mashreq for Logistics Services, 50% interest in Aramex Delmege Logiskil (PVT) LTD and 50% of Aramex Logistics LLC (newly established company), located in Egypt, Srilanka and Oman, respectively. Aramex Mashreq Logistics Services, Aramex Delmege Logistics (PVT) and Aramex Logistics LLC are private entities that are not listed in any public exchange. The following tables illustrate summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in each entity: Aramex Mashreq for Logistics Services 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Share of the joint venture’s statement of financial position: Current assets 17,755 3,106 Non-current assets 6,292 6,589 Current liabilities (6,920) (1,967) Non-current liabilities (83) Equity 17,044 7,728 Share of the joint venture’s revenue and profit: Revenue 10,826 1,309 Profit 204 182 Carrying amount of the investment 17,044 7,728 90 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 8. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES (continued) Aramex Delmege Logistics (PVT) LTD 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Share of the joint venture’s statement of financial position: Current assets 48 115 Non-current assets 5 14 Current liabilities (35) (130) Non-current liabilities (6) Equity 12 (1) Share of the joint venture’s revenue and profit: Revenue 302 88 Loss (190) (52) Carrying amount of the investment 12 44 Aramex Logistics LLC 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Share of the joint venture’s statement of financial position: Current assets 2,246 Non-current assets 3 Current liabilities (135) Non-current liabilities (5) Equity 2,109 Share of the joint venture’s revenue and profit: Revenue Loss (270) Carrying amount of the investment 2,109 91 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 9. INCOME TAX The charge for income tax on results of operations of foreign subsidiaries comprises the following: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Current tax expense 15,517 11,543 Deferred income tax (796) (72) Exchange differences 214 (30) Income tax expense for the year 14,935 11,441 Deferred tax relates to the following Provision for doubtful accounts 208 22 Depreciation (830) (805) Termination indemnities 302 341 Net operating losses carried forward 1,733 1,212 Capital allowance (306) (461) Others 128 130 1,235 439 Recognised as follows As deferred tax assets 2,530 1,476 As deferred tax liabilities (1,295) (1,037) 1,235 439 The Group’s consolidated effective tax rate for 2010 is 6.11 % (2009: 5.24%). In some countries, the tax returns for certain years have not yet been reviewed by the tax authorities. In certain tax jurisdictions, the Group has provided for its tax exposures based on the current interpretation and enforcement of the tax legislation in the jurisdiction. However, the Group’s management is satisfied that adequate provisions have been made for potential tax contingencies. 10. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Trade receivables 439,911 383,023 Less: allowance for doubtful accounts (35,883) (33,963) 404,028 349,060 92 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 10. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (continued) Geographic concentration of trade receivables as of 31 December is as follows: 2010 2009 % % Middle East and Africa 73 75 Europe 17 19 North America 2 2 Asia 8 4 As at 31 December 2010, trade receivables at nominal value of AED 35,883 thousand (2009: AED 33,963 thousand) were impaired. Movements in the allowance for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 At 1 January 33,963 25,592 Charge for the year 9,833 9,049 Relating to acquisition of a subsidiary 2,298 Unused amounts reversed (1,859) (257) Amounts written-off (6,054) (2,719) At 31 December 35,883 33,963 As at 31 December, the ageing of unimpaired trade accounts receivable was as follows: Past due but not impaired 0-60 61-90 91-180 181-365 More than 1 Total days days days days year aed’000 aed’000 aed’000 aed’000 aed’000 aed’000 2010 404,028 312,316 54,888 26,046 10,778 2009 349,060 271,385 43,427 24,424 9,824 11. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Prepaid expenses 32,955 24,453 Advances and other receivables * 64,744 62,542 97,699 86,995 * Advances and other receivables include an amount of AED 15 million (2009: AED 15 million) due from a related party in connection with employees participating in an incentive plan as at 31 December 2010 and 2009. 93 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 12. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise of the following: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Cash and short term deposits 554,739 501,862 Less: cash margin (11,334) (7,821) Less: bank overdrafts (note 19) (6,863) (8,951) 536,542 485,090 Included in cash and short term deposits are amounts totalling AED 197,975 thousand (31 December 2009: AED 165,279 thousand) held at foreign banks abroad. 13. SHARE CAPITAL 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Authorised, issued and paid up 1,464,100,000 ordinary shares of AED 1 each (2009: 1,331,000,000 ordinary shares of AED 1 each) 1,464,100 1,331,000 During the year, the Company’s share capital was increased by the issue of bonus shares to the extent of 10% of the share capital of the Company as approved by the shareholders in the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets. 14. RESERVES Statutory reserve In accordance with the Articles of Association of certain entities in the Group and Article 255 of the UAE Federal Commercial Companies Law of 1984 (as amended), a minimum of 10% of the net profit for the year of the individual entities to which the law is applicable has been transferred to a statutory reserve. Such transfers may be ceased when the statutory reserve equals half of the paid up share capital of the applicable entities. This reserve is non distributable except in certain circumstances. The consolidated statutory reserve reflects transfers made post-acquisition for subsidiary companies together with transfers made by the parent company. It does not, however, reflect the additional transfers to the consolidated statutory reserves which would be made if the retained post-acquisition profits of the subsidiaries were distributed to the parent company. 94 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 14. RESERVES (continued) Fair value reserve The reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired. Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. Reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests The reserve represents the difference between the consideration paid to acquire non-controlling interests and the carrying amount of those interests at the date of acquisition. 15. RETAINED EARNINGS Dividends The Company’s share capital was increased by the issue of bonus shares of AED 133.1 million, being 10% of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2009 as approved by the shareholders in the Company’s annual General Meeting held on 18 April 2010. During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company’s share capital was increased by the issue of bonus shares of AED 121 million, being 10% of the share capital of the Company as of 31 December 2008 as approved by the shareholders in the Company’s annual General Meeting held on 15 April 2009. Directors’ fees paid Directors’ fees of AED 1.6 million representing remuneration for attending meetings and compensation for professional services rendered by the Directors for the year 2009 were paid in 2010 (2009: AED 1.4 million representing remuneration for attending meetings and compensation for professional services rendered by the Directors for the year 2008 were paid). 95 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 16. LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Non-current Term loan 199 26 Notes payable 284 126 Finance lease obligations (a) 6,020 6,311 6,503 6,463 Current Term loan 506 778 Notes payable 170 182 Finance lease obligations (a) 6,039 6,522 6,715 7,482 (a) Finance lease obligation Future minimum annual payments under all non-cancellable finance leases are as follows: Present value of Future minimum minimum lease paylease payments Interest ments AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 Less than one year 6,761 722 6,039 Between one and five years 6,463 443 6,020 31 December 2010 13,224 1,165 12,059 Less than one year 7,400 878 6,522 Between one and five years 6,847 536 6,311 31 December 2009 14,247 1,414 12,833 Finance lease obligations are denominated in Saudi Riyals (SR), Euro, GBP, Egyptian Pound (EGP) and Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) and have maturities between 2011 and 2013. Interest rates on finance lease obligations range from 6% to 16%. 96 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 17. EMPLOYEES’ END OF SERVICE BENEFITS 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Provision as at 1 January 59,618 52,010 Provided during the year 13,002 12,471 Paid during the year (5,795) (5,511) Employees’ end of service benefits arising from acquisition of Metrofile 686 Exchange differences 133 (38) Provision as at 31 December 66,958 59,618 Actuarial gains and losses Present value of the defined benefit obligations 66,958 59,618 18. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE Trade payables mainly include payables to third party suppliers against invoices received from them for line haul, freight services, handling and delivery charges. 19. BANK OVERDRAFTS The Group maintains overdrafts and lines of credit with various banks. Aramex International Limited (AIL) has provided a corporate guarantee of AED 1.8 million to Audi Bank in Lebanon to secure the bank facilities given for the Aramex subsidiary in Lebanon. The outstanding balance of the overdrafts and lines of credit amounted to AED 848 thousand (2009: AED Nil). Two Way Group has outstanding bank overdrafts and lines of credit of AED 6.01 million as at 31 December 2010 (2009: AED 8.92 million), which are secured by a floating charge over the assets of the Two Way Group together with inter-company guarantees within the Group. Two Way Group also has an invoice discounting facility which is secured by a charge over the book debts of Two Way. 20. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Accrued expenses 208,799 186,814 Deferred revenue 12,621 10,696 Sales and other taxes 6,281 8,978 Income taxes payable 18,590 12,393 Customers’ deposits 86 199 Social security taxes payable 5,181 4,387 Others 11,842 8,971 263,400 232,438 97 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 21. REVENUE 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 International express 689,112 626,588 Freight forwarding 924,101 758,790 Domestic express 331,153 302,302 Logistics 103,764 124,485 Publications and distribution 30,035 31,745 Others* 133,831 116,876 2,211,996 1,960,786 22. COST OF SERVICES 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 International express 228,867 200,871 Freight forwarding 660,673 518,626 Domestic express 74,224 65,914 Logistics 21,236 28,884 Publications and distribution 22,807 23,065 Others 14,023 15,385 1,021,830 852,745 1 Represents revenues from other special services which the Group renders, including airline ticketing and travel, visa services and revenues from document retention business. All related costs are reflected in cost of services. 98 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 23. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Salaries and benefits 193,409 187,964 Rent 45,675 40,849 Depreciation 32,430 31,334 Communication expenses 19,959 19,499 Repairs and maintenance 10,898 11,777 Travel expenses 10,107 8,246 Allowance for impairment losses (Note 10) 7,974 8,792 Utilities 7,818 6,990 Printing and stationary 5,504 5,398 Entertainment 4,535 3,617 Vehicle running expenses 3,320 3,250 Insurance 3,328 3,112 Conference and meeting expenses 1,422 595 Sponsorship fees 1,068 1,175 Government fees and taxes 2,923 2,286 Corporate Social Responsibility 6,240 2,141 Others 54,192 53,495 410,802 390,520 24. OPERATING EXPENSES 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Salaries and benefits 294,318 274,773 Vehicle running and maintenance 57,371 52,144 Supplies 18,580 19,006 Communication expenses 5,294 4,865 Depreciation 15,311 13,503 Rent 35,145 31,316 Others 18,577 17,191 444,596 412,798 25. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES) 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Exchange gain (loss) 1,264 (1,090) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (457) (259) Miscellaneous income 2,361 1,099 3,168 (250) 99 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 26. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Certain related parties (directors, officers of the Group and companies which they control or over which they exert significant influence) were suppliers of the Company and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. Such transactions were made on substantially the same terms as with unrelated parties. Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows: Related party Total Companies controlled by the Officers directors Directors 2010 2009 AED’000 AED’000 aed’000 aed’000 aed’000 Rent expense 272 1,580 5,515 7,367 7,796 Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Compensation of the key management personnel, including executive officers, comprises the following: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Salaries and other short term benefits 23,256 21,266 End of service benefits 183 152 23,439 21,418 Significant subsidiaries of the Group include: • Aramex Amman, Jordan • Jordan Distribution Agency, Amman • Aramex India Private Limited, India • Aramex International Egypt for Air and Local services (S.A.E), Egypt • Aramex, Bahrain • Aramex Emirates LLC, Dubai • Two Way Forwarding & Logistics (Ireland) Limited • Two Way Holland BV All of the above subsidiaries are 100% owned by the Parent Company. Certain subsidiaries of the Group are controlled through shareholder agreements and accordingly consolidated in these consolidated financial statements. Balances with related parties are disclosed throughout these financial statements. 100 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 27. EARNINGS PER SHARE 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent (AED’000 ) 204,092 184,287 Weighted average number of shares during the period (shares) 1,464 million 1,464 million Basic and diluted earnings per share (AED) 0.139 0.126 Earnings per share for the current and prior periods have been adjusted for bonus shares issued. 28. OPERATING LEASES As lessee The Group leases land, office space, warehouses and transportation equipments under various operating leases, some of which are renewable annually. Rent expense related to these leases amounted to AED 80.82 million for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: AED 72.17 million). The Group believes that most operating leases will be renewed at comparable rates to the expiring leases. The approximate minimum annual rental commitments of the Group under the existing lease agreements are as follows: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Less than one year 75,261 66,571 Between one and five years 266,382 223,707 More than five years 105,254 103,042 446,897 393,320 29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into five operating segments. • International express: includes delivery of small packages across the globe to both, retail and wholesale customers. • Freight forwarding: includes forwarding of loose or consolidated freight through air, land and ocean transport, warehousing, customer clearance and break bulk services. • Domestic express: includes express delivery of small parcels and pick up and deliver shipments within the country. • Logistics: includes warehousing and its management distribution, supply chain management, inventory management as well as other value added services. • Other operations: includes catalogue shipping services, document storage, airline ticketing and travel, visa services, and publication and distribution. 101 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (continued) Management monitors the operating results of the operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The following table presents revenue and profit information regarding the Group’s operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively. International Freight Domestic express forwarding express Logistics Others Elimination Total AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 Year ended 31 December 2010 Revenue Revenue Third party 689,112 924,101 331,153 103,764 163,866 2,211,996 Inter-segment 312,005 175,410 15,129 1,318 4,244 (508,106) Total revenues 1,001,117 1,099,511 346,282 105,082 168,110 (508,106) 2,211,996 Gross profit 460,245 263,428 256,929 82,528 127,036 1,190,166 Year ended 31 December 2009 Revenue Revenue Third party 626,587 758,790 302,302 124,485 148,622 1,960,786 Inter-segment 295,436 166,204 14,253 3,476 4,690 (484,059) Total revenues 922,023 924,994 316,555 127,961 153,312 (484,059) 1,960,786 Gross profit 425,717 240,164 236,388 95,601 110,171 1,108,041 Transactions between stations are priced at agreed upon rates. All material intra group transactions have been eliminated on consolidation. The Group does not segregate assets and liabilities by business segments and, accordingly, such information is not presented. Geographical segments The business segments are managed on a worldwide basis, but operate in four principal geographical areas, Middle East and Africa, Europe, North America and Asia. In presenting information on the geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location of customers. Segments assets are based on the location of the assets. 102 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (continued) Revenues, assets and liabilities by geographical segment are as follows: 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Revenues Middle East and Africa 1,564,778 1,454,411 Europe 408,105 356,742 North America 46,878 29,124 Asia 192,235 120,509 2,211,996 1,960,786 Assets Middle East and Africa 2,072,099 1,902,897 Europe 109,432 101,123 North America 23,621 10,745 Asia 81,306 43,457 2,286,458 2,058,222 Noncurrent assets Middle East and Africa 323,467 238,842 Europe 18,034 16,392 North America 7,320 1,242 Asia 11,415 3,943 360,236 260,419 Liabilities Middle East and Africa 347,228 320,528 Europe 86,680 83,948 North America 14,968 9,984 Asia 32,006 19,964 480,882 434,424 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and investments in joint ventures. Goodwill is allocated to business segments (note 5). 30. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 2010 2009 aed’000 aed’000 Contingent liabilities Letters of guarantee 51,143 45,653 103 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 30. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued) Capital commitments As at 31 December 2010, the Group has capital commitments of AED 81.74 million (2009: AED 43.95 million) towards purchase/construction of property, plant and equipment. 31. RISK MANAGEMENT Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities (bank deposits, bank overdraft, notes payable and term loans). The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Group’s profit for one year, based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant. There is no other direct impact on the Group’s equity. Increase/ (decrease) in basis Effect on profit for the year points AED’000 2010 Variable rate instruments +100 72 Variable rate instruments -100 (72) 2009 Variable rate instruments +100 105 Variable rate instruments -100 (105) Credit risk This is the risk that other parties will fail to discharge their obligations to the Group. The Group manages credit risk with its customers by establishing credit limits for customers’ balances and also disconnects the service for customers exceeding certain limits for a certain period of time. Also, the diversity of the Group’s customer base (residential, corporate, government agencies) limits the credit risk. The Group also has a credit department that continuously monitors the credit status of the Group’s customers. The Group also deposits its cash balances with a number of major high rated financial institutions and has a policy of limiting its balances deposited with each institution. 104 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 31. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) Trade and other receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country, in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk. The Group earns its revenues from a large number of customers spread across different geographical segments. However, geographically 73 percent of the Group’s trade receivables are based in Middle East and Africa. Management has established a credit policy under which new customers are analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. Purchase limits are established for customers, who represent the maximum open amount without requiring approval from senior Group management; these limits are reviewed regularly. A significant portion of the Group’s customers have been transacting with the Group for a number of years, and losses have occurred infrequently. In monitoring customer credit risk, customers are grouped according to their credit characteristics, including whether they are an individual or legal entity, whether they are an agent, wholesaler, retailer or end-user customer, geographic location, industry, aging profile, maturity and existence of previous financial difficulties. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group currently has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses, including the servicing of financial obligations. 105 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 31. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) The table below summarises the maturities of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 December, based on contractual undiscounted payments: Less than 3 3 to 12 months months 1-2 year 2-5 years > 5 years Total AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 At 31 December 2010 Term loans 151 385 182 23 741 Notes payable 68 126 91 221 506 Finance lease obligations 1,946 4,814 4,647 1,816 13,223 Bank overdrafts 6,863 6,863 Trade and other payables 361,337 361,337 370,365 5,325 4,920 2,060 382,670 At 31 December 2009 Term loans 298 491 26 815 Notes payable 61 147 110 20 338 Finance lease obligations 2,123 5,277 4,335 2,512 14,247 Bank overdrafts 8,951 8,951 Trade and other payables 327,784 327,784 339,217 5,915 4,471 2,532 352,135 Currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group is exposed to currency risk mainly on purchases and sales that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities, primarily the United States Dollar (USD), Euro, Egyptian Pound, Sterling (GBP) and the Indian Rupee (INR). The currencies in which these transactions are primarily denominated are Euro, USD, and GBP. The Parent Company’s and a number of other Group entities’ functional currencies are either the USD or currencies that are pegged to the USD. As a significant portion of the Group’s transactions are denominated in USD, this reduces currency risk. The Group also has currency exposures on intra group transactions in the case of Group entities where the functional currency is not the USD or a currency that is not pegged to the USD. Intra Group transactions are primarily denominated in USD. The Group has recently started to hedge some of its trade payables denominated in certain foreign currencies, mainly Euros. However, a significant portion of the Group’s trade payables and all of its foreign currency receivables, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective Group entities, are subject to risks associated with currency exchange fluctuation. The Group reduces some of this currency exposure by maintaining some of its bank balances in foreign currencies in which some of its trade payables are denominated. This provides an economic hedge. 106 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 31. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the AED exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities). Changes in currency rate to AED Effect on profit before tax ٪ AED’000 2010 EUR +10 150 INR +10 1,191 GBP +10 1,384 EGP +10 (1,122) 2009 EUR +10 663 INR +10 220 GBP +10 586 EGP +10 (788) The effect of decreases in exchange rates are expected to be equal and opposite to the effects of the increases shown. Equity price risk The Group’s listed equity securities are susceptible to market price risks. The following table shows the effect of changes in year -end prices of equity securities: Changes in market year end price Effect on equity for the year ٪ AED’000 2010 Dubai financial market +5 199 Dubai financial market -5 (199) 2009 Dubai financial market +5 248 Dubai financial market -5 (248) Capital management The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. Capital comprises share capital, statutory reserve, reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interest and retained earnings, and is measured at AED 1,786,066 thousand as at 31 December 2010 (2009: AED 1,595,971 thousand). The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on 107 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 31. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) capital, which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders’ equity, excluding minority interests. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to shareholders. The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. The Group currently has minimal borrowings. In the medium to long term, the Group believes that having a debt to equity ratio of up to 50% would still enable the Group to achieve its objective of maintaining a strong capital base. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than the statutory requirements in the jurisdictions where the Group entities are incorporated. 32. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments comprise financial assets and financial liabilities. Financial assets consist of cash and bank balances, receivables, available-for-sale investments and other current assets. Financial liabilities consist of loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, trade payables and other current liabilities. The fair values of financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values. The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: • Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities • Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly • Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. The fair values of all instruments measured at fair value are determined using level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. 33. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis. Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates. At the statement of financial position date, gross trade accounts receivable were AED 439,911 thousand (2009: AED 383,023 thousand) and the provision for doubtful debts was AED 35,883 thousand (2009: AED 33,963 thousand). Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the 108 Annual Report | 2010 Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010 33. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY (continued) amounts expected will be recognised in the income statement. Useful lives of property and equipment The Group’s management determines the estimated useful lives of its property, plant and equipment for calculating depreciation. This estimate is determined after considering the expected usage of the asset or physical wear and tear. Management reviews the residual value and useful lives annually and future depreciation charge would be adjusted where the management believes the useful lives differ from previous estimates. Goodwill impairment The impairment test is based on the “value in use” calculation. These calculations have used cash flow projections based on actual operating results and future expected performance. A discount rate of 12% has been used in discounting the cash flows projected (refer to Note 5). Provision for tax The Group reviews the provision for tax on a regular basis. In determining the provision for tax, laws of particular jurisdictions (where applicable entity is registered) are taken into account. The management considers the provision for tax to be a reasonable estimate of potential tax liability after considering the applicable laws and past experience. End of service benefits In determining the appropriate discount rate, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds in the respective currency with at least AA rating, with extrapolated maturities corresponding to the expected duration of the defined benefit obligation. The underlying bonds are further reviewed for quality, and those having excessive credit spreads are removed from the population of bonds on which the discount rate is based, on the basis that they do not represent high quality bonds. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables for the related countries. Future salary increases are based on expected future inflation rates for the respective country. Useful lives of intangible assets with finite lives The Group’s management determines the estimated useful lives of its intangible assets with finite lives for calculating amortisation. This estimate is determined after considering the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset. Management reviews the amortisation period and amortisation method for an intangible with a finite life at least each financial year end and future amortisation charges will be adjusted where the management believes the useful lives differ from previous estimates. Independent Assurance 110 Annual Report | 2010 111 112 Annual Report | 2010 113
