Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 Global social responsibility investments Deutsche Bank Global challenges Our Identity With a total investment of nearly 100 million euros in 2010 – more than ever before – Deutsche Bank and its foundations were again among the world’s most active Our mission corporate citizens. We compete to be the leading global provider of financial solutions, creating lasting value for our clients, our shareholders, our people, and the communities in Share of total investments per area of activity €98.1 m. in total which we operate. Sustainability The earth’s temperature could rise by 1.7ºC to 2.4ºC by the middle of the century, according Our promise to the OECD. A development with incalculable results if Social Investments – Excellence we do not take action. Corporate Volunteering – Relevant client solutions Art & Music – Responsibility Our brand Education By 2015, all children around the world should receive a primary school education. At the end of the last Deutsche is clear: we are here to perform – in business century, the 189 member nations of the UN committed to and beyond. We do this with a unique mix of passion achieving this goal. The human right to education must and precision. This measured approach gives us the not remain a theory. confidence to enable agile minds to look beyond the obvious, gaining advantage for everyone we work with. Education Social Investments Half of the world’s population lives on less than two US dollars per day, according to the German relief organization Welthungerhilfe. Catastrophes such as floods and earthquakes plunge Regional split of total investments €98.1 m. in total millions more into poverty. Effective help is needed. and build social capital Germany Corporate Social Responsibility Art & Music Cultural diversity is a defining characteristic Europe Report 2010 of humanity, according to UNESCO. But only about Asia Pacific (incl. Japan) 10 percent of all people have regular access to cultural UK institutions and opportunities. This gap needs to be closed. Corporate Volunteering One in eight adults is a volunteer, according to the UN labor organization ILO, which calls on citizens to become active – many people and corporations already have done so. Deutsche Bank Americas 38330425 10 Core initiatives Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility The Group at a glance Key figures 2009 2010 Sustainability (see p. 24) 2008 2009 2010 Basic earnings per share1 €7.21 €3.07 Assets under management in sustainabilityDiluted earnings per share1 €6.94 €2.92 oriented funds (in € bn.) 2.8 3.1 2.8 Average shares outstanding, in m., basic1 689 753 Average shares outstanding, in m., diluted1 717 791 Environmental data (see p. 54) 2008 2009 2010 Return on average shareholders’ equity (post tax) 14.6% 5.5% Sustainability The modernization of the Group less heating energy and Pre-tax return on average shareholders’ equity 15.3% 9.5% Net GHG emissions, tonnes CO2 Water use in m³ 426,848 2,218,794 365,722 1,694,236 265,267 1,943,856 New Deutsche Bank Towers Head Office in Frankfurt in line 55 per­cent less electricity Pre-tax return on average active equity 15.1% 9.6% with the Green Building approach as well as to emit Book value per basic share outstanding2 €52.65 €52.38 Education (see p. 78) 2008 2009 2010 has the objective to consume 89 percent less CO2. Cost / income ratio3 72.0% 81.6% Total participants in education projects 108,898 274,251 337,093 74 percent less water, 67 percent See p. 52 Compensation ratio4 40.5% 44.4% Noncompensation ratio5 31.5% 37.3% Participants in projects with a cultural focus 156,703 126,095 194,943 in € m. 2009 2010 Social Investments (see p. 94) 2008 2009 2010 Total net revenues 27,952 28,567 Microfinance: estimated cumulative financing Provision for credit losses 2,630 1,274 to micro-borrowers (in US $ bn.) 1.01 1.19 1.23 Total noninterest expenses 20,120 23,318 Microfinance: number of borrowers (in m.) 2.2 2.6 2.7 Education Projects such as FairTalent in pursue an education otherwise Income (loss) before income taxes 5,202 3,975 Germany and College Ready unachievable due to their social Net income (loss) 4,958 2,330 Art & Music (see p. 110) 2008 2009 2010 FairTalent Visitors at Deutsche Guggenheim, Berlin 109,099 130,018 140,165 Communities in New York backgrounds. Participants in art education programs 9,977 17,058 23,843 in € bn. Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2010 City enable young people to See p. 82 Total assets 1,501 1,906 Participants in the education programme Shareholders’ equity 36.6 48.8 of the Berliner Philharmoniker 2,500 3,703 3,023 Core Tier 1 capital ratio6 8.7% 8.7% Tier 1 capital ratio7 12.6% 12.3% Corporate Volunteering (see p. 126) 2008 2009 2010 Deutschbankers volunteering Number Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2010 in their local communities1 27 % 27 % 32 % Branches 1,964 3,083 Deutschbankers participating in the thereof in Germany 961 2,087 bank’s volunteering programs 12 % 14 % 21 %2 Social Investments Functioning local communities its foundations, employees, Employees ( full-time equivalent ) 77,053 102,062 Matched Giving programs: Total employee Help for the disadvantaged guarantee social cohesion. and clients help people impacted thereof in Germany 27,321 49,265 donations and matching by Deutsche Bank (in € m.) 8.0 7.0 9.7 We support various initiatives. by natural catastrophes. In addition Deutsche Bank, See p. 102 Long-term rating Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2010 Stakeholder feedback 2008 2009 2010 Moody’s Investors Service Aa1 Aa3 Employee Commitment Index (see p. 61) 74 77 74 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ Perception of Deutsche Bank as a Fitch Ratings AA– AA– responsible corporate citizen Internal perception1 1  he number of average basic and diluted shares outstanding has been adjusted for all periods T Global 79 % 81 % 79 % before October 6, 2010 to reflect the effect of the bonus ­element of the subscription rights issue in Germany 79 % 82 % 81 % connection with the capital increase. External perception (B2B market) Art & Music Book value per basic share outstanding is defined as shareholders’ equity divided by the number of 2 Around 1,500 artworks of The Deutsche Bank Collection Global 44 % 44 % 53 % basic shares outstanding (both at period end). Germany 36 % 71 % 78 % Art in the Towers 100 artists from more than is among the world’s most 3 Total noninterest expenses as a percentage of total net interest income before provision for credit losses plus noninterest income. 40 countries are on display important corporate art 4 Compensation and benefits as a percentage of total net interest income before provision for credit CSR investments 2008 2009 2010 at our Group Head Office in collections and is today as losses plus noninterest income. Total investments (in € m.) 82.3 81.1 98.13 Frankfurt am Main, welcoming global as the bank itself. 5 Noncompensation noninterest expenses which is defined as total noninterest expenses less compensation and benefits, as a percentage of total net ­interest ­income before provision for credit Cover: viewers to a discovery tour of See p. 118 losses plus noninterest income. 1 Representative internal online survey 2 Change of data collection method Fahd Ndanghwa (14) is among contemporary art. 6 The capital ratios relate the respective capital to risk-weighted assets for credit, market and 3 Due to increased support for Education & Science the top students of London’s operational risk. Excludes transitional items pursuant to ­section ­6 4h (3) German Banking Act. and outstanding commitment to disaster relief efforts inner city Battersea Park School. 7 The Tier 1 capital ratio relates Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets for credit, market and opertational risk. The Tier 1 capital ratio excludes transitional items ­pursuant to Section 64h (3) Deutsche Bank has been working German Banking Act. with the school since 2007, when it launched the Reach Higher program Corporate Volunteering With Team Challenges, In 2010, 3,400 employees in partnership with Outward Bound, employees devote one day to a participated in about 200 Team an educational charity that uses Team Challenges outdoor experiences and challenges non-profit initiative in their region, Challenges in Germany only. to help and develop young people. ranging from social projects to See p. 137 environmental organizations. “Deutsche Bank’s motto is ‘Passion to Perform’. For us, performance includes demonstrating social responsibility. We view it as an integral part of our work.” Dr. Josef Ackermann Building social capital Responsibility today Deutsche Bank regards corporate social responsibility (CSR) as an investment in society and in its own future. We consider our topmost social responsibility to be internationally competitive, to earn commensurate profits, and to grow as a company. Our second priority as a good corporate citizen is to earn money in a manner that is both socially and ecologically responsible. The third and most visible part of CSR is our support for socially beneficial activities. Commitment to society Our educational programs enable talent, our social investments create opportunities. Our involvement in art & music fosters creativity, and our commitment to sustainability ensures long-term viability. With their corporate volunteering activities, people at Deutsche Bank commit themselves personally. As a responsible corporate citizen, Deutsche‘s objective is to build social capital. Editorial Investment in our own future The global financial and economic crisis has fuelled doubts employer of more than 100,000 people in 74 countries; and last in many people whether the quest for profits and ethical but not least, as a tax payer and supporter of special projects principles, whether markets and morals are compatible. This for the common good. loss of trust harms not only enterprises and their managers but all of us. At the same time, as a good corporate citizen, we need to ensure that we work in a socially and ecologically responsible For this reason, in the past year, Deutsche Bank, together with manner. No amount of profit is worth risking the good a number of other German enterprises, developed and signed reputation and credibility of Deutsche Bank. That is why a “Code of Responsible Conduct.” With this code, we commit corporate social responsibility must be an integral part of to successas well as value-driven corporate management. the way we do business. It must be firmly embedded in our It underscores our clear responsibilities. Companies do not corporate strategy and business processes. Corporate social operate in a vacuum; they are a part of the society in which responsibility must be part of our DNA. For us, corporate social responsibility also means operating The following report gives you an overview of our extensive they operate. Banks, in particular, require people’s trust. sustainably and not jeopardizing the future of our planet. An corporate social responsibility program. I recommend you In the past year, we invested nearly 100 million euros – more outstanding example of this is the modernization of our Group to read it and see for yourself that Deutsche Bank stands for Deutsche Bank’s motto is “Passion to Perform.” Performance, than ever before – in global projects in the areas of education, Head Office in Frankfurt am Main. It is now one of the most more than money – much more. for us, includes demonstrating social responsibility. As a sustainability, social investments, art and music. This is the environmentally-friendly high-rises in the world. leading global bank, we are aware that we have a special third part of our corporate social responsibility. Despite difficult responsibility. And it is in our own interest to live up to that times, we significantly increased our commitment compared A growing number of Deutsche Bank employees personally responsibility: The more stable the societies in which we to previous years. We view this investment in society as an commit themselves to promoting the common good. In operate, the better our chances of success. Therefore, we view investment in our own future. 2010, more than 17,000 employees were active in over corporate social responsibility (CSR) as an integral part of our 3,200 projects around the world– as mentors, advisers to Yours sincerely, work – of mutual benefit both to us and to society as a whole. To promote talent is a key focus of our CSR investments. We non-profit organizations, or as participants in community consider education as crucial in ensuring the future of our days, thereby demonstrating their “Passion to Perform” and The foremost social responsibility for us is to be internationally societies and are committed to giving everyone a fair chance building social capital. competitive and to earn commensurate profits. Only in this in life, an essential requisite for peace and social stability. way can we serve the interests of our clients, shareholders and Through numerous initiatives, particularly the new FairTalent What passion to perform can achieve when it is passed on employees and create long-term value for all our stakeholders. program, we help talented young people achieve goals is the leitmotif of our new brand campaign “pass on your Dr. Josef Ackermann We do so in many ways: as a provider of attractive products otherwise unattainable for them, often due to their social passion.” With this initiative, we aim to inspire others with Chairman of the Management Board and services; as a reliable partner for our clients; as an background. our passion to perform and invite them to join in. and the Group Executive Committee 2 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 3 Content 01 Dialog 02 03 Education 78 Dr. Josef Ackermann on corporate social 02 Aiming high – Christopher Nguyen 82 responsibility at Deutsche Bank Equality of opportunity 86 Highlights, people, key facts 2010 06 Cultural education 88 What passion to perform can achieve... 12 Promotion of science and international dialog 90 A commitment to microfinance 14 Education: 2010 in review 92 Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award 18 04 Social Investments 94 02 Sustainability 24 18 Dialog: Asamblea Comunitaria de Miravalle 28 Sustainability: Mark Fulton Active for women and children – Chennupati Vidya 98 Social support in the megacity: The Miravalle community on Climate investments: Fulton and his team are the Ensuring viability – Mark Fulton 28 Help for the disadvantaged 102 the edge of Mexico City received the Deutsche Bank Urban interface of scientific knowledge, social and policy debate, Sustainability management system 33 Community development 104 Age Award 2010 of the Alfred Herrhausen Society. and investment activities around climate change. Dialog with our stakeholders 34 Microfinance and social venture funds 105 Sustainability: 2010 in review 36 Social Investments: 2010 in review 108 I. Deutsche Bank as a financial partner 38 Private & Business Clients 39 05 Art & Music 110 Private Wealth Management 42 When borders connect – Yto Barrada 114 Asset Management 43 Art works 118 Corporate clients and capital markets 46 Experiencing music 121 Discovering talents 122 II. Environmental issues 49 Art & Music: 2010 in review 124 Deutsche Bank’s climate strategy 50 Financial Intermediary 51 Eco-Efficiency Manager 52 06 Corporate Volunteering 126 Climate Ambassador 58 Strengthening leadership – Alex Manson 130 III. Social issues 60 Sharing experience 136 Deutsche Bank as an employer 61 Practical, hands-on support 137 Health and safety in the workplace 67 Corporate Volunteering: 2010 in review 140 82 Education: Christopher Nguyen 98 Social Investments: Chennupati Vidya Equality of opportunities: Thirteen-year-old Christopher is one Life’s work: For 42 years, Vidya has been committed to Human and labor rights 68 of the first scholars of the FairTalent program for talented and improving the lives of women and girls in India with her 07 Supplementary information 142 socially committed students from disadvantaged backgrounds. relief organization Vasavya Mahila Mandali. IV. Governance issues 69 Communication with national and 70 Deutsche Bank: Corporate profile 143 international institutions Deutsche Bank’s CSR units and foundations 144 Corporate governance 71 External statements 146 Compliance and anti-money-laundering 72 Deutsche Bank awards 2010/2011 (selection) 148 Corporate Security and Business Continuity 73 About this report 149 Data protection 74 GRI Index 150 Risk management 75 Imprint/publications 152 Directions for using the QR codes in the report 114 Art & Music: Yto Barrada 130 Corporate Volunteering: Alex Manson 1. Download QR code reader 2. Scan the QR code 3. View film Borders: They are the leitmotif for the work of the Strengthening leadership: Alex Manson, Managing Director Reader E. g. Scan for iPhones Start reader, hold The content is shown 39-year-old Moroccan Barrada, who is Deutsche Bank’s at Deutsche Bank in London, coaches the chief executive of or BeeTagg for other device over the after the QR code More than money: Artist of the Year 2011. the non-profit Street League organization. devices QR code, and scan has been scanned Building social capital Corporate Social Responsibility Highlights 2010 05 06 07 01 04 08 11 09 02 03 10 12 01 Community development 02 Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award 03 Reconstructions programs 07 FairTalent 08 Bocconi University 09 Artist of the Year New York Mexico City Haiti Germany Milan Tangier For nearly 20 years, the U.S. government awarded The winner of the Deutsche Bank Urban Age For the victims of the Haiti earthquake, Deutsche Bank, The FairTalent education program began with 150 The new partnership with the Bocconi University Yto Barrada from the Moroccan port city of Deutsche Bank the rating “outstanding” for its Award 2010 is Mexico City’s Asamblea Comunitaria its clients, employees and foundations donated scholars in the second half of 2010. The program signals Deutsche Bank’s ongoing commitment to Tangier was selected as Deutsche Bank’s Artist commitment to disadvantaged communities. de Miravalle. The award from the Alfred Herrhausen 5.8 million US dollars – 2 million for immediate relief enables talented and motivated students from the promotion of science. The cooperation includes of the Year 2011. Her works will also be featured Among the new projects is a housing and Society encourages people to accept responsibility efforts and the rest for long-term reconstructions disadvantaged backgrounds to receive an education scholarships and seminars. See p. 90 at the Deutsche Guggenheim this year. See p. 114 revitalization program in New York. See p. 104 for their cities. See p. 18 programs. See p. 103 and achieve their full potential. See p. 82 04 Code of Responsible Conduct 05 Charity of the Year 06 New Deutsche Bank-Towers 10 Huong Duong Education Center 11 V-Net 12 From Mahler’s time for Business United Kingdom/Ghana Frankfurt am Main Ho-Chi-Minh City Japan Sydney Together with 20 other companies, Deutsche Employees of Deutsche Bank in the United After three years of a complete modernization, 2,900 20 percent of Deutsche Bank Vietnam employees Launched in 2008, the V-Net network of In the lobby of the Opera House, Australian students Bank developed this code of practice. The code Kingdom raised 1.7 million pounds sterling for employees moved back into the Group Head Office. participated in building and operating this center, Deutsche Bank employees in Japan has significantly performed the musical production From Mahler’s requires a commitment to a successand valueAfriKids and the Marine Conservation Society – The CO2 emissions now amount to just 0.4 tons per that offers orphans and physically or mentally expanded its volunteer activities. Volunteer time, together with the Berliner Philharmoniker. The driven corporate management in line with the a new record for the Charity of the Year initiative. employee per year, 89 percent less than before the challenged children a home and education. participation has increased by 56 percent since orchestra toured Australia and presented its education social market economy. See p. 02 See p. 138 renovation. See p. 52 See p. 102 the network’s launch. See p. 138 programme there for the first time. See p. 121 6 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Touching lives around the world 2010 19 female employees 100 scholars entered the ATLAS program in 2009, which aims of Deutsche Bank Foundation’s START program to increase the share of women in top management for talented children from immigrant families positions. Ten more female candidates were accepted were introduced to classical music in opernSTART into the program of Deutsche Bank in 2010. workshops. 600 volunteers from Deutsche’s Private Wealth Management have been actively involved since 2009 in schools, kindergartens, and consulting centers according to 1,258 students and teachers the motto “People with Responsibility.” benefited from educational programs sup­por­ted by Deutsche Bank Africa 1,700 children Foundation. of Chinese migrant workers benefited from mobile schools, which were established in Beijing with support from Deutsche Bank. 3,600 new housing units were generated for low-income households within Deutsche’s Community Development 4,725 participants program in the United States. visited 315 workshops of the Transatlantic Outreach Program that Deutsche Bank supports – 52 percent more than in the previous year. 14,250 young people participated in Playing Shakespeare with Deutsche Bank. This program of the Shakespeare Globe Theatre introduces 15,000 classical music lovers school students to the works of Shakespeare through specially from around the world experienced the opening conceived performances and workshops. season concert of the Berliner Philharmoniker – per live video stream in the Digital Concert Hall, enabled by Deutsche Bank. 75,000 art fans visited the exhibition Beuys and Beyond in Buenos Aires over a period of just eight weeks to see works 140,000 visitors from Joseph Beuys and six of his students that are toured Deutsche Guggenheim, a cooperation part of the Deutsche Bank Collection. between Deutsche Bank and Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation – a new record for Berlin’s most successful private art museum. 8 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Report2010 Responsibility– –Bericht Verantwortung Corporate Social 2010 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Selected key facts 2010 137 137 million US dollars is the volume of the seven Deutsche Bank investment funds which are dedicated to microfinance. 26 26 hours was the duration of the longest flight of a solar airplane from July 7 to 8. The pilot, André Borschberg, completed the first-ever night flight of Solar Impulse, supported by Deutsche Bank. 14.5 95 14.5 million US dollars is the size of the Eye Fund launched by Deutsche Bank, which supports eye clinics in poor regions worldwide. 95 percent of the more than 56,000 artworks in the Deutsche Bank Collection are accessible to the public. The collection focuses on young, international contemporary artworks. 3,064 2.4 3,064 seminars for employee development were offered on our internal electronic training platform. 2.4 billion euros is the volume of projects in the area of renewable energies that were concluded with Deutsche’s product area Asset Finance and Leasing in 2010. 3,200 98.1 3,200 volunteering projects were supported by Deutsche Bank employees around the world. 98.1 million euros is the total investment that Deutsche Bank made in the area of corporate social responsibility – more than ever before. 35.4 6 35.4 million euros is the total investment that Deutsche Bank made in the area of education – the share of education projects in total investments rose from 29 to 36 percent. 6 million low-energy lights were financed by an emissions-trading project that Deutsche Bank introduced together with the Ecuadorian government in 2010. The lights will be distributed to 1.5 million households whose residents live below 14001 ISO 14001 is the international environmental standard. In 2010, Deutsche Bank in Tokyo and Milan received ISO 14001 certification. the poverty level. 10 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 11 01 Dialog: pass on your passion What passion to perform can achieve ... … when it is passed on – in business and beyond. Passionate performers connect and are connected. Passionate performers This is what corporate social responsibility (CSR) is In 2010, we extended the scope of our CSR all about when it comes from Deutsche Bank. And communication efforts, relaunched a news-driven not only engage this is how our involvement in society is directly CSR portal, and implemented targeted campaigns themselves, but linked to the DNA of our brand. At Deutsche, we to spread the news on key CSR projects. For the also others – shared have always regarded our CSR initiatives as an first time ever, we initiated a “more than money” investment in society and in our future. That’s why campaign in print and online channels – including passion, shared we believe in passing on our passion – to really make the social media. It generated considerable public purpose. a difference. awareness: within just three weeks, more than 45 million page views and more than 140,000 clicks Deutsche is the place for passionate performers – on Deutsche’s CSR websites were registered. that’s why to us, “Passion to Perform” is more than just a claim – it is the way we do business and As a responsible corporate citizen, our objective is involve ourselves in the communities in which we to build social capital – everywhere we operate. operate. The most visible part of our CSR program is our support for socially beneficial activities Take corporate volunteering: Volunteering is one of across education, social investments, art & music, the most personal, fulfilling ways passion can make volunteering, and sustainability. Across all these a difference. It’s a chance to pass on the benefits of initiatives, you can see that there is simply no your knowledge and experience, learn new skills, performance without passion. And: passion belongs and gain new perspectives as well. One in five of to everyone, everywhere. By nature, passionate Deutsche’s employees bankwide dedicates time, performers pass on what they are passionate about. knowledge, and expertise to others in the local community. Passionate performers are ready for a globalizing world where people engage in a greater number Take education: By supporting a broad range of of relationships, in a greater variety of forms, and education projects we offer multiple routes to with greater intensities than ever before. They help young people around the world unlock their are ready for a world which is diverse, complex, potential. Globally, we invest more than a third of interconnected, and characterized by fast-changing our support in educational programs. contexts. Passionate performers not only engage themselves, but also others – shared passion, shared Take art & music: We make them accessible to all. purpose. At Deutsche Bank we believe that creativity is the source of innovation, progress, and prosperity – in art, in music, in business, and in the society at large. See in Deutsche’s new CSR Report what passion As a responsible corporate to perform can achieve when it is passed on – in citizen, our objective is business and beyond. to build social capital – everywhere we operate. That’s why we believe in passing on our passion – to really make a difference. The author of this article Christofer Habig, Global Head of Brand Communications & Corporate Citizenship 12 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 13 01 Dialog: Microfinance A commitment to microfinance Deutsche Bank’s philosophy of engagement in microfinance Deutsche Bank has always championed a moderate view of Investor, innovator, thought leader social investing that recognizes its dual purpose. Success in achieving the objectives of social investment in microfinance is driven neither solely by commercial nor philanthropic intentions but by a hybrid business approach that seeks both financial and Deutsche Bank was the first global bank to create a microfinance fund in 1997, social value. Microfinance is mutually dependent on both, like a when microfinance was beginning to prove its profound global significance in strand of DNA. serving the needs of the poor. Since that time, Deutsche Bank has been part of Since 1997, Deutsche Bank has consistently worked to develop the microfinance industry’s trajectory from the early years of rapid growth and the microfinance industry through a strategy of innovation and universal accolades to the current period of soul-searching and unprecedented the creation of double bottom-line funds that have attracted new institutional investors to the sector. criticism (see p. 105 et seqq.) Microloan start-up: Deutsche Bank Microfinance Funds merchant at a farmers’ market Deutsche Bank currently manages 137 million US dollars in outstanding microfinance loans. Current value of loans outstanding by fund (million US dollars, percent) Today, Deutsche Bank has emerged as an industry leader by pioneering the first microfinance investment fund for institutional investors, structuring the first rated global US $4.2 m. 3 % US $10.1 m. 7 % subordinated debt fund, and establishing a vehicle to support Netri Foundation Subadvisory Global Commercial Microfinance Consortium early-stage microfinance institutions (MFIs) working in US $0.5 m. < 1 % US $2.1 m. 2 % the most challenging geographies. While these financial Start-up Fund Deutsche Bank Microcredit innovations have had an enormous impact on advancing Development Fund What are capital access opportunities for the sector, Deutsche Bank has US $16.5 m. 12 % microfinance been equally committed to ensuring that the industry works Banque de Luxembourg institutions? to meet the needs of the poor as the ultimate beneficiary of its Subadvisory There are an estimated efforts. This commitment has led Deutsche Bank to play an 10,000 microfinance US $20.6 m. 15 % % institutions (MFIs) important role as a thought leader and advocate in mobilizing FINCA worldwide. Most MFIs are key players to support critical efforts such as client protection Microfinance Fund very small, however, with US $83 m. 61 % approximately 300 of the and transparency and in working to ensure that the industry vg Microfinance Invest largest MFIs representing remains mission-focused. the vast majority of global microfinance assets. While most MFIs are non-profit The call to action: Why microfinance? organizations, they are increasingly developing With more than half of the world’s population living on less into for-profit businesses than two US dollars a day, there is an urgent need to alleviate that may take the form of specialized finance poverty. While it is not a panacea, microfinance offers a The current crisis in microfinance and companies or depositbusiness approach to help ease some of the problems and Deutsche Bank’s commitment to the industry taking commercial banks. These transformations difficulties of the poor, by providing access to financial Over the past decade, the microfinance industry grew rapidly allow for the ability to services, mainly credit and savings. Granting very small loans and gained broad recognition for its approach to addressing offer a wider variety of services and access to (microloans) to poor and low-income entrepreneurs – who global poverty. However, rapid growth has also resulted in more sources of funding. cannot access funding from traditional financial institutions due growing pains, which have radiated from certain markets Typical MFIs offer loans, some offer savings, and to a lack of collateral or credit history – enables borrowers to that have experienced aggressive commercialization. In these more and more are moving generate supplemental income to help cover necessities such markets, the unfettered pursuit of profits has resulted in very into insurance and other financial services, such as regular meals and a child’s education. rapid growth using highly standardized products with little as remittances. regard for the real needs of the client. Unsurprisingly, client Microfinance loans In addition to supporting income generation, microfinance helps service has suffered, causing critics to raise questions about the usually start at just below 100 US dollars poor people to manage their cash flows, which can fluctuate viability of microfinance. and can, over time, wildly with unpredictable income sources and unanticipated reach several times this amount, depending on crises such as natural disasters, illness, and death. Microfinance These instances of client neglect and abuse have resulted the geography of the also provides a platform for other development interventions. in a wide swing in public opinion, with microfinance no institution; loan sizes tend to be larger in Eastern With their broad distribution networks, MFIs serve as conduits longer enjoying the halo of saintliness and instead being Europe than in Asia, for to reach the poor with services including financial literacy characterized as a villain in the lives of the poor. Critics example. Typically, the minimum loan term to education, health care, and insurance. of microfinance have suggested that it exploits the poor microfinance clients is by charging high rates, by over-indebting clients, and by six months, and the maximum loan term is By most industry estimates, less than 20 percent of the demand employing coercive collection techniques. Others have three years. for microcredit from the world’s poor entrepreneurs is being charged that microfinance’s positive social impact has been met, which leaves an opportunity for social investors with overstated. These criticisms, while perhaps exaggerated by financial expertise like Deutsche Bank to make an impact on the media, also hold kernels of truth that the industry must the lives of millions by developing funding structures to channel address. Deutsche Bank believes in the value of microfinance capital to those communities not currently served. in improving the lives of the poor and believes that in the long 14 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 15 01 Dialog: Microfinance run, the current crisis will help create a stronger industry by While there is some justification for the high rates charged spurring reforms and encouraging better client service. by microfinance providers, Deutsche Bank believes that pricing must be transparent both to the customer and to the Does microfinance have a strong social impact? public in general to encourage accountability. To this end, The first impact studies of microfinance programs, published Deutsche Bank has developed and shared with the industry in the 1990s, showed a strong positive connection between its own methodology for standardizing effective interest rate access to microfinance and poverty alleviation. However, calculations, and it has also been an early supporter of the recent studies carried out on a randomized control trial basis non-profit organization Microfinance Transparency, which have produced less conclusive results, throwing doubt on the provides country-specific listings of effective interest rates strength of microfinance’s social impact. The resulting media charged by MFIs. coverage has seized on the headline that microfinance does not have any impact on poverty alleviation. In reality, though, In addition to interest rate criticism, recent accusations of the new studies each revealed inconsistent but often beneficial harm have highlighted the aggressive collection practices and effects on the lives of the poor. The studies’ authors also inadequate underwriting standards of some MFIs in specific each argued for future research on the subject, recognizing markets, most notably India. In their drive for rapid growth weaknesses in their own studies related to the relatively short and profits, some Indian MFIs have adopted a zero-tolerance time period that they analyze. policy toward delinquencies that has encouraged unethical collection practices. Also in India, the quest for growth Exporters: farmers in rural Uganda Responding to this need for greater efforts to study the longhas encouraged lending without proper attention to the term social impact of microfinance, Deutsche Bank organized borrowers’ needs or capacity to repay, causing some of these the Microfinance Impact and Innovation Conference in 2010 clients to take multiple loans, become overindebted, and in the with Moody’s, New York University, MIT, and Yale. The goal most severe cases, take their own lives in despair. While these was to bring together practitioners and academics to share stories from India are extreme cases, they draw attention to Stories from the field One of the key initiatives of the Pocantico Declaration was the Smart Campaign knowledge on research issues and to generate new ideas for the need for an enforced code of conduct among MFIs. Khalide in rural Azerbaijan Smart Campaign, which established a code of conduct for MFIs client protection microfinance products and study. regarding ethical collection methods, overindebtedness, and principles Although multiple borrowing is fairly common, there is limited transparency of pricing. Deutsche Bank played a role in the 1. Avoidance of overindebtedness Does microfinance have a detrimental hard data as to the severity of overindebtedness, and the founding of the Smart Campaign and provided early financial 2. Transparent and effect on its end-borrowers? problem has not yet manifested itself in decreased portfolio support and expertise. It remains committed to working with responsible pricing One pronounced criticism of microfinance is that it exploits quality around the world. There are several markets that have MFIs that display the highest standards according to the criteria 3. Appropriate collection its clients by charging high interest rates. Historically, interest faced over-indebtedness crises, in addition to parts of India, set by the Smart Campaign. The Smart Campaign is now practices rates in microfinance have indeed been high, ranging from such as Bosnia and Morocco, but so far it remains a contained developing a certification process for MFIs similar to the Fair 4. Ethical staff behavior 30 percent to 100 percent in some regions to allow MFIs to risk. However, this risk has the potential to spread if corrective Trade certification. 5. Mechanisms for redress of grievances cover the high costs of making very small loans in remote action is not taken. 6. Privacy of client data areas. These high rates are accepted in the industry so that The way forward MFIs can be profitable and therefore sustainable. As a point In order to encourage public discussion of sensitive issues, The recognition of and response by microfinance leaders to the of comparison, the alternatives offered by money lenders can in the fall of 2010 Deutsche Bank organized a meeting Khalide lives in rural Azerbaijan with her current reputational risks and to the potential loss of public trust carry rates of interest as high as 3,650 percent per annum of in-country networks, university professors, rating husband and children in a settlement are evidence of a maturing industry. The Pocantico Declaration, constructed for internally displaced persons because they charge a daily interest rate of 10 percent. agencies, and leading thinkers to discuss the problems (IDPs) who fled their homes during civil unrest the Microfinance Transparency initiative, the Smart Campaign facing the microfinance industry, particularly the risk of and ethnic violence in the late 1980s. While and its MFI certification system are all manifestations of this overindebtedness. One of the key conclusions was that more Khalide and her family receive a small IDP new awareness. In most of these efforts, Deutsche Bank has hard analysis and empirical data is needed to determine the allowance from the government, it is not enough played a pivotal role in guiding the industry toward greater to provide for the family, and there are few jobs level of overindebtedness and the associated risks. Deutsche available for the poor in rural Azerbaijan. In order operating transparency and improved customer service. Most Textile entrepreneurs: Bank is working with these parties to develop a cost-effective to start a small animal husbandry business to recently, Deutsche Bank gathered the leading CEOs of the More information about our microfinance successful as a team survey that will produce this data. In addition, Deutsche Bank support her children, Khalide sought her first major microfinance networks to act collectively to defend activities is examining a project to educate microfinance networks and loan from a microfinance institution to buy three and improve the industry. At this meeting in Tarrytown, calves. institutions on how to counsel those who have borrowed New York, nine of the major microfinance network leaders beyond their capacity. In Khalide’s words: “The credit helped us to rise reached a consensus to form a council of CEOs to support up from poverty when we were having hard the implementation of the Smart Campaign, Microfinance As early as 2007, Deutsche Bank anticipated the risks that times and when our children were still too small Transparency, and social performance metrics. The authors to work and make money. Things got easier aggressive commercialization might bring and organized a when our elder sons grew up and we helped of this article group of industry leaders for a lengthy brainstorming session them to launch their own businesses, again with The microfinance industry, which is still at a very young stage Gary Hattem, on the challenges and opportunities facing microfinance. the help of business loans from the microfinance despite its recent growth, requires a multitiered approach for Americas Head of institution. We bought an old tractor and Corporate Citizenship, This group produced the Pocantico Declaration, which has improvement. Deutsche Bank continues to believe in the value Deutsche Bank water carrier truck for them. Though nobody played an important part in bringing more focus to the mission is educated in our family, I am glad that my of microfinance and remains committed to being among those Asad Mahmood, of microfinance and placing greater attention to serving its daughter, who is now 15, shows a deep interest leaders who will strive to overcome poverty by helping the Community poorest clients. in entering a high school. With the increased microfinance industry rise above its challenges, refocus on its Development Finance income, we were able to hire tutors for her.” customers, and maintain its original social goals. Group, Deutsche Bank 16 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 17 Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award How is your life? “You live the way you live and try to be happy,” says Maria Antonietta Gallego, a small, round, and No one ever thought that “We brought the village to the city” lively woman in a blue apron with a bag full of empty plastic containers. The Comedor has just opened, and a long line forms we would achieve what we behind Maria on the steps. “Sometimes you have enough, and sometimes you have to tell your stomach ‘don’t get so achieved. Asamblea Comunitaria de Miravalle is the winner of the Deutsche Bank worked up – you have the day off’,” Maria says and laughs. And Galinda Macero Castrejon, cook in Miravalle everyone around her laughs because she happily explains her Urban Age Award 2010. The journalist Gerhard Waldherr visited the situation and everyone can relate to what she says. community near Mexico City. Maria has six children and no work. Long ago, her husband from work and has little, if any, time for the family. Young left for another woman. The oldest daughter is also a single people form gangs ruled by drugs, violence, and crime. Girls parent. A son became a father at the age of 16 and married. become pregnant as teenagers. Most people have a poor diet All of them live together: the children, the daughter-in-law, the and respiratory issues, suffer from diabetes and high blood grandchildren – 10 people altogether. How do they manage? pressure, and die early. Maria doesn’t know herself but they do somehow. “Of course, I don’t laugh every day,” she says. “Otherwise, people would “A feeling of constant fragility prevails in Mexico City,” says think I’m crazy, but I try not to let everything prevent me from Castillo. “But that is only part of the truth. The city also has a enjoying life either.” very active population. The inhabitants are independent and full of vitality; they make bold decisions every day to improve It’s Friday, and the Comedor is serving tomato soup, beans, their lives.” In Miravalle, Castrejon notes, “we leave our homes rice, tuna fish with onions, and torta de pollo. The community to fight for the community.” Indeed, while the colonia may kitchen is the heart of Miravalle, a “colonia” on the outer symbolize Mexico City’s urban development over the past periphery of Mexico City at the foothills of the Guadeloup 50 years, it is also a symbol for solving problems. volcano. Miravalle consists of rambling homes made of cement and bricks. Many of them are still unplastered, but as many have well-maintained, brightly painted facades. More than 12,000 people live here between steep roads full of nooks and crannies – people like Maria who came 21 years ago or Galinda Macero Castrejon, a cook in the Comedor, who has lived here for 28 years. “When we came, there was no electricity, no running water, no paved streets, no public transportation,” Children in Miravalle’s Centro Educativo Galinda remembers. “We had to fight hard for everything.” There are 290 colonias in Mexico City. Most of them have a similar history and development: People come from the country in search of work or from the city to live in their own four walls. They go where property is cheap and build shacks or houses. Some of them later extend their shacks or add a floor to their homes. They build, add on, and expand. Planning doesn’t exist; everything is totally arbitrary, unorthodox. The colonias have spread uncontrolled into the valley of Mexico City, like stew from a tipped kettle. The official definition is “informal city development.” As such, Mexico City has become the quintessential city of the 21st century, the first urban century in history. Since 2008, more people in the world live in cities than they do in rural areas. Mexico City has more than 20 million inhabitants, with 60 percent of them living in unplanned suburbs and colonias, and more than four million cars. The city is the largest transportation junction in Latin America, notorious for its endless traffic jams and smog. Even from the air, people can’t see from one end of the city to the other. “In Mexico City,” says the architect and city planner José Castillo, “we have a chauvinistic attitude toward catastrophe – we, the world’s biggest, dirtiest and most dangerous city.” That may sound more dramatic than it is, Castillo is quick to add. He doesn’t dispute the many problems brewing in the colonias. Every third inhabitant, for instance, lives in poverty. Whoever has a job typically needs hours to commute to and 18 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 19 01 Dialog: Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award People need more than just a roof over their heads Jorge Carbajal, brother of the Maristen Order in Miravalle For the Alfred Herrhausen Society (AHS), which researches the future of cities with its Urban Age project, Mexico City serves as an excellent case study. In 2006, the second Urban Age conference organized by AHS took place in the city. In 2008, the society brought the exhibition of a researcher collective to Berlin: Citámbulos: Journey to the Mexican Megalopolis. And in 2009, the Urban Age Symposium took place in Mexico City, attended by Mayor Marcelo Ebrard who is an ardent supporter of AHS efforts. Ebrard was also present when the 4th Deutsche Bank Urban Award was awarded to Asamblea Cactus garden: aloe vera and cactus pear are grown Comunitaria de Miravalle on July 22, 2010. Asamblea Comunitaria is a consortium of 15 organizations that work independently but regularly meet to approve initiatives and guidelines. The organizations, for instance, take credit for equipping the Comedor where about 200 warm meals are served daily for 10 pesos (about 55 euro cents). They have also established two kindergartens, a library, and a health center as well as a vegetable garden and waste recycling plant. Moreover, they organize dance, music, and art courses for Food counter in the Comedor, Miravalle’s community kitchen Betsabée Romero, a juror in the Urban Age Award in her studio young people, a parents’ association for school issues, an office local politicians, debated with them, voiced their demands, her parents moved to Miravalle. “Back then, there were gang for political issues, and a commission for human rights called sought support for public and private funding, and worked conflicts, robberies, and murders,” she recalls. “Now we have Cultivamos Juntos. This name expresses what these different together to build community centers, waste sites, and cultural activities. People here have a completely different initiatives are all about: shaping the future together. organized events. Most of the Miravalle inhabitants, according outlook on life.” to Carbajal, come from small, rural villages. “In Mexico, there “It’s always about problems and solutions and about the is something in the country called ‘Faena‘,” he says. “It’s a Everyone says that in Miravalle. So what changed? transformation into a modern city, whether it’s Mexico City or community service that everyone is expected to do and it’s “Everything!” says Gallego, the amusing survivalist. “Simply Mumbai, Johannesburg, or Berlin,” says Castillo, who served something we established here. This is what has brought the everything!” Even if some of the community’s goals have yet as chairman of the jury for the Urban Age Award 2010. “Of the spirit of a village to the big city.” to be achieved. Since 1997 Miravalle has electricity, paved 193 applicants, Miravalle had the most comprehensive program streets, and running water – although the water is supplied only and the most deeply rooted social development. It is certainly On main street, the Calle Nacional, we meet Oscar Perez. The sporadically twice a week for a couple of hours. Gallego wishes no Italian piazza but it is as close to being an Italian piazza as it 27-year-old attended the Maristas school. “What impressed there were more jobs. Castrejon, the cook at the Comedor, can possibly be in a globalized Latin-American metropolis.” me the most as a young student was the solidarity and grace wishes “people had more money to make their homes look we were shown,” he remembers. Now Perez advises young even prettier.” But Castrejon admits that no one “ever thought Casa de Todos, or “House for Everyone,” is directly below the people himself. He established Foro la Bomba, an initiative that that we would ever achieve what we achieved.” Comedor. Jorge Carbajal, 48, sits at a rustic table and explains organizes acrobatic and juggling games every Saturday. “Kids how everything began. Miravalle arose in 1985, following the need space to develop personally,” Perez says. “We don’t just The sick can go to the health center to be treated for 20 pesos. disastrous earthquakes in Mexico City when many people fled give them a house and some instruments and then tell them to Medication is free. In the library, children receive help with their the city in search of a new place to live. In 1988 brothers of the ‘play music.’ They have to take care of the house before they homework, and teenagers take computer courses. “People order Congregación de los Hermanos Maristas came to build can begin.” need more than just a roof over their heads,” Carbajal says. a school. The Maristas run 70 schools in Mexico, six of them “They need social support and an economy that gives them in Mexico City, with their teachers committed to the further On our walk along the Calle Nacional, we pass by a vegetable stability and, ideally, the opportunity to earn an income.” In development of their communities. “We informed people of stand, supermarket, snack-bar, flower shop, and store with fact, Castillo views this as one of the most pressing tasks of their rights,” Carbajal recalls. “We made them aware that they stacks of tortillas. We see a web of telephone and electricity social investments. “There is no social development without need to press politicians to meet their democratic duties and cables strung across the buildings and plastic wreaths. At economic development,” he says. “Providing financial support that they need to take responsibility for their infrastructure and a kindergarten on a side street, Aidee Guadeloupe Romero, without creating earning opportunities would be like pouring quality of life.” a 27-year-old kindergarten teacher, fills a paper cup full of water into a barrel without a bottom.” pineapple juice. Behind her, children dance to music and sing The inhabitants of Miravalle began to organize themselves, the song, “Manos arriba! Manos atrás! Somos feliz!” (Hands For this very reason, Miravalle aims to spend the 100,000 US giving rise to the first interest groups. The groups contacted up! Hands back! We’re happy!). Aidee was eight years old when dollars prize money from the Urban Age Award very prudently. 20 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 21 01 Dialog: Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award is internationally known for her role in Amores Perros by the Those who want to make music need Alfred Herrhausen Society director Alejandro González Iňárritu but also for her fight against to take care of the house first sex crimes in the northern Mexican border city Ciudad Juárez. Alfred Herrhausen Society (AHS) is the international forum of The work of the artist Romero often focuses on the absurdities Deutsche Bank. It is named after Alfred Herrhausen, former of urban life. Her installations of cars and tires have toured the spokesman of Deutsche Bank. The banker was assassinated in a terrorist attack on November 30, 1989. world. She is one of Mexico’s most acclaimed artists. The work of AHS focuses on new forms of governance as a response to the challenges of the 21st century. Only when traces of the future Bauche and Romero live in Mexico City and love the vitality, are found in the present can relevant themes of our time be named, chaos, and contradictions of the metropolis. But both admit developed, and managed. To this end, AHS plans and realizes forums that through the Urban Age Award they first learned about for discussion worldwide, together with international partners across the energy and passion of the people living in the city when it a range of fields, including policy, academia, and business. comes to solving problems. “We drove through the city,” says The most prominent project of AHS is Urban Age, the series of Bauche, “and I was amazed and fascinated when we were in international conferences that began in New York in 2005 and has since been held in Mexico City, London, Shanghai, Johannesburg, Miravalle. I thought ‘here is where I want to live’.” Romero is Berlin, Mumbai, São Paulo, and Istanbul. The conference series thankful for her role in the awards. “The participation in the is organized by the society together with the London School of Urban Age jury was one of the most important things that I did Economics and Political Science and since 2007 has awarded the in 2010 and I view it as an honor and an opportunity to learn 100,000 US dollars Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award. about all the projects. Above all, they have given me hope.” More plastic for the waste recycling facility Miravalle means valley view in Spanish. And from the Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award observation deck in Miravalle, we look down on the valley of Mexico City, which was once a lake. José Castillo looks “Should we build something quickly? No, we intend to develop together with us at the sea of houses that has spread out under a concept within the Asamblea Comunitaria and definitely the gray-yellow-brown haze over the city, which is surrounded employ local workers,” Perez says. Some of the money, by mountains. “It’s a view of a valley, a view of an urban reality,” Carbajal adds, should go to the community’s vegetable garden Castillo says, “but it is, above all, a view of the future of the and some to the waste recycling facility. And the money that is world.” left over should be used to produce a photography exhibition It’s a view of an urban and a video to inform visitors and others about the community work in Miravalle. Maybe even a radio broadcaster could be set reality, a view of the future up someday. of the world. With the Urban Age Award, Deutsche Bank honors partnerships José Castillo, president of the Urban Age Award 2010 jury between citizens, politicians, business people, and non-governmental The community vegetable garden and waste recycling facility organizations that contribute to improving the quality of life in cities. are on the outskirts of Miravalle behind a high wall. Carbajal Today, more than half of the world’s population lives in cities or urban centers and an increasing number of urban dwellers live in slums. leads the way, pointing to the cactus garden created by the Globalized metropolis: looking down into Mexico City from Miravalle community’s physically disadvantaged, who have their own The future of cities is a central theme of the modern world. Migration and the economic upheavals of globalization have created the employment program. They plant lavender in the flower garden phenomenon of uncontrolled, sprawling megacities, especially in and will later turn it into soap. In a tub, they study the trout they emerging and developing countries. The ensuring social and economic raise themselves and will sell later. The plant beds are prepared ramifications require effective solutions. in three greenhouses. And at the nearby waste recycling facility, With the Urban Age Award, the Alfred Herrhausen Society encourages a bulky machine whizzes and crunches away. people to mutually accept responsibility for their cities and shape their urbane future together. It took a while for Asamblea Comunitaria to convince the Previous winners of the Urban Age Award: inhabitants of Miravalle of the importance of protecting the · Mumbai 2007: Mumbai Waterfronts Center, a civic association that environment and recycling resources. Now they collect debris transformed a waste dump in the Indian Ocean into a boardwalk, as from the streets and build garbage containers from recycled well as Triratana Preana Mandal, an organization initiated by street children from a slum plastic beverage bottles. Up to 20 people are busy today recycling waste of all types, which is later shredded. The · São Paulo 2008: Edifício União, a project that took over the shell construction of a high-rise in the city center and transformed it into a granulates are then poured into soapy water, heated, and finally living complex for 42 families shaped into buckets, children’s stools, chairs, plates, and more. · Istanbul 2009: Barış İçin Müzik, a project in the socially disadvantaged city district Edirnekapi, which gives children free music instruction “This is what the Urban Age Award can achieve,” Castillo says. · Ciudad de México 2010: Asamblea Comunitaria de Miravalle “It can shine a light on the potential of communities that are (see photo) supposedly anarchic. But anarchy can also mean creativity, and the colonias are productive in an astonishing way.” Nobody knew Miravalle before the awards, Castillo points out. “Now television crews and journalists come and architect students and professors from Houston plan to study the model,” he says. The Urban Age Award 2010 attracted 193 applicants. The most promising received a visit from the jury. Vanessa Bauche and Short film about the Betsabeé Romero were two of the seven jurors. Actress Bauche Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award Mexico 2010 22 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 23 02 Sustainability Deutsche Bank regards sustainability as an essential element of its activities – in its core business and beyond. We want to pass on a healthy environment as well as stable economic and social conditions to future generations. 24 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Verantwortung – Bericht 2010 25 02 I. Financial partner A key role of the financial industry on the path towards a sustainable future consists in providing capital. The global environmental and social issues offer a wide range of opportunities for innovative products and financial services, see p. 38. 02 III. Social issues Our employees are our most important resource: We want to offer them an attractive work environment and individual development prospects, see p. 60. 02 II. Environmental issues Environmental protection and climate change are among the most pressing global challenges of our time. In order to meet these challenges, Deutsche Bank had already developed a climate strategy in 2005, see p. 49. 02 IV. Governance issues Transparent and effective corporate management is the foundation of our economic success. Effective corporate governance structures are of crucial significance in that context, see p. 69. 26 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Verantwortung – Bericht 2010 27 Sustainability Ensuring viability “This is a place where society and business come together.” Within the bank, Mark Fulton’s desk on the 24th floor of the Deutsche Bank building on Park Avenue is an important interface between scientific knowledge, social debate, policy and entrepreneurial activity relating to the entire issue of climate change. The 54-year-old Briton is Global Head of Climate Change Investment Research at Deutsche Asset Management in New York. He also represents Deutsche Bank as the co-chair of the climate change working group of the Finance Initiative of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP FI). Mark Fulton has focused on climate change and its impact for 20 years. “1991 was the first time that I participated in preparing a study that examined the influence of climate change on stock markets and raw materials. The move to Deutsche Bank in the year 2006 gave me the opportunity to delve into that theme in greater depth when the Global Head of Asset Management asked me to set up the climate change research team in Asset Management.” Since then Mark Fulton has contributed his research experience predominantly in the asset management area. Working with his team, he publishes thoughtleadership white papers as well as helping to identify investment opportunities for clients and the bank. Questions relating to environmental protection and sustainability not only play a role in Mark Fulton’s business life but also for Deutsche Bank. The challenges of climate change and sustainability are central elements of the bank’s business strategy. The complete speech “The next economy must be cleaner and more energy of Dr. Josef Ackermann efficient,” states Dr. Josef Ackermann, Chairman of the on the topic “Green growth – the role of Management Board of Deutsche Bank: “Green growth financial institutions”: is also good economy. [...] My aim is to keep Deutsche banking-onBank at the forefront of green growth.“ 02 green.com/intro Sustainability Mark Fulton, Global Head of Climate Change Investment Research at Deutsche 28 Asset Management in New York Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 29 02 Sustainability: Ensuring viability Deutsche Bank‘s sustainability approach impact in the wider context of the economy and practice. Its principles apply to the areas of human society. Our commitment towards responsible rights, labor standards, environmental protection, corporate governance also has an indirect impact and fighting corruption. We regard it as a guideline Environmental issues even beyond the limits of the bank. for our own commitment and want to communicate and support it even outside of our company. Our sustainability approach Launch of the world’s first-ever carbon Our sustainability strategy is based on the ten In implementing our sustainability approach, we counter in Manhattan Viability and innovation principles of the Global Compact. As one of its adhere to the ESG concept. It distinguishes between on June 18, 2009 Financial Intermediary Eco-Efficiency Manager founding members, we have committed ourselves environmental themes (Environment), social Climate Ambassador to support the ten principals of this UN initiative themes (Social), and themes relating to corporate for corporate responsibility and to implement it in governance (Governance). Sustainability Social Ensuring viability issues Employability and responsibility Employer responsibility Safety at work Commitment to human and labor rights Mark Fulton, Global Head of Climate Change Investment Research at Deutsche Asset Management, and his team Governance issues Transparency and accountability Corporate governance Compliance and risk management Sustainability management system Mission statement The global challenges that we have to cope with anchor sustainability as part of our business policy on sustainability today can only be resolved through cooperation and to realize it as part of our corporate DNA. We believe sustainability between the business and government and society means future viability – with the aim of ensuring that as a whole. Therefore, Deutsche Bank intensively Our direct and indirect impact future generations enjoy a takes part in public debate on issues of sustainable Our business operations affect our employees, healthy environment as well as stable economic and business management. Particularly in the area of clients, shareholders, and ultimately society as a social conditions. We are environmental protection, the bank plays a vital role whole – directly or indirectly. committed to this guiding principle. as a financial intermediary and capital provider for Taking sustainability into innovative projects and companies. In our view, all operational issues can be influenced account serves to secure directly. For instance, we are pursuing a challenging our long-term corporate value and reputation. An important growth market has developed in goal in the area of operational environmental Sustainability is an integral this area: More and more clients are interested in protection: We have undertaken to make all our component of our business decisions. We go beyond sustainable financial projects and would like to business operations completely climate neutral by legal requirements in taking invest in climate-resilient technologies and projects. 2013. We strive to be an attractive employer for our into account social, ethical, and ecological issues in staff, supporting them in a targeted manner and our everyday business. However, sustainability and return on investment enabling them to make environmentally and socially We review and continually improve our everyday work requirements do not always harmonize. We operate responsible choices in their day-to-day work routine. procedures according in an environment which is subject to conflicting We can also exert influence in conjunction with our to sustainability-related criteria […]. demands and in which the aim is to balance core business. For example, we provide impetus for banking-on-green.com/ economic interests with environmental integrity and change by expanding our range of climate-friendly Mission social responsibility. However, we strive to firmly financial products, which also have an indirect 30 02 Sustainability: Ensuring viability Financial partner Our central focus as a financial partner is on values such as reliability, transparency, and trust. We want to support our clients in making sustainable investments, promoting future trends such as wind power and solar energy as well as realizing sustainable objectives in the best possible manner. We want to contribute towards the sustainable development of the financial sector. Environment Protection of our environment, and climate change in particular, is one of the greatest global challenges of our time. Deutsche Bank wants to make a real contribution to coping with this urgent, complex problem. We accomplish that primarily by investing in innovative technologies and concepts for a low-emissions future. Social Our goal in relation to social issues is to sustainably create value as a competitive and profitable company – for our employees, clients, shareholders, and society as a whole, operating as a competitive and profitable company. Our responsibility as a bank with global operations includes a clear commitment to democracy, tolerance, and equality of opportunity. Governance Our top governance priorities are to foster values such as responsibility, transparency, and credibility as well as management of risks. Our governance system is designed to achieve the standards we have set for ourselves as well as external requirements. That applies to our sustainability management system as well as risk management. 32 Our sustainability management system Certified sustainability performance Deutsche Bank has been using a group-wide sustainability management system in accordance with the international ISO 14001 standard as part of its total quality management since 1999. Besides environmental issues, the system also addresses the social and governance areas. In 2010 in the course of the periodic audit, an coordination matters relating to sustainability. The external certifier confirmed that we have Group Sustainability Officer is a member of the implemented our sustainability program in a interdivisional Environmental Steering Committee More about certification according to ISO 14001 manner that complies with the norm and that we (ESC) and is involved in the consultations of the banking have continuously improved our sustainability Group Reputational Risk Committee on thematic  anking-on-green.com/ b performance. The primary focus of our sustainability issues with ESG relevance. iso_14001 management system consists of in-depth audits that were conducted at 42 global business units In conjunction with their sustainability program, the and infrastructure functions. In line with our matrix business units and infrastructure areas of the bank certification they took place at our German locations have among others undertaken to raise employees’ in Frankfurt, Munich, and Hanover as well as our awareness and to inform them about the subject of international locations in New York and London. In sustainability. In order to support this goal, we have addition, our locations in Milan and Tokyo were also developed an online-based learning program that audited and certified in 2010. has been available on our internal training platform since 2009. It vividly illustrates how important With our sustainability management system sustainable action is for the success and future of we have defined structures, processes, and the bank. In 2010 we focused on increasing the responsibilities that ensure goal-oriented, number of participants significantly. effective implementation of our sustainability strategy. Our objective is to constantly improve Our current sustainability program period will the sustainability performance of Deutsche Bank end in 2011. We intend to set ourselves ambitious in all areas – in our core business as a financial goals again for the new certification cycle from services provider, in our operational environmental 2012–2014. protection measures, personnel management, and corporate management – and to recognize and rectify any possible undesirable developments at an early stage. We want to anchor our group-wide sustainability management system even more firmly Sustainability management system: control and functions at the regional level. Organization and control of our Management Board sustainability management system The primary responsibility for the sustainability policy of Deutsche Bank lies with the Management Board. The Group Sustainability Officer is Environmental Group Sustainability Group responsible for operational implementation. He Steering Group Sustainability Officer Reputational Committee Risk also coordinates the cooperation with more than (ESC) Committee 65 sustainability officers in the global divisions and (GRRC) infrastructure areas of the bank. Unit Sustainability Officers The Group Sustainability Officer agrees upon the InfraBusiness Regional goals of our sustainability program as well as the Units structure Units Units measures that serve to implement it jointly with the responsible individuals at the management level. Central bodies ensure a direct exchange on sustainability issues and interdivisional reporting lines; flow of information Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 33 02 Sustainability: Ensuring viability Dialog with our stakeholders Materiality matrix Systematic exchange Relevance for stakeholders As a corporate citizen, we are part of society and maintain diverse Sustainable products relationships with people and institutions. That forms the foundation for our business and results in our responsibility. Consumer protection Sustainable guidelines Reputational risk management Remuneration Stakeholder dialog Owners’ We conduct a regular dialog with our stakeholder topic of improved integration of social issues Data protection voting rights groups in order to understand what special into the GRI catalog of indicators. NonDiversity Participation in the creation Another field of expectations they place on us as a financial governmental organizations and representatives of a stable financial system activity that is important institution and to explain our positions. This of companies attended. In 2010 we also took part Environmental protection to Deutsche Asset Compliance Management is exercising provides us with important impetus for more in the bank dialog to which the non-governmental Human rights Corporate governance owners’ voting rights and thus engaging in the sustainability in our business activities. We also organization urgewald had issued an invitation. In Sustainability management system resulting critical dialog learn about new ideas and concepts for practice 2011 we will provide the platform for this exchange. with companies that we and thus promote acceptance for our activities. In addition, we conducted discussions with Employer responsibility have in our port­folios (see our voting rights policy, national and international organizations such as Labor rights Sustainable ecological operations see p. 44). We attach importance to a fair and open exchange Greenpeace and BankTrack on issues Demographics with all of our company’s essential stakeholder in the area of nuclear power, controversial Procurement groups. These include clients, employees, weapons systems, agribusiness, oil and gas, investors, and society as a whole. as well as mining. Relevance for Deutsche Bank In addition to the established regular dialog with In 2011, we plan to continue the dialog with The presentation of materiality is shown with reference to the replies of the participants surveyed. our shareholders in conjunction with our investor stakeholder groups. In conjunction with our To some extent, thematic issues which are subject to a regulatory framework, which are inherent to the system for a financial services company or which have already been implemented to a large relations activities and the annual general meeting, membership we will furthermore host the degree were not mentioned or were assessed as less significant. our communications with stakeholders follow a UNEP FI/VfU Roundtable 2011. strategy consisting of three elements: We plan and organize our own events on important sustainability Materiality analysis: themes; we participate in sustainability-oriented Essential fields of sustainability activity initiatives and take part in forums and events; and Our sustainability reporting fulfills an important We have made use of the following sources Our materiality matrix (see chart) shows the results Online survey we seek direct debate with individual groups in function for building up and cultivating good in order to identify material fields of activity: of these evaluations. The matrix is divided into three If you would like to let us know what issues the case of thematic issues that arise ad hoc and relationships with stakeholders: For it is how sections according to the differences in relevance are important to you, organize our own suitable discussions. we provide transparency, publicly reporting our – results of the reader survey of the Corporate Social that we determined for the sustainability-oriented you can participate in our materiality analysis achievements and progress against specific Responsibility Report 2009; fields of action. online: Our commitment 2010/2011 goals and indicators. – the evaluation of structured interviews relating to banking-on-green.com/ Institutional investors expressed a generally the sustainability responsibility of Deutsche Bank This year we have further refined our report on materiality positive opinion of the sustainability commitment In 2010 we conducted a structured materiality that an external service provider conducted with corporate social responsibility on the basis of of Deutsche Bank. Their feedback is regularly analysis in order to ensure that the content representatives of sustainability rating agencies, this materiality analysis and have developed new obtained in the course of SRI road shows. In 2010 orientation of our report fulfills the expectations of investors, non-governmental organizations, and focuses of priority. That includes the creation More about our we conducted intensive exchanges of this type at our stakeholders even better. In this context, we senior managers of the bank in the autumn of of a separate chapter in which we examine the commitment in the area of human rights: see p. 67. the financial centers of Paris, London, Washington apply the criteria of “materiality” and “stakeholder 2010; opportunities and challenges of sustainability in the D. C., and Boston. inclusiveness,” i.e. involvement of stakeholders, – an evaluation of inquiries that external core business of Deutsche Bank (financial partner, which were established by the GRI. stakeholders addressed to Deutsche Bank in the see p. 38). The theme of Sustainable Financial Products was course of the year 2010; the central focus of our dialog event in Berlin. Materiality analysis helps us to determine – results of our global employee survey 2010; We intend to continue and deepen the materiality In that context, we discussed new trends in the the fields of activity – evaluations of the feedback from clients and analysis in the coming years. market surrounding sustainable products with business partners; representatives from rating agencies, sustainability – that our stakeholders as well as our bank deem to – analyses performed by DB Research on behalf experts, and participants from our bank. be significant with regard to sustainability issues; of Deutsche Bank that follow relevant trends in – that require our special strategic and operational the financial market, the economy, and society Deutsche Bank hosted a stakeholder workshop of attention, because they entail opportunities and including their opportunities and risks; the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) focusing on the risks with sustainability relevance. – corporate strategy priorities that have been set. 34 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 35 02 Sustainability: Ensuring viability Sustainability: 2010 in review Goals, measures and results We can make our greatest contribution towards investment funds and thematic funds in the area female participants have already advanced to new process, and expanding our activities in the sustainable development through our core banking of climate change. positions entailing more responsibility. area of renewable energies. activities. For instance, we have continued to expand our range of sustainability-oriented – We have established a global sustainability – Making our business operations climate neutral investment products and services. We are council in our Private & Business Clients division Our goals for the future as of 2013. To this end we aim to reduce our continuing to work at reducing our own ecological with the aim of promoting further development carbon emissions by 20 percent a year in footprint. and improved coordination of sustainability The current cycle of our sustainability comparison with the 2007 reference year. initiatives. program runs from 2008 to 2011. Our goals Leading rating agencies specializing in sustainability for 2011 include: – Achieving a higher proportion of women in the You can find our goals also recognized our sustainability achievements – We have taken part in discussions aimed at a senior management of the bank. and measures according positively in 2010. Sustainable Asset Management low-carbon economy, for example by participating – E xpanding our sustainable banking activities. to our Sustainability Management System (SAM) commended our improved sustainability in forums focusing on climate change. In our That means: increasing sustainably managed – Promoting staff awareness of sustainability here: performance particularly in the area of economy, own business operations, we have continued to assets under management, further integration issues by implementing holistic management b  anking-on-green.com/ ecology, and social investments. In conjunction with pursue our target of cutting our net greenhouse of the UN PRI Principles into our investment of ESG risks. iso_14001 its assessment of the key environmental, social, gas emissions by 20 percent a year through and governance criteria, Sustainalytics ranked energy efficiency and carbon offsetting. In order to Deutsche Bank in second place among the total of achieve this objective, we made our first purchase 93 international financial services providers that of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs). were evaluated. – We have integrated a so-called Green Filter into our Group Reputational Risk Management Policy. What we have achieved It helps us determine the extent to which certain transactions contribute towards improving our – Our Asset Finance and Leasing division was own and our clients’ carbon efficiency. involved in more projects in the area of renewable energies than ever before, totaling 2.4 billion euros. – We have introduced a new share purchasing plan in 27 countries as an important component of staff – The emissions trading desk at Deutsche Bank took retention. The strong commitment of our staff to part in more than 85 CDM and JI projects in 16 the bank was confirmed once again this year: at countries, which have already generated 90 million 74 points, the Employee Commitment Index is still CERs and ERUs and are expected to generate 215 at a very high level. million CERs and ERUs by the end of 2012.* – The new Women Global Leaders program – Deutsche Asset Management (DeAM) introduced was introduced to strengthen our existing 2.8 bn. euros 0 net emissions 27 countries new guidelines for incorporating ESG criteria into activities focusing on gender diversity. In addition, Volume of investment products geared Impact from our global Countries we have introduced the investment process. As one of Germany’s 10 more women were selected as candidates to sustainability criteria and theme funds operational activities as of 2013 a new share purchasing plan leading asset managers, it manages assets with a for our Accomplished Leaders Advancement in the field of climate change managed for employees value of 2.8 billion euros in sustainability-oriented Strategy (ATLAS). One-third of the original 19 by Deutsche Bank * CER: Certified Emission Reduction; ERU: Emission Reduction Units; CDM: Clean Development Mechanism; JI: Joint Implementation 36 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 37 02 I. Deutsche Bank as a financial partner Private & Business Clients Consumer protection and product responsibility Focus on clients and trust In the Private & Business Clients (PBC) division, Deutsche Bank serves private A key role of the financial industry on the path towards a sustainable clients as well as small and medium-sized companies in eight European and future is that of providing capital. The global environmental and social Asian countries. The range of products that it offers essentially includes payment issues offer a wide range of opportunities for innovative products and transactions and account management, the investment fund and securities financial services. business as well as private and commercial loans including construction financing. PBC has roughly 23,000 employees and a total of 1,770 branches. Germany is the biggest and most important market. 1,200 In the year 2010 one main focus of our retail the financial goals of the investor are taken into More information about the labeling of our Realization of philanthropic goals in business continued to consist of thematic areas account in every consultation, as is required by our investment products can Private Wealth Management like consumer and data protection, transparency consulting standards. In order to check adherence be found at: 1,200: total number of foundations of advisory services, creation of client benefit and to our quality standards as well as regulatory d  eutsche-bank.de/ transparenz managed by us complaints management. That is in accordance requirements during consulting, at the end of with our business model focusing on our 2010 we conducted test purchases and test calls clients’ interests and also in conformity with the once again (mystery shopping). As of 2011 the increasingly more stringent requirements for the results will be incorporated into our measurement securities business that supervisory law places on and control system with the goal of a total quality financial services providers. management. Furthermore, in 2010 we initiated targeted As a result of the implementation of the EU steps to integrate sustainability aspects into our consumer loan directive, changes in consumer product range for private and business clients and loan law that promote transparent information with to sound out business opportunities in this area. clients came into force on June 11, 2010. Clients can 762 We will continue this process in 2011. now compare offers and loan contracts much better Transparency and product responsibility in the and can judge whether a loan contract is in line Private & Business Clients division A strong voice for our clients with their goals and financial circumstances much 762 million euros: amount of loans issues for KfW In order to give the viewpoint of our clients a more easily. We explicitly support this legislative loans to promote investments in environmental stronger voice and to clearly demonstrate that amendment. Among other things, we implement and climate protection among others policy externally as well, we created the position the resulting rights and claims for our clients by of Chief Client Officer (CCO) in 2010. His function means of pre-contractual information, extensive is to serve as a visible partner who concentrates information contained in the loan contract, as well as his efforts on protecting clients’ interests within regular information during the contract relationship. the company in the long term. The CCO enters for example into dialog with the media and the public, Internet security and protection with the consumer protection association as well of sensitive client data 2.8 Sustainable investments in as with politicians and associations. We apply the highest standards in order to Asset Management ensure the security of online transactions. We 2.8 billion euros: volume of investment products In addition, we are making a contribution constantly analyze current developments and geared to sustainability criteria and theme funds in the towards consumer protection with our initiative install the corresponding technologies for the field of climate change managed by Deutsche Bank for promoting more transparent investment protection of our clients. In addition, we deploy consulting. In 2010, we were the first bank in internal security mechanisms in order to prevent Germany to introduce a product information sheet improper transactions. We inform our clients for investment products with a clear labeling comprehensively about possible security risks and 2.4 Promotion of future trends in the corporate clients and capital market business 2.4 billion euros: volume of projects in the area of system. In the meantime, we have already published information sheets for over 150 products – also including closed-end investment funds and precautions on the Internet as well as in combination with our letters that contain transaction numbers. In addition, they can take advantage of a free-ofrenewable energies that were concluded in 2010* savings products. charge around-the-clock security hotline. And all those measures have been successful: in the test *Product area: Asset Finance and Leasing only Continuing to enhance the high quality of our conducted by WirtschaftsWoche magazine in 2010 Status: end of December advisory service is an important goal. To this our online banking service was commended for the 2010. Numbers without end, we ensure that the financial situation and highest level of security on the Internet. Deutsche Postbank 38 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 39 02 Sustainability: Financial partner In order to provide our clients even better general clients in connection with the Bankamiz campaign Client loyalty Deutsche Bank Private & Business Clients protection against abuse of their data, we upgraded (English: Our Bank). In this way, Deutsche Bank has our internal security standards in 2010. considerably improved its advisory services for this clientele. PBC Client Loyalty Index Furthermore, we have replaced over 1,000 automatic ( TRI*M value 1, 2) teller machines in 2010 and equipped them with We have also developed a made-to-measure state-of-the-art security technology. As a result of concept for students. Among other things, that this as well as with the aid of additional measures, includes a student loan that provides support for Development we succeeded in significantly reducing the negative financing university studies. Up to now, we have bank measures effects of skimming attacks on our ATMs. granted 18,000 of those loans, thus making it In 2010 we issued easier for talented young people to complete a 10,330 loans with a value of 762 million A current account for everyone degree. In 2010 we additionally introduced the euros for KfW loans Deutsche Bank supports the Girokonto für Deutsche Bank achievement bonus: the applicable promoting investments in environmental and Jedermann initiative of Zentraler Kreditausschuss effective interest rate is reduced by one percentage climate protection (ZKA) that aims to make a current account possible point for prospective students that completed among others. for everyone. Its goal is to enable even socially their university entrance diploma with an average disadvantaged people to take advantage of the mark that was better than 2.0, i.e. good. That option of cashless money transactions. As a matter bonus also applies to follow-up financing after of principle, our bank’s offer for opening a current university graduation if the student’s results are 1 Source: Private & Business Clients, Client Survey, TNS Infratest Financial Research Institute 2 TRI*M value (Measure, Manage, Monitor) is the globally leading system for stakeholder management and client loyalty. db Student account is open to everyone who is interested, correspondingly good. It is tailored to the individual needs of companies in order to incorporate information from all stakeholder groups into the decision-making process Loan regardless of the type and amount of his or her Since its inception income. A record with the General Credit Protection Foundations of enterprises are an important driver in October 2005, we have registered over Agency (SCHUFA) that is an indication of a client’s for future economic growth. We support founders 18,000 loan approvals poor financial situation is only a reason to refuse to and start-up companies with precisely tailored with a volume of about 200 million euros. In open a current account for that client if the SCHUFA financing concepts, including ones that incorporate the year 2010 alone, we information is clear evidence of behavior that is a public subsidy programs – for example, StartGeld, issued roughly 2,000 new loans. contract violation, such as EC card or credit card the KfW founder loan or the KfW entrepreneur loan Client loyalty management for Complaint management for Corporate Quality abuse. for financing expansion. Private & Business Clients Private & Business Clients Service In order to fulfill the needs of our clients in an Our consultants are independently responsible In addition to the business divisions, the Specific offers Barrier-free ATMs and branches optimum manner, we regularly conduct fullfor handling client complaints and recommending Deutsche Bank Group has The products and services we offer are also We also help visually handicapped people use our coverage surveys to ask them how satisfied they are suitable solutions. Complaints submitted in writing a central quality service that fulfills the following tailored to the specific needs of individual groups self-service option independently and securely by with our bank and then we analyze the results. In are processed and responded to promptly on tasks: of clients. For example, bilingual client advisors means of our new ATMs. For this purpose, all of the this way, we gain valuable insights into how we can a centralized basis – whereby the consultant is · developing and at selected German branches serve our Turkish new machines are equipped with headphones for improve our business processes and optimize the also involved. A complaint management process implementing groupthe use of the voice menu in addition to lettering quality of our service and consulting. makes it easier for our staff to record and resolve wide standards for complaint management in Braille. At present, this audio service is available complaints from our clients as well as to monitor · developing forwardas support for the cash withdrawal function at all Since 2009, once a year we offer our clients an client feedback. Recurring complaints and faults looking methods ATMs throughout Germany. When we remodel our opportunity to express their opinion about their in product and service processes can thus be for analyzing the risk potential of complaints branches worldwide or plan an addition, we also level of satisfaction, their loyalty to Deutsche Bank identified at an early stage. Our quality management · reporting to the make sure that everything becomes more disabled and – since the end of 2010 – the quality of advisory committee identifies potential areas for Management Board persons friendly – for example by eliminating steps, service by means of a brief survey at the automatic improvement and develops proposals for solutions. about complaints that have been received adjusting the width of doorways and passages, and teller machine or via online banking. After that we The committee consists of representatives from · coordinating research creating more maneuvering space for wheelchair talk to dissatisfied clients in person in order to find our services and sales units as well as from quality into and responses to users. out what the reasons for their criticism were and management, target group management, and complaints directed at the Management and to identify areas where action is required. The data IT management, for example. Supervisory Boards Responsible marketing from the surveys are incorporated into our client In accordance with responsible marketing quality index, which serves as the basis for the In a group-wide guideline, we have formulated principles, in our advertising we refrain from making target agreement of our senior managers in the standards for documenting and handling promises that may be impossible to keep. For sales area. In 2010 once again, almost one million complaints. The basic principle is to always process example, we never refer to a “guaranteed return clients participated in the client survey. The result complaints fairly, effectively, and without delay. on investment.” We provide detailed, realistic demonstrates that the positive trend in client loyalty calculation examples illustrating the interest rates is continuing: we are regaining their trust. that we offer for our financing in order to ensure that our clients can easily understand our offers. 40 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 41 02 Sustainability: Financial partner Private Wealth Management Asset Management Investing with a view to the future Investing sustainability Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management (PWM) serves high Deutsche Asset Management (DeAM) engages in investment business activities net worth individuals, families, and select institutions worldwide, involving various asset classes as a corporate division of Deutsche Bank. DeAM while also providing solutions for family offices and financial encompasses asset management for institutional clients, the retail retirement intermediaries. PWM is operating in more than 100 locations and and mutual fund business, products in the area of climate change, and alternative manages a total of 275 billion euros of invested assets for nearly investing, among others. Deutsche Asset Management has assets with a total 80,000 clients. value of 550 billion euros under management. We also help our clients realize their individual discerning ethical investing. Moreover, they can DeAM manages about 2.8 billion euros in the scientific and business sectors, including Principles for philanthropic goals in their asset strategy. shape the investment guidelines for their portfolio investment products geared to Environmental, foundations and churches – supports and advises Responsible Regardless of whether that involves a foundation by contributing their own positive and negative lists. Social & Governance (ESG) criteria as well as us on ESG issues of fundamental importance. At Investment or special investment products. In this context, PWM works closely with a leading thematic fonds in the area of climate change. the same time, it ensures regular reviews of our The United Nationsbacked Principles for provider of sustainability research and ratings This ranks DeAM amongst some of the largest analysis methods and selection criteria and serves Responsible Investment Philanthropic wealth management in Germany. Together with this partner, we have providers of sustainable investment funds in as a forum for continuous further development of Initiative (PRI) is a network of international investors The establishment of foundations is of special defined our own list of exclusion criteria in order Germany. Sustainable investments are an integral the ESG solutions. working together to put Philanthropic significance for fulfilling charitable purposes to ensure that only securities with an exceptional part of DeAM’s business strategy. Minimum ESG the six Principles for Responsible Investment wealth in the long term. In Germany alone, the Private sustainability profile are taken into consideration standards are also binding for non-sustainable DeAM’s ESG guideline into practice. management Wealth Management division of Deutsche Bank for the asset management portfolios and special investment funds. In the autumn of 2010 DeAM finalized an internal 1 We will incorporate Commendation as top manages over 1,200 foundations with foundation investment fund offers. Furthermore, we also offer guideline for taking ESG criteria into account in the ESG issues into service provider in FUCHSReport Stiftungsvermögen assets amounting to roughly 8 billion euros. Our certified sustainable investment funds of external One guiding principle for investment decisions investment process that is binding for all portfolio investment analysis and 2009 and 2010 as well as philanthropic wealth management area provides providers. is sustainable corporate success. DeAM is managers in asset management in Europe. decision-making Foundation Experts Elite Report 2009/2010. support and advice in this context. That includes convinced that responsible action taking processes. support in the conceptual design and setting up Our comprehensive offering for our clientele environmental, social, and business ethics issues According to the stipulations of this guideline, 2 We will be active owners and incorporate of a foundation, structuring and managing the in the foundation sector – as well as for private into consideration is conducive to entrepreneurial DeAM takes an especially critical look at companies ESG issues into our foundation assets, and extends to accounting and clients – was completed in 2009 when we initiated success and therefore fulfills the requirements of and countries that violate internationally accepted ownership policies and practices. correspondence with authorities and beneficiaries. the WvF Rendite und Nachhaltigkeit public fund our investors in the long term. Thus, in accordance principles. Besides the applicable German and 3 We will seek appropriate DeutscheStiftungsTrust GmbH offers an extensive of Wilhelm von Finck AG. This investment fund with its fiduciary responsibility vis-à-vis its European laws, as well as global standards, we use disclosure on ESG range of solutions for non-profit fiduciary invests up to 30 percent of its assets in stock, stock investment clients, DeAM also takes non-financial recognized environmental and social standards issues by the entities in which we invest. foundations. funds, and stock certificates in accordance with issues into account in our analyses in addition to as a yardstick, such as those formulated in the 4 We will promote its investment policy. The investment universe is traditional key financial figures – with respect to risk UN Global Compact, the OECD guidelines for acceptance and Asset investment with a sustainability focus limited by means of clearly defined and transparent assessment as well as performance contribution. multinational companies, and the UN Convention implementa­tion of the Principles within the The sustainable investment products and services sustainability criteria. These include comprehensive For our ESG products in the narrower sense, on Cluster Munitions. The prerequisite for us to take investment industry. PWM offers range from public fund offerings and environmental management and eco-efficiency we apply even more stringent selection criteria that type of agreement into consideration is for it to 5 We will work More about our individual asset management mandates to fund criteria as well as standards of corporate governance (see p. 44). be ratified by relevant countries, e. g. Germany. together to enhance sustain­able asset our effectiveness in management and solutions focusing on specific thematic issues. We and business ethics. implementing the philanthropic wealth would like to continue to expand this spectrum and By signing the Principles for Responsible DeAM considers seeking constructive dialog Principles. management at thus offer our clients the opportunity to use their Selecting investments with a view to sustainability Investment of the United Nations (UN PRI), DeAM with the relevant decision makers in cases where 6 We will each report banking-on-green.com/ assets to accentuate their social or environmental is also a major focus when deciding on closed-end has underscored its commitment to uphold those we identify a serious violation of these standards on our activities and pwm progress towards concerns in a targeted manner. investments. Thus, we offer our clients investments standards. Those guidelines have become an by a company or a country in the security in which implementing the Principles. in photovoltaic plants, in forests and forest integral element of our investment decisions. By we have invested. Our objective in this context is to We have already offered sustainable asset management or in stock-exchange-listed companies October 2010, a total of 85 percent of DeAM staff achieve an improvement of the social, ecological, management since 2005. Investment criteria with a special focus on climate protection and worldwide and all employees in fund management or governance conditions. If we do not perceive that are taken into account are ecological, social, environmental technologies, as well as investments had taken part in an e-learning training measure on any improvement in the situation in the medium tatus: S and corporate ethics-related issues as well as in so-called “green buildings” (real estate properties the UN principles. to long-term, we finally consider the exclusion of end of December 2010 the individual standards that our clients place on with improved resource efficiency). the company and/or country from our investment The ESG Advisory Panel of DeAM founded in universe. Currently DeAM is working on a globally  tatus: S 2007 – an independent body of ESG experts from effective guideline. end of December 2010 42 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 43 02 Sustainability: Financial partner DeAM’s voting rights principles financial situation. The same applies analogously to ESG investment process for equities DeAM’s fiduciary responsibility, vis-à-vis our government bonds. Therefore, our ESG investment investment clients, includes active, appropriate concept pursues a clear Best-in-Class approach exercising of owners’ voting rights within the in the area of annuities, equity, and multi-asset meaning of stock corporation law. In this context options. The definitive investment funds are DWS ESG investment portfolio we advocate responsible corporate governance Invest Responsibility and DWS Stiftungsfonds. (80–100 shares) and regularly talk to the executive management of companies about material issues relating to Regarding DeAM’s thematic investments in the area Investment company performance and control. In this way, we of climate protection – such as the equity products performance Portfolio creation Our voting rights are able to exert influence on corporate strategy and DWS Klimawandel and DWS Invest Climate Change, principles in the original as well as our monitor management performance. If a constructive or fixed income products such as DB Advisors Invest Ideas pool (350 shares) participation in General dialog is impossible, we modify our voting behavior Euro Corporate Credit Environmental Selection, we Annual Meetings: accordingly and express our opinion vis-à-vis the devote special consideration to those companies dws.com/ media, if that is useful. Moreover, we speak at that are active in the areas of emissions control and Fundamental analysis proxyvoting annual general meetings regularly. avoidance, energy efficiency, waste avoidance, and clean future technologies. DeAM-own ESG investment universe When exercising our voting rights, DeAM adheres (700 shares) to a standardized and transparent process. In our DeAM has developed its own ESG analysis ESG voting rights guideline, we have set out principles concept for portfolio development. The investment performance ESG analysis of good corporate governance that embrace process consists of two steps: First, we evaluate ESG analyzed global universe internationally applicable standards such as the the fundamental data of the individual issuers – MSCI World + DeAM themes Corporate Governance Principles of the ICGN companies or countries – the securities of which (1,800 shares worldwide) (International Corporate Governance Network) are being considered. Second is selection on the and the German Corporate Governance Code. basis of the ESG criteria. Our research teams make They incorporate the anti-corruption principle of use of up to 160 indicators for every company as We use a multilevel analysis concept to develop our ESG portfolios. The basis is formed by a global share universe analyzed according to ESG criteria, consisting of companies from the MSCI World and supplemented by DeAM’s own thematic pool made up of about 1,800 shares worldwide. The ESG analysis data for the UN Global Compact and are supplemented well as about 30 indicators per country. Detailed this purpose are supplied by the independent research company Sustainalytics. We narrow that universe down even further to about 700 shares with the aid by commonly accepted environmental and social information is compiled – ranging from ecological of our own ESG analysis, in which we allocate valuation bonuses for a good carbon footprint, for example. We then perform fundamental analysis according to classic financial key figures, incorporating market opportunities, regional and sectoral factors. On that basis we develop an ideas pool consisting of about 350 standards that are – in our view – essential for data to labor law-related minimum standards, and shares with which we assemble the ESG portfolios. All of the underlying analysis values are regularly verified and updated, so the composition of our ideas pool responsible corporate management. including sustainability requirements relating to can change at any time. supplier management at companies. In the case of In the event of serious deficiencies in corporate countries, we evaluate regulatory quality, treatment management, poor performance in comparison of natural resources, and minimum social standards. with competitors, repeated failure to achieve We apply a detailed methodology for weighting the company goals, and in the event of a clear failure individual indicators and sectors in the three main to adhere to centrally important environmental and areas of environmental, social, and governance social standards, we withhold formal approval of issues. ESG research and ratings Retirement pension products Sustainable the actions of the executive management and the Through our investment portal G-CUBE, which In accordance with our ESG guideline, we also investment funds Supervisory Board. DeAM’s sustainable investment products have serves as a global communications platform examine ethical, social and ecological criteria and thematic consistently earned top ratings from independent and database for research, all DeAM investment in connection with private retirement pension funds Sustainable investments rating companies. For example, in February 2011 specialists have access to the latest results of products (so-called Riester and basic pensions). In Assets under management in More and more investors attach importance to the Telos agency gave our special sustainable ESG research and can incorporate them into their the case of these products, the exclusion criteria of billion euros, as of investing their capital in an ecologically and socially investment fund ESG Euro Investment Grade decision-making process. the ESG guideline also apply for actively managed December 2010 responsible manner. Admittedly, the sustainable Corporate Credit a very good rating of AAA-. In investment funds of companies outside of the Funds with a investment market in the narrower sense is still the Feri EuroRating Awards 2011, the DWS Invest In the ESG investment process we have a global Deutsche Bank Group. comprehensive ESG orientation small, but it is growing. In recent years, assets in Responsibility investment fund was among the pool of experienced specialists including portfolio 0.80 ESG-related products have increased significantly. top 5 in the category Equity Sustainability/Ethics managers, product managers, and sales specialists, We also take ESG criteria into account in our Funds with a “green” World. And in 2010 DWS Investments was honored and in the past year have expanded this team. investment decisions for the pension plans of our thematic focus 1.82 In our understanding, responsible investment is the for a third time with a prize for its commitment Currently DeAM offers equity, fixed income, employees. The Deutsche Bank pension fund has Funds with a focus You can find information combination of conventional financial objectives to environmental and climate protection – as the Multi-Asset, Advisory Services, and private equity a volume of 5.5 billion euros, right now 100 million on ethical themes about the individual investment funds at with ESG considerations without compromising Best Alternative Energy Fund, the DWS Invest investment products in this area. Furthermore, we euros are invested exclusively according to ESG 0.15 banking-on-green.com/ potential returns. DeAM’s investment activities New Resources was commended with the Climate work with external ESG experts, independent data criteria. Our long-term goal is to expand this type of Total 2.77 asset_management focus on companies that are global leaders with Change Award by Investment Week in cooperation providers, and interest groups in the area of product investment. respect to ESG issues and, at the same time, with the asset management company Holden & development, portfolio management, and in the Selected products of Deutsche Bank in the area attractive with regard to traditional analysis of their Partners. development of investment guidelines. of sustainable investments: b  anking-on-green.com/ asset_management 44 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 45 02 Sustainability: Financial partner Corporate clients and capital market business In 2010 we completed projects in Germany, Spain, As a result of the energy revolution, renewable External Promoting future trends Italy, France, Canada, and the United States with energy infrastructure projects are becoming more recognition a total value of 2.4 billion euros. These included 38 important, with the primary objective of upgrading Our services in the infrastructure sector onshore and offshore wind farms and 23 solar parks outdated plants and making them technically statehave also earned external Our Corporate & Investment Bank (CIB) Group Division encompasses capital with a total capacity of almost 850 megawatts (MW). of-the-art. Moreover, there is also a growing demand recognition through a large number of market business activities, including issuing, selling, and trading capital market In addition – together with partners – we developed for our know-how and our financing solutions prestigious awards. In projects in the wind and solar sector with a total in connection with the expansion of electricity the Euromoney Project products, as well as business involving transaction services and advisory capacity of 536 MW, including a 400 MW offshore networks. In 2010 Deutsche Bank served as the sole Finance Borrower Survey 2010, for example, and loan business activities. CIB provides advisory services exclusively to wind farm in the German part of the Baltic Sea. equity placement agent as part of the 106 million Deutsche Bank was commended as the institutional clients – in the private sector as well as in the public sector. US dollars private capital raise completed by Trilliant, Joint Best Overall Further activities of the Bank included a a provider of Smart Grid communication networks Advisory Bank and Best Project Bond Arranging 400-million-euro bond for SolarWorld and a that improve energy efficiency, lower operating Institution. 160-million-euro convertible bond for SunPower. costs, and help to integrate renewable energy resources. In our CIB Group Division the sectors that are of – As an exclusion criterion for financing: The Environmental Finance and Carbon Finance special significance with regard to sustainability are We do not participate in business activities Magazine honored our activities in the renewable renewable energies, clean and green technology, that are contrary to fundamental sustainability energy sector with its commendation Best Capital market products with a climate and/or infrastructure, as well as investment products with a requirements (for this see our credit guidelines, Renewable Energy Finance House 2010 – Europe. development policy focus climate and/or development policy focus. However, the Green Filter and our approval processes for we also contribute our competence towards the new products and clients, p. 76). Clean and green technologies The Sustainable Investments product area development of financing solutions for the public These technologies not only decouple economic concentrates on structuring for sustainable sector, support for the SME sector, and emissions Renewable energies growth and environmental degradation but also investment products. The focus in this context is trading. Deutsche Bank occupies a leading position in the strengthen the economy. Low-carbon technologies financing of portfolios in the area of microfinance, More on our microfinance initiatives: renewable energy sector. Our activities range from are one of the major drivers of future growth, renewable energies, energy efficiency, and see p. 14 et seqq. As a matter of principle, we take sustainability issues participation in selected project developments in creating new industries, opening up export markets, agriculture/fair trade. Our aim is to develop into consideration in our Corporate & Investment Germany and abroad to consulting and support for and generating new jobs around the world. investment options that are both socially responsible Banking activities for two reasons: financing, including structuring participation models as well as economically sound. in order to enable private investors to gain access Deutsche Bank helps to raise capital for – Recognizing and promoting future trends: to this market as well. In addition, we serve as an environmental technology through bond issues, One example for our commitment in this regard is the Through the advisory services and financing intermediary for public subsidies from the federal initial public offerings, and private placements. Global Climate Partnership Fund, which was set up that we offer, we pave the way for new business government or the EU, for example. By means of We work with all kinds of companies from by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, More information about Global Climate ­sectors, projects, and enterprises that make an our globally positioned product areas, we cover multinationals to start-ups. We also arrange capital Nature Conservation, and Nuclear Safety together Partnership Fund: important contribution towards resolving future the entire value-added chain of renewable energy for one-off renewable energy and environmentwith the KfW development bank (Kreditanstalt gcpf.lu issues affecting our society. projects (see chart below). related projects. für Wiederaufbau). Deutsche Bank acts as the investment manager. It is the world’s first structured In 2010, Deutsche Bank’s significant activities in investment fund that mobilizes private and public this area included serving as the joint book runner capital for climate protection in developing and for a 160-million-euro initial public offering (IPO) for emerging countries. It invests in projects aimed at the leading electric vehicle company, Tesla, in the countries improving energy efficiency as well as Value chain of renewable energy projects United States. in renewable energies. Predominantly local banks are used as intermediaries in order to reinforce the Infrastructure sustainable integration of the local business sector. Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 We support and advise our clients in Europe, The investment fund is scheduled to reach 360 Russia/CIS, North America, and Asia with respect million euros by 2015, with funds from public donors, Site development and preconsent Construction Operation to financing and implementation of complex international development banks like KfW, as well infrastructure projects as well as preparation of as private investors. Deutsche Bank itself has also Development equity competitive tender offers in conjunction with invested about 3 million euros in the investment fund. international invitations to tender bids. These Construction capital also involve projects aimed at promoting climate Emissions trading protection as well as social issues. They include Deutsche Bank has been a leading participant in Project finance advisory, debt structuring, debt arranging, and underwriting (including ECA and capital markets) projects for new construction or upgrading of the international emissions trading market since its railway lines and the public transit network, inception. for modernization and construction of energy Equity and sub-debt structuring and arranging generation and water processing plants, as well At the end of 2010 Deutsche Bank was involved in as for remedial measures and new construction more than 85 Clean Development Mechanism and Project advisory for project financing and structuring of schools and hospitals. Besides statutory Joint Implementation projects which are expected to Equity Debt Advisory requirements, we verify and take into account the generate an estimated 215 million emissions credits applicable environmental and social standards in by 2012. One transaction of particular note was connection with all projects that we are involved in. purchasing nearly one million Certified Emission 46 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 47 02 Sustainability: Financial partner Reward in the Reductions – and thereby securing financing – for financing renewable energies and measures area of emissions a government project in Ecuador where six million aimed at improving energy efficiency. research energy efficient lightbulbs were distributed to In 2010 industry 1.5 million households whose residents live Finance solutions for the public sector professionals in the Energy Risk magazine below the poverty level. This will both reduce Today, the federal and state levels of government as named Deutsche Bank CO2 emissions and lower the energy bills for the well as municipalities are faced with the challenge as the most important CER* trader. In the households. of realizing future-oriented investments – for emissions research example in the area of education, energy supply, category we came out on top for the second year in Support for SME sector energy efficiency, and public transit – despite succession. Deutsche Bank’s subsidy specialists advise clients their limited financial resources. That necessitates *Certified Emission in the SME sector as well as clients in the public the search for alternative financing solutions. Reduction sector and offer custom-fit facilitation of financing, In addition to municipalities and other regional for example in the form of low interest loans or authorities, in the Public Sector and Institutions through procurement of guarantees and reduction area we serve a total 45 client groups ranging from of risk exposure. These include development municipally owned utility and service companies banks belonging to the federal states, the national to social services facilities and charitable German development bank (KfW Bank Group) associations, and including pension funds as well as well as the development bank of the EU (EIB – as banks and financial service providers. European Investment Bank). Public private partnerships (PPP) are another option In 2010 Deutsche Bank made support in the for realizing public investments that is being used amount of over 2 billion euros available to the SME to an increasing extent. After a downward trend as sector in the form of low-interest loans, guarantees, a consequence of the financial and economic crisis and additional subsidies. A large proportion of and the massive slump in the German PPP market that support volume is derived from global loans in the year 2010, government and business are now from the KfW Bank Group and serves the purpose faced with the task of reanimating this financing of achieving economic policy objectives. In the tool. past two years, Deutsche Bank has played a role in implementing the economic stimulus package of In connection with public invitations to tender bids, the German federal government. With the aid of the Deutsche Bank is primarily active as a consultant special KfW program, about 410 million euros were for bidding syndicates. In addition, it has taken on paid out to German SME sector companies in 2009 a leading role in the Partnerschaften Deutschland and over 330 million euros in 2010. Furthermore, initiative, i.e. Partnerships Germany, which is in 2010 support packages worth 22 million euros aimed at contributing towards qualified preparation were granted in the area of innovation financing of projects and developing Germany-wide and 30 million euros were made available for standardized PPP standards. 48 02 II. Environmental issues Viability and innovation Environmental protection and climate change are among the most pressing global challenges of our time. In 2005 Deutsche Bank developed a climate strategy based on three pillars. As a financial intermediary, we promote environmental and climate protection in our core business. In our operations we act as an Eco-Efficiency Manager. By promoting innovative projects and engaging with policymakers and thought leaders, we communicate the climate message. 26 Reinforcing awareness of climate change as a climate ambassador 26 hours: the time that Solar Impulse – the first manned solar aircraft – was in the air without consuming any conventional fuel or polluting the environment 2.7 Contributing toward environmental and climate protection in our core business as a financial intermediary 2.7 billion euros: maximum estimated market size for constructing energy-efficient buildings that we participate in through our Global Climate Partnership Fund 0 Ensuring resource efficiency at our company’s locations as an Eco-Efficiency Manager 0: net emissions impact from our global operational activities as of 2013 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 49 02 Sustainability: Environmental issues Deutsche Bank’s climate strategy Financial Intermediary The three pillars addressing climate change Environment and business opportunities Our environmental activity focuses primarily on climate change. It is the While markets have been volatile in recent years, the fundamental drivers dominant environmental issue of our time and one where we can make of environmentally friendly investments are strong. The world is facing a significant contribution, although the interlinked issues of water and rising energy demand, finite natural resources, and the potential for severe biodiversity are increasingly important. impacts on the economy and environment from climate change. Therefore, investing in alternative energies and low-carbon technologies is essential. High-Level The international community is making Our climate strategy Advisory Group continuous progress in addressing climate risks. The private sector already The UN climate summit in Cancun did not produce The climate strategy of Deutsche Bank rests on Deutsche Bank intends to grow its climate-changeother investment options, and works with external Industrial made record investments in the amount of 175 a successor agreement to the Kyoto Protocol, but three pillars: related business substantially. An integrated experts to develop guidelines. Deutsche Bank initiative of billion euros in 2010. The important progress could be made never­theless. approach encompassing the entire bank will open is a signatory of the Principles for Responsible DESERTEC UN High-Level Advisory Group on Climate Change – Financial Intermediary: As an asset manager, we up business opportunities in five key areas: Investment (see p. 43). Dii, the industrial initiative of DESERTEC, Financing, of which The conference also confirmed our view that can offer products that steer investments into lowis aimed at realizing the Deutsche Bank Vice Chairman Caio Kochemerging markets in particular are becoming carbon companies; as a trader, we provide liquidity 1. Stimulating investment in green 4. Commercializing energy efficiency in buildings DESERTEC concept. The goal is to supply Weser was a member, increasingly important as far as climate policy is in the emissions certificate market; and as a capital and clean technologies Energy efficiency in buildings is one of the most a considerable part of presented its findings in Cancun in late 2010. concerned and that the private sector must play market actor, we raise debt and equity capital to Through our push into clean technologies effective and cost-efficient ways of mitigating Europe's electricity from clean power sources The group found that it a decisive role in addressing the global challenge fund clean tech companies (see p. 43 et seqq.). since 2007, we have facilitated investments in carbon emissions. The most recent research in North Africa and the was “challenging but feasible” to scale up flows presented by climate change. Deutsche Bank renewable energy and energy efficiency, thus suggests that the size of the market for energyMiddle East. of climate change finance seeks to make its own contribution in this area. – Eco-Efficiency Manager: By reducing our own helping to decouple economic growth and efficient construction will increase to between dii-eumena.com to developing countries to 100 billion US dollars per carbon footprint, we not only make a positive growing environmental degradation (see p. 46). 1.5 billion and 2.7 billion US dollars by 2020. year by 2020. contribution to the climate, but also challenge Deutsche Bank is pursuing this opportunity ourselves to devise energy-efficient solutions 2. Emissions trading through the Global Climate Partnership Fund, a that have a positive impact on our bottom line Deutsche Bank plays a leading role in emissions public-private fund established by the German (see p. 52 et seqq.). certificates trading. That is reflected in its Ministry of the Environment and the KfW Bank number-one ranking in core markets and across Group, as well as through a similar EU/EIB facility. – Climate Ambassador: Building on our wellall categories in the Energy Risk Environmental recognized research platform and experience in Rankings (see p. 48). 5. Financing infrastructure for delivery the development of political strategies, we maintain of renewable energies close contacts with regulators and political 3. Managing sustainability-related funds Analysis of the industrial sector, our investment decision makers in many of the 74 countries in Increasingly, investors are demanding high capacity, and financing expertise reveals that which we operate, thus passing on the “climate standards with regard to environmental, social, investing in alternative energy infrastructure is message” to all of our stakeholders (see p. 58). and governance issues (ESG) in addition to an attractive opportunity. Deutsche Bank already excellent financial returns. An experienced team occupies a leading position in the renewable The Environmental Steering Committee (ESC), of specialists covers equities, fixed income, and energy sector today (see p. 46). which was established in 2007 under the chairmanship of Deutsche Bank’s Vice Chairman, coordinates our environmental protection activities. The members are executives from all corporate divisions: Private & Business Clients, Asset Management, Investment Banking, as well as the bank’s infrastructure functions. We receive valuable external input from the Climate Change Advisory Board, which is comprised of 10 experts from diverse specialist backgrounds and countries. The Board met twice in 2010 to discuss topics including renewable energy and electric mobility as well as to advise Deutsche Bank on its climate change strategy. 50 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 51 02 Sustainability: Environmental issues Eco-Efficiency Manager The regional Eco teams operate our environmental consumption covers 72 percent of floor space Reduce our environmental footprint management and reporting system and meet the from sites across the globe. These data sets are requirements of the ISO 14001 certification for the extrapolated based on FTE (Full-time equivalent) to respective sites. derive totals for the Deutsche Bank Group. Strategy and performance: Our ambition to help create a low-carbon economy begins at home, with a commitment to Reporting and verification This is the first time we have been able to provide For the first time, in 2010, energy and greenhouse global data based largely on actual consumption. make our own operations carbon-neutral from 2013 onwards. gas (GHG) emissions data in this report are We are showing improvements in the performance consolidated within a new global database that trends for most of our key indicators. collects information systematically on energy, travel, and further GHG-relevant activities (such The data collection, internal reporting processes, To reduce its CO2 footprint, Deutsche Bank sustainability. It includes representatives from all as climatisation), from almost 2,300 sites. This and Certified Emission Reductions (CER) purchases has defined four areas of action: relevant areas of the business and reports to the massive exercise captures data for all electricity, have been reviewed by ERM Certification and – Improve energy efficiency and reduce bank’s Environmental Steering Committee. fuel, and refrigerant gas sources where available, Verification Services (ERM CVS) (see p. 147). consumption from the last three years. It covers all locations – Pioneer “green” buildings and “green” leases Regional Eco teams implement the strategy, with with significant energy consumption, collectively Performance in 2010 – Use more renewable energy the support of the Eco Project Management Office representing more than 76 percent of our energy We purchased CERs for the first time to help – Buy Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) to (EPMO). The EPMO serves as an expertise center use. We extrapolate from these actual figures achieve our annual target to cut net GHG emissions offset the remaining emissions and a network to share practical experience. It to cover non-reporting sites and arrive at the by 20 percent. Emissions from air travel increased We are also working to reduce our consumption develops instruments for achieving our ecological total energy and GHG emissions. These data are but energy use decreased relative to 2009, and of other resources, including water and paper, and efficiency goals, monitors results and implements quantified and reported in line with the international renewable electricity. have introduced sustainability requirements into our projects for optimizing the use of resources in our GHG standard ISO 14064. Waste, paper, and water supply chain. buildings. EPMO implemented 217 projects in 2010. data are also captured in this database. One of the major successes was improved lighting Organizing for carbon-neutrality efficiency in major buildings which has saved Actual data for waste comes from sites with ISO and efficient resource use 13.5 million kilowatt-hours in two years, equivalent 14001 certification in Germany, London, and Modernization of the Group Head Office in Our global Eco Operations Committee sets the to reducing carbon emissions from more than the United States. Copier paper consumption Frankfurt am Main strategy and monitors performance in operational 800 homes. is collected from Germany and London. Water Milestones: Holistic modernization of the Group Head Office of Deutsche Bank 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009 2010 2011 Decision to modernize Holistic approach Green Building Beginning of Beginning of Opening of foyer DGNB pre-certificate Topping-out ceremony Moving back in Official opening The Management The Management The modernization demolition works façade works The former The German Roughly 1,000 guests Approximately 2,900 After completion of Board of Board of concept combines Ultimately only two The complete renewal entrance hall is being Sustainable Building toast the work that has employees move the modernization, Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank the criteria of energy percent of the 30,500 of the façade is an completely redesigned. Council (DGNB) awards been accomplished back into the New the C02 emissions rate decides in favor of decides on a holistic efficiency, user tons of demolition integral part of the By removing the Deutsche Bank to date. In total, up Deutsche Bank Towers is only 0.4 tons per a comprehensive approach to the comfort, and life cycle materials have to be renovation concept intermediate ceilings a preliminary Gold to 900 construction in stages. So almost employee per year, interior renovation renovation of the costs with an aesthetic disposed of – all of the aimed at energy and incorporating a Certificate. It is workers and 35 500 employees more which represents of the Group Head Group Head Office. overall concept. In remaining materials are efficiency. A total of new glass roof, the awarded to buildings companies – for the than in 2007 now savings of 89 percent. A Office in Frankfurt am By doing so, line with the Green reused or recycled. 55,000 square meters towers become that are exemplary in most part from the SME work at the new Group certification according Main, which it moved Deutsche Bank aims Building approach, the of façade and window visible from the foyer. terms of sustainability sector – participate Head Office – a 20 to the international into the first time in to make an active objective is to consume area are replaced. and are still in the in the modernization. percent increase in LEED standard in 1984. An international contribution toward 74 percent less water, realization phase. 98 percent of the the efficiency of space Platinum, the highest architectural climate protection 67 percent less heating companies involved use thanks to our new category, as well as the competition is held: on the basis of its energy and 55 percent are from Germany, and workplace concept: DGNB Gold Certificate the internationally commitment to less electricity, as well 40 percent of those db New Workplace. are awarded to the New recognized architect sustainability. as to emit about are from the Frankfurt Deutsche Bank Towers Mario Bellini emerges 90 percent less CO2. Rhine-Main region. on February 24, 2011. as the winner. 52 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 53 02 Sustainability: Environmental issues Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy, and water consumption We have moved to global goals for all indicators; Targets for 2011 in previous years we focused on Germany, London Measure 2007 2008 2009 2010 and New York. Energy 3 percent annual reduction in GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 536,101 588,573 591,247 612,588 total energy ­consumption – Scope 1 direct GHG emissions activity tonnes CO2e 28,781 27,235 27,230 26,643 One exception is data for waste and copy paper Renewables Increase on-site renewable electricity usage that we compile at our sites in Germany – Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions activity tonnes CO2e 398,068 452,438 470,076 470,290 share; maintain renewable power contracts and London. We also use data from our New York – Scope 3 other indirect GHG emissions activity tonnes CO2e 109,253 108,900 93,941 115,654 site for compiling our waste generation. This is Water Reduce consumption by 20 million liters For more information then extrapolated to estimate the global impact of – GHG reduction from CER purchases tonnes n/a n/a n/a -120,000 Waste Reduce total waste by 5 percent on our goals 2010, see our operations. Our strategy is to manage usage b  anking-on-green.com/ – Net GHG emissions (incl. CERs, RECs, renewables) tonnes CO2e 518,524 426,848 365,722 265,267 and waste responsibly and efficiently, and to Global recycling Maintain global recycling environmental_data Total energy consumption GJ 4,418,314 4,356,840 4,509,609 4,438,242 further expand our ability to monitor and report ratio of total waste above 90 percent environmental data globally. Water use m 3 2,190,700 2,218,794 1,694,236 1,943,856 Paper Reduce consumption of office paper by 15 percent; increase proportion of FSC Table notes: 1 Scope 1 GHG emissions are combustion of fossils fuels and refrigerant paper. Postbank data are not organizationally integrated into environmental reporting and are therefore out of scope. and recycled paper used leakage from cooling equipment; scope 2 are delivered energy, e.g. 4 The GHG base year 2007 and following years’ emissions have been electricity, district heating; scope 3 are from purchasing goods or services recalculated due to the inclusion of Sal. Oppenheim and Berliner Bank, where emissions sources are controlled by others, e.g. air travel.The net changes in emissions factors, extrapolated heating energy requirements GHG emissions include renewable energy with zero emissions factor. based on climate zone, and the inclusion of the 9 percent increase in the Purchase of renewable electricity in Australia, Austria, Canada, Germany, uplift factor for air travel as recommended by the GHG Protocol and the Italy, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and United States, was Department for Environmental, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) of the UK expanded in 2010 to include Belgium and the Netherlands. government for emissions caused by rerouting and delays. 2 GHG reporting boundary is defined according to GHG Protocol’s 5 CERs will be purchased throughout the year to offset outstanding operational control approach: emissions towards carbon neutrality goals. Buildings Operational control includes businesses and sites where DB staff hold 6 Refrigerant gas data are from Germany, United Kingdom, United States, executive positions in the company, and DB’s operational procedures and are extrapolated based on operational floor area. are implemented within the entity. Where data center operations are 7 Air travel data covers 93 percent of all flights; 7 percent is extrapolated Deutsche Bank’s global portfolio consists of United States, three in Europe, and one in India, Case study: outsourced, emissions from hardware owned by DB within a facility are based on cost. within scope. 8 Total energy consumption in gigajoules comprises all sources used – approximately 3,000 buildings in 74 countries and have gold-level certification in the Leadership Project Dragon, 3 Sal. Oppenheim and Berliner Bank are now operationally part of natural gas, liquid fossil fuels, renewable and grid electricity, and district territories. These buildings account for more than in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Hong Kong Deutsche Bank, and, accordingly, within scope for GHG reporting; they heating and cooling. have also been included in extrapolations for energy, waste, water, and 9 Water figures are extrapolated based on FTEs and refer to potable water only. 70 percent of our global emissions. The refurbished accreditation scheme. We received the Platinum We created a world-class working environment Deutsche Bank Towers in Frankfurt highlight the LEED certification for the towers in Frankfurt, and for 1,800 people over 12 environmental improvements we can achieve in more buildings will be certified in the future. floors in the International Commerce Centre, the existing property (see pp. 52–53). At the same tallest building on Hong time we are seeking excellent environmental Green Leases Kong’s skyline. It is our largest office in Asia and Global paper use and waste development 2009/2010 performance at new sites. Within our “Green Lease” program, we ensure the fifth-largest in the that the buildings we use meet commercial world. Germany United Kingdom United States Deutsche Bank Group Managing the impacts of our buildings is critical to requirements and, at the same time, comply with Fully-integrated audioMeasure 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 achieving our goal of carbon neutrality, but we want sustainability aspects. We require that the use of visual (AV) technology is available throughout Paper use tonnes 2,757 2,942 420 444 n/a n/a 3,577 3,811 to go further than that. We aim to maximize our resources in all facilities is measurable and that this the building and users can access their desktop Recycled % 1 1 84 84 21 21 impact by working with suppliers and the property data is available to us. Our newly agreed real estate on demand, wherever industry to develop and promote best practice contracts contain “green” clauses. They pertain, they sit. Everything was Virgin % 99 99 16 16 79 79 performed to high throughout the property world. Our projects and for instance, to energy and water efficiency criteria, environmental standards Virgin FSC % 100 100 0 0 n/a n/a 98 98 programs also provide opportunities for new air quality in buildings, waste management and and we have a continuing program for sustainable business in areas such as retrofit financing as we environmentally-friendly room cleaning. operations. Virgin non-FSC % 0 0 100 100 n/a n/a 2 2 develop expertise in this area. We are seeking LEED Waste tonnes 11,296 13,438 3,000 3,602 4,090 4,381 29,797 34,826 Through our own engagement as well as through Gold Certification for this outstanding space. New, centralized data gathering helps track the our cooperation with organizations we aim to incinerated % 5 5 5 5 0 3 3 4 performance of our facilities around the globe. We contribute to sustainable facility management. landfilled % 0 0 0 0 15 14 4 4 can track key energy metrics in real time, identifying The initiatives include: recycled % 95 95 95 95 85 83 92 92 opportunities and problems so that we can take – establishing practical standards and instruments prompt, targeted action to improve performance. for “Green Lease” agreements hazardous % 1 1 1 1 0 6 1 3 A Building Performance Scorecard tracks the main – compiling a sustainable catalog of criteria for non-hazardous % 99 99 99 99 100 94 99 97 metrics every month for our top real estate agencies 10 buildings. – defining ecological selection criteria for new sites Table notes: e. g. from the Deutsche Bank Towers refurbishment in Frankfurt. UK waste 1 Copier paper data is from Germany and United Kingdom, also includes waste from engineering maintenance for a selected number and their construction and is extrapolated based on FTEs. of contractors. Waste excludes our R22 replacements, and municipal waste In 2010, total energy use in buildings fell despite – demanding energy and environmental ratings for 2 Waste data is extrapolated based on FTEs from the ISO 14001 certified for Germany has been extrapolated. sites in Germany (using 2009 data), United Kingdom and United States, 3 FSC stands for Forest Stewardship Council and refers to a non-profit continued expansion in Asia, following the trend leased real estate to allow lessees a comparison covering 64 percent of FTEs. Waste data does not include project waste, organization certifying sustainable forestry. begun in 2009. of sites – Working with Greenprint Foundation in We continued to achieve excellent environmental establishing global standards for reporting building certifications. Four of our buildings in the carbon emissions in buildings 54 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 55 02 Sustainability: Environmental issues Making it happen – with the commitment In new and retro-fitted buildings we help employees Travel Sourcing of our employees understand how to operate eco-efficiently. For Reducing the environmental impact of our buildings example, “floor walkers” helped employees who Green travel guidelines apply throughout the Group. Deutsche Bank spent up to 7 billion euros End-user IT is not only a question of using the right technologies had moved back into the Deutsche Bank Towers Before traveling, all employees are expected to on purchases of goods and services in 2010, · Our new standard workplace technologies and systems but also making sure they work well to understand heating and lighting controls in their check whether telephone or videoconference calls demonstrating the importance that supplier are highly energyin practice once buildings are occupied. Employee areas and how to operate IT equipment efficiently. are possible alternatives. We are working towards relationships have for Deutsche Bank’s sustainability efficient. We have achieved average energy behavior makes all the difference. Embedding a installing desk-based audio-video (AV) technologies ambitions. We require newly contracted suppliers to reductions of over 55 responsible culture and ensuring that employees are in all our sites. meet minimum social and ecological standards based percent per person in several projects in 2010 kept informed, motivated, and well trained is a key on the international SA8000 standards and the UN including our refurbished part of meeting our environmental goals. Our Global Travel team has worked with suppliers Global Compacts. Our code of conduct for suppliers headquarters in Frankfurt and in Eco-efficient IT to provide a carbon calculator, ensuring that covers equal opportunities, health and safety, labor buildings in London, Our information portal “Passion for the Planet” employees are aware of their carbon impacts when standards, and environmental protection. New Jersey, and in Asia. In some cases, we encourages simple changes in employee behavior The 2012 commitments arranging travel. have even seen energy such as double-sided printing, turning off monitors In 2009 we made eight commitments to deliver Recognized certification systems, such as Renewable reductions of over 85 percent per desk, such and using local recycling offers. Eco Teams in each eco-efficient IT by 2012. They are transforming Our green travel events-planning internal website Power Certificates, Forest Stewardship Council, Basel as an infrastructure region consider how each part of the business the bank’s working practices, behaviors, and provides information on sustainable mobility. Action Network, Green Guard, or Energy Star, help us department of 100 seats where energy went can improve, including responding to ideas from environments, helping us to meet our carbonIn Germany we buy “CO2-free” train tickets, identify sustainable options. from 103 MWh/year employees. neutral goal and reduce our operating costs: representing renewable energy purchases by to 10 MWh/year, and a business department of the train operator. Sustainability performance is a deciding factor in 500 seats (508 MWh/ purchasing decisions when other aspects are equal. year to 62 MWh/year), both in London. We have improved measurements of our travel More sustainable alternatives need to be cost· In the bank’s new Hong impacts and are able to report by country and by competitive, but we compare costs based on total Kong ICC building, we operational hub. cost analysis across the life cycle, including waste have introduced for the first time Trader management, not only on the immediate purchase Workstation Blades – IT commitments and strategy Emissions from air travel (the most material source) price. a virtual trading desk solution hosted in increased by 23 percent in 2010 as an important the data center and Commitment Strategy Progress in 2010 result of increased business activity following In 2010 we concentrated on sustainable procurement connected to the trading floor via thin the recession. Emissions had fallen in each of the for buildings, which contribute our biggest client technology. 1. Neutralize the bank’s IT carbon – Improve eco-efficiency Our IT energy consumption and savings data footprint, in line with the Group’s – Use more renewable energy are fed into the DB standard carbon reporting previous two years with the result that emissions in environmental impacts. In particular, we ensured that These energy efficient workstation Data center carbon-neutrality commitment – Buy and retire emissions reduction mechanism. 2010 are slightly above the 2007 level. products and suppliers for the new Group Head Office replacements are having energy efficiency certificates in Frankfurt am Main meet the highest standards for a major impact on the efficiency and flexibility · Our Computing 2. Create an eco-supplier program – Work with vendors to assess eco-impacts In 2010 we selected industry standard ratings for LEED certification. of the total building Landscape Optimization to assess the total impact of – Include Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) environmental sustainability of IT products, and Renewable power and offsets infrastructure. Program saved nearly one megawatt of energy major IT purchases in our financial decisions, including piloted their use. Further achievements in 2010 by replacing old environmental impacts Green power contracts – developing a standard process to ensure servers with new, highly – Create eco-ratings for each vendor and/or We piloted the requirement for IT vendors to set efficient ones. In Germany, Italy, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, sustainability criteria within the entire purchasing Eco-supplier category deadlines for eliminating toxic substances in the · Within our Infrastructure – Advocate supply chain carbon accounting IT equipment we purchase. Spain, Austria, Australia, Canada and the United workflow of a material group/resource, from market program Efficiency Project (IEP) in States, we draw electricity from renewable sources, research, through product or service specifications, Our eco-supplier 2010 we developed and 3. Track the disposal of IT assets – Initiate a monitored eco-recycling program We performed a detailed review of our end-ofprogram takes into tested innovative data since 2010 for the Netherlands and Belgium as well. to the calculation and documentation of CO2 savings account not only the and ensure they are recycled to recycle all end-of-life IT assets possible life IT equipment processes and vendors. center cooling systems. responsibly wherever possible by 2012 – applying the above process in pilot projects in real financial implications IEP uses Cold Aisle of a purchase, but Containment, which – Develop standard recycling policies We selected industry-standard ratings for Carbon offsets estate/building operations and IT also its environmental intelligently channels – Drive suppliers towards responsible recycling partners. In 2010 we made our first purchase of 120,000 – purchasing and installing LED-illuminated implications – how much cold air to the servers ownership of end-of-life disposal energy it will require, and together with Certified Emission Reductions (CERs), issued advertising materials for approximately 200 bank reduction of hazardous intelligent control loops 4. Use technology to reduce – Invest in high-quality teleconferencing and Delivering new technologies and running usage through the UN Clean Development Mechanism. branches in Europe chemicals, eco-design, allows up to 95 percent and the like. This is being less power for the business and commuter travel collaboration technologies and adoption campaigns have driven the use of These CERs were retired to the UK Government’s – purchasing heating and cooling systems for captured in our Green room air-conditioning. – Deploy mobile and remote working video and web conferencing up by over Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme approximately 30 buildings based on new product Supply Chain framework. In London the project technologies 75 percent from 2009 to 2010. will save almost 10 Registry. This purchase helps us on our path to and supplier requirements million kilowatt-hours 5. Use technology to halve the – Eco-printing program In 2010 our centrally managed print program – carbon-neutrality from 2013 onwards. Further – expanding the number of suppliers meeting our of electricity per year, paper used in offices – Implement a global PRINT LESS campaign where already implemented – achieved average starting in 2011. CER purchases to offset emissions towards our sustainability criteria – Reduce the eco-impact of paper purchases paper savings of over 30 percent and average · Our Eco Data Center carbon reduction targets are linked to our final GHG – buying the first electric cars for use as pool vehicles printing energy savings of over 40 percent. in New Jersey was inventory for 2010 confirmed by our independent in the Frankfurt area designed and built in 2010. It is a truly 6. Double the utilization of next– Implementation of services based on Through our virtualization program we avoided assurance. generation hardware virtualization technologies using over 800 KW of power for new servers in innovative data center Goals for 2011 design, using fresh air to – Design and deliver new data center services our four largest data centers in 2010. cool a very highly dense – implementing the standard process for ensuring computing environment. 7. Increase energy efficiency in – Measure and report on our data center By the end of 2010 we doubled our data center sustainability criteria in the purchasing workflow for Initial tests measured an major corporate data centers by energy efficiency energy efficiency compared to the end of 2008. energy efficiency of key material groups, piloted in 2010 four times 85 percent. – expanding the supplier portfolio on the basis of 8. Halve individuals’ energy – Measure and report on our IT energy usage In 2010 we achieved average energy reductions sustainability criteria consumption in corporate per headcount of over 55 percent per person in several projects. offices 56 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 57 02 Sustainability: Environmental issues Climate Ambassador Creating awareness We use our presence and our global networks to raise awareness of progressive global warming. Research on Building on our expert knowledge, we seek to Solar Impulse climate change identify, stimulate, and actively support measures to The Solar Impulse project highlights the enormous Climate change and counteract climate change. potential of clean and innovative technologies the preservation of natural resources are coupled with smart resource management. The also a special focus We engage clients, employees, shareholders, the first manned flight around the world in an aircraft area for the research experts of Deutsche general public, and public decision makers through ­powered exclusively by the sun moved one step Bank. DB Climate Change various activities ranging from local and national closer in 2010. For the first time the solar airplane Advisors, our research team specializing in policy dialog to involvement in global programs at remained aloft night and day for more than 26 hours the area of climate the highest levels. without interruption and without consuming a drop change and climate policy trends, regularly of fuel or causing any pollution. publishes studies, also Through partnerships with industry and trade in cooperation with well-known organizations bodies, think tanks, NGOs, as well as charitable As one of the main partners of Solar Impulse, like the United Nations associations, we are making a contribution towards Deutsche Bank has supported this innovative project Environment Programme or the World Business sustainable development. In 2010 we were regularly right from the outset. Council for Sustainable called upon to provide our expertise on the topic of Development. In addition, our think climate change and environmental damage, and we tank DB Research supported a number of initiatives to address those works intensively on environmental topics in issues. relation to economics as well as politics. Its goal is to follow relevant trends in the economy and society, to provide market players with aids to decisionmaking, and at the same time to encourage public debate about future issues, such as climate protection.  anking-on-green.com/ b research dbcca.com/research Solar Impulse video insights More information about our Climate Ambassador initiatives and memberships can be found on our website at: banking-on-green.com 58 “Nature has given us an incredibly generous present. So it is a true joy to be able to do something for nature.“ Last year, 3,400 employees participated in about 200 Social Days in Germany alone. Together with colleagues and numerous family members, Cristiana Galliazzo, Assistant Vice President in Human Resources, People Engagement & Marketing at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, helped dig tree holes. During a tree-planting initiative on the occasion of the World Tree-planting activities on Water Day, the group planted about 300 Elsbeere trees up to 3.5 meters high as a sustainable the occasion of the World contribution to improving the groundwater. Water Day 02 III. Social issues Deutsche Bank as an employer Designing an encouraging environment Employability and responsibility Our employees are the most important factor for our success: It is they who conduct our day-to-day business and give it a face Our employees are our most important resource. We want to offer them to our clients. an attractive work environment and individual development prospects. With regard to the social issues of our sustainability strategy, the primary focus areas are our responsibility as an employer, our commitment to human and labor rights and the health and safety of our staff. Employer responsibility and employability diversity management also encompasses a broad More about our entry programs for Deutsche Bank strives to recruit the most range of personnel policy options geared to the postsecondary graduates talented people and offers them an optimal work wide variety of prerequisites and needs that our and information sources for school students, environment as well as individual development employees have. parents, and teachers: opportunities. We want to motivate and support db.com/careers our employees from their very first day at work – Employer attractiveness and employee satisfaction throughout their entire working life. We encourage A good reputation as an employer is crucial for them to put their ideas into practice, assume recruiting the most talented people in the labor responsibility and contribute in shaping our success. market and for retaining our staff. Every year for We know that dedication and motivation require the past 11 years we have surveyed our employees appropriate prerequisites. These include recognition worldwide in order to find out how satisfied they Commendations and a financial reward for individual performance are with their working conditions and the business awarded to Deutsche as well as a prejudice-free work environment, strategy of Deutsche Bank and where they would Bank in the personnel area: see p. 148. including prevention and sanctioning of all types like to see improvements. of discrimination. Therefore, one focus area of our 32,554 personnel strategy is the promotion of a culture In 2010, the commitment index that we use to of diversity which values employees particularly measure how strong our employees’ ties to our Guaranteeing the safety of our staff, because of their heterogeneousness and which company are is still at the high level of 74 points business partners, suppliers, and visitors allows every individual to contribute his or her (out of 100). In 2009, the year of the financial crisis, 32,554: number of employees in talents in an optimal manner. That is why our the index reached a peak value of 77. As external Germany that have attended training measures on the subjects of work safety, fire protection, and health protection Number of employees 2010* Performance figures* in thousands 2008 2009 2010 14,000 102.1 Employee Commitment Index 74 77 74 Actively fulfilling our Employees leaving the bank responsibility as an employer 78.3 80.5 for a new job 7.3% 4.8 % 6.6 % 77.1 14,000: number of employees 68.8 Training that have gone through our talent (expenses in € million) 114 86 95 management process aimed at individual career development Vocational training (expenses in € million) 41 41 41 Total percentage of women 44.5 % 44.3 % 43.8% 2000 Percentage of women in Commitment to human and labor rights management positions 2000: year in which we signed the UN (Managing Director, Director) 15.6 % 16.1 % 16.5 % Global Compact – as one of the first 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010** signatories *Full-time equivalent * Without Deutsche Postbank **Thereof Deutsche Postbank 20,400 60 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 61 02 Sustainability: Social issues studies have shown, a slight decline can also be However, appreciation of diversity is not As a matter of principle, we adhere to the applicable develop suitable women for top executive positions observed at other companies that have overcome some­thing that just happens. It requires an anti-discrimination legislation in the countries in and to increase the proportion of women in senior the recession: Whereas staff and companies close open corporate culture that creates space for which we operate. management positions overall. In 2010 we continued Our career website: db.com/careers ranks at times of crisis, when the economic situation a prejudice-free work environment in which the program and selected ten additional women. begins to improve the focus of employees tends to our employees can develop their potential and More women in management positions One-third of the 19 female managing directors who shift towards individual opportunities and options contribute their unique talents – regardless We also attach special significance to gender originally participated have already advanced to More about the within, as well as outside of, the company. of age, gender, religion, ethnic background, diversity because we are convinced that increasing new positions entailing more responsibility. We also Charter of Diversity: sexual orientation, or physical capabilities. We the proportion of women in management initiated a new Women Global Leaders program for charta-der-vielfalt.de Diversity and equality of opportunity formulated the respective principles in our Code of positions is a strategic precondition for sustainable female directors. The objective in this case is also to Putting diversity into practice is a prerequisite for Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applicable business success. In this regard, we purposely strengthen the leadership competencies of women. ensuring the bank is equipped to meet the wide worldwide, as well as in our diversity mission forego a defined quota for women. However, the In addition, we also actively support improving the Mission variety of requirements of our clients in the global statement. These principles are an integral part of Group Executive Committee of the bank actively compatibility of work and family life. statement on market and for developing innovative solutions. our business policy; all of our personnel measures supports gender-related initiatives at the bank and diversity Therefore, we regard teams that bring together are in line with them. In 2006 we initiated the underpins them with concrete goals. They also Promoting a culture of life-long learning We aim to foster an various different perspectives and experience as an Charter of Diversity together with other German actively participate in programs designed to create Today more than ever before, global markets and inclusive culture that values the diverse mix of essential success factor for our work. companies in order to promote the recognition of opportunities for women’s advancement with which increasingly more rapid technological changes our employees, utilizes diversity in the economic sector as a whole. Today we intend to build up qualified female candidates for demand a willingness to embrace change and their talents and helps them realize their full we belong to the initiative’s group of supporting top positions. Furthermore, we support a better flexibility from companies. This also applies to potential. sponsors. work-life-balance (see p. 64). their staff. We help our employees in developing Deutsche Bank knows their knowledge and experience constantly, that diverse teams are smarter teams, that We have defined three core areas in which we want In 2009 we initiated the Accomplished Top Leaders strengthening their individual capacities whilst success comes from to achieve further progress in the long term: Advancement Strategy (ATLAS) program under preserving and enhancing their employability. many perspectives, and that diversity is vital for the patronage of Dr. Josef Ackermann. Its goal is to Since 2006 Deutsche Bank has implemented deli­vering innovative – Generational diversity: We want to integrate our solutions for our clients. present three generations of staff in an optimum manner, sustainably take advantage of the experience of all generations, and recruit top talent (see box p. 63). – Gender-related measures: We want to achieve greater representation of women in Deutsche’s Employee age distribution in 2010* Generational diversity – a key issue Growth of workforce: 20,361 new employees senior management. (in parentheses: 2009) affecting the future as a result of Deutsche Postbank takeover alone – Prejudice-free work environment: We bank on the Up to 24 years old Generational diversity is taking on a key role in the human The integration of Deutsche Postbank AG into commitment of all senior managers to establish resources and corporate strategy of Deutsche Bank to an Deutsche Bank is a major challenge for personnel policy. increasing extent. As a company with global operations we our diversity mission statement even more firmly Older than 54 years are faced with the challenge of reacting adequately to various After we obtained the controlling interest at the end of November 2010, the number of our employees increased to in the consciousness of our people and in our demographic trends. For example, in Germany, Japan and the 102,062 (full-time equivalents) as of the end of the year. Now business processes. 45–54 years old United States we are confronted with an aging society – and we not only have to coordinate corporate processes and 5.8 7.6 the resulting lack of skilled personnel. In some other regions (5.4) (8.4) of our company, such as India and England, different issues structures but we also need to focus on uniting two different In the United Kingdom, the United States, corporate cultures. We can only achieve this if we take the 19.9 form the major focus. In light of these varied prerequisites, employees of both companies with us along that path. Germany, India, Japan and Hong Kong we have (19) we cannot simply apply a uniform approach in the area of established Diversity Councils working under the generational diversity. On the contrary, suitable packages As of April 1, 2010, Deutsche Bank completed the takeover direction of local business heads. They implement of measures have to be established in order to preserve 34.1 knowledge resources and client relationships, to hold our of parts of the commercial banking division of ABN AMRO our group-wide diversity strategy, in cooperation (35) in the Netherlands. This resulted in the addition of 1,195 ground vis-à-vis the competition in the markets of emerging new staff members. Furthermore, the acquisition of the Sal. with our global Diversity Team, with concrete economies and to expand our position as an attractive Oppenheim Group also added another 3,675 employees. measures. They concentrate on regional needs. employer. Therefore, our commitment ranges from intensive talent management and flexible working time models to Without acquired or sold parts of the company, the 32.7 preventive health care programs, and includes taking the In addition, we have set up contact points worldwide 35–44 years old (32.2) family circumstances of our employees into consideration. headcount of Deutsche Bank grew by 222 in comparison with 2009. that those who are affected by discrimination, sexual harassment or bullying can turn to. 25–34 years old * Without Deutsche Postbank 62 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 63 02 Sustainability: Social issues the “Staying Fit for the Job” program (In eigener expected to conduct structured employee appraisal Regional employee deployment 2010* Employee qualification* Sache – fit in die berufliche Zukunft) with great interviews every year. Goals are agreed upon in the 2008 2009 2010 success. It is available to all employees free process, and an individual supplementary training of charge and without any prior agreement. plan is discussed. University degree 64.0 % 63.5 % 63.9 % Staying Fit for the Job offers tools for analyzing High school degree 17.3 % 19.1 % 15.5 % Video about Deutsche’s and expanding one’s own skills and experience. We make use of systematic performance and corporate culture It also provides support for determining one’s potential evaluation as an analysis tool in our talent Other education own individual objectives. More than 12,000 management. Its strategic importance primarily degrees 18.7 % 17.4 % 20.6 % registered users have already taken advantage of lies in the area of successor planning. In the course 48.3 % 23.3 % * Number of staff (headcount), excluding Deutsche Postbank the innovative services offered. In 2010 we offered of the performance and potential evaluation, a total of 3,064 different seminars on db Learn, our managers meet to discuss the performance More about the projects electronic training platform, starting with specialist level and commitment of their employees and to and initiatives for our staff 17.4 % under: educational courses and including management rank them. In 2010, a total of 14,000 employees b  anking-on-green.com/ training and seminars relating to personality and worldwide underwent our standardized talent 11 % Part-time employees in Germany 2010* hr team development. Furthermore, we have offered management process. a learning program on sustainability on our training Private Clients & Asset Management (PCAM) 21 % platform since 2009. Work-life balance Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB) 13 % Achieving a balance between work and private Germany Personnel development and life is a crucial prerequisite for the performance Europe (without Germany), Middle East, and Africa Infrastructure 16 % management responsibility and commitment of our employees. That is why Asia/Pacific North and South America Total 18.9 % Individual career development is an important we have developed a wide range of options that component of our human resources work. The contribute towards harmonizing workplace*Full-time equivalent, with Deutsche Postbank * Without Deutsche Postbank development programs at Deutsche Bank are specific requirements with private and particularly aimed at all of our staff. Our senior managers are family needs. For example, our employees can organize their new measures in conjunction with this certification. working hours flexibly in consultation with their Among other things, in the next three years we manager. In addition to flexitime arrangements, want to develop flexible working time models and a time-value account system, and a variety of partadvisory services especially for older employees time models, we also make it possible for employees and expand options that make care giving for to work alternately from home and facilitate other family members possible as well as mobile work mobile work options. Worldwide we have set up arrangements. In addition, we intend to include 296 daycare facilities in the immediate vicinity the issue of compatibility of work and family life in of our employees place of work. In Germany, the group-wide employee surveys. United Kingdom, and the United States, a free family service is provided as a stop-gap solution Furthermore, preserving and promoting our when needed for periods not covered by childcare employees’ health is another goal that is important arrangements. Advisory services, newsletters, and to us. Therefore, we offer health care programs in back-to-work workshops make returning to the numerous countries. workplace easier after parental leave and ensure that contacts are maintained during leave periods. Compensation The compensation system of Deutsche Bank The Work and Family certificate of the non-profit combines a competitive, attractive base salary Women’s networks Hertie Foundation was awarded to Deutsche Bank with an individual, performance-related salary Numerous regional and internal for the second time in 2010 after a re-audit, thus component. The latter is calculated on the basis women’s networks support our female employees with confirming our family-friendly personnel policy once of the Group’s consolidated results, the business networking and expanding again. Moreover, we have undertaken to implement success of the specific division and the performance individual career options. that the individual has contributed. Regular events are orga­nized, for instance just recently the conference “Balance instead of Burn-out” with 250 participants from various banks. 64 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 65 02 Sustainability: Social issues Health and safety in the workplace Staying fit by prevention and training The health and safety of our employees, business partners, suppliers, and visitors is important for us. We aim to create a safe and healthy workplace, with a particular focus on preventing accidents and ill-health. Our health and safety standards equal, and in most our approach to health and safety management cases exceed, local regulatory requirements. against others in the financial sector. We believe that effective health and safety Around 94 percent of Deutsche Bank employees Childcare management helps us to improve quality and are covered by a safety management system Deutsche Bank would like to make productivity in the workplace as well as to increase based on the international standard OHSAS 18001. optimal compatibility of work and employee job satisfaction. Our approach to health London is now also accredited to ISO 18001. In family life possible. For this reason, care is designed to help employees stay fit and Germany our health and safety management it has already offered a special healthy for longer and includes health screening, system is accredited to the VGB Accident Insurance childcare service to employees in the United States, the United psychological support services, and counseling to standard, a comparable standard tailored to local Kingdom, and Germany for several help employees deal with stress. regulations. We provide regular training to help years: This serves as a back-up if employees understand our health and safety regular childcare ar­rangements We work closely with relevant regulatory policies and to implement these consistently. In happen to be unavailable. All in all Read more about our the bank provides 296 playschool authorities on health and safety issues and 2010 targeted training took place in our Asianapproach to health and safety in Germany on our places in immediate proximity to employ qualified professionals to conduct internal Pacific region, the United States, Europe, Africa, website: the workplace for its staff. and external risk-based reviews of our safety and the Middle East. Action plans were developed b  anking-on-green.com/ management systems. We regularly benchmark to address any areas identified for improvement. safety We regard the participation of our employees In March 2010, Deutsche Bank was one of the in the company through shares as an important few globally active banks to present a separate component of staff retention. That is why we compensation report in order to fulfill its voluntary introduced a new share purchasing plan as of commitment based on the principles of proper April 1, 2010: All employees who are entitled compensation of the Financial Stability Board can purchase Deutsche Bank shares for monthly (FSB) and the circular released by the German partial payments of at least 25 euros and a financial authority (BaFin) at the end of December maximum of 125 euros within one year. Then 2009. In June 2010, the Committee of European Deutsche Bank supplements the shareholding that Banking Supervisors (CEBS) deemed our report was purchased in this way on a one-to-one basis to be exemplary. In March 2011, simultaneously Our Compensation Report with a maximum of 10 free shares, provided that with our Annual Report 2010, we published the can be accessed at the employee remains at the company for another second independent compensation report. In it we db.com/ir year. The plan was introduced in 27 countries by demonstrate that our current compensation system Check-up 40+ the end of 2010. also fulfills the new stipulations that have been applicable since the beginning of the year 2011 We offer all employees from 40 years of age a regular health completely. check-up that goes well beyond the ordinary health care benefits of the statutory health insurance scheme. The medical examination is supplemented by an individual consultation regarding physical health, nutrition, and coping with stress. 66 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 67 02 Sustainability: Social issues Human and labor rights Respect is a fundamental right The respect of human and labor rights is an integral part of our self-conception and has been incorporated into the business and infrastructure processes of Deutsche Bank by means of clear rules. Code of Respecting human rights About 60 percent of our employees in Germany and Conduct for The framework of the provision for human rights roughly 50 percent of our employees worldwide are suppliers issues is formed by our policies, which apply across employed on the basis of wage agreements or similar Our Code of Conduct the Group. In these policies we commit ourselves to arrangements. In 2010 more than 70 percent of the for suppliers demands equality of opportunity, international agreements, such as the World Bank employees who were entitled to vote took part in freedom of negotiation, Standards, the OECD Principles for Multinational the works council elections in Germany. More than and a ban on both child and forced labor. In Enterprises, the International Labor Standards, and 400 works council members represent the interests our Code of Conduct the UN Global Compact Principles. of our employees in Germany. To some extent they we commit ourselves to avoid any type of are released from their normal work duties for that discrimination. In 2010 we started an initiative to raise awareness purpose. Among other things, in 2010 they conducted among employees for human rights issues. In negotiations with the executive management and addition, we conducted an evaluation of our reached an agreement on new remuneration systems business activities on human rights and subjected for employees who are not covered by the collective our guidelines and tools, for example in the area of agreement. risk management, to an assessment. In 2011 we will continue that work and, where necessary, we intend We also advocate the observation of employee to revise the guidelines. We want to anchor the rights even outside of our own company. Our resulting goals and measures in our business and procurement principles, which are applicable infrastructure processes by way of our sustainability worldwide, require that our suppliers strictly management system. comply with the respective national legislation and recognize equality of opportunity as well as the right Labor rights to collective bargaining and adequate minimum The principles of the UN Global Compact as wages and benefits. If any of our business partners well as the standards of the International Labor fundamentally violates one of those principles, we Organization (ILO) form the foundation for how terminate the business relationship with them. employees’ rights are structured at Deutsche Bank. In addition, the respective national legislation is also authoritative for us. We respect the right of freedom of association and collective bargaining, and we cultivate a constructive and trust-based relationship with employee representatives and trade unions at all levels. 68 02 IV. Governance issues Transparency and accountability Transparent and effective corporate management is the foundation of our economic success. Effective corporate governance structures as well as comprehensive compliance and risk management systems are of crucial significance in that context. 18,000 Compliance with laws and guidelines 18,000: number of accounts that are opened at Deutsche Bank every day and examined with respect to money laundering using intricate filter and monitoring systems 3,086 Safety by training 3,086: number of colleagues who participated in our Crisis-Emergency Communication and Continuity Planning Trainings in 2010 for the first time 2010 “Good Corporate Governance” 2010: year in which our new Code of Ethics was introduced, requiring our senior financial officers to adhere to the principles of integrity, accountability, responsibility, fairness, and respect for others 13 Protection of reputation through effective risk management 13: percentage of transactions involving ecological, social, or governance aspects that are escalated in conjunction with our reputational risk management process Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 69 02 Sustainability: Governance issues Communication with national and international institutions Corporate governance Shaping political opinions Our corporate governance responsibilities Deutsche Bank regards active participation in political Deutsche Bank places enormous value on effective corporate opinion-making and contributing towards the democratic governance, which ensures responsible management and control of legislative process as part of its social responsibility. Deutsche Bank in a manner geared toward creating sustainable value. Through our political work in Berlin, Brussels, communication with home and host supervisors. The essential framework for this is provided – first In addition, we expect high standards of behavior More information can be found in our Annual London, and Washington D. C., we participate in Its main focus is on the coordination of the bank’s and foremost – by the German Stock Corporation on the part of our employees. These are defined in Review 2010 see p. 27, international efforts to strengthen the financial interaction with its supervisory colleges, in Act and the German Corporate Governance Code. our Code of Conduct and our Global Compliance our Financial Report 2010 see p. 376 et seqq. and regulatory framework. We do this by supporting particular the trilateral, made up of the German Furthermore, as our shares are also listed on the Core Principles. Each individual is expected to our Compensation Report initiatives aimed at improving capital markets and Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to U.S. act professionally, fairly, and respectfully and to see p.128 et seqq. of the Financial Report 2010. by contributing to expert committees, professional the New York Federal Reserve and the UK Financial capital market laws as well as to the rules of the uphold Deutsche Bank’s values. Our Code of Ethics banking-on-green.com/ associations, and the policy making process in Services Authority. The day-to-day management Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the requires our senior financial officers to adhere to the  corporate_governance legislative and regulatory bodies. of the regulatory relationships is handled by local New York Stock Exchange. principles of integrity, accountability, responsibility, db.com/ir Chief Country Officers, who are supported by fairness, and respect for others. Reforms worldwide are mainly focused on enhanced Compliance. For Deutsche Bank, the central elements of effective Our Code of Ethics: capital and liquidity requirements, improved corporate governance are good relations with our We continuously check our system of corporate market infrastructure, and strengthened corporate Deutsche Bank EU Representation shareholders, effective cooperation between the governance in the light of new events, statutory banking-on-green.com/ code governance, in areas such as risk management. Today about 70 percent of all financial market Management Board and the Supervisory Board, a requirements, and developments in domestic and Deutsche Bank is also committed to measures that laws and regulations in Europe are issued in performance-based compensation system with a international standards, and make the appropriate will enhance the resilience of financial markets and Brussels. For many years our Deutsche Bank EU sustainable, long-term focus, as well as transparency adjustments. institutions in crisis situations. Representation there has served as a link between in our financial statement and timely reporting. our corporate group and EU institutions. The We conduct a continuous dialogue with office offers EU representatives our expertise governments, parliaments, and supervisory and market experience with respect to financial authorities to help them develop the tools to avoid services issues. By promoting a solid regulatory another global financial crisis. Central coordination framework, more transparency, and continued of global regulatory policy issues is handled by the integration of the European financial markets, the Government & Regulatory Affairs Department, in representation contributes towards continuous close cooperation with offices in Berlin, London, political communication with EU decision makers Functions of the Supervisory Board and Management Board and Washington D. C., and the EU Representation at all levels and is supported in this endeavor by our in Brussels. The team members maintain direct experts. As part of the democratic decision-making Supervisory Board (20 members) contact with supervisory authorities and legislators process, which incorporates the points of view of all Chairman’s Committee, Risk Committee, Audit in national and supranational institutions, providing affected stakeholders, the bank’s EU Representation Committee, Nomination Committee, Mediation expertise from across the bank for debates. In addresses the interests of Deutsche Bank in political Committee 2010 we responded to consultations and put discussions. – Appoints, supervises, and advises the forward views on a wide range of proposals – Management Board covering everything from enhanced capital and Our EU Representation also underscores its – Is directly involved in decisions of Control and advice fundamental importance liquidity requirements to bank levies and corporate ambassador function by organizing cultural and – Considers the aspect of diversity on the governance. social events that are open to the general public in Management Board and when proposing Brussels. Thus – in addition to its political work – it Supervisory Board candidates A Regulatory Contact Office, based in Frankfurt, also promotes the bank as a responsible corporate London, and New York, assists Deutsche Bank’s citizen. Management Board (7 members) Information Group Executive Committee (12 members) – Is responsible for managing the company Management Board members, Heads of the Core – Ensures that the provisions of law and Businesses, Head of Americas Region, and Head of company-internal policies are abided by Asia Pacific (ex Japan) – Attaches value to diversity when recruiting – Analyzes the development of the business divisions for senior management functions – Discusses matters of Group strategy – Develops recommendations that are presented to the Management Board for decisions Last updated: February 2011 70 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 71 02 Sustainability: Governance issues Compliance and anti-money-laundering The core responsibilities of compliance include Compliance with legal framework conditions – providing advice to the individual business units regarding applicable laws, directives, and regulations and supporting their implementation Failure to comply with regulations can cost a bank its business and its – monitoring, reviewing, and analyzing trades, transactions, and business processes to identify and mitigate potential compliance risks reputation. Compliance risk is the danger of insufficient compliance with UK Bribery Act was enacted in the United Kingdom – developing and communicating globally and locally applicable internal compliance laws, rules, and regulations. Potential consequences that may result to combat bribery, we reviewed our, among others, principles, standards, and policies are legal or regulatory sanctions against the bank as well as financial or group policy regarding accepting and giving gifts – monitoring and verifying conformity with those principles, standards, and policies reputational damage. and invitations. – maintaining the bank’s watch and restricted lists, helping manage conflicts of interest, and administering employee trading requests In order to prevent corruption, we introduced a – supporting compliance with the bank’s internal confidentiality barriers computerized system for recording and monitoring (“Chinese walls”) gifts and invitations in 2009. We also have a global, – measures within the scope of the anti-money-laundering program to ensure Deutsche Bank attaches the greatest importance financing of terrorism, and other criminal acts. The professionally run employee hotline telephone compliance with all embargo provisions that apply in the EU and in other countries to managing and minimizing compliance risks by bank’s anti-money-laundering program reflects all number that serves as a channel for discussing where the bank maintains subsidiaries or branches means of its Compliance and anti-money-laundering legal and regulatory requirements, including the issues and concerns confidentially. All employees – ensuring that any occurrences that give reason to suspect money laundering or the programs, which are both overseen by the bank’s recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force globally also take part in a computerized training financing of terrorism are brought to light and reported to law enforcement authorities as required by law global integrated Compliance organization. on Money Laundering and the recommendations course entitled Preventing Corruption and Fraud, and standards of the Basel Committee on Banking which is regularly revised and repeated. – training and educating staff on applicable regulations and rules The Compliance unit provides advice to all Supervision. Furthermore, Deutsche Bank is a – coordinating risk control with other functions departments and responsible managers across member of the Wolfsberg Group, in which leading – supervising reputational risk management Deutsche Bank on ethical conduct. It helps to internationally operating banks have joined forces to identify regulatory solutions; safeguards the bank’s map out principles for combating money laundering – managing daily communications with regulatory agencies around the world integrity and reputation; and, in conjunction with and the financing of terrorism. A total of 135 Business, promotes the culture of compliance of employees are responsible for implementing our the bank. All employees share responsibility for anti-money-laundering program. compliance. In 2010 we reviewed and updated our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Another We continually review our anti-money-laundering review focused in particular on compliance strategies and objectives. The German anti-moneyInnovative with the BaFin circular on minimum compliance laundering law was amended to bring it in line with Corporate Security & Business Continuity approach requirements, stipulating the principles of a properly the Third EU Money Laundering Directive. The Preventative security measures Towards the end constituted compliance function in detail for the first substantive requirements of those amendments of 2010 we won the Compliance Innovator time. have an extraterritorial scope of application, and of the Year award within the bank we implement them by means Corporate Security & Business Continuity’s (CSBC) programs help to (Thomson Reuters/ Complinet), for our The Compliance area has more than 500 employees of an inter-departmental global workgroup. We protect our infrastructure, processes, and information. They also cover the innovative approach worldwide and is independent of the business units expect our managers and employees to consistently to the delivery of of our bank. comply with the high standards we have committed maintenance and recovery of business operations including contingency compliance services within Deutsche Bank. ourselves to fulfilling. That enables us to prevent any plans for possible terrorist attacks or natural disasters. Anti-money-laundering program abuse of our bank, its products, and its services for Deutsche Bank has more than 14 million clients the purpose of money laundering and financing of worldwide and conducts more than 10 million terrorism. transactions with an aggregated volume of about CSBC is responsible for the security of Deutsche Bank also monitors worldwide security IT security 1 trillion euros every day. About 18,000 new Anti-corruption program Deutsche Bank, the continuity of our businesses, risks and assesses travel policies to reduce potential The Computer Emergency Response Team (dbCERT) accounts are opened with Deutsche Bank every We also monitor corruption risks constantly. and the corporate crisis management process. This related personal and business risks. For example, is a central service for the day. Sophisticated filter and monitoring systems Our anti-corruption program helps staff uphold includes strategic guidance on issues ranging from guidelines govern the number of employees analysis and investigation of IT security incidents. scrutinize new accounts and existing accounts as Deutsche Bank’s transparency and integrity in all fraud prevention to the protection of employees and traveling together on one flight, to reduce the It is responsible for well as current transactions. business dealings to avoid any improper advantage buildings. business risk in the event of an incident. addressing online threats such as trojans, viruses, or even the appearance of questionable conduct. and phishing attacks as With its anti-money-laundering program, As part of the program, we ensure our internal Deutsche Bank was one of a number of German Corporate security programs are an important part well as other forms of unauthorized access. Deutsche Bank provides strong support for the control mechanisms are in line with the provisions of banks to be targeted by skimming fraud at ATMs in of our business. Mandatory online trainings covering international efforts to combat money laundering, international treaties and local legislation. After the 2010. CSBC worked with the bank’s Business divirelated issues help ensure that employees are aware sions to implement various fraud prevention meaof risks and the appropriate responses. sures that helped to significantly minimize losses and improve client security around this issue. 72 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 73 02 Sustainability: Governance issues Data protection Risk management Protecting client and employee data Understanding and assessing the complex world The purpose of data protection is to protect the right of every individual to Our group-wide risk management is one of the key responsibilities of the Management informational self-determination and to prevent abusive use of personal Board. Environmental, social, and governance issues have become more of a focus in data – for example that of clients and staff. addition to the classic risks that banks have always kept a vigilant eye on. Accountability As a bank company we make use of IT-supported One focus of our activities in 2010 was the In the past year we have attached even greater those risks is an important objective of the bank’s principle global processes and applications for our business. implementation of the amended federal data importance to effective risk management. group-wide risk management system. We require Because data protection Data protection is of central significance to us. protection law. The latter primarily pertains to the Continuously reviewing and revising our guidelines our staff to deal with those risks in a responsible is firmly anchored within the bank’s organization credit scoring area and communications with credit and processes contributes towards bringing manner. and its processes and Our data protection experts collaborate closely agencies. Our data protection experts work closely the bank’s structures even more in line with the thanks to its global data protection network, across all regions. They ensure compliance with together with data protection supervisory bodies to requirements that our stakeholders place on us with The identification of so-called “sensitive topics” is today Deutsche Bank data protection regulations, which frequently vary advise and support the business divisions that are regard to risk management and sustainability. an important foundation for comprehensive and has already implemented essential elements of the from one country to another. In Germany the data affected. timely management of reputational risks. These are accountability principle protection officers that are stipulated by law also Our risk management principles and guidelines are thematic issues which have a high profile in current, that is currently being discussed in the EU. monitor the area. Central coordination and control In June 2010, a workshop of the European precisely tailored to the individual business divisions public discussions and which might influence the of all processes with data protection relevance Privacy Officer Network was held at our bank. and their respective areas of activity. In combination business activities of Deutsche Bank directly or is handled by the Group Data Protection (GDP) Various globally active companies and German with our systematic methods for identifying, indirectly. The Group Sustainability department division. Overall responsibility for data protection data protection supervisory authorities met for a measuring, monitoring, and controlling risks, they as well as our Compliance division monitor such lies with the Management Board. practically oriented exchange of ideas. support decision-making processes at all levels thematic areas continuously. As part of our within the bank. management of reputational risks, we communicate Comprehensive internal data protection guidelines Also in the future, we will continue to scrutinize such sensitive topics within Deutsche Bank in apply to day-to-day operations. We have also our actions in the area of data protection regularly. The reputational risk management process conjunction with a specifically designed process, established detailed processes for prevention and Among other issues, we want to link our global data Deutsche Bank is aware that its own business for example in monthly and quarterly reports. In for dealing with data protection complaints, for protection network even more closely to business activities could have a potentially negative impact on this way, we ensure an adequate response to any example. We implement data protection training processes and to enhance the effectiveness of our the environment and society. Such an impact may negative effects that such thematic issues may have measures regularly in all our country subsidiaries in data protection. also lead to risks to the bank’s reputation. Avoiding on our reputation. order to raise our employees’ awareness of the importance of data protection and ensure systematic adherence to the regulations. Escalation of reputational risks Group Reputational Risk Committee – Regular meetings – Discussion of escalated reputational risk issues – Final decision of transaction Escalation, if reputational risk Regional/divisional review issue is not resolved (otherwise – Discussion of escalated reputational risk issue normal approval process of – Regular meetings transaction) Business review supported by control groups – Identification of reputational risk issue of client transactions – Informal discussion – Formal review incl. senior management – Control groups (Compliance, Legal, Credit Risk Management, in case of ESG issues: Group Sustainability) Deutsche Bank Know Your New Product Credit Standards Customer Approval Directives 74 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 75 02 Sustainability: Governance issues Escalation of reputational risks Core principles for our banking business Product Approval – the recognition and assessment of accounting, The group-wide guidelines on reputational risk We have established measures that are aimed at In the course of our approval process for new valuation and tax risks Risk management management assign primary responsibility for counteracting reputational risks. For example, our products (New Product Approval) we analyze – compliance with existing policies as well as functions identifying, escalating, and coping with reputational global Credit Directives incorporate guidelines for the risks that may arise in connection with the reviewing whether new policies and processes are Chief Risk Officer risks to the staff of our local business divisions. weapons handling, outlawed products, or dangers introduction of new products and modification of required · Overall responsibilities for risk management The role of our internal control functions – such to people, the climate, and the environment (see existing products by means of our New Product · Chairperson of the Risk as Compliance, Legal, Credit Risk Management, p. 77). Transactions involving one or several of Approval process. The objective is to ensure the Internal governance Executive Committee, or Group Sustainability – is to advise those those domains require special assessment by our operational readiness and effectiveness of our Our group-wide Reputational Risk Management which manages risk for the entire Group business units. Close cooperation between the senior management. The Group Reputational Risk internal control and risk management processes. Policy obliges every single staff member to control functions and the business units ensures Committee and the Group Credit Policy Committee The New Product Approval framework supports assume responsibility for proper management of Group Credit Policy Committee that reputational risks are reliably identified and are responsible for assessing their compliance with reputational risks pertaining to the bank. Failure to · Subcommittee of escalated so that they can be addressed effectively. the relevant internal standards of Deutsche Bank. – the identification, assessment, and limitation of comply with this obligation may have a negative the Risk Executive Committee that defines, operational risk impact on the individual discretionary pay. By means among other tasks, If no mutual agreement on the mitigation of the Last but not least, compliance with basic legal and – the identification and evaluation of consequences of this interconnection, we aim to create positive Group-wide lending principles risks resulting from individual transactions can regulatory requirements and with internationally with regard to market, credit, and liquidity risks incentives for our employees to commit themselves More about risk management can be · Biannual information on be reached by way of cooperation between the accepted standards and voluntary obligations is a – the recognition and assessment of general proactively, openly, and conscientiously to proper found in the Financial so-called policy business unit and the cross-divisional functions, matter of course for Deutsche Bank. For example, consequences with regard to regulatory, statutory, identification, communication, and handling of Report 2010 decisions, which are taken in addition to the escalation process is managed by one of our these include embargo regulations, the directives and reputational risks reputational risks in all work areas. deutsche-bank.com/10 material lending divisional or regional Reputational Risk Committees. of the Financial Action Task Force on Money decisions If no decision can be reached at that level, or if the Laundering (FATF), the World Bank Standards, the · Review of the relevant policies at least once case is especially complex and entails substantial OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, a year risk, the Group Reputational Risk Committee is and the UN Global Compact Principles, as well as Group Reputational entrusted with resolving the matter. The latter is a the principles of the Finance Initiative of the United Risk Committee sub-committee of the Risk Executive Committee Nations Environment Programme (UNEP FI). We also · Subcommittee of the Risk Executive and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer of take the aforementioned regulations and guidelines Committee that Deutsche Bank. into consideration within our group-wide risk examines reputational risks across the business management process. units Both the Group Reputational Risk Committee and · Decision on reputational the Risk Executive Committee receive monthly Program for assessment of new issues after an escalation by senior management reports on the transactions that were escalated clients and products Credit Directives or regional management, to the divisional and regional Reputational Risk Effective standards and procedures for acceptance Core principles for our banking business or as required by Group policies and procedures Committees in accordance with the Reputational of new clients – Know Your Customer standards · The group officer for Risk Management process. In the year 2010, over and procedures (KYC) – help us to combat money the sustainability 98 transactions were reported in this context. laundering, financing of terrorist activities, and Defense equipment Environmental issues management system is called in on a case-by13 percent of those involved ecological, social, similar acts of commercial crime. At the same time, “We will not consider any involvement “Deutsche Bank regards the case basis when dealing or governance issues. they play a decisive role in protecting the bank from in transactions connected with specific responsible treatment of the with ESG risks misuse of its products and services and in avoiding types of weapons, in particular environment as an integral part Green Filter damage to its reputation. That means knowing the antipersonnel landmines, cluster of its corporate identity. […] In In the year 2009 we created a Green Filter in order individuals and corporations that the bank enters bombs, or ABC weapons.” […] addition to complying with the legal to do justice to the growing significance of climate into business relationships with, as well as those provisions relating to environmental risks and to sustainably underpin the progress that people and entities that are behind the former or are Pornography/red light area protection, we undertake to protect has been achieved in the area of climate protection indirectly linked to them. “Deutsche Bank will not enter natural resources such as air, water, and ecology. In January 2010, we integrated this into business relationships with and soil. […] We will not finance filter into our Group Reputational Risk Management Effective KYC starts with the process of accepting a counterparts belonging or being certain globally banned products, policy, thus placing a strong focus on risks associated client and continues in the form of regular reviews. close to the pornographic sector or e.g. CFC, asbestos.” […] with business activities involving carbon intensive The bank makes use of a risk-based approach to adjacent areas (red light area).” […] industries. This alignment of our reputational Customer Due Diligence. Without a review and Embargos and related restrictions risk management also means that when making acceptance of the potential client according to the Betting and gambling industry “All embargo regulations of the decisions about business activities we always take relevant procedures for the respective business unit, “We specifically do not want to be European Union (EU) apply to the entire into account whether those decisions contribute the bank does not trade in investment funds and connected to counterparts within this Deutsche Bank Group. In addition, local towards improving our own carbon efficiency and bonds nor does it enter into any legal obligations. industry which show signs of proximity regulations that go beyond the restrictions that of our clients. In our view, this approach is This also applies to opening an account, selling a to problematic areas (e.g. red light introduced by the EC have to be followed by particularly relevant in industries with especially financial product, as well as any type of service area) or which are prone to serve as those directly affected thereby.“ […] carbon intensive production, such as coal, forestry, whatsoever. basis for illegal activities, as for and agriculture, mining, metal production, and the example the handling of cash entails chemicals industry. the possibility of money laundering.” […] 76 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 77 03 Education For society and business alike, people’s knowledge, skills, and social competence are decisive resources. Every investment in them is an investment in the future. Supporting opportunity and achievement is a fundamental requirement for sustainable prosperity and social cohesion. 78 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 79 03 Cultural education Experiencing art and culture fosters creativity and broadens horizons. We support this experience, as we do here at the Deutsche Guggenheim in Berlin, see p. 88 03 Promotion of science and international dialog Academic excellence is essential to expand society’s level of knowledge. For this reason, we support the transfer of know-how, as we have been doing for more than 100 years at the University of Frankfurt, see p. 90. 03 Equality of opportunity Access to education must be available to everyone, regardless of social background and economic situation. In the Philippines and around the world, we enable young talent, see p. 86. 80 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 81 Education Aiming high The goal of the 13-year-old Christopher Nguyen is nothing less than to complete high school and qualify for university. And with support from the FairTalent initiative, he will achieve that ambition. The program enables talented and motivated students from disadvantaged backgrounds to receive an education and achieve their full potential. Christopher Nguyen is 13 years old and lives in Piesau, a city in southeastern Germany. Not too long ago, he had little hope of receiving an education and realizing his capabilities. His living situation simply prevented him from attending high school. But that is no longer the case. In the second half of 2010, Christopher received a scholarship from the FairTalent program of the Roland Berger Foundation, supported by Deutsche Bank. The program offers selected students a comprehensive support program designed to promote personal achievement – from the beginning of their primary schooling to the end of their secondary schooling. Altogether, 600 students from the German states Hesse, Saxony and Thuringia applied for 150 scholarships. Of these applicants, 240 advanced to the final round. The jurors from areas such as business, science, and religion as well as politics, art, and education met the applicants to learn more about their skills and social commitment. Good grades alone are far from sufficient to win a FairTalent scholarship. Christopher has been with the program since September 2010 and has benefited from the very beginning. “I’m participating in many interesting courses,” he says. His favorite subject is biology. “You can discover a lot, for instance with the microscope when you look at animal cells,” he adds. And what does he want to become someday? “I think often about this but I’m still not sure,” he replies. There is still plenty of time for Christopher to answer such a question. And he can also count on help. FairTalent takes an individual, long-term approach. 03 Enabling talent Christopher Nguyen, scholar 82 of the FairTalent initiative Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 83 03 Education: Enabling talent Students receive a personal educational plan and participate in a program that pays attention to their learning and social skills. FairTalent offers not only – We support equality of opportunity by enabling young people to reach goals otherwise unachievable to them because of their social Knowledge alone courses on politics, science, culture, and general finance but also summer academies, personality coaching, and etiquette courses. Along their background. We pay particular attention to talented people who can combine a wide range of skills with social competence. Our society is not enough education path, students are assisted by volunteer and economy will require responsible leaders for Equality of opportunity: Society and business mentors. 14 of these mentors are Deutsche Bank tomorrow. employees. need young people who are not only skilled – We support the cultural education of young but also socially competent – people who are FairTalent is a special project within the framework people by giving them the opportunity to gain prepared to accept responsibility for themselves of Deutsche Bank’s educational programs, as experience in the area of art and culture in addition Dr. Josef Ackermann underscored at the welcoming to factual knowledge. We view this combination and others. They are the leaders of tomorrow. ceremony for scholarship winners: “For us, FairTalent of experience and knowledge as essential to cope And this new elite class of responsible leaders is a beacon project for all the other educational with our increasingly complex world. should recognize all talented people, regardless programs we support. Equal educational opportunities for everyone, irrespective of their – We support science and international dialog by of their background. cultural origin, are essential for cohesion in our encouraging the cross-fertilization of research communities.” and entrepreneurism. Only in this way can the results of top research flow into the broad canon Learn to think More about Christopher Nguyen and FairTalent With its educational projects, Deutsche Bank of knowledge and help our society effectively find pursues three programmatic approaches: answers to pressing global questions. outside the box Cultural education: Knowledge is the basis for a successful career. And those who also seek diverse new experiences are best equipped to master today’s complex world. Experiencing Teamwork: Christopher Nguyen doing his homework, together with another FairTalent scholar art and culture fosters creativity and thus the capability to excel, perceive, and communicate. Networks are crucial to success Promotion of science and international dialog: Academic achievement is of paramount importance to the broad growth of knowledge. It requires establishing and expanding networks to provide an exchange between cultures and between knowledge and practice. 84 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 85 03 Education: Enabling talent Equality of opportunity in South Africa for teachers and a science camp organization Compassion for Migrant Children, Millennium The children of Bulungula for students to scholarships for underprivileged provide an education every year to more than 1,700 goal: Schools children from the townships in Johannesburg. children of migrant workers. for everyone Altogether, the projects in 2010 supported 1,258 Share of elementary Elementary education for everyone is high on the agenda nearly schoolchildren and teachers at a cost of 3.2 million In Europe, the state typically ensures a primary school-age children who do not attend school (in everywhere in the world, particularly in South Africa where the rands (about 350,000 euros). and secondary school education. But young percent) people from challenging social environments World number of children attending school continues to rise. What remains particularly difficult in Africa and Asia often have difficulty in secondary school, let alone 1999 16 % 2008 10 % is access to education for children whose parents graduating from one. Since 2008, Deutsche Bank South Africa are HIV-infected, suffer from AIDS, or have died. has contributed to the ThePlace2Be project at a 1999 42 % 2008 24 % These children are often treated as outcasts in their London secondary school. The project helps socially Southern Asia Competition The objective is clear: “By 2015, all children of the requires action not only by governments but also by communities and restricted from attending local disadvantaged children between the ages of 1999 21 % School at its best world should be entitled to a complete elementary non-governmental organizations and companies. schools. Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation has helped 11 and 12 to stay in school. The program has been 2008 10 % During the 2009/10 school education,” the United Nations stated in 2000 as affected children pursue a normal school education so successful, in fact, that it will be introduced in Western Asia year, 600 secondary 1999 17 % school students preparing one of its Millennium goals. In the year under review, Deutsche Bank in Thailand (see below) since 2003 and in Cambodia an additional 30 schools in Britain over the coming 2008 12 % for vocational training supported 18 programs in South Africa that since 2004. Some 3,000 children alone in Cambodia three years. Northern Africa took part in the School at its best (Starke Schule) And the world, indeed, has come closer to improved the educational opportunities for children benefit every year from the Back to School program, 1999 14 % 2008 6 % contest, up 10 percent achieving this goal. While 16 percent of all children and gave young people an education. One of them, launched in May 2008 in cooperation with the In Germany, Deutsche Bank Foundation helps over the previous school Eastern Europe year. Germany’s largest were still denied a primary education at the turn of Bulungula, focuses on children of pre-school and M’Lop Tapang Foundation. children and young people overcome personal 1999 11 % school competition honors the century, today that figure is down to 10 percent elementary school age. The program provides barriers and pursue vocational training or a 2008 7 % educational excellence and helps schools – worldwide 90 of 100 children of school age now education in villages previously without schools Another educational challenge has emerged in the university degree. Since 2004, the foundation Southeastern Asia 1999 7 % qualify their students for attend school. But exceptions remain. For instance, or helps build schools in those areas. So far, rapidly growing urban areas of eastern Asia. The has been a supporter of one of Germany’s largest 2008 5 % vocational training. The program is cosponsored in sub-Saharan Africa, every fourth child still grows 120 children have benefited from the Bulungula local infrastructure there is unable to keep pace with scholarship programs, START. The program focuses Latin America/Caribbean by German employer up without a school education, and in rural areas initiative. the flood of workers and their families. Since 2008, on students from immigrant families in classes 8 1999 6 % associations, the Hertie 2008 5 % Foundation, and the numbers are even higher. Much work remains Deutsche Bank has enabled the construction of to 10 whose successful integration and access to Eastern Asia Deutsche Bank to be done if the promise to provide access to The scope of educational projects realized in South mobile schools for the Dongba migrant community higher education are aided by the scholarship. 1999 5 % Foundation. education by 2015 is to be fulfilled. This target Africa ranges from an advanced training program in Beijing. The schools, which are run by the So far, the program has aided 1,200 students. 2008 4 % starkeschule.ghst.de Source: UN Milestones: Schooling for children affected by HIV/AIDS in Chiang Rai, Northern Thailand 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Project start Early achievements Overcoming taboos Family support Online database Capacity expansion University Planning 2011 The cooperation of The first 80 supported Sex education classes 40 households caring The number of people The number of people qualifications Four undergraduates the newly established children returned to are now available for for AIDS orphans who have been directly supported directly Saranya Wongsa is the in the program Deutsche Bank public schools. 25 of the first time as part of receive vocational or indirectly supported and indirectly has first AIDS orphan in the will continue to be Asia Foundation these school students the Sports and Games training for incomesince the start of the doubled to nearly program to complete a supported until they with the local Sem completed their Day. This topic is taboo generating activities, project has reached 1,993. Significant university degree. She graduate in 2011. Of Pringpuangkeo vocational training; six among the tribes in the such as market 1,080, exceeding the investments have been currently works as a 295 assisted children Foundation aims to of them established Chiang Rai region. research, business and thousand mark for the made in employee qualified nurse in the and youth, 280 attend support education their own hairstyling finance training, seed first time. An online training and technical Maharaj Nakorn Chiang school and 15 are of children affected shops, with posters funding, and product system, which is being infrastructure. Mai Hospital. in university. An by HIV/AIDS in the promoting AIDS marketing. currently introduced, additional 60 young northern Thai city of prevention on their compiles information people are receiving Chiang Rai. walls. about the individual support vocational students and tracks training. their development after school. 86 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 87 03 Education: Enabling talent Training To improve the occupation integration of lower the initiative. For children from non-academic supported this contest of the Cultural Foundation of materials. Today, the Design Museum Shop On the bus for school secondary school students, Deutsche Bank environments, COMPASS OF STUDIES paves the the German States, which showcases exceptional produces and sells the pennants. headed for art administrators Foundation supports the program Ready, Set, Job! way to a university education. Launched in 2007, collaborative projects between schools and How to bring art to people – or the other way In 2010, 56 school One year before they complete their education, the program accompanies young people during cultural partners. The program encourages schools For more than five years, Deutsche Bank around? With art buses. administrators from Argentina received school they acquire relevant job skills through courses their last two years of high school and their first to work with cultural institutions and artists to has supported Playing Shakespeare with Name: Walraff, the management training and extracurricular activities, ranging from year at university. Some 93 percent of the students give young people the opportunity to gain new Deutsche Bank in Britain. The program, which is Museum Bus under the Headmasters, Goal: cultural experience Leaders in Action program. math tutoring to seminars about manners. And in the first Compass of Studies class decided (cultural) experiences. It has meanwhile served performed by the Shakespeare Globe Theatre in for school students in the The initiative is supported they do so successfully: The placement rate for to pursue a university degree. The U.S. program, as a launching pad for 4,334 projects with some London, guides students through the works of Walraff-Richartz-Museum by Deutsche Bank and in Cologne accompanied academically apprenticeships has increased from 25 to 85 College Ready Communities, has a similar objective 150,000 participants. Since 2010 Children Shakespeare with performances and workshops Duration: since 2007 by the Universidad de San percent. At six locations in the state of North but different format; its key supporters include the to Olympus! has been on the list of contests conceived especially for them. Since the project Participants: 9,300 Andrés. The bank supports Award: German Culture similar projects in Britain Rhine Westphalia, 2,000 secondary school Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation and the recommended by the Federal Council of Culture was launched in 2005, 65 percent of all state Award 2008 and Germany (see p. 131). students have found a training position through Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Ministers to German schools. schools in London have taken advantage of the Name: Art Bus Singapore program – and 14,250 young people alone in 2010. Goal: Singapore school­ children encountering Deutsche Bank has taken a new approach to foster contemporary art cultural education in Britain. Design Ventura, Deutsche Bank Foundation broadened its longDuration: since 2009 Participants: 2,300 launched in May 2010 as a cooperative project with standing commitment to the educational sector Award: Friend of Heritage the London Design Museum, aims to help young in the year under review and added a new cultural Award of the National Heritage Board in 2010 people learn more about design and business. dimension to its START program for gifted and 2011 Participants between the ages of 14 and 16 were school students from immigrant families: Since Name: Collection Tours given the task of developing both a new product the 2009/10 school year, the program’s opera Goal: museum visits for Cultural education and concept to bring it to market. They were workshops opernSTART have been introducing schoolchildren and adults during the RUHR.2010 Show your colors assisted by 14 Deutschbankers in the course of students to classical music. Six workshops with 20 cultural capital event Duration: from March to 22 business workshops in British schools. All participants each are held annually (see p. 122). December 2010 ideas developed during the year were presented Participants: approx. A contest for young designers, like Design Ventura in London, is at an event in December, followed by an award Also new in 2010 was our support of the Children’s 20,000 supported by Deutsche Bank to advance the cultural education of ceremony on January 27, 2011. The first prize Choir Centro Historico Ciudad de Mexico. The went to Haberdashers’ Aske’s Hatcham College in choir, launched in 2000 as a project to support young people. Those who seek new experiences beyond factual Lewisham. The college submitted the Dove Bunting children from socially underprivileged families, knowledge, we believe, will cope better in our complex world. project, featuring small flags made from recycled now performs across Mexico. The South African Melodi Music program, which Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation has sponsored since 2005, has a similar approach: The initiative helps school Two birthdays Cultural educators maintain that young people students from Soweto learn how to play classical Two programs of can benefit from art and culture in many ways. instruments such as violins, cellos, and clarinets. Deutsche Bank Foundation that Cultural education not only inspires them to be introduce children creative; it also changes the very culture of learning to art celebrated big birthdays: The Fulda and teaching, enhances intellectual abilities, Children’s Academy and fosters complex thinking as well as keen (supported since 2007) turned 20 in early perception and rhetorical skills. This understanding 2011; and the Youth of art and culture has begun to penetrate the Art Prize was awarded for the tenth time in public consciousness more and more. Many see 2010 within the Youth an involvement with art and music as helpful Interprets Art project in the Küppersmühle in mastering core school subjects by imparting Museum in Duisburg. subject matter that is crucial for a knowledgeIt was given to the study group St. Johann based society. Blönried from Aulendorf for its work entitled Pangaea. More and more individuals, clubs, organizations, and companies now endeavor to help children and deutsche-bankstiftung.de young people become exposed to and immersed kaf.de in cultural projects. Deutsche Bank is among them. Promoting art and culture has been an essential 194,943 part of our corporate social responsibility for people decades, as is our support of educational projects participated in 2010 in this context (see p. 118 et seqq.). in cultural education programs that were supported by With Children to Olympus! Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank, 55 percent more than Foundation shows its long-standing commitment Does it work? Or do they need to tinker in the previous year. to this sector. Since 2004, the Foundation has a bit more? Two youngsters in London work on their design project 88 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 89 03 Bildung: Talente fördern Promotion of science also gaining privileged access to Ph.D., MBA, and to academia, however. Deutsche Bank is now in Committed and international dialog other post-graduate students. its tenth year of participating in the Dual Career achievers project of the German Sports Aid Foundation The goal of the TEACH Italian initiative Both Deutsche Bank and Milan’s Bocconi (Stiftung Deutsche Sporthilfe). The project helps initiative in South Africa is to find the best University, which is viewed as one of the top aspiring athletes combine athletic achievements university graduates for the most deprived management and business schools in Italy, benefit with successful careers. We have supported more schools. To strengthen By establishing a professorship for from the cooperation in terms of research and than 500 athletes this way. Since 2010, Deutsche the ties between high achievers and society, finance at the Milan Bocconi University, networking.“ The partnership gives us a strong Bank has promoted the Sports Aid Foundation top university graduates involvement in the educational sector,” says Flavio through the campaign Your Name for Germany work for two years in we support the transfer of know-how Valeri, Chief Country Officer at Deutsche Bank (Dein Name für Deutschland). The fundraising township schools. In its first year, TEACH began between theory and practice. Only Italy. “And it does so at a time when the quality of initiative seeks to attract more than 40,000 with 75 positions, which attracted more than 100 through global networking can society’s employees is becoming an increasingly important individual contributors ahead of the Olympic applicants. factor for a company’s success.” Games in 2012. level of knowledge, in general, benefit from advanced research. Deutsche Bank enables a five-year professorship at Teachers on the Luxembourg School of Finance, a department a study tour at the University of Luxembourg. The Deutsche Each year, 100 social study teachers from Bank Chair of Finance focuses on researching the United States and If our aim is to remain successful as a global banking and financial applications for the Canada learn more about Germany during knowledge-based society, two developments are Luxembourg financial center. a 14-day study tour. necessary: first, as many people as possible need Transatlantic Outreach Program is a joint to excel; and second, we must ensure that their In 2010, Deutsche Bank also extended its initiative of Germany’s insight flows into the broad canon of knowledge. cooperation with the Goethe University in Department of Foreign Affairs, Deutsche Bank, One of the tasks of educational and vocational Frankfurt, a partnership spanning nearly 100 years. and other partners. institutions – public and private alike – is to give We founded a new professorship for international Moreover, the program offers 4,725 educators talented individuals the opportunity to achieve finance in the university’s House of Finance. The and others training and share their knowledge. This is largely the task chair, to commence in 2011, will be devoted to the programs and instructional materials of universities, and it is one of far more urgency interdisciplinary question of how the international for their students. to industrialized Europe than it is to the rest of finance system can be reshaped following the goethe.de/top the world. The reason is demographic change. recent crisis. The thrust of our support, however, Europe faces a possible shortage of talent, as older will remain with the Center for Financial Studies. skilled people retire from the workforce faster than The center, as part of the House of Finance, younger people enter it. conducts independent, internationally targeted research on all topics of relevance to financial As a result, Deutsche Bank significantly expanded markets. its promotion of science in 2010, with an aim to increase the integration of scientific theory Outside Europe, we have deepened our relationship with entrepreneurial execution. To this end, we to the Tongji University in Shanghai. At the entered into two new partnerships with European university, we sponsor a summer program that universities in Milan and Luxembourg and allows students to delve into financial topics and significantly increased our financial support for the gives them background knowledge about Europe. European School of Management and Technology In addition to an intensive language course and in Berlin. business studies, the program includes meetings with German industry representatives in Shanghai The Bocconi University in Milan has installed the and tours of German companies operating in the Deutsche Bank Chair of Quantitative Finance and city. Moreover, we annually award a scholarship to Asset Pricing, held by Professor Carlo Favero, who five students at the Tongji University to participate is a long-standing expert in financial economics. In in the international summer program at the Goethe addition, we award scholarships to students at the University. university and participate in organizing seminars on financial topics. The collaboration allows us to Our support of excellence as well as the crossexchange views and information with faculty, while fertilization of theory and practice is not limited Learning, questioning, understanding: Students in an auditorium On the way to a lecture: a new professorship for Milan’s Bocconi University 90 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 91 03 Education: Enabling talent Education: 2010 in review Growing volume and stronger involvement What we achieved: Our goals for the future: Deutsche Bank increased its investment in the In 2011, Deutsche Bank aims to further expand number of participants it supported worldwide its programs for creating greater equality of in 2010 (see charts). Our list of successful recent opportunities. In the United States, we plan to align initiatives includes FairTalent with 150 scholars in technology and innovation to improve education Germany and College Ready Communities in the in public schools and also make greater use of our United States, which, in its first year alone, reached expertise to advance policy change in education. 1,800 school students from low-income families in Deutsche Bank Foundation aims to strengthen New York City. We also promoted more educational the COMPASS OF STUDIES program through the programs in Asia, such as Families and Children creation of an alumni network and to introduce the Empowerment and Development, which benefited program in other locations. 300 schoolchildren in the Philippines. Wherever useful and possible, Deutsche Bank will The commitment of Deutsche Bank and its rely more on its own employees for educational foundations to education continues to produce programs. An excellent example is our involvement encouraging results, both in quality and quantity. in the Music, Art, Drama, and Dance project in One example is the COMPASS OF STUDIES Hong Kong in which 60 corporate volunteers have (STUDIENKOMPASS) program: 93 percent of the so far been able to support 300 schoolchildren. At scholars from the first class of graduates aim to the same time, we will encourage our employees to pursue a university degree – four times as many become even more active in mentoring programs as the national average for students from nonsuch as Big Brothers Big Sisters. A greater academic families. 92 percent of the teachers rated interlinking of our educational commitment with the the learning skills of participants in the Knowledge Human Resources division is also planned. Counts (Wissen rechnet sich) initiative, which gives 7th to 10th grade students basic finance knowledge, A further focus is to expand our involvement in as “very good” or “good.” The Art Bus program, the House of Finance at the Goethe University launched 2008 in Cologne and in Singapore a year in Frankfurt. In 2011, a new foundation will be later, was successfully introduced at the RUHR.2010 established with support from the Deutsche Bank cultural event in Germany’s Ruhr Valley region. The Donation Fund and a new professorship, devoted Arts & Business Council of New York honored us to the interdisciplinary question of how to reshape with the Encore Award for our support of Free Arts the international finance system. With the NYC programs for children (see p. 148). Deutsche Bank Prize in Financial Economics for Kenneth Rogoff and the planned symposium in 2011, In 2010, we were able to further internationalize our we also see an opportunity to improve the exchange program for promoting science, especially through between theory and practice. two new professorships in Italy and Luxembourg. The Transatlantic Outreach Program organized 315 workshops with more than 4,725 participants – 52 percent more than in the previous year. 23.5 35.4 274.3 337.1 10.0 14.3 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Total investments of Number of participants Participants in the cultural Deutsche Bank Group in education projects education program Playing in the area of Education (in thousands) Shakespeare with Deutsche Bank (in m. €) (in thousands) 92 “If you’ve worked on something you’ve enjoyed, don’t keep it to yourself! Spread your positive energy.” In 2010, 25 percent of Deutsche Bank’s employees in the United States  volunteered in social projects supported by the bank. Free Arts NYC provides educational arts and mentoring programs that help at-risk children foster the self-confidence and resiliency needed to realize their fullest potential. Sales Assistant Scott Hernandez has played a critical role in growing Free Arts NYC into one of New York’s most successful volunteer partnerships. He has engaged and inspired colleagues to embrace Free Arts; and hundreds of Deutsche Bank volunteers employees each year are now volunteers. at Free Arts NYC 04 Social Investments Aid for the most vulnerable people and disadvantaged communities: There is no alternative to this obligation. We help in various ways, whether through the personal commitment of our employees, the use of our networks, or innovative finance models. 04 Community development Intact local communities such as here in the United States are the basis for a civil society, see p. 104. 04 04 Help for the disadvantaged Microfinance We offer support for people in need because of social People and social initiatives often lack fair access hardship or natural catastrophes. In South Africa, for to capital to help themselves and others. In South instance, our focus is on children, see p. 102. America, for instance, we have applied innovative financial instruments, see p. 105. 96 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 97 04 Creating opportunity Social Investments Active for women and children Quit? No, Chennupati Vidya can’t imagine that. “There is no retirement for my enthusiasm and passion for the development of women and children,” says the 75-year-old Indian who dedicated more than four decades of her life to the aid organization Vasavya Mahila Mandali. Chennupati Vidya knew she faced a daunting challenge to overcome the discrimination women confronted in India. “Women and girls were not encouraged to pursue an education, leading to ignorance and living in their own shell. Hence they became fatalistic and superstitious with constricted thinking,” she says. Vidya had a different childhood from most Indian women: Her father was a compatriot of Mahatma Gandhi, and she lived in his ashram, a place of religious retreat. “I wanted other women to be like me – educated, exposed to the outside world, and able to build their knowledge and develop scientific interest,” she adds. Since 1969, the organization Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM) has followed that goal. The relief organization for women and girls in Vijayawada in the Indian province Andhra Pradesh organizes, among other events, a series of literacy courses for women and operates a housing development project for female workers. Since 2005 Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation has supported Vidya’s relief organization, in line with the strategic approach of engaging strong local partners. Vidya is particularly interested in the youngest of India’s society. So far, VMM has been able to support about 40,000 street children and as many AIDS-affected children by providing educational opportunities and medical care as well as offering shelter in the children’s village in Vijayawada, an interim home for orphans and abandoned children. In most cases, the relief organization works closely with the families of the children to provide care in line with Indian traditions. “If we do not support the children, most of them become unproductive adults and will not be useful for the family and society,” Vidya says. “In the absence of focused impact mitigation programs by the government it requires public private partnerships by investing in building future generations.” Chennupati Vidya, president of the aid 98 organization Vasavya Mahila Mandali Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 99 04 Social Investments: Creating opportunity An obligation Vidya also has an immediate answer to the – In the poorer emerging countries of Africa and question about what her investment can achieve. Asia, our goal is primarily to help people meet their “After 40 years of my work, the most rewarding fundamental needs in areas such as education and change is to see women and girls empowered in society. Women are being recognized for their good academic and professional skills,” she says. medical care. – In the developed countries in which basic needs without alternatives “They are well placed in society and have become are met, we help marginalized people and Help for the disadvantaged: People in need decision makers. This change in their social status communities pursue a better future. is what I have strived for, and is the most gratifying require everyone’s support. We help in two work in my life.” – And it is our aim to enable people everywhere to ways: by supporting institutions that structurally lead a self-supporting life and determine their own improve the situation of children in the poorest Initiatives like VMM, which support future future as best they can. generations, are a key focus of Deutsche Bank’s regions of the world; and by providing swift and social commitment. And for good reason: Children Important milestones for Deutsche Bank along the direct aid following natural catastrophes and for and young people are the weakest and most often way are microfinance instruments like social venture restoration. neediest members of society. Invariably, projects funds. A growing number of initiatives benefit from that focus on their needs not only improve their these funds, which serve to promote growth and lives and those of their families but also help development (see p. 14). sustainably strengthen the local social structures. In its social activities, Deutsche Bank aims to Natural catastrophes such as earthquakes and floods require not only immediate disaster relief No social cohesion without commitment create opportunities for people and communities for people in dire need but also support to restore More about Chennupati Vidya’s to overcome unemployment and poverty. Our the infrastructure and guarantee long-term organization strategic approach varies regionally: development of the affected region. Deutsche Bank is active at both ends (see p. 103). Community development: Functioning local communities are particularly important in our globalized economy. They guarantee social cohesion and foster an effective ecological system. We support various initiatives financially Chennupati Vidya with children and young people who are supported by the relief organization Vasavya Mahila Mandali and through the personal commitment of our employees. No help without ethical principles Microfinance and social venture funds: To help people help themselves requires innovative financial instruments that serve both social and economic goals. To apply these successfully, we leverage our global networks and core competencies. For years, we have promoted ethical standards in this context. 100 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 101 04 Social Investments: Creating opportunity Help for the disadvantaged Earthquakes Swift, direct, and with personal commitment in Haiti Just three days after the devastating earthquakes on January 12, 2010, Be it social hardship or natural catastrophes, people Deutsche Bank donated 4 million US dollars in need require support, which we provide effectively in aid, which was the net U.S. equity trading together with local partners. commissions on that day. In the following days, employees and clients donated an additional 900,000 US dollars, which the bank and its foundations matched. Jobs for the Social commitment is an essential pillar of every –Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation cooperates Total aid amounted to mentally society. Everyone can contribute, individuals, with MaAfrika Tikkun in an education program around 5.8 million US dollars, of which challenged organizations, and companies alike. For its activities for youths. MaAfrika Tikkun is an organization 2 million US dollars was The Milan-based for disadvantaged people around the world, that aids abandoned children without parents in provided to immediate organization Itaca relief efforts. The rest is helps people with Deutsche Bank has two guiding principles: to support townships. flowing into long-term mental impairments or socially deprived or threatened young people; and reconstruction programs. psychological problems integrate into the work to cooperate with local partner organizations whose Vietnam provides a further example of how world. Deutsche Bank is competence and networks are essential to the Deutsche Bank complements the competencies of helping the organization launch its Clubhouse success of our programs. local partners with its own. In the year under review, Earthquake Itaca in Rome, scheduled 20 percent of Deutsche Bank Vietnam employees in Chile to open in 2011. Deutsche Bank has much to contribute to these participated in building and operating the Huong Victims of the earthquake in Chile on February 27, collaborative efforts in the way of human, material, Duong Education Center in Ho Chi Minh City. 2010, benefited from a and financial resources. Our employees offer their They advised the leaders of the center in financial donation of 1 million US dollars by Deutsche Bank. Protection knowledge and skills as corporate volunteers, and management issues. Prior to the center’s The amount was the net against violence whether in workshops for young people or as opening, they also helped members with the interior Latin-American equity trading commissions on Violence against advisors and coaches in numerous projects (see furnishings and outdoor facilities. The Huong Duong March 17, 2010. Bank children is a mounting problem in South p. 131 et seqq.). The contacts between people with Education Center offers orphans and physically or employees and clients as well as Deutsche Bank Africa. The Take Action often widely varying backgrounds are mutually mentally challenged children a home and education. Americas Foundation Foundation, supported by Deutsche Bank Africa beneficial for all involved. Launched in 2010, the center today has 17 registered donated an additional 500,000 US dollars. Foundation, offers inhabitants, soon to be 70. children and young people training and advice Unicef views the living conditions for children in on how to overcome Africa as particularly oppressive. More than Homeless children in Jakarta can also find shelter in difficult situations in their daily lives. The 15 million children have become orphans from the a center enabled by Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation. Flooding successfully launched AIDS plague alone. In South Africa, around Since 2007, the foundation has cooperated with in Pakistan program will expand to additional townships in 1.5 million children have lost their mothers or fathers officials from the Indonesian capital to improve Employees and clients of Deutsche Bank from the coming years. or both through AIDS. The number of orphans in the educational opportunities for street children. In around the world donated country threatens to reach four million over the next the first quarter of 2010, Deutsche Bank donated a 350,000 euros to victims of the flooding disaster decade. Supporting them is a fundamental concern “creative house” made of sustainable materials to in Pakistan in mid-2010. Future for of Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation, which supports the center, which is run jointly with the organization Bank foundations in Germany, Asia, and Africa Children numerous initiatives in this area: Kampus Diakonia Modern (KDM). The building provided nearly 700,000 Since 2003, serves to educate children and visitors about the euros in additional aid for Deutsche Bank Group Pakistan. The donations companies have – Refilwe God Parents places orphans in foster effects of climate change and the impact on their were used to purchase sponsored the Future families, which allow the children to grow up in an lives and communities. and distribute thousands for Children (Zukunft für of water filters and tons Kinder) program together orderly social environment. of essential items such as with SOS Children’s Deutsche Bank Foundation’s Alfred Herrhausen food and clothing, among Villages. The previous others, in the affected start-up capital, provided – Nurturing Orphans of AIDS for Humanity (NOAH) Fund supported eight initiatives for young people regions. by a building loan, has is an initiative that allows orphans and vulnerable in difficult living situations in 2010. They include been continuously supplemented by children to remain in the security of their own an educational project in the German state donations from the bank, community after the death of their parents. To Brandenburg, which gives school dropouts a second its clients, and employees. With this project, that end, more than 100 so-called “arks” have chance, and a training center in Berlin staffed with Deutsche Bank offers been established. These are not buildings but youth workers. All the initiatives are managed underprivileged children opportunities for a better local networks that offer orphans and vulnerable in close cooperation with local organizations, future. children the opportunity to receive an education professionals, and institutions. Total investment in Deutsche Bank, its foundations, employees, and clients cooperate to help people impacted by natural s os-childrensvillages. and a home. In 2010, the initiative gave 30,000 2010 was more than 200,000 euros. catastrophes around the world – through direct aid and long-term reconstruction measures. The photos show org children a new chance in life. the impact of the flooding catastrophe in Pakistan (above and top right) as well as the situation one year after the earthquake in Haiti, where people continue to live in refugee camps and struggle to make ends meet. 102 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 103 Through this cooperation – and the commitment In 2010, 457,000 pounds sterling were raised for Example of of hundreds of corporate volunteers – we StreetSmart and SleepSmart. ­Excellence contribute to improving the living conditions in In 2001, Deutsche Bank initiated the first poor neighborhoods east of the central financial With 365 Landmarks in the Land of Ideas, now in com­munity development district. The Spitalfields Together project, which its sixth year, Deutsche Bank has participated in project in London’s East End, in the Shadwell aims to elevate the living conditions in the socially an entirely different approach to supporting local neighborhood. Two more explosive Tower Hamlets district, is the third within success stories in its German home market. The projects followed over the past decade. The the cooperation. Over the course of two years, project, presented by the Germany – Land of Ideas Shadwell, Shoreditch, and the initiative has provided education, training, or initiative in cooperation with the bank, annually Spitalfields initiatives have won numerous awards, employment for 1,700 people through 37 individual awards 365 selected ideas and projects that have including, Example of projects. contributed to Germany’s innovativeness. Every Excellence in 2008 and Power of Partnership in day, a local Deutschbanker presents the award. So the years 2009 and 2010 Moreover, Deutsche Bank broadened its support far, nearly one million people have participated in from the Business in the Community program. of the StreetSmart project in the year under review. the 1,826 award ceremonies. The project organizes a pre-Christmas campaign that encourages restaurant guests to add one pound Our cooperation with Germany – Land of Ideas sterling to their bill as a donation for local homeless goes beyond Germany to include Germany and Living Unity Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation supports Living Cities, an initiative that organizes projects for improving neighborhoods across the United States projects. As the year before, we covered the entire China – Moving Ahead Together. The series of award administrative and advertising costs of the campaign events organized under this initiative in China, Twelve innovative projects in Germany were incurred in London and throughout the United began in 2007 and culminated at the world additionally honored with Kingdom to ensure that every donated pound sterling exposition in Shanghai which was held from May the special award Living Unity (Gelebte Einheit) went to the homeless. For the first time, we also to October 2010. The goal of the events was to as part of the project 365 provided financial resources for a similar project, the boost the perception of Germany as a forwardLandmarks in the Land Community development SleepSmart campaign, which targeted hotel guests. looking, innovative country. of Ideas. They exemplify Germany’s growing Excellent support for local infrastructure together 20 years after unification. The award winners include Berlin’s East Side Gallery, the There are many ways to support local communities. These include Ratzeburg Cathedral, and the ecological version of employee engagement, professional know-how, and financial support. the relaunched former East German car, the Trabant nT. Our goal always remains the same: to empower people to find their land-der-ideen.de db.com/ideas place in society. Microfinance and social venture funds An impact investment Integration Around the world, Deutsche Bank is committed in their efforts to acquire and restore affordable initiative to improving the lives of disadvantaged people. In housing. The sponsored projects are usually part of Motivated people and social initiatives often lack access to financial Together with the nonthe United States, in fact, some sectors are even a broader, more extensive revitalization program for services to be able to achieve and sustain positive outcomes. Our profit organization Living legally bound to such a commitment. All regulated affected neighborhoods. Within these initiatives, Cities, Deutsche Bank USA launched the banks in the country are subject to the Community we also promote education and culture. long-term development work offers both commercial and social Integration Initiative in 2010. The initiative plans Reinvestment Act (CRA), a federal law that obligates benefit (see the article on p. 14). to invest up to 80 million financial institutions like Deutsche Bank to help Two of Deutsche Bank’s new investments in US dollars in innovative solutions for housing, meet the credit needs of low-moderate income New York in 2010 included: the Via Verde project in transportation, and communities. These activities can be in the form which 222 affordable, energy-efficient apartments jobs in five U.S. cities. The selected cities are of donations, rendered services, investments, or will be built in the South Bronx section of New Microfinance has proven to be one of the most useful Deutsche Bank does not invest in ventures it 207 million Baltimore, Cleveland, loans. York City; and Home HeadQuarters, a non-profit and sustainable tools for helping the working poor considers neither serious nor safe; instead, we work US dollars Detroit, Newark, and Minneapolis-St. Paul. organization that revitalizes neglected housing in improve their circumstances in developing countries. only with organizations that uphold high standards This is the capital provided by Deutsche Bank has made a commitment that underserved areas of Central and Upstate New York In 2010, however, the industry faced new challenges of client protection. Indeed, Deutsche Bank was Deutsche Bank to exceeds the minimum required by the CRA in both state. Deutsche Bank pledged 15 million US dollars stemming mainly from a trend of aggressive a driving force in the creation of a written set of microfinance institu­ tions since 1997. the quantity and quality of its programs. In line with of financing for the construction of the Via Verde commercialization in certain areas, which manifested client protection principles rooted in the Pocantico Altogether, the bank our maxim “More than Money,” we often pursue and made a loan of 1 million US dollars to Home itself in high profits for microlenders at the cost of Declaration in 2008. These principles also form has provided funding for 114 such institutions innovative paths to solve social problems. As a HeadQuarters in 2010. the well-being of their clients. With its long-standing the basis for the Smart Campaign, an initiative of in 48 countries. reflection of its commitment, Deutsche Bank has experience in microfinance, Deutsche Bank has long the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) Some 2.7 million small entrepreneurs continuously received an “outstanding” rating for Several of our community development activities in alerted the international community to the growing and the Center for Financial Inclusion of ACCION have benefited from its CRA efforts for nearly two decades. Deutsche the United Kingdom have focused on neighborhood risk of aggressive commercialization and advocated International. Several hundred microfinance microfinancing so far. frequently promotes community development by renewal in partnership with East London Business greater ethical behavior and self-governance in the institutions and investors, including Deutsche Bank, advising and supporting non-profit organizations Alliance. microfinance sector. have signed up to the initiative. 104 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 105 04 Social Investments: Creating opportunity On the world’s For years, Deutsche Bank has supported socially In 2010, we successfully launched the Eye Fund. solar roof motivated microfinance programs and aims to The 14.5-million-US-dollar investment fund Lotus Energy is continue expanding its activities in this area. We provides financial support for eye clinics serving today Nepal’s largest photovoltaic company, view our involvement in the microfinance sector the poor in developing countries. The fund’s capital installing more than not primarily as a commercial activity aimed at has been fully invested in loans to clinics in China, 2,000 solar systems annually. The company generating profits; rather, our interest is the double Nigeria, and Paraguay. There, 30,350 patients with has been able to grow bottom-line; namely, to provide funds that support visual impairments have already been treated. thanks to a capital injection of 350,000 projects with both a financial and a social benefit. All have the same business model: only people US dollars, which who can afford treatment pay for it. All others are was provided by the development organization An important step in continuing the development treated for free, with the costs of their treatment E+Co and financed of the microfinance sector was the Islamic subsidized by the fees of those who can afford the through a low-interest rate credit from Microfinance Challenge, a global competition services. Deutsche Bank. created in 2010 to promote the development of sustainable business models for Sharia-compliant Big Issue Invest is a fund Deutsche Bank also helped microfinance. The goal of the competition was launch in 2010. The fund is a subsidiary of Big to develop sustainable microfinance products in Issue, a British non-profit organization that helps compliance with Sharia rules, which, for instance, homeless and less fortunate people earn regular forbid the charging of interest rates, and thus open income through the sale of a weekly magazine with access to microfinance to a large population of the same name. Big Issue Invest offers funding to currently excluded potential clients. companies, institutions, and projects that provide a social benefit and have the potential to establish Deutsche Bank also pursues a double bottom-line benchmarks. One of the fund’s investments is approach in the area of social venture funds. Social the Fifteen Foundation of star chef Jamie Oliver, initiatives can use these funds to receive capital at which offers disadvantaged young people training more favorable conditions than they would through as cooks. The loan required to launch the fund conventional financing. Through social venture is the result of international collaboration and funds, we provide financing for projects that would entrepreneurship, spearheaded by Deutsche Bank not be realized under purely commercial aspects. London, with help from Deutsche Bank New York. With a microloan into self-employment: an entrepreneur and her start-up Milestones: Deutsche Bank as driving force for responsible microfinance (see the article on p. 14) 1997 2001 2005 2006 2008 2010 2012 The first fund Growth support Award Start-up help Consortium Reconstruction help Client protection FINCA Smart Campaign Launch of the The fifth loan of First presentation of Launch of the Start of the Global Deutsche Bank initiates Deutsche Bank Together with FINCA, Roll-out of a certification Deutsche Bank the Microcredit the Micro-Credit Deutsche Bank StartCommercial the Tsunami Loan organizes a meeting of one of the largest process that enables Micro­credit Development Fund Prac­titioner Awards up Fund for financing Microfinance Program, which offers microfinance leaders in microfinance networks, microfinance Develop­ment ­Fund, the went to the Kashf honoring exemplary small microfinance Consortium, the first favorable conditions Pocantico, New York, Deutsche Bank institutions to affirm first fund created by a Foundation in Pakistan, microfinance institutions that are microfinance fund to to microfinance to discuss, among creates the FINCA compliance with the global bank to provide and it represented institu­tions. Winners of setting up business. attract institutional institutions in regions other issues, the need Microfinance Fund, guidelines for client capital for microfinance Kashf Foundation's first the awards come from The fund is currently investors. The fund of Asia affected by the for microfinance the first microfinance protection established insti­tutions. Total commercial loan. The Uganda, India, Pakistan, supporting institutions provided 89 million disastrous Tsunami client protection. The debt fund to close since by the Smart Campaign. financing provided institution has since and the Philippines. in Argentina, US dollars to support in December 2004. Pocantico Declaration the beginning of the Compliance is through the fund so far increased its number of Kazakhstan, Ruanda, microfinance Seven institutions in is the first formal ethics financial crisis. The confirmed by external is more than 6 million customers from 1,076 South Sudan, and Sri institutions in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, code for the sector. fund is honored as a auditors. US dollars. to more than 300,000. Lanka. 24 countries. and India received finalist of the Financial a total of 2.2 million Times Sustainable euros in aid. Investor of the Year 2010 award. 106 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 107 04 Social Investments: Creating opportunity Social Investments: 2010 in review Dynamic development and quality assurance What we achieved: Our goals for the future: In the social venture funds sector, the cumulated Due to our long-standing pioneering role, we feel volume of funds rose by 6 million US dollars to particularly compelled to assure quality in the 590 million US dollars. The growth stemmed microfinance sector. We see a need for action not largely from the Eye Fund and the Big Issue Invest just from individual providers but from the entire fund, both launched in 2010. The best-practice industry. In particular, we support the principles of transfer between our social investment teams the Smart Campaign for client protection as well as a in New York and London made a significant certification of compliance by an external auditor. contribution to the latter fund. As for our own microfinance activities, we Our Community Development Program in the concentrate on projects with a clear social focus. United States saw the launch of a range of new We are currently developing a new fund that will housing initiatives. The dynamic development of promote the client protection principles embedded this segment was driven in part by strong demand in the Smart Campaign that we support, and for low-income housing. Our support contributed implement the highest standards of customer to overcoming the impact of the financial and real service. estate crisis, resulting in 3,600 new housing units. In the social venture segment, we intend to launch In South Africa, we support numerous programs the Global Carbon Guarantee Consortium. This is a for disadvantaged children who have lost their financial instrument designed to realize small-scale parents. One of them, the NOAH project for AIDS projects for reducing CO2 emissions in developing orphans, was recognized as a “leading orphan countries. initiative” by the PEPFAR aids relief program of the U.S. President. In New York, we will spearhead a program in the area of community development designed to help In the year under review, we provided swift support immigrants launch their own businesses and create to victims of natural catastrophes in Pakistan, jobs. Haiti, Chile, Poland, Russia, and New Zealand. Moreover, we altered our internal guidelines so With our 365 Landmarks in the Land of Ideas, we that the coordination of our relief measures is are expanding the “participatory elements” and now standardized worldwide. We are thus able to creating new opportunities for public involvement respond more swiftly and efficiently. and volunteering. 31.7 37.7 3,400 3,600 85.5 114.9 135.4 33.4 2009 2010 2009 2010 United Kingdom Americas Asia Africa Total expenditures of Newly generated housing Beneficiaries of Social Investment Deutsche Bank Group units for low-income programs: 369.2 in total (in thousands) for Social Investments households in the U.S. (in m. €) 108 “In rural India there are a lot of successful female entrepreneurs, their country and the world needs to know about them. I’ll help.“ Since 2008 more than 20 employees from the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany have worked with microfinance institutions in India. Anja Dieke, Inhouse Consultant at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, spent five weeks in India’s Mhaswad region where she successfully filmed profiles of 15 successful female entrepreneurs. The production resulted in clips, available in both English and Marathi, to be used by the microfinance institution Mann Deshi Mahila Bank for promotional purposes. 05 Art & Music A vital cultural life needs an audience as well as young, creative talent. Deutsche Bank provides access to art and music, and supports aspiring artists, for instance, through its cooperation with the Berliner Philharmoniker. Within its education programme, the orchestra realized a dance project in 2010 based on an original composition by the jazz musician Wynton Marsalis. 110 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Verantwortung – Bericht 2010 111 03 Bildung: Talente fördern 05 Experiencing music Music is the language that connects the world. We support musical excellence and promote young talent, for instance, with the opernSTART workshop of scholarship holders and alumni of the Academy Opera Today, a scholarship program of Deutsche Bank Foundation, see p. 121. 05 Discovering talents Engaging in art opens new perspectives and broadens horizons, as the workshop for children does at Art Hong Kong, see p. 122. 05 Art works Making art accessible fosters the public debate. That’s what Deutsche Bank Collection stands for, such as here at the Deutsche Guggenheim in Berlin, see p. 118. 112 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Verantwortung – Bericht 2010 113 Art & Music When borders connect There are plenty of movie theaters around the world but this one is unique: Cinémathèque de Tanger is the first film and cultural center in North Africa and Yto Barrada, who founded the center, views it as her most important artistic achievement. “The Cinémathèque de Tanger has been almost 10 years of my life, and for an artist, that’s a long time to work on one piece,” she says. Yto Barrada, 39, grew up in Tangier, the Moroccan port city on the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. For the ancient Greeks, the world ended here. Today, Tangier is a mix of European, Arabian, and African cultures. The Strait of Gibraltar, on which Yto Barrada’s hometown lies, is the border between Africa and Europe, between the poor and the rich, between Islam and Christianity. To put it another way, Tangier is the prototype of an eternal border city. Borders also serve as the leitmotif of the artistic work of Yto Barrada, who was selected as Deutsche Bank’s Artist of the Year 2011. This award, which we presented for the second time, is totally committed to here and now. Our aim is to make new and exciting art accessible to the public at large. We support promising international artists who have already created a unique work of art and address social issues. Their oeuvre should be works on paper and photography. A special highlight is the solo exhibition of the Artist of the Year at the Deutsche Guggenheim in Berlin, followed by tours to other international locations. Yto Barrada’s most important tools are cameras. Her photographs, publications, and films always zoom in on the specific situation in Tangier, which she left for 16 years to study and work in New York before returning. The stay abroad, she admits, helped her better understand her home country. “The best way to start to make sense of your own culture and language is to look at it from another culture and language: It’s all about translation,” the artist says. 05 Fostering creativity Yto Barrada, founder of Cinémathèque de Tanger 114 and Deutsche Bank’s Artist of the Year 2011 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 115 05 Art & Music: Fostering creativity The future In her photo series A Life Full of Holes: The Strait Project, Barrada portrays Tangier and its inhabitants as if they were caught in a permanent “A main focus of our global art activities is to engage with different cultures and social realities,” says Pierre de Weck, a member of Deutsche Bank’s Group needs art waiting position. Her later works capture the Executive Committee. “Yto Barrada is therefore an Art works: Art builds. Art questions. Art unfulfilled expectations of people as well as the excellent choice as Artist of the Year 2011.” current political situation. What looks like bright transcends borders. Art works. This is why graphic designs in the Autocar series of photos are Involvement inspires – on all sides and beyond Deutsche Bank has supported contemporary actually clippings of tour bus logos, which are all borders. And for this reason, a key focus of art for more than 30 years to encourage and used by African refugees hoping to flee to Europe Deutsche Bank’s corporate social commitment has as a communication code. In her project Iris been for years to support art and music. On the one engage people. Artistic inspirations give us new Tingitana, Barrada investigates the countryside hand, we aim to encourage people to try something perspectives and lead us to take unique and around her hometown. These works show the new so they can broaden their horizons and discover innovative approaches – all of which benefits flowing borders between the city and the country, new talents. On the other hand, we support excellent and study how urban space is increasingly art and music and make both accessible to the society and business alike. Video portrait of Yto Barrada homogenizing nature. public at large. Top performance needs ensembles Experiencing music: Embracing a passion for music connects people of all ages and origins. Music is an ensemble, like an enterprise. Both owe their success to the interplay of ability, enthusiasm, inspiration, and discipline. Our No abstract designs but clippings from logos typically found on tour buses: Autocar photography by Yto Barrada long-standing cooperation with the Berliner Philharmoniker is living proof of the dynamism and innovation strong partnerships can produce. Visionaries need stages Discovering talents: Artists need opportunities to present their works of art and platforms to communicate with the public, especially at the beginning of their careers so they can turn a passion into profession. We encourage people to tackle something new and discover hidden talents. Only in this way will excellence thrive. 116 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 117 05 Art & Music: Fostering creativity A fundamental aspect of our commitment to art works from Asian artists. The exhibition was on Mark Bradford is to engage people. Exhibitions play a key role by display at the Deutsche Bank VIP lounge of the in Boston allowing viewers to experience works of art from Art HK, and at the Goethe-Institut in May 2010. As From November 2010 to March 2011, the Deutsche Bank Collection and embark on a a main sponsor of Art HK, we are expanding our Deutsche Bank supported personal journey of discovery. The first exhibition art commitment in Asia, further underscoring the a mid-career exhibition of works by Mark took place in 1982 in Munich. Since then, works significance of the region to our global strategy. Bradford at the Institute from the collection are often on tour – either on loan of Contemporary Art in Boston. The Los Angelesto international museums or as part of thematic Deutsche Guggenheim in Berlin, which is a based painter and exhibitions and solo shows organized by the bank. cooperation of Deutsche Bank and the Solomon collagist is considered one of the most significant Innovative curator concepts are at the heart of each R. Guggenheim Foundation, plays an important role voices in contemporary show. in presenting works from the corporate collection. art working in the United States today. In the first 12 years of its existence, the art gallery A fine example is the current exhibition Beuys and presented 15 commissioned works. Early in their Beyond – Teaching as Art, a collaborative artistic lives, numerous internationally renowned curatorial concept that links art and education on artists such as Neo Rauch and Kara Walker had their Deutsche Bank an itinerary to seven Latin American museums first major exhibitions in the exhibition hall, helping at Guggenheim from 2010–2012. Works from the corporate them launch their careers and achieve international The Deutsche Bank Series at the Guggenheim offers collection by Joseph Beuys and his students such acclaim. In 2010, Deutsche Guggenheim reported artists whose works have as Imi Knoebel and Jörg Immendorff are presented a record attendance of 140,000 people, further been exhibited at the Deutsche Guggenheim in in dialog with a selected artist from each country. strengthening its position as Berlin’s most Berlin a highly recognized Juxtaposed and exhibited alongside works by successful private exhibition space. platform in the American art scene. The series their respective students, the exhibition focuses began in 2009 with Anish on an exchange of ideas regarding contemporary Cai Guo-Qiang’s Head On, which premiered in Kapoor’s spectacular sculpture Memory, pedagogy and art practice and has attracted over Deutsche Guggenheim in 2006, has been a huge followed in 2010 by the Art in the Deutsche Bank 172,000 visitors to its first three venues, including success around the world. The installation of the Grey Area painting series from Julie Mehretu. Towers over 75,000 in Buenos Aires within a two month New York-based artist shows 99 lifelike wolves Commissioned work for the Deutsche Bank Collection at the modernized Group Head Office period. barreling in a continuous stream toward – and into – a constructed glass wall. Although Berlin and its At the same time, a new part of the Deutsche Bank history have been a source of inspiration for Cai’s Collection became accessible to the general public work conceived for Deutsche Guggenheim, the in Hong Kong. The More Than Meets the Eye message he conveys is universal and independent of exhibition presented a panorama of contemporary any cultural context or nuance. “I wanted to portray Art works photographic art and also offered an exclusive the universal human tragedy resulting from this Young, international, and accessible to everyone preview of the new art purchases for the Group blind urge to press forward – the way we try to attain Works of the Collection Head Office in Frankfurt, including a number of our goals without compromise,” the artist said in an at Art HK 2010 Our corporate collection of contemporary art is the most visible part of our commitment to contemporary artists and to our goal of opening people to innovative perspectives. Nedko Solakov: from the series Murmurings #1–12 (2007) Fostering creativity: guided tour for children at Art HK Visions Comprising more than 56,000 works, About 1,500 works of art are on display of Italy Deutsche Bank Collection is one of the world’s created by 100 artists from more than 40 countries. On October 2, 2010, most important collections of works on paper While Tower A features the young avant-garde the traditional Open Day of Italian banks, and photography since 1945. It is a constantly from Germany and Europe, Tower B presents Deutsche Bank evolving collection whose focus has shifted from artists from Asia, America, and the Middle presented works from its collection to 1,500 German art in the early years to young contemporary East/Africa. visitors at its Milan art from around the world today. The public at large head office. The works are largely from young can now experience 95 percent of the works. Art is also a distinguishing feature of artists and are often Deutsche Bank’s offices in financial centers such commissioned. For more than 80 years, A key objective of the Deutsche Bank Collection is as Hong Kong, London, and New York – each Deutsche Bank has to engage employees in contemporary art as well. with a different local theme. In Hong Kong, for actively promoted aspiring artists with the The collection is meanwhile as global as the bank instance, the focus is on China and Northern Asia. Villa Romana Fellowship itself. Following the move back into the Group Head Further highlights of the collection are on display in Florence, see p. 122. Office, each floor of the towers is now devoted to in Barcelona, Berlin, Milan, Mumbai, Singapore, a young international artist. Sydney, and Tokyo. 118 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 119 05 Art & Music: Fostering creativity São Paulo interview with ArtMag, the online art magazine of the main sponsor for seven years, Deutsche Bank Experiencing music Biennale Deutsche Bank. Head On was also on exhibit for two Education Space offers school classes the Far away at first and then very close In 2010, for the first time, months at the National Museum of Singapore. opportunity to discover contemporary art together Deutsche Bank supported the São Paulo Biennale, with artists and experts. And with more than 2,000 the most important art Deutsche Bank Collection is traditionally active in clients and 900 employees, the Deutsche Bank Young people need time to explore classical music. event in South America. Established in 1951, the the market for contemporary art. The collection Lounge posted a 30 percent increase in visitors over And when they do, they can discover a new world 29th São Paulo Biennale remains alive and “breathes,” so to speak, by the previous year. featured more than 150 selling selected works which are out of the focus full of enlightenment. artists and over 800 artworks from September of the collection, and using the proceeds to As an education partner of the Biennale of to December 2010. More than 400,000 school purchase new works from young, aspiring artists. Sydney, Deutsche Bank supports a comprehensive and university students Deutsche Bank also uses its regular presence at the educational program that includes special as well as other art enthusiasts participated world’s most important art fairs as a platform for its publications, a web-based teaching tool, podcast Deutsche Bank and musicians share the passion and transmitted them live in brilliant resolution Trust as a bridge in the accompanying comprehensive educational program for children interviews and tours, and special education lounges. for music. For decades, we have promoted and tone quality. Digital Concert Hall is unique to success educational program. and young people. For instance, at Frieze Art Fair From May to August 2010, the Sydney Biennale aspiring talent and supported excellent in the world of classical music. It transcends “Trust and energy are essential for new projects. in London, which Deutsche Bank has supported as attracted a record number of visitors – 517,000. international music events. Our goal is to make national boundaries, overcomes social barriers In Deutsche Bank, we music and cultural experiences accessible to the and offers people of all origins and ages a have found these qualities in abundance. We are Subscribe to ArtMag, public at large, especially to children and young new way to access the world of the Berliner proud to have such a Deutsche’s online art magazine people, to promote a more creative and innovative Philharmoniker. partner on our side.” db-artmag.com new generation. Sir Simon Rattle, principle conductor of the Berliner The number of classical music lovers who have Philharmoniker and The passion for music connects people – and experienced this outstanding orchestra live in this artistic director of the Berliner Philharmoniker. is at the heart of the education programme of way continues to grow, whether at home, at work, the Berliner Philharmoniker that Deutsche Bank in public viewing events, or in movie theaters. The has supported from its very beginning in 2002. 2010 opening season concert alone was shown in Head On (2010), an installation by Cai Guo-Qiang in Singapore Children and young people are introduced to 52 movie theaters. Worldwide, more than 15,000 classical music through workshops and dance people remotely experienced the concert live – projects, allowing them to discover new, creative 4,000 on the Deutsche Bank home page alone. possibilities to express themselves. Together with Music lovers can enjoy all Digital Concert Hall the Berliner Philharmoniker and other artists, they concerts either live or at a later time via a video learn musical works that they later present in front stream. Nearly 100 performances of the Berliner Enjoy the Digital Concert Hall of a large audience. In 2010, they entered new Philharmoniker are currently available in the grounds and performed Swing Symphony, a dance Digital Concert Hall database, with more than 30 project in Berlin whose music was composed by new performances added each season. the American jazz musician Wynton Marsalis for this particular occasion. Berliner In November 2010, the programme traveled to Philharmoniker Australia for the first time. Together with members as a role model of the Berliner Philharmoniker, Australian school A recent study commissioned by the students performed From Mahler’s time in the German Federal Ministry main lobby of the Sydney Opera House. The of Education and Science recognizes the Berliner Mahler project is embedded in the opera’s World Philharmoniker’s Orchestras Education Program, which is enabled educational work, which is impressively documented by Deutsche Bank. During their first concert trip in the award-winning to Australia, members of the orchestra also gave film Rhythm Is It!. The efforts have triggered master classes to young musicians. BPhil down under: Berliner Philharmoniker rehearsal in Perth a strong expansion of educational offerings in numerous German cultural The cooperation with the Berliner Philharmoniker institutions. goes far beyond this education programme. Since 1989, Deutsche Bank has supported the work of this outstanding orchestra in an exclusive partnership. In 2010, a focus of the cooperation was the Berliner Philharmoniker’s Digital Concert Hall, which ended its first season in the middle of the year. This web-based high-tech platform allows classical music lovers to experience concerts via the Internet. Since August 2009, Shared enthusiasm: The education highly sensitive microphones and remoteprogramme of the controlled cameras have captured concerts Berliner Philharmoniker 120 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 121 05 Art & Music: Fostering creativity Discovering talents Goethe-Institut introduces children and young Dance Embracing new ideas people to modern musical theater while, at the in Brazil same time, making them aware of the destruction Established in 2009, the partnership with Teatro of the Brazilian rain forests as well as the need and Alfa in Brazil’s São Paulo All young people need exposure to culture to further develop as opportunities for a dialog between the natives and was further expanded in the year under review. individuals, and all young artists need platforms to communicate those in industrialized nations. For three years, The Deutsche BankEuropean and Brazilian experts have collaborated sponsored Contemporary with their followers. We support both groups. with artists to develop a joint concept for media Dance Season included performances from seven art and contemporary opera. A key component renowned dance groups as well as two shows is the educational program, developed at the for children. In addition, request of the Yanomami Indians, which is one of Deutsche Bank supported the musical The King and I Young artists Art and music thrive on the lively interplay concert performed for the general public at the the last large indigenous groups in South America. in the Teatro Alfa. in Florence between tradition and avant-garde and between Alte Oper in Frankfurt. Immediately after the After its debut in May 2010 in Munich, Amazonas Since 1929, recognized and aspiring artists. To that end, concert, the jury named the winner: José Luís toured Rotterdam, São Paulo and Lisbon. As an Deutsche Bank and its foundation have we offer a platform for new voices to be heard Gómez Ríos, a Spanish citizen born in Venezuela. exclusive partner of the Goethe-Institut, Deutsche supported young artists and new faces to be seen. For instance, our Bank supported the accompanying international Workshops for with the Villa Romana Prize. The award foundation supports the International Conductors’ Combined support for music and the environment online activities of the opera. young people includes a scholarship Competition Sir Georg Solti, a joint project of is the focus of a project spearheaded by Deutsche Bank organizes and a 10-month stay workshops and tours for in the Villa Romana in the Alte Oper Frankfurt, the Frankfurt Museum Deutsche Bank Italy. The most famous International Even today, classical music remains relatively school and university Florence. The list of Society, the public broadcaster Hessischer Symphony Orchestras for Deutsche Bank is a threeunknown in Arabia. Deutsche Bank Middle students at a number recognized artists who of events, including the have won the award Rundfunk, and Oper Frankfurt. In 2010, the year partnership that supports Fondo Ambiente East Foundation hopes to change this. In Dubai, Biennale of Sydney, Hong over the years includes competition further strengthened its position as Italiano, Italy’s most renowned environmental the foundation organized for the first time a Kong Art Fair, the Frieze Max Beckmann, Art Fair in London, and Käthe Kollwitz, Georg the world’s leading event for showcasing talented, and cultural foundation. The program includes an classical concert, Giuseppe Verdi’s Messa da Deutsche Guggenheim in Baselitz, and Markus young conductors: a record 576 conductors annual performance of an internationally acclaimed Requiem. In collaboration with the Ministry for Berlin. More than 23,843 Lüpertz. Award winners young people visited these in 2010 were Nora between the ages of 19 and 35 and from 75 symphony orchestra in Milan’s famous opera Youth, Culture and Society of the United Arab events. Schultz, Rebecca Ann countries participated in the competition. Of house, La Scala. Emirates and the American University in Dubai, Tess, Vincent Vulsma, Thomas Kilpper, and these participants, 21 of them advanced to the Deutsche Bank brought together 200 musicians Henrik Olesen. preliminary round in Frankfurt. The three finalists Amazonas is a program devoted to environmental Music and environmental commitment: from Persian Gulf states. villaromana.org stood at the conductor’s podium for a closing protection. The multimedia music project of the the Amazonas music theatre project Milestones: Academy Opera Today (Deutsche Bank Foundation) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Founding Move Premiere Expansion Cooperation Workshop Anniversary Network opera Deutsche Bank The yearly Academy Matrix is the debut Support is extended to Academy Opera In the Oldenburg State The tenth class of A children’s opera Foundation supports Opera Today event performance of the applicants in the areas Today fellows perform Theater, Academy Academy Opera makes its debut at the the student initiative moves from Berlin Academy Opera Today. of composition and Benjamin Britten’s Opera Today fellows Today fellows is Oper Köln/Kinderoper Academy Opera Today. to Frankfurt. The The 2003–05 fellows stage design, further A Midsummer Night’s introduce young admitted. The class Köln. Deutsche Bank The foundation assists Mousonturm theater perform the piece in the strengthening the Dream in cooperation immigrants with of 2008–09 produces Foundation supports young conductors, joins as the new Mousonturm theater. exchange of views and with the Franz Liszt scholarships from the opera Innenleben, an accompanying dramatic advisors, partner. ideas among Academy School of Music and the START program which debuts at the educational project, cultural managers, Opera Today fellows the Schloss Belvedere to the world of opera Bockenheimer Depot in with the aim of and directors with a and across different Music High School, through workshops. Frankfurt. introducing young two-year scholarship disciplines. which Deutsche Bank OpernSTART is a people to opera. that accompanies their has supported for successful combination studies and work. years. of two CSR projects. 122 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 123 05 Art & Music: Fostering creativity Art & Music: 2010 in review Internationalization, openness, innovation What we achieved: Our goals for the future: With our move back into the Group Head Office For the past several years, we have been making in Frankfurt, we present a new art concept that our corporate art collection more accessible and clearly shows the increasing internationalization of will continue to do so. We are planning to create Deutsche Bank Collection. About 1,500 artworks new and innovative ways for people to access by 100 artists from 40 countries are featured in the contemporary art. An important milestone in this Towers. The collection is displayed in more than 900 context is Globe. For Frankfurt and the World, an Deutsche Bank offices around the world. In 2010, we artistic program, launched in early 2011 in our Group received the Art & Work Award in the category Most Head Office. Outstanding Contribution to Art in the Workplace. We intend to significantly increase the use of art and In 2010, we presented for the first time an Artist music events to communicate with our clients – of the Year, Wangechi Mutu, and created a public for instance, at art shows such as the Frieze Art Fair sounding board for art dedicated to current societal and Art HK. Also, as part of our social commitment, themes. Beuys and Beyond – Teaching as Art an we aim to create a greater appreciation for art and exhibition with works from the Deutsche Bank music and build bridges to other programs, such Collection, was well received in South America, as art auctions that benefit social projects in Asia attracting more than 170,000 visitors after its first or the integration of local revitalization programs three stops. supported by us in the United States. In both the art and music areas, we expanded our With the Digital Concert Hall of the Berliner educational programs around the world, including Philharmoniker, we plan to further develop the Australia, where the Berliner Philharmoniker live broadcast segment in movie theaters made its first-ever tour in 2010. More than 18,000 during the 2011/2012 season. We also intend to young people have participated in the orchestra’s reposition the orchestra’s education programme education programme since its launch in 2002. The to improve the sustainability of its offerings. Digital Concert Hall of the Berliner Philharmoniker Deutsche Bank Foundation will extend its support successfully established itself in the year under of the Ensemble Modern to give more people access review: 15,000 music lovers experienced the season to contemporary music. opening concert live. 21.8 21.1 17.1 23.8 200 654 4.0 15.0 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Total investments of Participants in art Visitors to Visitors to the Digital Concert Deutsche Bank Group in education programs The Deutsche Bank Series Hall on the occasion of the the area of art & music (in thousands) at the Guggenheim, New season opening concert of (in m. €) York arts (in thousands) the Berliner Philharmoniker (in thousands) 124 “Be the change.” In 2010, Deutsche Bank employees in the United Kingdom volunteered 10,874 hours of community service within their working hours, worth around 580,000 pounds sterling. Irfan Shareef, IT Performance Manager at Deutsche Bank in the United Kingdom, was appointed to the board of the nonprofit initiative Motiroti Arts, which shows young people how to create digital works of art. Shareef’s appointment was initiated by the Arts and Business’ – Young Professionals on Arts Boards program, which encourages the exchange between young, aspiring managers and non-profit institutions. 06 Corporate Volunteering Pass on your passion: Day after day, our employees show what passion to perform can achieve when it is passed on – in business and beyond. For instance, during the modernization of the former military base Governors Island near New York. 126 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Verantwortung – Bericht 2010 127 06 Sharing experience Advice from our employees can open new perspectives for others and help them pursue new paths as here in the Big Brothers Big Sisters mentoring program, see p. 136. 06 06 Strengthening leadership Practical, hands-on support Engagement also needs management. Our Around the world, Deutsche Bank employees tackle tasks employees support the directors of non-profit in projects in their local environments – and increasingly organizations in emerging markets through the as teams such as here in Frankfurt am Main; more on Corporate Community Partnership program, Team Challenges, see p. 137. see p. 132. 128 Deutsche Bank Gesellschaftliche Verantwortung – Bericht 2010 129 Corporate Volunteering Strengthening leadership For more than a decade, Deutsche Bank has supported coaching programs at an international level. Managers from different work areas come together to advise each other and gain new perspectives. The journalist Katharina von der Leyen visited two programs in London and Nagold, Germany. Leadership, motivation, communication, and execution are among the various topics that coaches and the coached debate eye-to-eye in leadership programs supported by Deutsche Bank. The “support culture” nurtured in these various initiatives has proven so successful that participants often stay in close contact years later despite – or perhaps because of – their different professional and private backgrounds. Broadening horizons Alex Manson, a Frenchman who has lived in the United States, Europe, and Asia and now serves as Managing Director of Corporate Investment Banking at Deutsche Bank in London, participated for the first time in a coaching program in 2005 when he teamed up with the director of a school in London, infamous for drugs and violence, students from troubled families, and teachers afraid of their own pupils. The opportunity for participants to broaden their horizons through unusual, sometimes unsettling and even sobering experiences is a desired effect of the cooperation. “What’s interesting about coaching – apart from the fact that it’s fun – is that you’re always forced to briefly abandon your privileged, tightly-knit professional world to deal with a broader segment of society,” says Manson, who has remained friends with the school director after their joint project ended. “I really can’t say who coached whom. I viewed the coaching experience as more of a friendly give-and-take in which I gave the director some advice and he certainly gave me some as well.” 06 Committing ourselves Alex Manson, Managing Director of Corporate 130 Investment Banking at Deutsche Bank in London Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 131 06 Corporate Volunteering: Committing ourselves Strengthening leadership a school administrator. “My father always when “Frau Tietze” explains how to make a good with some of the most disadvantaged young Promoting effectiveness complained about having to manage without having impression – not a teacher and not a parent, but one people across the United Kingdom, 16to 25-yearlearned how,” she recalls. of those people who may someday determine their olds without an education or a job, offenders, As a global provider of financial services, Deutsche Bank professional career. It’s different when “Frau Tietze” and substance users. Within a structured soccer shares the expertise and experience of its employees with Regine Michel has been at the Annemarie-Lindner shows how to make a firm, confident handshake, training program, they pursue a set of goals in areas schools, charity organizations, and non-profit programs around the world. The collaboration with the Partners in school since 1982 and, as she proudly admits, has clarifies what is appropriate attire, and warns such as physical condition, self-esteem, and team Leadership initiative, which focuses on schools, serves this “grown professionally together with the school.” against wearing too much makeup or piercings. It’s spirit, and later transfer into a continuing education purpose. She has taken her management role seriously from the kind of advice that teenagers unwillingly accept or job program. In 2010 alone, more than 3,000 The same is true for the Corporate Community Partnership the very beginning. “Some of the students here will from parents or teachers. young people participated in Street League, which program. Since 2008 this program has supported emerging someday become managers,” she says. “I really successfully placed 72 percent of them either in a markets by sending specialists from our various business want to give them guidance along the way so they The relationship between Martina Tietze and Regine job or in an educational institution. and infrastructure units to non-profit organizations, such as microfinance institutions and social entrepreneurs, to advise have a basic idea of what management is all about.” Michel reflects a fundamental principle of the their management teams (see p. 107). Their local support Partners in Leadership initiative – namely, to achieve Matt Stevenson-Dodd, Chief Executive of helps sow the seeds for self-supporting economic and social The two professionals also discovered early on a balanced give and take. “We complement each Street League, sought a mentor through the structures. Typical tasks of Deutschbankers include consulting that they have plenty of experience to share. “We other very well – which gives us the footing we need principle non-profit Impetus Trust, with which management, improving IT systems, and developing market strategies. Moreover, the program offers employees the determined that the friction points in both our worlds to tackle tough issues,” the manager says. “We Deutsche Bank has cooperated for four years. He opportunity to further develop themselves abroad, both are the same,” says Michel. “How do I explain don’t have to explain everything first; we know how was put in touch with Alex Manson. “Of course, personally and professionally. In the course of their severalunpleasant things to my staff members? How can to proceed.” people like Matt know very well what they have to week stay, they gain valuable experience that feeds back into I motivate them without having to promise them a do,” Manson says. “They have excellent intuitive their daily work. financial bonus?” Tietze, with years of experience From soccer to work capabilities; otherwise, they wouldn’t be in the as a management coach, nods in agreement. “We Alex Manson had a similar experience. He position they’re in. They also have plenty of constantly deal with issues like these, so I can really discovered how alike many of the challenges he charisma. What they sometimes lack are just a few help.” faced as a bank executive were with those of a management methods and tricks, as well as the school administrator. “Our conversations,” Manson ability to discuss things for a sanity check. Charities Since 1999, managers from more than Training to make a good impression recalls, “often revolved around the analogies currently have a difficult time because all grants 1,200 companies in the United Kingdom, including Tietze is now in front of a class of eleventh grade between corporate restructuring at Deutsche Bank – have been reduced. That means many organizations Deutsche Bank, and over 5,000 school administrators students, discussing a typical job application that was a huge focus of mine at the time – and the have to reinvent themselves.” have participated in the headmaster coaching situation. “You have seven seconds to make an restructuring at the school. There were incredibly program. And since 2006, Deutsche Bank has impression,” she says. “Seven minutes to make many similarities.” Mutual inspiration supported the Partners in Leadership program, the first impression stick and seven years to Stevenson-Dodd began 14 years ago as a youth contributing to the further improvement of school rebound from a bad impression.” The students Today, Manson coaches the director of worker. “I thought I actually needed to do something quality in Germany. In February 2011, the bank laugh but continue to listen attentively. It’s different Street League. The charity organization works that would make a real difference for people,” he received together with other corporations the Generali European Employee Volunteering Award – Deutschland in the category “innovation.” Management skills for school administrators Schools today are undergoing significant change. International studies such as PISA and PIRLS have shown that the most successful school systems are those that give individual schools a high level of responsibility. Education experts agree that in the future, schools should be managed less by ministries and local education authorities and instead be given greater freedom to develop into small enterprises with their directors functioning as managers. And in that role, they should also be equipped to serve as communications specialists, trusted sounding boards, and professional advisors. The problem is, management skills are not part of the traditional training of school administrators. The Partners in Leadership initiative aims to help school leaders and others master those skills. Regine Michel and Martina Tietze knew they had much in common after their very first encounter: Michel is the head teacher at the AnnemarieLindner-Schule mit Sozialwissenschaftlichem Gymnasium in Nagold, southern Germany, and Tietze is Director in Deutsche Bank’s Investment & Deutsche Bank manager Martina Tietze Finance Center in Stuttgart – and the daughter of (left) and head teacher Regine Michel 132 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 133 06 Corporate Volunteering: Committing ourselves recalls. “I’m driven by a sense of social justice – that people should have a fair chance. When you see what all this can do for charities. Alex is really good at challenging me with a lot of tough questioning, Those who help rely some of the disadvantaged in society, you realize that a lot of people don’t get many opportunities. An organization like Street League can really help.” And which I really value.” Consulting for the good of society on leadership it does it so successfully, in fact, that 10 Downing Alex Manson draws a comparison: “People like Matt Strengthening leadership: Non-profit Street has elected Street League for its charity of the or Neil, the school administrator, have a common year 2011. problem: They have no one they can turn to for organizations seek support in many areas advice as a partner,” he says. “When I work on the and benefit from the expert knowledge of our Having worked with mentors before, Stevensondeal but don’t know how to advance it, all I have to employees, from finance, quality management, Dodd knows how to use his time with Manson do is to open the door to a room full of bankers who extremely efficiently. “Matt typically prepares a list can help me.” and project management to marketing. Through of questions,” Manson says. “He wants to talk and leadership coaching our employees gain a new be pushed. So we really motivate each other.” The That is why the coaching programs are so view of themselves – and of their professional Deutsche Bank executive is fond of speaking about important: They enable an exchange of views performance indicators and targets that drive banks between managers on the one side and school world. forward. And Stevenson-Dodd likes to listen. “It’s administrators, directors of charity organizations, all about issues such as: How diverse is my portfolio and other leaders on the other. Both sides benefit Alex Manson and of activities or my target population? And how can from the opportunity to gain new perspectives and Those who share his commitment to Street League I optimize it?,” he says. “So now we’re looking at broaden their individual horizons. knowledge expand it Sharing experience: Whether it is mentoring schoolchildren or students, or advising nonprofit organizations, our employees offer knowledge and experience. Their outside Teenagers in the British Street League support program warming up views can help assess existing systems and structures, open new perspectives, and inspire new approaches. It is a win-win situation for everyone. Those who help directly help the most Practical, hands-on support: Around the world, our employees tackle tasks in their local environments, offering direct and individual support to non-profit institutions and social organizations – and as a team as well. They also support selected charities with fundraising campaigns. 134 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 135 06 Corporate Volunteering: Committing ourselves people in difficult living situations over the years. has aided more than 20,000 young people since Career start For more than a decade, our employees in New York its launch a decade ago. Of these, 83 percent have with JOBLINGE have supported the program, and since 2007 in gone on to receive a high school diploma – over In Munich and Berlin, Deutsche Bank Germany as well. At six BBBS locations, more than 20 percent higher than the graduation rate for all volunteers work as 20 employees currently serve as mentors for young students in New York City. mentors for JOBLINGE, a non-profit organization people from 6 to 16 years of age. We also support that helps young people 770 school events, such as Tandem Festivals, which serve to An additional group of people who benefit acquire key qualifications and social competencies partnerships recruit new mentors. immensely from mentoring programs are women on the job. In 2011, to enhance financial with disadvantaged or immigrant backgrounds. JOBLINGE will extend literacy across Germany its six-month training is the target. The goal is We also promote mentoring programs that target In many countries, they face huge challenges to program to Frankfurt. to teach young people young adults completing their schooling or enter or re-enter the workforce. They profit from joblinge.de how to deal with money responsibly and curb entering the working world. One example is the a professional network of mentors, emotional the rising level of youth Spanish initiative Fundación Junior Achievement support, and self-esteem building. Since 2007, bankruptcies. In 2010 alone, more than 1,300 (FJA). In 2010, Deutsche Bank and FJA successfully Deutsche Bank mentors support female employees were trained collaborated in nine new programs. Currently, immigrants selected for career integration by Effective as instructors. If your school is interested in 20 employees volunteer as mentors, helping the association beramí in Frankfurt: Half of the placement such a partnership, please young people with their vocational training and supported women found a job. Students of lower contact the nearest secondary schools Deutsche Bank branch personality development. are the target of the office or send us an In the United States, we support a similar project: Offenbach Mentoring e-mail: Program, which Another example is iMentor, a largely New Bottomless Closet. This project helps women in Deutsche Bank has FAB.direkt@db.com York-focused program that Deutsche Bank has difficult situations enter the workforce or return accompanied as a cooperation partner from supported since 2006. At present, 50 employees to work. Our employees voluntarily support these the very beginning. Since are active as mentors, an increase of more than women by coaching them in job interviews and 2004, volunteer mentors from the bank work 150 percent over the previous year. The program advising them in job searching. with students from the eighth and ninth grades in three Offenbach lower secondary schools. A mentoring program with a 100-year-plus tradition: Big Brothers Big Sisters, which was founded in New York For an entire year, the mentors accompany, coach, and support an individual student with the goal of finding the right training position. Practical, hands-on support patenschaftsmodellRolling up our sleeves of.de Sharing experience A tradition as current as ever In our Team Challenges, employee teams volunteer days of service for a non-profit organization, with the aim Transferring general knowledge and individual competencies of making a visible, tangible, and sustainable impact of requires a healthy portion of cooperation and willingness. That mutual benefit. understanding underscores the commitment of our employees as mentors around the world. Whether it is renovation work, large-scale tree Since 2009, employees in the Private Wealth 3,400 planting, or support for recreational activities, Management business line have participated employees Deutsche Bank offers employees a variety of in Team Challenges across Germany under the participated as teams in about 200 Team Advice for Mentoring is the oldest form of education we and young people from socially underprivileged volunteering opportunities with Team Challenges. motto People with Responsibility. In 2010, more Challenges in Germany community know. Long before schools existed, experienced families. Employees who volunteer as mentors meet On these days, Deutschbankers from a region than 50 teams with more than 600 employees alone in 2010. The teams decided themselves leaders people passed on their knowledge to the younger regularly, about once a month, with their mentee to or a business unit lend a helping hand in social worked together in 65 projects. Their volunteering which types of non-profit Deutsche Bank volunteers generation. With its mentoring program, undertake recreational activities and also discuss institutions, aid programs, kindergartens, or activities included building and furnishing a learning initiatives to support. help in distressed neighborhoods of New Deutsche Bank embraces this tradition with its own training and career planning. schools. The projects, which seek fast and workshop in a kindergarten in Eschborn, renovating York such as central and mentoring programs. Mentoring is an excellent noticeable results, mobilize numerous employees. a recreation room in a primary school in Hanau, south Brooklyn, through a partnership with Local opportunity for our employees to share their The youngest educational program in which some and installing a pavilion in a home for people with Initiatives Support know-how and experience – both within our own Deutsche Bank employees serve as mentors is Teamwork is in particular demand when it comes disabilities near Nuremberg as well as redesigning Corporation (LISC). They advise managers of development programs and outside as corporate FairTalent, launched in 2010 (see p. 82). The oldest to building homes. Around 50 employees work a girls’ club in a youth center in Frankfurt. community development volunteers. mentoring program with our involvement was together to give needy families a roof over their corporations on facing new challenges established 107 years ago. In New York, Ernest heads within Habitat for Humanity programs. In a nationwide vote, Deutschbankers in the United to neighborhood Individual support is a key success factor, Coulter laid the cornerstone for Big Brothers And for victims of the earthquake in Chile, our States selected which non-profit organizations revitalization. particularly in educational programs that aim to Big Sisters (BBBS), a mentoring program that has volunteers supported the construction of 380 to support in 2010 with donations and personal lisc.org improve equality of opportunities for children helped hundreds of thousands of children and young new homes. involvement. The majority of votes went to the 136 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 137 06 Corporate Volunteering: Committing ourselves Volunteering Food Bank For New York City. This organization the environmental group Trinkwasserwald e. V. This Initiative Plus in Australia provides about 400,000 free meals every day to group supports natural forestry to ensure long-term projects In October 2010, needy people in the city; in the metropolis alone, water resources. In 2010, Deutschbankers Deutsche Bank in Australia supported about 1,500 introduced “Volunteering more than 1.3 million people rely on food donations projects in their local of the Month.” For an or soup kitchens. Our volunteers supported the The Volunteering Network, or V-Net, which environment: entire month, the bank encouraged employees activities of the Food Bank and also raised enough welcomes all employees in Japan, has created · Implementation of an eye camp in Epitawela, to volunteer in non-profit money to purchase a refrigerated vehicle for the a greater awareness for employee engagement Sri Lanka, where 160 initiatives. More than 100 participated. organization. They helped distribute food and serve in the country. Since its launch in 2008, V-Net villagers received eye examinations and, if meals for low-income people in other regions as has organized 30 different activities, such as necessary, glasses well. participation in charity runs and support for the · Launch of a library and Special Olympics, a global movement to empower computer room in the Sinhazinha Meirelles and The 2010 Global Community Challenge initiative of people with intellectual disabilities. A further focus is Lar Nefresh orphanages the Risk division involved more than 150 employees hands-on support for Kinka Gakuin that operates in São Paulo, Brazil globally. In Hong Kong, the Risk volunteers supported a home for children and young people who are either · Support for the Rother Tafel initiative that the work of a home for underprivileged children, orphans or have been separated from their families provides food for needy while in London they installed flower planters and for social reasons (see p. 141). people in Nuremberg, Germany planted vegetables together with children at a local · Support for the school. The volunteers repaired and distributed Initiative Plus also thrives on employee commitment. Lomonossow toys in children’s hospitals in Mumbai, participated Deutsche Bank supports projects recommended tournament, a Russian school competition in in a job interview training program for long-term by employees either by making a donation or mathematics and natural unemployed people in New York, and helped clean a offering paid leave. Under the initiative, the bank has sciences in which 15,000 Deutschbankers students participated in at a soup kitchen local animal research center in Singapore. Employees supported projects in more than 20 countries to date Moscow alone in Frankfurt in Germany supported the tree-planting activities of (see margin column on the right). Employees actively support Team Challenges – around the world Milestones: Charity of the Year (CotY) 1999 2001 2003 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Start Sound barrier Focus Extension One Day Doubled AfriKids Expansion For the first time, The total proceeds of all The CotY program This time CotY is not Under the One Day Now employees can More than 1.7 million The CotY program will Deutsche Bank programs organized by focuses on mid-size 12 but 18 months long. initiative, all employees vote on two CotY pounds sterling – a new expand beyond the employees in the CotY, now in its fourth initiatives to achieve The duration of the can donate one day institutions. record – were raised United Kingdom into United Kingdom are year, top the onethe greatest possible program is adjusted of their salary to the for the two institutions other regions. able to vote on the million-pound sterling effect with its own to the calendar year. CotY program. In its AfriKids and Marine Charity of the Year mark. contribution. More than half a million first year, the initiative Conversation Society. (CotY) and concentrate pounds sterling was raised 303,000 pounds A team of employees their fundraising raised in each of the sterling. from the bank visited activities on a selected two years for Sparks, AfriKids in Ghana to non-profit organization which supports gain local insight into for one year. children’s medical the organization and research. also help out. 138 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 139 06 Corporate Volunteering: Committing ourselves Corporate Volunteering: 2010 in review Enhanced networking and more support than ever What we achieved: Our goals for the future: Employee engagement rose significantly in Our key objective is to make employees more all regions. In the past year, more than 17,000 aware of corporate volunteering and to encourage employees participated as corporate volunteers them to become even more active in the around the world, representing 21 percent of the employee engagement opportunities. A focus total workforce, and an increase of 7 percent over of our communications activities in 2011 will be the previous year. The spectrum of volunteering pass on your passion (see p. 12), which encourages activities ranged from music instruction for participation and extends it to external stakeholders. Philippine street children and the provision of reading glasses for villagers in Sri Lanka to We are also prepared, organizationally, for growth. coaching school administrators in the United The appointment of corporate volunteering project Kingdom and Germany. patrons as key contacts serves this goal. In addition, our employees will be able to identify themselves as Deutschbankers participated in the Partners corporate volunteers within the relaunched Group in Leadership program as advisors to school Directory. This will further boost the visibility of administrators in German public schools. In the Deutsche’s CSR commitment. past year, we successfully expanded the program to Stuttgart, Mannheim, and Hanover. In early We aim to extend two initiatives that have been 2011, the program received the Generali European successfully implemented in the United Kingdom to Employee Volunteering Award – Deutschland. other regions. One of them is the Charity of the Year initiative in which employees vote on a non-profit The Charity of the Year initiative in the United organization to support for a year. The other is the Kingdom entered a new dimension in 2010: The Spitalfields Together project in London’s East End: 1-million-pound-sterling mark was achieved for the 2011 will mark the launch of a similar long-term first time for a non-profit organization – AfriKids in cooperation, together with Linklaters and Kinder im Ghana. Zentrum Gallus e.V. / Mehrgenerationenhaus in the Gallus district of Frankfurt. The initiative promotes Within our internal systems, we took two important integration and offers numerous volunteering steps in 2010 to further increase the transparency. opportunities in the socially disadvantaged district. One of them was to establish an online platform And for the first time ever, Deutschbankers in Russia to track and monitor all volunteering initiatives. will serve as mentors in the Big Brothers Big Sisters The other was the launch of a global corporate program. volunteering intranet that provides complete information about available local offers. 14.0 21.0 0.95 1.7 1,200 1,300 7.0 9.7 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Deutschbankers Funds raised for the Volunteer consultants Total sum of the Matched participating in corporate Deutsche Bank UK initiative for the Financial Literacy Giving programs (added volunteering programs Charity of the Year (in £ m.) initiative donations by employees and the bank, in € m.) 140 “We feel that action is the truest expression of passion and, that by example, we inspire others to do the same.“ Since V-Net was established in Japan in 2008, employee participation in volunteering projects has increased by 56 percent. John Hanawa (front) leads the network of volunteers (V-Net) at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo and is pictured here with the team that cleaned up the grounds of the Kinka Gakuin children’s home in May 2010, alongside the principal Hideyuki Tsuchida and a couple of the young residents. V-Net members participated in 19 events during 2010, including the biggest of them all, the Special Olympics Nippon National Summer Games in Osaka for which 26 employees volunteered. 07 Supplementary information Deutsche Bank: Corporate profile Deutsche Bank is a leading global investment bank with a substantial private clients franchise. Its businesses are mutually reinforcing. Deutsche Bank has its headquarters in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Management structure Private Clients and Asset Management The prime responsibilities of the Management PCAM is made up of two Corporate Divisions: Board of the Deutsche Bank AG include the Group’s Asset and Wealth Management (AWM) and strategic management, resource allocation, financial Private & Business Clients (PBC). Asset and Wealth accounting and reporting, risk management, and Management comprises the Asset Management corporate control. It is supported in the performance (AM) and Private Wealth Management (PWM) of its leadership and oversight duties by central Business Divisions. AM provides retail clients across infrastructure units and other service departments, the globe with mutual fund products through our as well as functional bodies chaired by Management DWS franchise. It also offers institutional clients, Board members. including pension funds and insurance companies, a broad range of services from traditional to alternative The Group Executive Committee (GEC) is made investment products. PWM serves high net worth up of the members of the Management Board, the individuals and families worldwide. It provides these heads of the core businesses who are not members very discerning clients with a fully integrated wealth of the Management Board, as well as the heads management service, including inheritance planning of selected regions. At regular meetings, the GEC and philanthropic advisory services. analyzes the development of the business divisions, discusses matters of Group strategy and draws Private & Business Clients (PBC) provides a full range up recommendations that are presented to the of traditional banking products, including current Management Board. accounts, deposits and loans, and investment management and pension products mainly to private Group Divisions and self-employed individuals, and small to mediumDeutsche Bank is made up of the following Group sized businesses. Divisions: Corporate & Investment Bank (CIB), Private Clients and Asset Management (PCAM), Corporate Investments and Corporate Investments (CI). The Corporate Investments (CI) Group Division manages Deutsche Bank’s global principal Corporate & Investment Bank investment activities. These include certain credit CIB is responsible for Deutsche Bank’s capital exposures, certain private equity and venture markets business, comprising the origination, sales, capital investments, certain corporate real estate and trading of capital markets products including investments, our industrial holdings, and certain debt, equity, and other securities, together with other non-strategic investments. our corporate advisory, corporate lending, and transaction banking businesses. Our clients are At the end of the period under review institutions – both public sector entities, from Deutsche Bank had 102,062 employees from Visit our medium-sized businesses to large multinational about 140 nations in more than 3,000 branches corporate website corporations. in 74 countries. db.com 142 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 143 07 Supplementary information Deutsche Bank’s CSR units and foundations Chairman of the Management Board & the Group Executive Committee The global direction of Deutsche Bank’s corporate social responsibility Alfred Herrhausen Society is represented in its regional CSR units and endowed foundations. Their The International Forum of Deutsche Bank initiatives ensure that social capital is created in all regions in which the Global Head of Communications & Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) bank operates. The major areas of focus are in line with Deutsche’s CSR strategy in the areas of sustainability, education, social investments, art & music, and corporate volunteering. Furthermore, Deutsche Bank works Sustainability Corporate Citizenship (CC) actively to promote dialog with academia, politics, and business. Central team managing Central team managing programs in the environmental, social, governance areas of: Education, Social Investments, initiatives & processes Art & Music, Corporate Volunteering in close cooperation with business lines & infrastructure functions Regional CC units implement programs on a local scale, in conjunction with activities of endowed foundations Deutsche Bank Foundation Corporate Citizenship UK Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation Deutsche Bank MENA Foundation Transatlantic Outreach Program (TOP) Founded 1986 Founded 1989 Founded 2003 Founded 2008 Founded 2001 Endowment funds €136.4 m. Successor to the charity program of Morgan Commitments 2010 €3.0 m. Start of activities 2008 Endowment funds €2.75 m. Commitments 2010 €4.5 m. Grenfell, Ltd. Commitments 2010 €0.3 m. Commitments 2010 €0.15 m. Commitments 2010 €5.1 m. Most of the funding provided by Deutsche Bank Corporate Citizenship UK is a business unit of The Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation directs The MENA Foundation is Deutsche Bank’s Transatlantic Outreach Program is a joint initiative Foundation goes to education and social projects. Deutsche Bank. Working closely with non-profit Deutsche Bank’s corporate social responsibility most recently established foundation. It focuses of Germany’s Department of Foreign Affairs, The Foundation focuses chiefly on projects that partners and organizing numerous volunteering programs in Asia. The Foundation is committed primarily on the Middle East and North Africa Deutsche Bank, Robert Bosch Foundation, and ideally bring together these three aspects and programs, it lends its support primarily to social to improving and sustaining the livelihoods of region. The MENA Foundation has been heavily the Goethe Institute. The program supports encourage young people to realize and develop investments and educational projects. Over the vulnerable communities. Working in partnership involved in the arts in the region, in addition to American social studies educators and curriculum their full potential. Art, music, and culture also past few years, Corporate Citizenship UK has with non-government organizations and sustainability, social investments, and education. supervisors to strengthen their knowledge on benefit from the Foundation’s sponsorship received numerous awards for its exemplary foundations, and in concert with community The Middle East Foundation Committee modern Germany. TOP provides study tours to activities, while the Foundation’s Alfred commitment to society. leaders, project facilitators, and staff volunteers, coordinates activities at a regional level and Germany, in-service teacher-training workshops, Herrhausen Fund supports above all initiatives a variety of educational and innovative outreach verifies the efficiency and sustainability of the as well as teaching materials for all levels. aimed at improving the career prospects of programs have been successfully implemented projects which are undertaken. disadvantaged young people. across the region. deutsche-bank-stiftung.de db.com/uk/csr db.com/csr db.com/csr goethe.de/top Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation Deutsche Bank Donation Fund Historical Association of Deutsche Bank Alfred Herrhausen Society Founded 1999 Founded 2001 Founded 1970 Founded 1991 Founded 1992 Successor to the Bankers Trust Foundation Endowment funds €16.4 m. Endowment funds €13.2 m. Number of members (end of 2010) 1,845 Budget 2010 €3.4 m. Commitments 2010 €6.8 m. Commitments 2010 €1.2 m. Commitments 2010 €4.7 m. Philanthropic activities support the entire Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation’s primary The Deutsche Bank Donation Fund is a fiduciary The Historical Association of Deutsche Bank was The non-profit Alfred Herrhausen Society is the Americas region. The Foundation’s resources focus is on education and social development, in foundation operating in the Donors’ Association for founded as a non-profit organization dedicated international forum of Deutsche Bank. Its work are complemented by the activities of the particular for orphaned and vulnerable children. German Science (Stifterverband für die Deutsche to familiarizing the public with the history of focuses on new forms of governance as a response Community Development Finance Group (CDFG) The Foundation supports various non-profit Wissenschaft e.V.). The Fund provides financial Deutsche Bank and of banking in general. The to the challenges of the 21st century. The Alfred which makes loans and investments within organizations who are predominantly working in resources to promote scientific research and Historical Association addresses its publications, Herrhausen Society seeks traces of the future in lowand moderate-income communities. It is economically underdeveloped communities. On teaching at both national and international level. lecture series, and excursions on bank history to the present, and conceptualizes relevant themes the center of competence for Deutsche Bank’s a smaller scale, the Foundation also contributes The primary focus is on intensifying the dialog staff members and the interested public. for analysis and debate. It works with international global microfinance work. For 20 years, the to art and music, and projects involved in between the worlds of science and business. partners across a range of fields – including Federal Reserve Bank has rated Deutsche Bank environmental sustainability. The Foundation 60 percent of its funds were assigned at the politics, academia, and business – to organize “outstanding” for this work. encourages and supports staff volunteering in discretion of Deutsche Bank, 40 percent by the forums for discussion worldwide. charitable projects. Stifterverband for its projects. db.com/csr db.com/csr stiftungsfonds-deutsche-bank.de banking-history.com alfred-herrhausen-gesellschaft.de 144 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 145 07 Supplementary information Independent Assurance Statement on Environmental Data to Deutsche Bank AG Scope and objectives ERM Certification and Verification Services Ltd (ERM CVS) was All environmental data is subject to inherent uncertainties, appointed by Deutsche Bank AG to provide independent limited given the available methods for determining, calculating, or assurance over the environmental data set out on pages 52 to estimating the underlying information. 57 of the 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. The scope of this assurance covered the following data: During the period February to April 2011 ERM CVS undertook a series of activities, including: 2010 Data – Site level assurance activities at Deutsche Bank regional – Environmental data as set out in the tables on page 54 for: centres in Frankfurt, London, New York, and Singapore to – Energy consumption review the alignment of data management and reporting – Water usage processes with corporate objectives and reporting – Waste requirements. – Paper consumption – Corporate level assurance activities at offices in London – Greenhouse Gas (GHG) data to review data management systems and processes and – Certified Emission Reductions purchased selected investigation of the consolidated data. to offset GHG emissions – Evaluation of GHG data and reporting processes to establish conformance of Deutsche Bank’s GHG inventory data, and 2008 and 2009 data associated systems and controls, with ISO 14064-3:2006 and The alignment of GHG inventory data reporting processes ISO 14064-1:2006. (including scope 1, 2 and selected scope 3 CO2e emissions) with ISO 14064-1:2006 criteria. Conclusions With the exception of globally extrapolated waste and paper Respective responsibilities and independence data, based on the assurance approach and limitations Deutsche Bank AG is responsible for the preparation, collection, described above, we conclude that: and presentation of the environmental data and the associated – the environmental data presented on pages 52 to 57, are an information on performance presented in the CSR Report. appropriate representation of Deutsche Bank’s environmental performance during the 2010 calendar year. ERM CVS is responsible for reporting to Deutsche Bank AG on – the GHG data and information for 2010 are appropriately its assurance conclusions. The work that ERM CVS conducts reported against the requirements of ISO 14064-1:2006 and for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities the GHG Protocol. and training programs related to auditing techniques and The reporting processes for 2008 and 2009 GHG inventory data approaches. Our processes are designed to ensure that the (including scope 1, 2, and selected scope 3 CO2e emissions) work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of were found to be aligned with the requirements interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on of ISO 14064-1:2006 criteria. this assurance exercise provide no other services to Deutsche Bank in any respect. Commentary Without affecting these conclusions we make the following Assurance approach and limitations observations: We based our work on Deutsche Bank AG’s internal guidelines – The new global environmental data management system, and processes for collecting data associated with the reported introduced in 2010, has reduced the manual handling metrics. We planned and performed our work to obtain all the and transfer of data, improved data transparency, and information and explanations that we believe were necessary strengthened quality control procedures to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions as to whether – Extrapolated waste and paper data are based on a relatively the reported information and data set out in the ‘Scope and small proportion of overall data and are indicative of the global Objectives’ above was appropriately reported, i.e. that nothing totals. Deutsche Bank is working to achieve wider reporting in has come to our attention through the course of our work that these areas the data are materially misreported (limited assurance). Our approach was developed with reference to the International Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (ISAE 3000); as well as ISO 14064-1:2006 Greenhouse gases “Specification with Melanie Eddis, Head of Climate Change Services guidance at the organization level for quantification and 26 April, 2011 reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals” and ISO 14064-3:2006 Greenhouse gases – “Specification with ERM Certification and Verification Services, London guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas www.ermcvs.com assertions”. Email: post@ermcvs.com 146 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 147 07 Supplementary information Deutsche Bank awards 2010/2011 (selection)1 About this report Golden Peacock Global Awards for Econ Award Corporate Yearbook of Advertising 2010 LEED (Leadership in Energy and This report sets out how we have implemented corporate social report on how we are putting the 10 Global Compact principles Corporate Social Responsibility Communications in Bronze Environmental Design) Platinum responsibility as an integral part of our work during the year into practice. An overview of this is provided in table form on and for Sustainability The CSR campaign More than certification from Econ-Verlag and Handelsblatt Money was shortlisted in the Digital under report. We compile a balance sheet for our sustainability page 151. from the World Council for Publishing Group for the Corporate Media category received from the U.S. Green activities and explain what impact our business activities have Corporate Governance and the Social Responsibility Report 2009 Building Council. The world’s on the environment and on society. Furthermore, we present Materiality Institute of Directors, in the areas first renovated skyscraper with a our social commitment as a responsible corporate citizen, The reporting guidelines of the GRI include dialog with of social responsibility, ethical LEED Platinum certification, the behavior, business performance, New Deutsche Bank Towers illustrating our motivation and goals as well as the concrete stakeholders and materiality. We have taken those and responsible use of resources in Frankfurt am Main, results of our activities. requirements into account with the aid of multilevel materiality Gemany analysis. The result is the materiality matrix on page 35, which We can only publish a selection from the abundance of our presents the expectations and interests of various different activities because of space-related constraints. However, we stakeholder groups. We regard conducting a dialog with our DGNB (Deutsches Gütesiegel NachSustainable City Awards Green Globe Banking Award, Italy Best Renewable Energy attach importance to an accurate presentation of the principles stakeholders and tailoring our sustainability reporting to their haltiges Bauen) certificate in Gold Finance House – Europe and guidelines that serve as orientation for our activities. information needs as a continuously ongoing task. That is why Deutsche Bank honoured in Two certificates from Globiz from the German Sustainable London’s Sustainable City Awards for excellent achievements in from the Environmental we look forward to feedback (more about that below). Building Council for the for its efforts to reduce resource the area of sustainability Finance and Carbon Magazine, Period under report and frequency of publication modernization of the Group Head consumption accredited to the Asset Finance The period under report corresponds with our business year, Report limits Office (The New Deutsche Bank & Leasing (AFL) and Corporate Towers) in Frankfurt, acknowledging extending from January to December 2010. We have submitted We regard this report as a supplement to the annual report and Investment Banking (CIB), Carbon the buildings outstanding Emissions’ a CSR report every year since 2002. The next report will be the financial report of Deutsche Bank AG. In cases where we overall sustainable released in May 2012. Our CSR websites as well as the CSR have also incorporated content in this report, to some extent it performance and reports of our regional units and foundations provide more inhas been broken down or reorganized in terms of orientation innovative solutions depth information as well as regular updates. in line with the GRI Guidelines. In addition to the information in this report, you can obtain basic corporate information as well Best Alternative Energy Fund Careerist 2010 Top Employer, Poland HRM Awards, Singapore banking-on-green.de as our key economic figures from our latest annual report and deutsche-bank.de/csr financial report as well as our annual financial statement and Climate change award from Award from UNICUM Publishing ranked by the CRF Institute as two awards, for Best Training, Investment Week Magazine Group for professional training at one of 14 top employers in Poland Learning & Development and for management report (see p. 152). and Holden & Partners for Deutsche Bank for a sustainable personnel Best Leadership Development Report criteria DWS Invest New Resources strategy as well as an impressive The criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) serve as our Data validation and transparency communications platform and orientation for the weighting of thematic areas and collection Our business divisions and infrastructure functions collected corporate culture of key figures. This international multi-stakeholder initiative has the data that is relevant for their sectors meticulously. The developed recognized standards for sustainability reporting Corporate Center area of Corporate Social Responsibility that guarantee transparency and comparability. Since 2002 gathered those data and integrated them into this report. On Deutsche Bank – as an “organizational stakeholder” – has behalf of Deutsche Bank AG, ERM Certification and Verification worked on refining the guidelines for reporting in feedback Services, a verification and certification company that is Encore Award Big Tick Award Charity Organization of Art & Work Award discussions together with representatives from the world of based in London, reviewed and verified the systematics for the Year 2010 business, NGOs, and analysts. data generation and aggregation of key figures relating to from the Arts & Business Council Business in the Community for The Most Outstanding of New York for the corporate Award in the Power in Partnership Deutsche Bank in China is Contribution to Art in the operational ecology. Our sustainability management system partnership with Free Arts NYC, category for project Shoreditch, recognized by the China Foundation Workplace globalreporting.org has been certified according to DIN EN ISO 14 001 and an organisation that provides a neighborhood renewal project in for Poverty Alleviation for its support recertified up to and including 2011. under-served children and families London efforts in villages in Wulong county This report fulfills the requirements of the third generation (G3) with a unique combination of suffering from drought and poverty educational arts and mentoring of the GRI Guidelines. The GRI has verified compliance with Feedback and suggestions programs its guidelines and – on the basis of a scale from A+ to C – it has Feedback from our stakeholders is of special significance for awarded our report the highest certification level of A+. The further development of our CSR reporting. That is why we look index on pages 150 and 151 shows how we have implemented forward to getting new inspiration and hearing your opinion. the GRI requirements in concrete terms. If no information was For this purpose, you can use the contact information in the Generali European Employee Top Companies That Care 2010 available for an indicator, we provide the reason for that. Imprint, i.e. Legal Notice. Furthermore, you also can let us know Volunteering Award 2011 – online what thematic areas are especially important to you. Deutschland Award from Jacksonville Magazine (US) for volunteering activities in Our CSR reporting also serves as a progress report as part of the European competition 30 local non-profit organizations (Communication on Progress) in conjunction with the UN Participation in materiality survey: hosted by Generali Group for the Global Compact (see p. 31). As a member, we continuously banking-on-green.com/materiality program Partners in Leadership, in the category innovation together with KPMG AG and Herlitz PBS AG 1 For the results of the sustainability ratings, see p. 36 148 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 149 07 Supplementary information GRI Index Strategy and analysis Economic performance indicators Financial services sector indicators 1.1 Editorial by Chairman of the Management Board pp. 2–3; AR: pp. 2–7 Management approach disclosure pp. 30, 33, 50, 52–57, 327–369 LA10 Average hours of training and education per banking-on-green.com/hr FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social pp. 33, 50–51, 68, 71, 75–77; employee per year components applied to business lines banking-on-green.com/codex 1.2 Sustainability: effects, risks, and opportunities pp. 29–33 EC1 Economic value generated and distributed inside of back cover, rear flap LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning pp. 63–64 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental pp. 33–35, 43–45, 50–51, 70–77 Organizational profile EC2 Financial implications of climate change pp. 50–51 and social risks in business lines LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular pp. 63-64; AR: p. 55 2.1 Name of the organization cover page EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined pp. 61–67; AR: pp. 54–55, 61 performance and career development reviews FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation pp. 72, 75–77 benefit plan obligations 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services pp. 37–48, 143; AR: pp. 24–26 of and compliance with environmental and social LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown pp. 61–63; AR: pp. 18–19, 32; EC4 Financial assistance received from government Not reported to ensure protection requirements included in agreements or transactions 2.3 Operational structure of the organization pp. 143, 145; AR: pp. 23–26 of employees (age, gender, etc.) Form 20-F: pp. 97–100 of proprietary information FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to pp. 33, 43, 64 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters p. 143 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Not reported due to bank-specific EC6 Local hiring of suppliers pp. 56, 68 implement the environmental and social policies and by employee category regulatory limitations and internal guidelines 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates p. 143, 145; AR: pp. 23–26 procedures as applied to business lines EC7 Local hiring of staff pp. 61–67, 68; AR: pp. 32, 53–55 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 143; AR: pp. 27, 30 Human rights FS5 Interactions with clients / investees / business pp. 34–35, 44, 50, 70; EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments rear flap, pp. 144–145 Management approach disclosure pp. 33, 61–68, 73, 75–77; partners regarding environmental and social banking-on-green.com/ratings; 2.7 Markets served p. 143; AR: pp. 23–26, 30–31 and services provided primarily for public benefit banking-on-green.com/hr risks and opportunities banking-on-green.com/memberships 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization inside of back cover; AR: pp. 61–63 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect pp. 30–31; 38–48 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights pp. 68, 75–77 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific AR: pp. 2–7, 41 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR: pp. 25–26, 37–40, 51; FR: p. 198 et seqq. clauses or that have undergone human rights screening region, size (e.g. micro /SME / large), and by sector regarding size, structure, or ownership Ecological performance indicators FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to inside of back cover, pp. 39–48, pp. 144–145 HR2 Suppliers and contractors who have undergone pp. 56, 68 2.10 Awards received pp. 148; db.com/en/content/ Management approach disclosure pp. 33, 50–57, 61–68, 72–74 screening on human rights deliver a specific social benefit for each business line company/awards.htm broken down by purpose EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 54 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination Several instruments to prevent and actions taken discrimination and to support affected FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed inside of back cover, pp. 39–48 Report parameters EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled p. 54 to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each employees (pp. 61–62, 68; Deutsche Bank 3.1 Reporting period cover page, p. 149 input materials business line broken down by purpose Code of Conduct for Staff at db.com/ir); not 3.2 Date of most recent previous report p. 149 EN3–4 Direct and indirect energy consumption pp. 52–57 reported to ensure protection of employees FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess pp. 33, 39–48, 53, 67, 146–147 EN5 Energy saved as a result of conservation and pp. 52–57 HR5 Freedom of association/collective bargaining p. 68; Form 20-F: p. 112 implementation of environmental and social 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 149 policies and risk assessment procedures efficiency improvements 3.4 Contact points p. 152 HR6–7 Prevention of child/compulsory labor: principles p. 68 EN6 Initiatives for the creation of products and pp. 38–48, 50–51 and measures taken FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the pp. 43–45 3.5 Process for defining report content pp. 34–35, p. 149; services with increased energy efficiency institution’s portfolio with which the reporting banking-on-green.com/materiality Society organization has interacted on environmental EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and pp. 38–48, 50–57 or social issues 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 149 reductions achieved Management approach disclosure pp. 31–35, 70, 72–73, 75–77 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and pp. 75–77 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope p. 149 EN8 Total water withdrawals p. 54 SO1 Programs /procedures which assess and regulate the pp. 34–35, 50, 71–72, 75–77 negative environmental or social screening pp. 43–45 or boundary of the report effects of business operations on the public good EN11 Location and size of land in or adjacent Not relevant, because no land owned FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social p. 44 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, etc. AR: pp. 23–26, 45–46, 53; FR: p. 198 et seqq. to protected areas in protected areas SO2–4 Measures and initiatives aimed at combating corruption pp. 68, 72–73 issues for shares over which the reporting organization 3.9 Data collection and calculation methods pp. 53–54, 149 EN12 Impacts of activities, products, and services on integration of environmental issues in our SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy pp. 34–35, 70 holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 3.10 Restatements /changes in the presentation Sustainability section with four instead of biodiversity in protected areas risk management; pp. 75–77 development and lobbying FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically pp. 14–17, 39–41, 105–107 of information three subsections, as a result of materiality EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 54 SO8 Fines for failure to comply with laws and regulations FR: pp. 284–288 disadvantaged areas by type analysis EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions p. 54 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for pp. 14–17, 39–41, 105–107 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Materiality: pp. 34–35; FR = see Financial Report 2010, AR = see Annual Review 2010, Form 20-F 2010 disadvantaged people in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods banking-on-green.com/materiality EN18 Initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions pp. 50, 52– 57 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products pp. 33, 39–41, 72–73 applied in the report EN19–21, Emissions, waste, and waste water Not reported because the amount of data and services 3.12 GRI Content Index pp. 150–151 23, 27 is insignificant (EN 19 –21), there is no uncontrolled release of substances (EN 23), FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type p. 136 3.13 Verification of external third parties pp. 146–147 and no packaging material is required (EN 27) of beneficiary Governance, commitments, and engagement EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 54 4.1 Governance structure, including responsibility pp. 29–33, 71, 145, 152; AR: pp. 18–19, 27–28 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of pp. 38–48, 50–57 for sustainability products and services EN28 Sanctions for noncompliance with legal requirements None 4.2 Independence of the chair of the highest governance body p. 71; AR: pp. 27–28 in the environmental sector Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4.3 For organizations without a highest governance body: Not relevant, because Deutsche Bank Product responsibility independent and /or non-executive members has a supervisory board Management approach disclosure pp. 39–44, 72–74 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to pp. 33, 68, 71; AR: pp. 27, 39–40 provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed pp. 61–68 The ten principles set out in the UN The ten UN Global Compact principles Examples of implementation 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of p. 65; db.com/ir/en/download/ PR3 Basics/techniques of product labeling pp. 61; AR: 53 Global Compact form the foundation Human rights the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance Remuneration_Report_2010.pdf; AR: pp. 28 PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction pp. 39–41 on which we base our sustainability Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of pp. 33, 61–68; 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of p. 71; AR: pp. 27–28 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to advertising p. 40 efforts. By participating in the UN Global internationally proclaimed human rights; and banking-on-green.com/hr interest are avoided PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance FR: pp. 284–288 Compact we have committed ourselves Principle 2: ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pp. 33, 34, 61–68, 75–77; 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and pp. 33, 50, 71 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and to preserving internationally recognized banking-on-green.com/hr expertise of the members of the highest governance use of products and services body in the field of sustainability Labor practices and acceptable working conditions human rights, creating socially acceptable Labor standards 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, back cover page, front flap, pp. 30, 43, 62, and principles 68, 71; banking-on-green.com/mission; Management approach disclosure pp. 61–68, banking-on-green.com/safety working conditions, protecting the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and pp. 33, 61–68; banking-on-green.com/codex LA1 Data on total workforce pp. 61–68 environment, and fighting corruption. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Form 20-F: p. 112 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for pp. 33, 50, 71, 144–145 overseeing the organization’s identification and LA2 Data on rate of employee turnover p. 61; AR: 53 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; pp. 33, 68 management of economic, environmental, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by p. 68; Form 20-F: pp. 111–112 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and pp. 33, 68 and social opportunities and risks collective bargaining agreements Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment pp. 61–68 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance p. 71; AR: pp. 27–28 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational According to par. 111, 112 of the German and occupation. body’s sustainability performance changes Labor Management Relations Act, the works council must be thoroughly and promptly 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary pp. 45, 75–77 informed of any company changes. The Environment approach or principle notice period is three months in normal 4.12 Participation in /support for external initiatives pp. 50–51, 67; practice Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach p. 33 banking-on-green.com/memberships LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Form 20-F: p. 112 to environmental challenges; 4.13 Memberships banking-on-green.com/memberships formal joint management–worker health and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental pp. 50–58 safety committees that help monitor and advise on 4.14 Stakeholder engagement pp. 34–35, 70, 72–73 occupational health and safety programs responsibility; and 4.15 Basis for the selection of stakeholders pp. 34–35; AR: p. 29 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, etc. p. 67; banking-on-green.com/safety Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of pp. 39–48 4.16 Stakeholder dialog pp. 34–35; AR: p. 29 LA8 Counseling offered in connection with serious ailments pp. 65, 67; banking-on-green.com/hr environmentally friendly technologies. 4.17 Statement on the main wishes of stakeholders pp. 34–35, 36–37 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, pp. 72–73, 75–77 including extortion and bribery. 150 Deutsche Bank Corporate Social Responsibility – Report 2010 151 07 Supplementary information Imprint/Publications Deutsche Bank AG Contact Photo credits Taunusanlage 12 Deutsche Bank AG Cover photo, inner cover, content, 60262 Frankfurt am Main Corporate Social Responsibility pp. 6-7, 18-23, 28, 31-32, 52, 78-79, Ph.: +49 (0) 69 910-00 csr.mailbox@db.com 82-85, 94-95, 98-101, 114-115, 130-135: deutsche.bank@db.com db.com/csr Matthias Ziegler / inner cover: Nedko Solakov, photo: Alex Kraus; Mario Corporate Citizenship Publications relating to Andreya / pp. 6-7: Francois Pesant/Polaris/ Management/responsible for content the financial statements laif; martinjoppen.de; Bocconi University; Christofer Habig – Annual Review 2010 Monika Rittershaus / pp. 12-13: Bill (German and English) Robinson; John Wildgoose; Nick David / Group Sustainability – Financial Report 2010 pp. 16, 109: Anja Dieke / p. 17: Alexander Management/responsible for content (German and English) Schütz (t.); NKCF Public Foundation Prof. Hanns Michael Hölz – Annual Report 2010 on Form 20-F (b.) / pp. 24-25: Christian Hartmann/ (English) Reuters / pp. 26-27: Dale Wilson (b.) / Project coordination – Annual Financial Statements and p. 58: Jean Revillard/Rezo / p. 59: Mario Edith Pürschel, Tanja Haselmann, Management Report of Andreya / pp. 64-74: Deutsche Bank / p. 80: Antje Kopyciok, Heike Hilbig, Deutsche Bank AG 2010 John Yuen/FCED Philippines / p. 81 (t.): Nadine Abu-Ghoush (German and English) Matthias Schormann; Universitätsarchiv – List of Advisory Council Members Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität Artwork & Editorial (German) Frankfurt am Main (b.) / pp. 86-87: TEMPUS CORPORATE GmbH Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation / Buceriusstraße, Eingang Speersort 1 How to order pp. 88-89, 125: Scott Williams / p.90: 20095 Hamburg e-mail: service-center@bertelsmann.de Bocconi University / p. 91: Fancy Images/ internet: deutsche-bank.com/10 plainpicture / p.96: Getty Images / p. 97 (t.): Sustainability editorial fax: +49 1805 070808 HomeHeadQuarters / p. 103: Francois SLau Konzepte & Kommunikation mail: arvato logistics services Pesant/Polaris/laif; Save the children (t. r.); Context Group Bestellservice Deutsche Bank Athar Hussain/Reuters (b.) / p. 104: Living Gottlieb-Daimler-Strasse 1 Cities / pp. 106-107: Tujijenge Tanzania; Editorial comment 33428 Harsewinkel FONDEP; Kompanion LLC / p. 110-111: All the information in this report has Germany Andreas Knapp/Kulturservice / p. 112: been compiled in good faith and with Deutsche Guggenheim /Thomas Schütte: the greatest care from various sources. Online VG-Bildkunst, Bonn 2011; Philip Guston: To the best of our knowledge, the All Reviews and Reports 2010 Estatet of Philip Guston, New York, photo: information and data contained in this on the Internet: Mathias Schormann; p. 113: Deutsche report reflect the truth. Nevertheless, deutsche-bank.de/10 Bank Stiftung/Veit Mette (t. & p. 123), we cannot assume liability for the Ron Yue (b.) / p. 116: Yto Barrada / p. 118: correctness or completeness of the Dayanita Singh, Courtesy of the artist information provided herein. This report is climate-neutral. & Frith Street Gallery, London; photo: The greenhouse gas emissions of Frank Marburger & Klaus Helbig / p. 119: The publisher has made an effort 155 tons of CO2 equivalents caused Nedko Solakov (l.); Ron Yue (r.) / p. 120: to clarify all reproduction rights. by production and distribution of John Yuen of Fotograffiti / p. 121: Monika We kindly request that any possible this publication have been offset by Rittershaus / p. 123 (t.): Regine Körner / retroactive claims be directed to investing in the CER project “Clean pp. 122-123 (b.): Veronica Rignall, Katrin csr.mailbox@db.com. Biomass Energy in Karnataka, India.” Schander, Matthias Baus, Deutsche Bank Stiftung/Philipp Ottendörfer; Insofar as the masculine form is used in Kirsten Uttendorf / pp. 126-127, 139 (t.): the contents of this report, it is assumed Liz Ligon / p. 129: Thomas Brenner (t.), that this refers to both genders on equal Thorsten Janssen (b.) / p. 136: Big Brothers terms. Big Sisters / p. 142: martinjoppen.de We would like to thank all colleagues and external partners for their friendly © 2011 Deutsche Bank AG support in making this report possible. Reproduction in full or in part only with the publisher’s prior written This CSR Report is also available approval and photos and copy credited in German. to Deutsche Bank AG. 152
