Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Message from the CEO ........................................ 3 About GLOBAL CSR............................................. 4 Our Vision ......................................................... 5 Social Sustainability ............................................ 7 Environmental Sustainability ............................... 11 Economic Sustainability ...................................... 13 Challenges and Future CSR Work ........................ 14 2 It is important for GLOBAL CSR that we continuously M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO contribute, while avoiding becoming a barrier, to sustainable social, environmental and economic development. We continue Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. As to support the UN Global Compact which provides for a a given we act in accordance with the principles we consistent and transparent framework for our CSR efforts and advise clients to apply. We believe that the reporting. We acknowledge the important role that the initiative internationally agreed principles for sustainable has in mainstreaming the concept and practice of CSR based on development add needed quality to the field. The internationally agreed principles. Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables us to address our impact on essential areas for sustainable social, To put the principles into practice, we rely on the enthusiasm, environmental and economic development. Also it creativity and inspiration of our employees in inspiring enables cost-efficient approaches to best manage such businesses to adopt profitable sustainability strategies. We look impact. We intend to maintain our leadership position in forward to continuing our work on CSR in 2011, and aim to the field ensuring that fulfilling our purpose is also improve our performance in areas of key importance to the profitable for our business future of our planet. It is my pleasure to present our first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report describing examples of our internal and external efforts with regard to CSR during 2010. GLOBAL CSR was established as a consultancy almost 15 years ago. As one of the first professional advisors on CSR worldwide we have always optimised the social, environmental and economic impact of our business. That is a matter of integrity. The report Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO describes our top priorities for action and provides information on our performance in 2010; a snapshot. Also our objectives for the future are described. 3 A BOUT GLOBAL CSR O UR W ORK GLOBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located in GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing Copenhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social and implementing strategies in line with the triple bottom line Responsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in creating concept and internationally recognised principles. We call this sustainable solutions for private companies, public authorities the Principles-Based Approach to CSR. With more than 15 and organisations in a range of countries and industries. Since years of experience in CSR and an extensive network of 1996, GLOBAL CSR has carried out assignments in all parts of domestic and international partners, we are able to provide the the world. most qualified, up-to-date and experienced consultancy. Our goal is to develop innovative models to address Our key asset is knowledge. In an effort to contribute to sustainability, enabling differentiation and cost-efficiency sustainable development, we share our knowledge by advising thereby increasing the value of the organisation for the client. organisations and initiatives that are key players in the continued development of CSR. These efforts include both paid GLOBAL CSR is experienced in the full cycle of CSR and pro bono work for organisations such as The Danish implementation from pre-assessment, risk & opportunity Government Centre for CSR, United Nations Global Compact analyses, vision statements, strategies, policies, over training (UNGC), the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, the to action planning, project design, implementation and Institute for Business & Human Rights, the UN Special evaluation. In addition, our team has vast experience Representative of the Secretary General on business & human in evaluating both corporate and public programmes and in rights, the European Bars’ and Lawyers Association, the Danish performing social impact assessments. Industrialisation Fund for Developing Countries and a range of A deep understanding of the needs and wishes of business as civil society organisations. Integrity is integral to the way we do such as well as each individual organisation that we assist, business. We provide advice that leads to long term sustainable enables us to create socially, environmentally, and solutions for our customers and we only support CSR activities, economically sustainable CSR strategies. which we genuinely believe contribute to sustainable development. 4 O UR V ISION O UR M ISSION GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: We envision a world of diverse social, environmental and economic abundance and sustainability, in which all human beings enjoy the full realisation of their human rights. A world where businesses live by principles essential for becoming key  Promoting the work on sustainable players in the co-creation of a brighter future for our planet, development through a focus on the Triple humanity – and not least for doing business. Bottom Line (people, planet and profit) GLOBAL CSR is a catalyst for such development. We  Inspiring and assisting corporations, are recognised as a preferred partner advising corporations, governments and organisations in developing governments, multilateral organisations and non-governmental and implementing CSR activities and thereby organisations on how to make the international principles of creating value CSR operational and profitable.  Delivering innovative and simple solutions, which create value for corporations. We apply the principles from the UNGC as our framework for strategic CSR  Maintaining our high professional integrity  Making the business case for CSR” essential for the way we run our business 5 T HE 10 G LOBAL C OMPACT PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact Principles cover all three bottom lines: The first six principles (human rights, including core labour rights) are key to social sustainability, the following three to environmental sustainability, and the tenth principle to economic sustainability (anti-corruption).  HUMAN RIGHTS  ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary the protection of internationally approach to environmental challenges; proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit environmental responsibility; and in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of  ANTI-CORRUPTION association and the effective recognition PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption of the right to collective bargaining; in all its forms, including extortion PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and bribery. and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 sustainability, we ensure that CSR efforts both serve society S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY and our clients. Using the principles for sustainable P R I N C I P L E S 16 development we are experts in identifying both challenges and opportunities in CSR. Our primary social sustainability impact is through the GLOBAL CSR consultants are recognised as leading experts on actions of the clients we advise the application of the International Bill of Human Rights as the basis of CSR activities in relation to social sustainability. CEO, In all of our activities, GLOBAL CSR respects and is committed Sune Skadegaard Thorsen is an active member of several to support human rights including the core labour rights, which international professional bodies developing CSR. form the heart of social sustainability; human dignity. The basic human rights principles are essential for the wellbeing and UN Special Representative of the Secretary General on development of all people. They cover all basic needs for business & human rights enhancing human dignity. We continue to sharpen our unique skills and expertise in this area, as it is through our consulting GLOBAL CSR has since the appointment of the UN Special services that our main contribution to sustainable social Representative on business and human rights, Prof. John Ruggie, supported his work. We are impressed with the thoroughness and development lies. diligence of the work and, even more so, with the results. Our impact In 2008 the unanimously adopted Policy Framework resting on the As a consultancy firm we assist corporations that are both three pillars of State Duty to Protect, Corporate Responsibility to Respect and Access to Remedy created an unprecedented basis for experienced and leading within the field of CSR as well as advancing social sustainability. Most stakeholders supported the corporations that have only just begun working with the area. Framework. Our services also span across borders, both when we provide services to international corporations and when we advise In 2010 the Draft Guiding Principles for making the Framework operational pragmatically outline key processes that both clients to address CSR in all their relations; both in supply governments and businesses need to implement. We await with great chains and downstream. By assisting our clients to contribute, expectations the Final Guiding Principles and their adoption in the UN while complying with the agreed principles for social 7 GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in the public debate on In 2010 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at several national as business and human rights and the Principles-Based Approach well as international seminars, workshops and debates on CSR. to CSR. We regularly publish articles and participate in national As examples: and international working groups related to the 10 UNGC principles and CSR. We devote time to engage in the debate • GLOBAL CSR joined leading panelists at the UN Global because we can see the added value of this approach to our Compact Asia Pacific Conclave in India to discuss how clients and to society. Continuing to promote social enterprise value can be enhanced using the UN Global sustainability is therefore an ongoing objective for GLOBAL CSR Compact. and an area where we can make a difference. • GLOBAL CSR conducted seminars at the Danida Fellowship Centre and Mannaz about strategic CSR and Organisational knowledge implementation. Also GLOBAL CSR spoke in Denmark, Egypt We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. The and India about the launch of Prof. Ruggie’s UN Guiding success of our business depends on our knowledge and Principles (draft) outlining the basic UN expectations to competencies and our abilities to communicate this knowledge. businesses regarding processes to handle corporate It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously improve our responsibilities on human rights. competencies on CSR and sustainable development in theory as well as in practice because it is a key factor in the long-term In total our CEO gave public presentations (not including success of our firm. It is also important for us to share our corporation specific trainings or presentations) for more than knowledge supporting the development of the CSR field to find 60 hours in 2010 up from 20 hrs. in 2008 and 30 hrs. in 2009. better, more cost-efficient and innovative ways to address global challenges in relation to social sustainability. Two key We also publish educational material, academic and nonprinciples for social sustainability, where our competences and academic articles and are often interviewed by the media. In products can make a big difference are: Freedom of 2010 our CEO Sune Skadegaard Thorsen accepted to function Information and Right to Education. as external examiner at Roskilde University Centre, Global Studies, and as external lecturer at the Copenhagen Law Faculty teaching CSR under Corporate Governance. 8 GLOBAL CSR’s most valuable assets are the knowledge of our Employee satisfaction and productivity people and the know-how we manage to convert to actual We acknowledge that our responsibility extends to providing tools. We seek to provide the best opportunities for our people with safe, healthy, and stimulating working development. Unlike traditional consultancies we keep the conditions in full respect of all their human rights. GLOBAL CSR minimum for required billable hours relatively low and we take strives to create an attractive working environment and pride in enabling our employees to leave the office after official establish a team spirit that is based on mutual appreciation and working hours. In this way we enable our employees to partnership, stimulating our employees to achieve their full maintain focus during working hours, develop skills and potential. innovate. The success of our team and hence the firm’s success depends on the professional development of all Diversity in the workforce is an essential topic in GLOBAL CSR. employees. We believe that diversity enables the organisation to improve its ability to innovate. 70 per cent of our knowledge is tacit, i.e. In 2010 we managed to engage four interns and four students. resting with our employees. 70 per cent of an individual’s They were all trained to understand and apply the Principlesknowledge lies with her network. In sum the more diversity we Based Approach to CSR. manage to establish, the more knowledge we can access and the better decisions we able to make. We encourage our people to improve their performance and invest in their knowledge and skills, by coaching and mentoring We also appreciate that all people suffer from the need to on an ongoing basis to ensure their long-term employability, growth and personal development. reduce complexity, establish stereotypes and thus occasionally will act with prejudice. Working in Denmark represents an increased challenge in this respect as the Danish education system has very little focus on creating competences in this area. GLOBAL CSR will in 2011 carry out training for our employees to understand and counter both individual and structural discrimination. 9 In addition our employees’ health is important and we ensure Article 2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights access to healthy food, exercise and fresh air thereby “Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in energising and motivating our employees. GLOBAL CSR this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, provides a healthy lunch and fresh fruit every day. GLOBAL colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national CSR takes a proactive approach to ergonomics as we spend or social origin, property, birth or other status...()” many hours behind a computer. Proper ergonomic design is necessary to prevent repetitive strain injuries. Ergonomic In addition a business that actively supports diversity can chairs, tables and office equipment along with a yoga pillow for improve employee satisfaction, productivity, and retention. backaches improve the right to a safe and healthy working Also a diverse workforce is better equipped to understand the environment. Employees can take a run or go for a walk during global marketplace which we serve. working hours and are encouraged and advised to take internal meetings during a stroll in the neighbourhood when possible. Employee turnover among employees on fixed contracts was 28 per cent in 2010. This is higher than expected and it is a priority to improve retention moving forward. Handling stress is a known challenge in consultancy firms. Insecurity about the next assignment, the need for optimal • We recognise the importance of complying with all performance every day and the need to stay on top of the basic human rights, and we seek to contribute to subject make the work as consultant challenging. GLOBAL CSR the human rights principles well beyond is very much aware of our challenges and in 2010 we improved compliance. our focus on the causes for stress and will continue to seek to • We endeavour to minimise our environmental minimize stress factors in 2011. impact and where possible enhance our positive In general, GLOBAL CSR strives to keep working hours at the environmental impact. agreed 37 hours a week. We also allow for flexible hours and • We apply a zero tolerance approach to corruption, occasionally that employees can work from home when needed while seeking to enhance our positive economic and appropriate. impact. 10 today. We work in cooperation with our strategic partners that E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY are leading experts on environmental sustainability. We have, P R I N C I P L E S 79 advised clients to perform environmental impact assessments, carbon and water footprint assessments and establish sustainable supply chain solutions. Also, as part of raising We endeavour to minimise our negative environmental public awareness and meeting the growing need for education impact and where possible enhance our positive impact on CSR and the business case for being environmentally responsible, we have participated in seminars and workshops, GLOBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate as well as facilitated and held several seminars and workshops environmental responsibility through our work, as well as on, say, the cradle to cradle concept. internally in our business. Our external contribution to environmental sustainability stems from assisting businesses in It is our goal for 2011 to contribute positively to the minimising their negative environmental impact on the planet. development of corporate environmentally responsible profiles and practices for businesses as an integrated and strategic way Our impact of doing business. GLOBAL CSR works to promote environmental protection and efficiency policies with our clients. In 2010, GLOBAL CSR Our efforts assessed and advised Danish and international clients on At GLOBAL CSR, we continuously seek to reduce our incorporating principles 7-9 of the UNGC into their core environmental impact by promoting and always seeking to use business operations. These three principles serve to support the best forms of transportation when possible, such as precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, to bicycling, using public transportation and carpooling. In 2010 undertake new initiatives on environmental responsibility and GLOBAL CSR reduced the company’s CO2 emission by moving to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally our offices to central Copenhagen, thereby significantly friendly technologies. reducing emissions from employees commuting back and forth. Our new location has also decreased travel time to clients’ In 2010, we assisted our clients in meeting the growing offices. Where clients are not located nearby, employees environmental challenges and requirements that they face commute by train making travel time faster as well as more 11 environmentally friendly and productive, since employees can use the travel time for preparation. TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL IN 2010: To minimize our use of air travel we seek to hold meetings 21.26 tons through video and teleconferences when possible. During 2010 we held several meetings through teleconferences with clients both in Asia, South America and Scandinavia. Using online technology to meet with clients serves both as an economic GLOBAL CSR will allocate funds to offset all 2010 emissions. and environmental enhancement as well as a positive This will support principle 8 of the UNGC in a pragmatic manner contribution to our employees work-life balance. until the technological development and our financial capacity enables us to eliminate our negative impact. In the long run, it However, being a consultancy that serves clients around the is GLOBAL CSR’s goal to become CO2 neutral and increasingly world, we cannot eliminate air travel. The personal presence is generate a positive impact on the environment beyond our often needed as part of our work. Ensuring high quality and indirect contributions through the actions of our clients. service in our work often requires that we perform onsite In 2010, GLOBAL CSR began developing and implementing an assessments in all operations and branches of a client. Change environmental action plan, which promotes green purchasing management and capacity development are essential options e.g. new energy efficient office supplies and an components of our work and requires interpersonal skills and improved waste disposal/recycling system. As an example we presence. Furthermore, we seek to maintain our position as use recycled paper, reusable printer cartridges and strive to frontrunners in the field of CSR. This requires that we take part print only when strictly necessary. GLOBAL CSR will continue to in the debate on the development of the field which often further develop and implement our environmental action plan involves speaking at international conferences and meetings. in 2011. The bulk of our CO2 emissions therefore mainly stems from international air travel. 12 Our efforts E CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY In 2010 we advised several businesses on economic P R I N C I P L E 10 sustainability. Examples include the establishment of whistleblowing mechanisms in more than 14 countries and identifying Our mission is to run a profitable business through opportunities for turning anti-corruption challenges into promoting sustainable development opportunities. GLOBAL CSR applies a zero tolerance policy in relation to In an economic sense 2010 was a significant year for GLOBAL corruption. In line with principal 10, we work against corruption CSR and our CSR work – internally as well as externally. As in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, and we are consultants we were still confronted with the realities of the committed to compliance with international recognised economic downturn that made most corporations very hesitant principles, such as the UN Global Compact, as well as local to spend resources on external consultants. Nevertheless anti-corruption and bribery laws. Whereas corporate economic GLOBAL CSR managed to create a 30 percent increase in responsibility initiatives need to address the international turnover in 2010 compared to 2009. Furthermore, from 2009 principles on anti-corruption, we also advise our clients in to 2010 our client base increased with 33 percent. Our relation to financial gearing, good corporate governance and development is an indication of our improved performance, as tax payments. In 2010 GLOBAL CSR started exploring ways of well as a reflection of the growing demand for CSR addressing anti-corruption in India through innovative professionals. We experience that businesses, governments partnerships. and organisations increasingly realise the importance of and opportunities in addressing CSR diligently. The increase of CSR Our impact initiatives in the private and the public sector will hopefully Through our work we contribute to the elimination of amplify in 2011 leading to greater results for our business as corruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic well as for society, the environment and the economy. By every responsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our hour’s advice sold, GLOBAL CSR made a contribution to strategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th sustainable development through the impressive actions of our principle of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. clients. 13 C HALLENGES AND F UTURE CSR Profit W ORK An ongoing challenge for GLOBAL CSR and for our line of business is the aspect of integrity. NGOs and other stakeholders may ask; “how can you legitimise working for companies who are major polluters or have been found to People violate human rights?” However, the core of GLOBAL CSR’s Being a consultancy and working with multiple clients around vision is to advise businesses and organisations to work toward the world, it can be a challenge to find the right work-life achieving a sustainable world and we believe that by assisting balance to be successful both in and outside of work. In 2011 our clients, we contribute to the progression and development we will continue to strive for finding ways to better handle and of more socially, environmentally and economically sustainable balance the stressful aspects of our working environment, in businesses. This is coherent with our vision of a brighter future order to promote a physically and psychologically healthy for our planet, humanity – and not least for doing business. workplace. Improved general appreciation and understanding Our role vis-à-vis business is not to act as watch dogs, but to of both open and hidden structures of discrimination is assist them in improving performances. Nonetheless, intended to support the creation of a working environment, maintaining a high level of integrity is paramount to GLOBAL where everybody enjoy enhancement of their dignity. CSR and we will continue to apply our integrity measures when evaluating clients, the specific tasks and the advice we give them. Planet In 2010, GLOBAL CSR improved its environmental impact. Making a difference: Cross-cutting projects However, we will continue this development in 2011 by offsetting our emissions and finding alternatives to travelling by During 2010, GLOBAL CSR launched its new supplementary air when possible. In 2011, GLOBAL CSR will also work toward approach to traditional responsible supply chain management more comprehensively measuring its environmental impact (RSCM). The approach is called Responsible Supply Chain beyond commuting and business travel. Management 3.0. A report revisiting traditional approaches to 14 RSCM was prepared in 2010 and published January 2011. The their efforts and share experiences. The initiative supports the study has been co-financed by the Danish Ministry of Foreign Danish Government's goal (from the action plan, 2008 and the Affairs and was carried out in cooperation with Copenhagen objectives from 2010) to promote CSR among SMEs. The Business School. We plan to further develop and pilot test the process will be offered in 2011. new supplementary approach to RSCM in 2011. The report can be downloaded at http://www.global-csr.com/publications.html In addition our focus on ‘right to education’ has resulted in two projects that were also developed in 2010 for launch in 2011. GLOBAL CSR has in 2010 prepared a learningand advisory We expect to publish a book for managers describing the ‘what, process for Small and Medium sized Enterprises (SMEs) that why and how’ of the Principled-Based Approach to CSR. In will give participants a unique opportunity to fully exploit the addition we expect to finalise and launch an innovative project benefits of CSR, in addition to creating a forum to promote to improve CSR in-house training on a larger scale. ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and will be permanently available for download online on www.globalcsr.com and on unglobalcompact.org. For further information about this report and the services of GLOBAL CSR, please contact us at info@global-csr.com or +45 44 99 55 06. 15 16 , Vimmelskaftet 41A, 3rd Floor, 1161 Copenhagen K, Denmark, + 45 44 99 55 06, www.global-csr.com
