To the Stakeholders of the Rosia Montana Gold Corporation: In May 2010, I was appointed President & CEO of Gabriel Resources Ltd 1. I wish to use the occasion of this 2011 Communication on Progress (CoP) under the UN Global Compact (UNGC) as a means to re-iterate the support of both Gabriel and Rosia Montana Gold Corporation to the principles of the UN Global Compact. The enclosed 2010 Annual Report (“A Project for Romania”) clearly demonstrates our ongoing commitments to the UN Global Compact. The Ann ual Report will thus serve as our 2011 Communication on Progress by highlighting our efforts in the course of 2010 in implementing the UN Global Compact and its principles. W hile we are still only engaged in the process of permitting for the development of the Rosia Montana gold and silver project in Romania we strongly believe that environmental stewardship and fulfilling the UNGC principles – such as those concerning human rights, labour, and anti -corruption policies are implemented long before operat ions at the site begin. In particular, in relation to the later – paralleled with a substantial increase in staff in the course of 2010 – we have ensured that human rights, labour and anti -corruption protocols are fully integrated into the company’s stra tegies, operations and culture independent of local laws and in line with the UNGC principles. For instance, Principle 10 of the Global Compact commits signatories to “work against corruption in all its forms…”. On 1 s t Juy 2011 the new UK Bribery Act came into force; with a UK-registered subsidiary, Gabriel fulfills the requirements stipulated in this act. In addition, the company is entering in to a dialogue with the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, which sets a global standard for transparenc y in oil, gas and mining. W hen it comes to the UNGC principles concerning the environment the practical aspect of living up to them comes only when the mining operations begin. Nevertheless as expressed most notably in our Environmental Impact Assessment the company’s aim is to develop the Rosia Montana gold and silver project into a benchmark for responsible mining. In other words, to contribute with our actions in promoting sustainable development at local, national and international level thus actively advancing several Millennium Development Goals, especially Goal 1 to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, Goal 2 to achieve universal 1 Gabriel Resources Ltd. is a Canadian-listed resource company committed to responsible mining and sutainable development in the communities in which it operates. Gabriel is engaged in the exploration and development of mineral properties in Romania and is presently in the permitting stage and preparing to develop its 80.46%-owned Rosia Montana gold project. The Rosia Montana gold project is currently undergoing the technical review of its environmental impact assessment by the Romanian authorities. primary education, Goal 7 to ensure environmental sustaina bility, and Goal 8 to develop partnerships for development. As indicated in previous CoPs, we understand that true sustainability is less about corporate contributions, but rather about building up a community’s capability over time and to ensure long-term development beyond the life -cycle of the mining operation . This understanding informs our actions including our activities in 2010 which are described in more detail in the enclosed corporate annual report. I shall nevertheless use the following lines to highlight a number of activities we have undertaken in the last 12 months, which demonstrate our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles: Additional investments and activities were made and carried out in the social, cultural and educational sphere. Education was a major focus in 2010 and the regular summer school OviduRom/EduCaleidoscop was attended by over 60 teachers and more than 500 pupils. The company continued its more than three year partnership with CERT Apuseni (Youth Resource Center from Apuseni) which enrolled almost 300 youngsters in leadership development and environmental awareness programmes in the course of 2010. A commitment to heritage. In 2010 emergency repairs and protection or conservation works were carried out on approximately 80 historical houses. In March 2010, the Company completed the first significant building restoration project in the old town of Rosia Montana.The restored historic building is now a Heritage Information Center which attracted more than 10,000 visitors in the first year. Over the past five years the company has invested more than US$ 10 million in exploration and recovery of Rosia Montana’s cultural heritage. The Rosia Montana site suffers from 2,000 years of mining activities with 100 hectares affected by 18 waste stockpiles and two open pits together with 140km of underground galleries generating acid water with heavy metals contaminating up to 40km downstream from the site. The company ’s goal is to clean up these environmental legacies and in the course of 2010 it continued on the path to sound environmental stewardship by initiating reforestation projects and the cleaning up of a 10km stretch of a local river , amongst other activities . As indicated in previous CoPs we will continue to pursue dialogue with all our stakeholders and on behalf of Gabri el Resources, I am pleased to submit this Report to our stakeholders as a sign of our continuing commitment to engagement, openness and social and environmental responsibility. Signed, Jonathan Henry President & Chief Executive Officer Gabriel Resources Ltd. A Project for Romania Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gabriel Resources – a commitment to sustainable economic development involving cultural and community partnerships in Romania. Gabriel Resources Ltd. is a Toronto listed (GBU.TSX) gold exploration and development company committed to responsible mining and sustainable development. Gabriel currently owns a number of licenses in Romania with its focus on the development of its 80.46% owned Rosia Montana project (“the Project”). Gabriel Resources Ltd. is referred to throughout as “Gabriel” or “the Company”. Business Review ➜ page 04 01 Rosia Montana 02 Highlights Economy ➜ 03 Chairman’s Statement 04 04 Business Review Introduction page 08 06 Management Discussion & Analysis (abridged) 08 Sustainability 08 Economy 10 Environment 12 Heritage 14 Community 16 Board of Directors 17 Corporate Governance 18 Management’s Responsibility for Financial Reporting Heritage ➜ 19 Independent Auditor's Report 20 Consolidated Balance Sheets page 12 21 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 22 Consolidated Statements of Loss and Comprehensive Loss 23 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 24 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements IBC Investor Information Gabriel Resources 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Rosia Montana hosts Europe's largest undeveloped gold deposit – a world class asset with a rich mining history. The Project is situated in west-central Romania near the village of Rosia Montana in Alba County within the Rosia Montana mining district. The Project has a long mining heritage. Reported resources of 14.6m oz of gold and 64.9m oz of silver (M&I), including 10.1m oz gold and 47.6m oz of silver reserves (2P). Additional exploration potential exists on the Bucium exploration license applications, some 5km away. Rosia Montana Alba lulia Deva Bucharest 2010 a renewed focus for the Company ➜ Gold market remained strong in 2010 Support for the Project rose signiﬁcantly in 2010. The new ➜ Recommencement of Environmental Board and management team have overseen a rising share price buoyed by a strong gold market, as well as Impact Assessment (“EIA”) review recommencement of the permitting process with several and permitting process meetings held for technical reviews of the Project’s EIA. The Project has made progress with renewed focus on ➜ Stakeholder support for delivery to the highest standards and commitment to Rosia Montana development all stakeholders, including communities at a local level. Potential to underpin Romanian GDP growth ➜ Direct and indirect beneﬁt to Romania Romania's Rosia Montana region has been characterised of US$19 billion by economic decline and environmental degradation. Today, there is a real plan for a brighter future and a signiﬁcant contribution ➜ Investment in excess of US$1 billion required to Romanian GDP through the Project. Gabriel is committed to ➜ Job creation locally and across Romania building a new mining facility to reinvigorate the local and wider economy and to provide an economic basis for sustainable development for the whole area for decades to come. Resources dedicated to preservation ➜ Rehabilitation of building No. 325, mining We are dedicating signiﬁcant funding to honour Rosia museum opened Montana’s cultural heritage whilst setting world-class standards for engineering, environmental and social ➜ 10,000 visitors to “Aurul Apusenilor” responsibility. More than US$10 million has been invested exhibition in ﬁrst year in Rosia Montana’s cultural and heritage exploration and recovery, one of the largest programmes in Europe. ➜ Restoration and repair programme continues 02 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Highlights 2010 has been a milestone year for Gabriel. The gold market has remained strong; stakeholder and community support at all levels for the Project has grown. The permitting process recommenced with technical reviews and the EIA in progress. Gabriel Share Price Regional Geology – “The Golden Quadrilateral” As at December 31 (CAN$) Spanning Alba, Mures, Sibiu, Cluj and Hunedoara Counties 2010 7.95 2009 4.37 2008 1.52 2007 1.97 4 Year Gold Price Gabriel Resources Licenses or License Applications Annual Average (US$) Exploitation and Exploration Licenses Gold and silver deposits 2010 1,227 Copper deposits 2009 974 2008 872 2007 697 5km 25km ➜ A world class gold asset located in Romania and poised for development ➜ The Project offers substantial returns for all stakeholders ➜ Permitting is progressing and Gabriel is engaged with all stakeholders ➜ The Project is funding investment in responsible and sustainable mining for the benefit of future Romanian generations Gabriel Resources 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairman’s Statement In line with our mission of creating value for all stakeholders from responsible mining, 2010 has proven to be a watershed year. It is my pleasure to present the annual report for Gabriel for 2010. The social and cultural aspects for the development of the Project are The gold market has continued to strengthen, and stakeholder and also very important. Construction permits will be granted when the community support at all levels for the Project has grown. Most necessary surface rights have been acquired. Following the acquisition notable has been the recommencement of the permitting process of 78% of the homes and dwellings to date further efforts are expected and the technical reviews and EIA which are underway. I am to commence in 2011 in the acquisition of the remaining private conﬁdent that 2011 will prove to be a pivotal year for the fortunes and institutional properties within the Project footprint. The Recea of your Company. resettlement programme is ongoing and all of the 125 new homes are now occupied. Discussions are underway for the expansion of this 2010 saw progress in our main goal of bringing Europe’s largest resettlement community as well as a further resettlement village to be undeveloped gold and silver deposit closer to production. I am built close to Rosia Montana for the remaining homeowners who have pleased to report that the Rosia Montana environmental permitting chosen or may decide to be resettled. process recommenced on September 17, 2010 with the support of local and federal political decision makers. Against a backdrop During the past year emergency maintenance work was carried out of difﬁcult austerity measures, the Project continues to receive on 160 houses located in the historical centre of Rosia Montana as governmental support as a means of bringing economic stimuli to part of the village heritage preservation programme. Full restoration a poor region with signiﬁcant unemployment. This support does of one village centre dwelling has been completed which now bring a great deal of political and public attention and much time houses the permanent exhibition of history and mining archeology. has been invested in educating stakeholders as to the beneﬁts of This is an integral part of the mining museum, which is part of the developing the Project. The beneﬁts are not just economic; we public commitments made in the environmental impact assessment are committed to responsible mining and developing this Project and part of the Company’s commitment to a sustainable mining so that it conforms to the highest standards on environmental, community. In addition, progress has been made with applications cultural and social matters. for archeological discharge permits that will be needed for various areas within the Project construction footprint. The environmental challenges are signiﬁcant for this Project. Historical mining activities have not been regulated and the Rosia In the short term, continued efforts need to be made to grow the Montana area has suffered from unchecked levels of waste and Romanian public and Governmental support for the Project and in water pollution. Inherent within the Project’s development therefore obtaining approval of the EIA and all other required permits that is the undertaking to responsibly redress the situation and put will allow construction activities to commence. Our other Romanian systems in place for a safe, clean and sustainable operation. projects remain on hold until such time as the Rosia Montana Working with the Government, the approval of the EIA is the ﬁrst permitting process is concluded. For the longer term our efforts step to a cleaner environment in and around Rosia Montana. will continue to be focused on maximising stakeholder value while ensuring that the Project beneﬁts those in the community and the There are a number of other permits and approvals that are required surrounding area to the optimum possible extent. for the development of the Project to proceed to construction and 2010 also saw progress on these fronts. The public participation for I have said earlier that 2011 will be a pivotal year in the fortunes of the amended industrial zonal urbanisation plan was completed and the Project in Rosia Montana and for Gabriel. The progress attained a number of the required approvals were obtained. Also in June thus far would not have been possible if it had not been for the 2010 the Cetate and Corna dam safety permits for the Project were dedication and support shown by our management and staff, our obtained from the Ministry of Environment. Although the permitting Board of Directors, our major shareholders, and the local, regional process can be long and further protracted by currently unforeseen and national communities we operate in. I am conﬁdent that the events, I am conﬁdent that a successful conclusion for the initial permitting process will reach a positive conclusion and that our vision environmental impact assessment stage will be reached and the to be a catalyst for sustainable economic, environmental, cultural Project moved forward in 2011. and community development for future generations will be realised. Keith R. Hulley Chairman 04 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Introduction Our mission is to create value for all of our stakeholders from responsible mining Our vision is to build the Rosia Montana project and to be a catalyst for sustainable economic, environmental, cultural and community development ➜ New Board and management team appointed ➜ Recommencement of EIA review and permitting process ➜ Stakeholder support for Rosia Montana’s development ➜ Mining museum opened Gabriel Resources 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In 2010, many commodity and stock market indices experienced Gabriel is moving forward with the amended industrial zonal historically high levels of volatility in the face of the global economic urbanisation plan (“Amended PUZ”), having completed the crisis. Financial market conditions continued to improve during the public consultation and has obtained the Romanian Waters year as global credit markets started to stabilise, investor conﬁdence Authority endorsement. In December 2010, as part of the improved and most economies experienced positive growth. During Strategic Environmental Assessment process (“SEA”) relating to the year, the US dollar was generally in decline and the EURO the Amended PUZ, Rosia Montana Gold Corporation (“RMGC”) weakened against the Canadian dollar as a result of low interest presented all the updates and detailed information requested by rates and concerns about the solvency of certain European Union the Regional Environmental Protection Agency in Sibiu and in March countries. Gold price volatility in 2010 remained high with the price 2011 approval of the SEA was obtained. In addition, the Local reaching a record level of US$1,424 per ounce. The average gold Council of Rosia Montana has initiated the process for the zonal price for the year was US$1,227 per ounce. urbanisation plan for the protected area (“PUZ – Protected Area”). The Romanian Government continued to implement austerity In June 2010, the dam safety permits for the Cetate and Corna measures intended to reduce Romania’s budget deﬁcit and dams for the Project were issued by the MOE. The forestry and comply with the requirements of the International Monetary agricultural land use change permits will proceed after the EIA has Fund’s emergency aid programme. Given the critical importance been approved and surface rights obtained. In the absence of of sustained economic development for Romania, the Company any other extraordinary events, legal or otherwise, the Company continues to draw public and political attention to the signiﬁcant expects permitting processes to take approximately one year from economic opportunity its Project represents, while setting or the date the EIA and the new archeological discharge certiﬁcate conforming to the highest standards on engineering, environmental, for the Carnic deposit are approved by the Romanian government. cultural and social matters. The majority of oustanding surface rights acquisitions and other permits and approvals including initial construction permits for The Project continued to receive support from members of the local the Project will also be obtained in that period, although there and regional political leadership, in line with the Government’s effort is no precedent or regulatory timeline against which to judge to create economic stimuli. On September 17, 2010, the Ministry of this estimation. Environment (“MOE”) recommenced the Technical Analysis Committee (“TAC”) review of the Rosia Montana EIA, which had been suspended During the past year, RMGC continued emergency maintenance since the fall of 2007, and the Project is now receiving the objective work on 160 houses located in the historical centre of Rosia analysis the Company has long sought. Montana, with the aim to stop their deterioration. While these houses are not designated as historic, their restoration will The ﬁrst formal TAC meeting was held on September 22, 2010. contribute to maintaining the character of Rosia Montana village. There have been two further TAC meetings (held on December 22, This emergency conservation work will continue through a 2010 and on March 9, 2011). At this time it is not known how many multi-year program, which will run in parallel with the construction further meetings will be required by the TAC to review and to make and the operations phase of the Project. RMGC has completed an assessment of the Project’s EIA or how long this process may the restoration of an historical home located in the centre of take. Ultimately, the EIA must be approved by a Cabinet decision Rosia Montana to host a permanent exhibition of history and of the Romanian Government. The Company’s management is mining archeology, which will be part of the future mining museum advised currently that this can be achieved by the end of the (this being one of the public commitments made in the EIA). second quarter of 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company issued While the EIA approval is the most important approval required 8.9 million common shares on the exercise of stock options for for the Project, there are a signiﬁcant number of other permits aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $19 million. The and processes required to advance the Project to construction, Company intends to use the net proceeds towards the costs such as zonal urbanisation plans for the industrial and protected associated with developing the Project and for general corporate areas, forestry/agriculture land use change permits, archeological purposes. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments discharge certiﬁcates, as well as other permits and approvals that at December 31, 2010 totalled $121.5 million. follow EIA approval. To that end, to the extent these permits and approvals are not dependent on EIA approval or the acquisition Based upon the last NI 43-101 technical report dated March of surface rights, the processes for each of these are proceeding 2009, initial pre-production capital costs are estimated to be in parallel with the EIA review process. approximately US$1 billion (excluding working capital). Total sustaining capital costs over the life of mine are estimated to be approximately US$366 million, plus reclamation costs of US$128 million. As at December 31, 2010, Gabriel had purchased approximately US$46 million of long-lead time equipment that is excluded in the estimates above of remaining capital to be spent. *Amounts throughout are in Canadian dollars unless stated otherwise 06 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Management Discussion & Analysis (abridged) The full Management Discussion & Analysis statement for 2010 can be found on www.sedar.com The Path to Gold No additional work is planned on the Bucium property until the It remains management’s belief that once the EIA for the Project and exploration license is converted to an exploitation license and the the new archeological discharge certiﬁcate for the Carnic area are Rosia Montana EIA is approved. The government has indicated that approved by the Romanian Government, in the absence of any a decision on the conversion of the Bucium exploration to exploitation other extraordinary events, it would take approximately one year to: license will not be made until a decision to proceed with the Project n Complete the majority of outstanding surface rights acquisitions; has been made. n Receive the majority of other permits and approvals, including initial construction permits; and The ﬁnal installments for the processing mills are expected to be n Complete the control estimate and initial documentation on any made in 2011 ($1.6 million) at which point the grinding area systems third party Project ﬁnancing. and crushing facilities will be fully paid for and in the possession of the Company. In order to minimise the transportation, storage Once construction of the mine begins, it is expected to take expenditures and other costs, the Company evaluated various an estimated 30 months to complete. Ultimately, the Romanian strategies for storing completed equipment and based on the ﬁnal Government determines the timing of issuance of the EIA approval evaluation the equipment is currently stored at four main locations and all other permits and approvals required for the Project, subject in accordance with each manufacturer’s speciﬁcations. to the Romanian courts dealing with litigation in a timely manner. In the absence of further unforeseen delays the Project is expected to Liquidity and Capital Resources pour ﬁrst gold by the end of 2014. Until receipt of the environmental permits for the Project, the only source of liquidity is the Company’s cash balance, any bridge The Company’s key objectives in the short term include: financing, exercise of stock options and warrants outstanding, n Continue with public relations efforts to increase Romanian and the equity markets. The cost to complete the Project was public and Government support and backing for the Project; estimated at US$876 million based on a revised cost estimate in n Obtain approval of the EIA and all other required permits that March 2009. To complete the development of the Project, the allow construction activities to commence; and Company will need financing of approximately US$1 billion, to n Continue to maximise shareholder value, while optimising fund capital costs of US$876 million plus working capital, interest, the Project beneﬁts to those in the community and the financing and corporate costs estimated at US$124 million. Once surrounding area. EIA approval has been granted, the Company will re-examine financing alternatives. If the Company was unable to raise the Investing Activities required funds, it would seek strategic alternatives to move the The most signiﬁcant ongoing investing activities are for furthering Project towards development. progress for the Project in Romania. Most of the expenditure to date has been for identifying and deﬁning the size of the four ore bodies, Market Outlook for engineering to design the size and scope of the Project, for The tone for the precious metals market in 2011 will depend on environmental assessment and permitting, social support to local whether the US dollar will be supported, and if the central banks will communities, archeological and rehabilitation work to buildings, as continue to maintain interest rates at low levels to support economic well as surface rights/property acquisition. Once construction permits growth. The continued global easing of monetary policy could lead are received, the nature and magnitude of expenditure will increase, to higher inﬂation and further US dollar depreciation in the coming as roads, production facilities, open pits, tailings management facilities years. This could have a positive impact on gold prices in the future and associated infrastructure are built. and the long–term upward trend in prices may continue. Conversely, subdued inﬂation rates and the recovering global economy could put downward pressure on the gold price in the future. Additionally, recent events in North Africa and the Middle East could continue to have a positive effect on the gold price, which has seen all time highs above US$1,500 per ounce in recent weeks. Gabriel Resources 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Financial Summary n Total expenses in 2010 were lower (by $7.8 million) than 2009 primarily due to lower costs associated with the departure of senior employees and executives of the Company. During 2010 the Company incurred a $1.7 million charge for retiring allowances and settlement payments, including the expensing of share-based compensation, versus $8.8 million in 2009. In addition, the current year included the recovery of Project ﬁnance costs upon the expiry of warrants ($0.5 million). n Total expenses in 2009 were higher (by $8.3 million) than 2008 primarily due to expenses in 2009 for the costs associated with the departed and departing senior employees and executives of the Company, partially offset by lower project ﬁnancing costs ($0.6 million). n Other income (expenses) included interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses. The weakening of both the US dollar and the EURO against the Canadian dollar resulted in higher net foreign exchange losses in 2010 (by $11.2 million). n In 2009, other income (expenses) included interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses. The weakening of both the US dollar and the EURO against the Canadian dollar resulted in foreign exchange losses of $4.7 million in 2009, compared to foreign exchange gains of $15.8 million in 2008. Other income (expenses) n Long-term liabilities on the Company’s balance sheet are was reduced further by lower interest income in 2009 ($3.2 million) comprised of Deferred Share Units (DSUs) ($1.4 million) due to due to lower interest rates compared to 2008. directors and ofﬁcers of the Company and a ﬁdelity bonus ($2.2 n In 2010, the Company reported a lower loss (by $3.8 million) million) that represents a retention bonus for Romanian employees. compared to 2009 due to lower operating expenses of $7.8 million n The higher expenditure in 2010 compared to 2009 is related to the and a recovery of prior year’s income taxes of $6.9 million, largely costs incurred in support of the ongoing EIA review process by the offset by higher foreign exchange losses in 2010 ($11.2 million). Romanian subsidiary and higher project management and n The higher loss for 2009 (by $22.5 million) compared to 2008 is engineering costs. primarily due to a swing of $20.6 million in foreign currency n The lower expenditure in 2009 compared to 2008 is due to higher movements, higher operating expenses of $8.3 million and lower foreign exchange gains recognised by the Romanian subsidiary interest income of $3.2 million. The increase in losses was partially and lower project management and engineering costs partially offset by lower income taxes of $9.6 million. offset by higher external communications and resettlement site n The Company will continue to incur losses until the Project begins construction costs. commercial production. n The Company’s primary source of liquidity has been the equity n The increase in total assets for the years ended 2008 through markets. The Company raised $180 million over the past three 2010 primarily relates to the 2009 equity issues, together with the years through two equity ﬁnancings. The other source of liquidity exercise of stock options and warrants, which raised a total of is the exercise of stock options of $23.6 million over the past $203.6 million to ﬁnance the advancement of the Project. three years. CAD$000’s (unless otherwise stated) 2010 2009 2008 Total expenses 14,138 22,064 13,767 Other income (expenses) (15,454) (4,322) 19,472 Loss 22,667 26,578 4,095 Loss per share (basic and diluted) (Canadian dollars) 0.07 0.09 0.02 Total assets 661,892 658,694 530,135 Long-term liabilities 3,615 3,908 3,065 Investment in exploration and development including working capital changes 41,431 46,046 48,994 Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities 19,339 182,736 1,097 Amounts in text are in Canadian dollars unless stated otherwise. 08 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Sustainability Third party studies estimate that the Project represents a direct and indirect investment of at least US$19 billion into the Romanian economy and will have a significant economic impact, Economy creating employment opportunities, new business possibilities as well as making a major contribution to both local and central governmental budgets. Gabriel is fully committed to Even in advance of operations there are ways that the Company is demonstrating its committment in this area. The TAC review building a sustainable mine at of the EIA recommenced in late 2010, enabling the Company to demonstrate to the Romanian government its plans to adopt the Rosia Montana and to integrate most modern environmentally responsible mining and processing techniques which fully comply with both EU and Romanian laws and UN Global Compact (UNGC) regulations as well as international management best practices. The principles into Company policies Company has been active at a local level in 2010 with community led initiatives for health and welfare, educational and cultural programmes, and practices. Gabriel understands community tradition initiatives as well as cultural heritage initiatives. that true sustainability is less about The ﬁnancial plan of the Project provides direct beneﬁts of more than corporate contributions and more US$4 billion for the Romanian economy; of this total US$1.8 billion will be paid directly to the state budget in the form of dividends, salary about building up a community’s taxes, royalties and other duties. The remaining US$2.4 billion is to be spent in Romania on human resources, electricity, transportation, capability over time. construction, reagents, spare parts and other expenditure. Job creation at a local and county level will be a signiﬁcant beneﬁt of the Project with over 3,000 direct and indirect jobs to be made available during the Project construction phase. After obtaining authorisation, the Company is set to invest approximately US$1 million per day during the two and a half year construction phase. In the region of 880 direct jobs are forecast for the operational stage of the Project. Gabriel Resources 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business opportunities for local suppliers will be important Inflow (US$ bn) Romanian economy throughout the various Project phases with most of the Project Gold and silver revenues 7.5 Multiplier impact (US$ bn) operating expenses representing opportunities for the local Output for companies 5.9 community businesses. In order to ensure that the economic Government revenues 6.9 beneﬁts of the Project are returned to the community local Outflow (US$ bn) suppliers are prioritised as a Company policy. External suppliers 1.7 Total GDP extended Financial costs 0.3 cumulative contribution 19.0 The investment required to implement the Project amounts to State and local budgets 1.8 approximately US$1.8 billion of which US$400 million has already Romanian economy, goods Number of direct jobs created (Est.) been invested. The construction phase will total approximately and services suppliers and employees 2.4 Construction phase 2,300 US$1 billion and the difference of approximately US$400 million Reinvested proﬁts 1.3 Operational phase 880 will be spent on sustainable development and closure phases. (assuming a gold price of US$900 per ounce The Project is set to generate substantial direct and indirect and a silver price of US$12.50 per ounce) economic impacts. Over the 27 year currently forecast life of the Project (2 years for construction, 16 years for operation and 9 years for closure and rehabilitation) the total potential contribution of the mining project on the Romanian economy is likely to be in the order of US$19 billion due to the impact of multiplier effects (according to independent studies undertaken by British based Oxford Policy Management). 349 Infrastructure, 152 Tailings utilities and management EPCM facility Con 223 102 l pita str Surface rights, Mining and uc tio resettlement processing Ca nP ng ini sites sta ha se Su 205 71 Heritage, Mining and processing 876 366 resettlement, other 99 Tailings 1,379 Total Investment 41 Infrastructure, management utilities and facility EPCM 137 63 44 Ongoing Water Close Plant Treatment and 30 Waste and Final Closure Tailings Dump Closure Capital *All values US$m 10 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Sustainability Gabriel is committed to building a new state-of-the-art mining facility that will reinvigorate the local economy, restore and preserve cultural heritage, whilst setting world-class standards Environment for engineering, environmental and social responsibility. Even though the Project has yet to commence operations the Company continued to seek ways to demonstrate its commitment By building a best practice to sound environmental stewardship in the community in 2010. Recent projects have included a reforestation campaign and modern mine and implementing cleaning a 10km stretch of a local river. Energy use was minimised by reorganising ofﬁce space in order to better accommodate current the highest environmental needs and “Green Ofﬁce” rules were established that enhanced the recycling and responsible use of paper in the corporate ofﬁces. standards, the Project creates The long-term sustainability of the Project is dependent not only an opportunity to remediate past upon good relationships with employees and the community, but also the approach to the protection of the environment. damage, leaving the region's Looking at the Project plan from an environmental perspective, rivers and soil cleaner than the Company has established four main areas of environmental before. The Project will be the objectives; forestry and landscaping, water, tailings dam safety and noise and vibrations. first permitted under the EU's From previous mining the site has 100 hectares affected by stringent environmental laws, 18 waste stockpiles and two pits with 140 km of underground creating a model mining project galleries generating acid water. Via the Project 500 hectares will be redesigned and the existing contamination and main pollution not only for Romania and the source will be eliminated. After mining, three pits will be backﬁlled and revegetated and a lake of 70 hectares will be created in one EU but for future mining of the old pits. projects worldwide. Post mine closure all the affected areas will be rehabilitated and the natural local ﬂora and fauna will be reinstated via green “ecological corridors”. It is planned that there will be a progressive environmental reconstruction giving rise to enlarged vegetated areas and elimination of contamination wherever possible. Further measures will be taken to mitigate the impact on soils including fertilisation of top soil, conservation of the top soil, monitoring and treatment of acid soils as well as environmental rehabilitation of the soil proﬁle. Noise and vibration is expected to be low impact and only in the industrial areas, well within the limits required by legal standards. Overnight activity will be prohibited in the proximity of inhabited areas and protection barriers are to be pre-installed on machines. The noise and vibration situation will be monitored continuously to ensure standards are obeyed. Gabriel Resources 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Four pits (Carnic, Cetate, Jig and Orlea) will be exploited in two principal stages, with the pits and stockpiles to be closed progressively. During processing the mined ore is to be leached using conventional carbon-in-leach technology. The tailings system which manages processed waste rock (known as the Tailings Management Facility or “TMF”) has been designed with excess capacity and is able to withstand extreme weather conditions. The river waters currently suffer from large concentrations of heavy metals and contamination up to 40km downstream from the site due to the exposure of historic workings to the elements. The Project will provide an immediate solution to clean water discharges, allowing the reintroduction of aquatic life. As part of the Rosia Montana Environmental Partnership during 2010, signiﬁcant achievements on environmental targets were attained, with the involvement of international groups through to the local communities. Forestry and Landscaping Objectives Planting of 1,000 ➜ All 1,000 hectares to be planted before hectares of forestry the ﬁrst tree for the Project will be cut to replace 255 hectares to be deforested ➜ Entire 300 hectares for TMF to be re-vegetated ➜ Cetate pit to be ﬁlled with water after rehabilitation ➜ Carnic, Jig and Orlea pits to be rehabilitated 1,000ha and re-vegetated Tailings Dam Safety Objectives Designed to hold the ➜ Design capacity – 250 million tonnes rainfall from two back ➜ Required capacity – 215 million tonnes to back 1 in 10,000 year extreme ﬂood ➜ Dams designed by MWH, based in the US, events within 24 hours one of the world’s leading companies in this ﬁeld 250m ➜ Norwegian Geotechnical Institute reviewed the design tonnes to be one of the safest in the world, able to withstand extreme earthquakes in a low risk seismic region Water Objectives Rational use of water ➜ Collect and clean historical pollution from the site – aim of recirculation of ➜ Ensure water life regeneration 85% of industrial water required in the process over 40km of river waters ➜ Best technologies will eliminate the source of acid rock drainage and enable management of surface run-offs 85% 12 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Sustainability Gabriel has funded an independent and specialist rescue archeology team who are using state-of the-art research methods and techniques. All archeological efforts are being undertaken Heritage in compliance with UNESCO standards and EU archaeological guidelines. The cultural heritage plan includes a protected zone containing the village's historic structures as well as the future museum, which will allow scholars, students and experts to study Gabriel is fully committed the region's cultural heritage. Over US$35m has been earmarked for ongoing heritage investment. to restoring, preserving and The investment to date has also funded the Alburnus Maior National honouring Rosia Montana's Research Programme, the goal of which is not only to restore and promote the cultural values of Rosia Montana in accordance with unique cultural heritage. Over sustainable development principles, but also to encourage the the past five years, more than development of this area to standards worthy of its ancient fame. The Romanian National History Museum acts as coordinator of this US$10m has been invested extensive programme which applies the latest methods of cultural management, in compliance with EU and international standards. in exploration and recovery of Rosia Montana’s cultural The new urban zonal plan is in the approval stage for Rosia Montana’s historical centre. This plan provides a protected area for the centre as heritage, one of the largest well as a buffer zone, encompassing 135 hectares. 233 houses are owned by the Company in the centre of Rosia Montana. Of these 35 privately funded programmes are historical monuments which will be restored. in Europe. The investment programme in maintenance, restoration and development of Rosia Montana’s cultural heritage enjoyed signiﬁcant progress in 2010 including: 1. Restoration works and, in the Rosia Montana historical centre, the inauguration of the mining history exhibition “Aurul Apusenilor” completed in March 2010. 2. Emergency repair works on buildings situated in the protected area primarily as conservation up until such time as restoration works are started and the buildings are made operational once more. 3. Design/restoration works on the historical monument buildings as well as the traditional buildings of Rosia Montana’s historical centre. 4. Promotional activity for the cultural patrimony of Rosia Montana and local cultural events. Gabriel Resources 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Restoration works In March 2010, the Company completed the ﬁrst building restoration project with the rehabilitation of Building No. 325 using traditional methods and materials, following a two and a half year period of restoration activity. The property is currently being used as a Heritage Information Centre and houses a collection and exhibition of mining, historical and archaeological artifacts. Building repairs The emergency building repairs on the buildings in the protected area are aimed at evaluating primarily the condition of the houses and prioritising them according to their conservation status and needs. The list of the emergency repairs in the historical centre of Rosia Montana exceeds 135 houses and annexes. In 2010 emergency repairs and protection or conservation works were carried out on around 80 houses. Mining galleries In parallel with these initiatives, maintenance and servicing works were carried out on a number of access galleries to underground mining operations on the areas of Catalina Monulesti, Paru Carpeni and Carnic. Over 140 km of galleries have been researched, out of which 7 km (in discontinuous fragments) are from the Roman Building No.325 period. The most signiﬁcant galleries will be conserved in situ or replicated 1:1. In 2010, RMGC completed the rehabilitation of Building No.325 using traditional methods and materials, following a two and a half year period of restoration activity. Outlook Looking forwards the Company’s cultural heritage efforts will continue to focus on maintenance, conservation and restoration of the historic centre as well as the provision of scientiﬁc and public research for the cultural heritage programme for Rosia Montana 96 people based on two major components: Archaeology (surface and Resources and skills were utilised from 6 architects, 2 buildings experts, underground) and Architecture. 4 building engineers, 2 worksite managers and 82 local workers In the short term, restoration of houses in the historical centre will continue as well as the preparation for restoration programmes €150,000 Total costs of approximately Euro 150,000 for restoration, for two valuable buildings: the old school and the old city hall. reopening and setting-up of the “Aurul Apusenilor” exhibition Furthermore, the design and execution programme for the future museum ensemble – the New Mining Museum – will continue as planned. This museum will be developed along three major pillars: 10,000 visitors inside basic and thematic exhibitions, open-air exhibitions and Building No.325 has hosted over 10,000 visitors in the ﬁrst year helping archaeological monuments preserved in situ and underground to bring renewed support and momentum for the Company in its efforts to restore and revalue the historical centre – the protected area of Rosia Montana sections of Catalina Monulesti, Paru Carpeni and Piatra Corbului mining galleries. All of these activities will be closely related to the development of the Project permitting process. If all proceeds according to plan the region will beneﬁt from a new village, a restored historic village centre for Rosia Montana with museums, hotels, restaurants and modern infrastructure, mine galleries and potential for a sustainable tourism industry for the future. 14 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Sustainability In keeping with its commitment to social responsibility, the Company's overriding objective is to maintain strong community relations and to engage all communities located near the Community site of the future mine and in the outlying areas in the decision-making process. The Community Relations Department of RMGC maintains a Gabriel is committed to fostering comprehensive database related to the population impacted by the Project including, relocated and resettled families, vulnerable the sustainable development of people (especially residents without properties) and non-displaced affected people (including families still waiting for their new houses the Rosia Montana community. to be built and isolated families). This database represents one of the most important components of the social responsibility goals This includes a comprehensive set. 794 households have been purchased to date, in addition set of programmes designed to 143 houses without residents. All households are provided assistance based on their specific needs during the relocation to improve living standards, or resettlement process. addressing education, skills From the initiation of the relocation strategy, RMGC has supported training, assistance for the elderly, the affected community throughout the relocation process by offering legal assistance, disposal and moving assistance, health issues, job and business relocation assistance and a lifestyle restoration program (training and school grants). A support program for resettlement and creation, and respect for the relocation with specialised staff (social workers, social assistants, area's archaeological heritage. an occupational advisor and a sociologist) was established under the oversight of the Community Relations Department. The new Recea resettlement site was inaugurated in May 2009. This is the first resettlement site built for local families affected by the Project. It is also one of the first real estate projects in Romania to encompass the development of comprehensive infrastructure prior to the construction of actual housing with water, gas, electricity and sewage facilities developed entirely underground to meet EU standards. Following a US$32m investment, the new Recea district consists of 125 houses covering a 24 hectare area. The entire infrastructure was donated to Alba Iulia Municipality and the site includes over 13 km of roads. There were 12 construction companies involved in the building process, of which nine were based in Alba Iulia and three came from neighbouring counties. In all, 1,670 people worked at the Recea site and there is land available for expansion for up to 80 additional houses. Gabriel Resources 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The resettlement option at Recea was largely driven by people's desire to live in a modern neighbourhood in the most developed town in the country. Individual visits and consultations with the families were ongoing during site construction. These regular visits allowed for modifications in house designs to meet the families' preferences. 125 families from Rosia Montana have chosen resettlement at the Recea residential area in Alba Iulia. In 2010 further investment was made in social, cultural, educational and mining tradition projects. Within the social and cultural sphere several public events were held and general support services were provided such as transportation for pupils, sponsorships for churches and local community days. Education was a major focus in 2010 and several local programmes were held. The regular summer school OviduRom / EduCaleidoscop was attended by over 60 teachers and more than 500 pupils. During this summer school the teachers and children spent two weeks together learning new activities. The entire programme is developed within a partnership between NGOs, the Alba County School Inspectorate and RMGC. RMGC has been in partnership for more than three years with Recea resettlement site CERT Apuseni (Youth Resource Centre from Apuseni). The program provides dancing and martial arts courses, as well as Surface area Residential properties foreign languages and leadership development, creative activities and environmental awareness programs and events. Almost 300 youngsters were involved in the activity programme in 2010. 22 Also in 2010 RMGC continued to support Leaders Foundation – an NGO with expertise in leadership competencies development, especially designed for young individuals. The foundation organises periodical training sessions and more than 20 40 % 60 % 78 youngsters have so far attended the training sessions from Rosia Montana. The future benefits to come from this Project at a local community level are significant. acquired to be acquired US$32m Following a US$32 million investment, the new district consists of 125 houses covering a 24 hectare area. 13km The entire infrastructure was donated to Alba Iulia municipality and the site includes over 13 km of roads. 12 There were 12 construction companies involved in the building process, of which nine were based in Alba Iulia and three came from neighbouring counties. 1,670 In all, 1,670 people worked at the Recea site and there is land available and in possession for expansion with up to 80 additional houses. 16 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board of Directors Keith Hulley Mr. Flood received a Bachelor’s degree David Peat Director since February 2006 in Geology from the University of Nevada, Director since June 2010 Keith Hulley, 71, is the current Chairman followed by a Masters in Geology from David Peat, 58, has over 25 years of of the Board of Directors of Gabriel, is the the University of Montana. Mr. Flood experience in ﬁnancial leadership in support former Interim CEO of Gabriel and has been is a member of the Finance and of mining companies. Mr. Peat was Acting a member of the Gabriel Board since 2006. Technical Committees. CFO for Gabriel from December 10, 2010 Previously, Mr. Hulley served seven years through March 9, 2011. He has been as President, CEO and Executive Chairman Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer a Director and Chairman of the Audit of Apex Silver Mines before retiring in Director since June 2010 Committee of Brigus Gold Corp. since 2004. Mr. Hulley has more than 40 years Alfred Gusenbauer, 51 is the former Federal 2006. Mr. Peat was Vice President and CFO experience in the mining business which Chancellor of Austria and was a member of Frontera Copper Corporation from 2006 includes Board and senior executive of the European Council. Dr. Gusenbauer through 2009, Vice President and Global experience at Western Mining Holdings Ltd. holds a PhD in political science from the Controller of Newmont Mining Corp. from and USMX Inc. Mr. Hulley is a member of University of Vienna. In addition to a long 2002 through 2004, and Vice President of the Technical Committee. career in politics in Austria and Europe, he Finance and CFO of Homestake Mining also works in academia as a Professor-atCompany from 1999 through 2002. Mr. Peat Jonathan Henry Large at Brown University and is a Fellow is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Director since June 2010 for Global Affairs at Columbia University. a member of the Compensation Committee. Jonathan Henry, 44, has been the President Dr. Gusenbauer is currently the CEO of and CEO of Gabriel since June 7, 2010. He is Gusenbauer Projektentwicklung und Simon Prior-Palmer the former CEO of Avocet Mining, a London Beteiligung GmbH. Dr. Gusenbauer is a Director since October 2006 listed gold mining company with assets in member of the Corporate Governance Simon Prior-Palmer, 60, has more than West Africa and South East Asia. Mr. Henry Committee. 35 years of experience in international served as the CEO of Avocet Mining from ﬁnancial markets. He brings to Gabriel 2006 until May 31, 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Wayne Kirk extensive European business experience Henry served as Avocet Mining’s Finance Director since June 2008 and ﬁnancial expertise having held positions Director from 2002 until becoming the CEO Wayne Kirk, 67, has over 35 years of with JP Morgan and Credit Suisse First in 2006. experience as a corporate attorney, including Boston (CSFB) in Europe for more than nine years experience as Vice President, 30 years. As CEO of UK Investment Murray Sinclair General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Banking from 1987 to 1998 he led the Director since June 2003 of Homestake Mining Company. Mr. Kirk UK business developing a full breadth of Murray Sinclair, 49, has extensive knowledge currently holds directorships and is the advisory and capital market services. In in areas of asset backed lending, real estate, Chairman of the Nominating & Governance September 2010 he was appointed a Senior corporate restructuring and natural resources. Committees at each of Anooraq Resources Advisor at the Financial Services Authority Mr. Sinclair is Chairman and a director of Corporation, Great Basin Gold Ltd., (FSA) in London. Mr. Prior-Palmer is the Sprott Resource Lending Corp. a natural Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd. and Taseko current Chairman of the Finance Committee resource lender focused on providing bridge Mines Limited. He also is the Chairman of and a member of the Audit Committee. and mezzanine ﬁnancing to mining and oil the Corporate Governance and Nominating and gas companies. Prior to his current Committee and Compensation Committee Walter Segsworth position as Chairman, from 2003 to 2007 he of Electrum Ltd., a privately-held gold Director since June 2010 was the Managing Director of Quest Capital exploration company. From 2002 until his Walter Segsworth, 62, is a Director of Corp. He is also a director and ofﬁcer of retirement in 2004, he was Special Counsel Explorator Resources, Pan American several other public companies. Mr. Sinclair at Thelen Reid & Priest LLP. Mr. Kirk holds a Silver, and Telus World of Science. is the Chairman of Compensation Committee law degree from Harvard University. He has Mr. Segsworth has 40 years of experience and a member of the Finance Committee. been a member of the California Bar since in mining in Canada and overseas. 1969. Mr. Kirk is the Chairman of the Mr. Segsworth has served as a senior Ed Flood Corporate Governance Committee and officer of several mining companies Director since June 2010 a member of the Audit Committee. including Westmin Resources, where he Ed Flood, 66, Founder and Chairman was President and CEO and Homestake of Concordia Resources Corp., formally Igor Levental Mining Company, where he was President known as Western Lithium and Western Director since June 2008 and COO. He is currently Chairman of Uranium Corp. Mr. Flood also serves Igor Levental, 56, is the President of the Board of Plutonic Power Corp. Mr. as a Director on the Board on Ivanhoe the Electrum Group, a privately-owned Segsworth is past Chairman of both the Mines, South Gobi Energy Resources company with holdings in precious metals Mining Associations of British Columbia and Baker Steel Royalty Trust. Prior to companies, including Gabriel. With more (BC) and Canada and was named BC’s his work at Concordia Resources Corp, than 30 years of experience in the mining Mining Person of the year in 1996. He he worked with Haywood Securities in industry internationally, Mr. Levental has received his bachelor of science in mining differing capacities, most recently as the held senior positions with mining companies engineering from Michigan Technological Managing Director of Investment Banking including Homestake Mining Company University. Mr. Segsworth is the Chairman in the London ofﬁce, with a focus on and International Corona Corp. Mr. Levental of the Technical Committee. natural resource development. Mr. Flood holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering has had a long career in the natural and an MBA from the University of Alberta, resources industry, working at such ﬁrms Canada. Mr. Levental is a Director of as Ivanhoe Minerals, Nerco Minerals, NovaGold Resources Inc., Sunward Chevron Minerals, Kerr McGee, Gulf Resources Inc. and Taung Gold Ltd. Minerals, and Bunker Hill Mining. Gabriel Resources 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance The Board of Directors of Gabriel is elected by its shareholders The Board, in conjunction with management, seeks to identify and is responsible for the stewardship of Gabriel. The Board is the principal risks of Gabriel’s business and oversee management’s mandated with principal duties and responsibilities as well as implementation of appropriate systems to effectively monitor, policies and procedures to adopt to assist it in discharging its manage and mitigate the impact of such risks. duties and responsibilities. Corporate Social Responsibility, Ethics and Integrity Role and Responsibilities of the Board The Board provides leadership to Gabriel in support of its The role of the Board is to represent the shareholders of Gabriel, commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, sets the ethical enhance and maximise shareholder value and conduct the business tone for Gabriel and its management and fosters ethical and and affairs of Gabriel ethically and in accordance with the highest responsible decision making by management. The Board standards of corporate governance. The Board is ultimately undertakes steps to satisfy itself of the integrity of the Chief accountable and responsible for providing independent, effective Executive Ofﬁcer and management and satisfy itself that the leadership in supervising the management of the business and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and management create a culture of affairs of Gabriel. The responsibilities of the Board include: integrity throughout the organisation. n adopting a strategic planning process; Succession Planning, Appointment, Supervision n risk identiﬁcation and ensuring that procedures are in place and Compensation of Management for the management of those risks; The Board approves the succession plan for Gabriel, including the n review and approve annual operating plans and budgets; selection, appointment, supervision and evaluation of the Chief n corporate social responsibility, ethics and integrity; Executive Ofﬁcer and the other senior ofﬁcers of Gabriel, and also n succession planning, including the appointment, training and approves the compensation of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the supervision of management; other senior ofﬁcers of Gabriel. n delegations and general approval guidelines for management; n monitoring ﬁnancial reporting and management; Delegations and Approval Authorities n corporate disclosure and communications; The Board delegates to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and senior n adopting measures for receiving feedback from stakeholders; management authority over the day-to-day management of and the business and affairs of Gabriel. This delegation of authority n adopting key corporate policies designed to ensure that Gabriel, is subject to speciﬁed ﬁnancial limits and any transactions or its directors, ofﬁcers and employees comply with all applicable arrangements in excess of general authority guidelines will be laws, rules and regulations and conduct their business ethically reviewed by and subject to the prior approval of the Board. and with honesty and integrity. Monitoring of Financial Reporting and Management The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day management The Board approves all regulatory ﬁlings, including the annual of Gabriel’s business and affairs to Gabriel’s senior ofﬁcers and audited ﬁnancial statements, interim ﬁnancial statements, the notes supervises such senior ofﬁcers. and management discussion and analysis accompanying such ﬁnancial statements, quarterly and annual reports, management The Board may also delegate certain matters it is responsible for proxy circulars, annual information forms, prospectuses, and all to Board committees, presently consisting of the Audit Committee, capital investments, equity ﬁnancings, borrowings and all annual Corporate Governance Committee, Compensation Committee, operating plans and budgets. Finance Committee, and Technical Committee. The Board retains its oversight function and ultimate responsibility for these matters The Board adopts procedures to ensure the integrity of internal and all other delegated responsibilities. The Board has formalised controls and management information systems to ensure the following company policies, charters and mandates; Code compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and of Business Conduct and Ethics, Position description for CEO, to prevent violations of applicable laws, rules and regulations Position description for Chairman, Foreign Corrupt Practices policy, relating to ﬁnancial reporting and disclosure, violations of Gabriel’s Whistle Blower policy, Board Mandate, Corporate Disclosure code of business conduct and ethics, and fraud against Gabriel policy, Corporate Governance policy, Audit Committee charter, or its subsidiaries. Compensation Committee charter, Corporate Governance charter, Finance Committee charter and Technical Committee charter. Corporate Disclosure and Communications From time to time and as regulations and laws dictate, the Board The Board will ensure that all corporate disclosure complies with all will review its current policies and provide additional policies. applicable laws, rules and regulations and the rules and regulations of the stock exchanges upon which Gabriel’s securities are listed. In Strategic Planning Process and Risk Management addition, the Board adopts procedures to ensure the Board receives The Board adopts a strategic planning process to establish feedback from security holders on material issues. objectives and goals for Gabriel’s business and will review, approve and modify as appropriate the strategies proposed by Review of Mandate senior management to achieve such objectives and goals. The The Corporate Governance Committee annually reviews and Board reviews and approves on an annual basis, a strategic plan assesses the adequacy of the Board Mandate and recommends which takes into account, among other things, the opportunities any proposed changes to the Board for consideration. and risks of Gabriel’s business and affairs. 18 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management’s Responsibility for Financial Reporting The accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company have been prepared by management in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Canada. Management acknowledges responsibility for the preparation and presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, including responsibility for signiﬁcant accounting judgments and estimates and, where relevant, the choice of accounting principles. Management maintains an appropriate system of internal controls to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are authorised, assets safeguarded, and proper records maintained. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has met with the Company’s independent auditors to review the scope and results of the annual audit and to review the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and related ﬁnancial reporting matters prior to submitting the consolidated ﬁnancial statements to the Board for approval. The Company’s independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have conducted an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and their report follows. Jonathan Henry David Peat President and Chief Executive Officer Acting Chief Financial Officer March 8, 2011 Gabriel Resources 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Shareholders of Gabriel Resources Ltd. We have audited the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Gabriel Resources Ltd. and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 and the consolidated statements of loss and comprehensive loss, shareholders’ equity and cash ﬂows for the years then ended, and the related notes including a summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies. Management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained in our audits is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of Gabriel Resources Ltd. and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 and the results of its operations and its cash ﬂows for the years then ended in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. Emphasis of Matter Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note 1 in the financial statements which indicates that Gabriel Resources Ltd. incurred a net loss of $22.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. This condition, along with other matters as set forth in Note 1, indicate the existence of a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt about Gabriel Resources Ltd.’s ability to continue as a going concern. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants, Licensed Public Accountants Toronto, Ontario Canada March 8, 2011 20 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets As at December 31 Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars Note 2010 2009 Assets Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents 26,579 116,110 Short-term investments 4 94,941 46,201 Accounts receivable 1,732 1,460 Prepaid expenses and supplies 941 788 124,193 164,559 Restricted cash 4 149 126 Capital assets 5 54,641 52,464 Mineral properties 6 482,909 441,545 661,892 658,694 Liabilities Current Liabilities Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 9,754 10,402 Resettlement liabilities 7 4,686 5,442 14,440 15,844 Other Liabilities 8 3,615 3,908 18,055 19,752 Shareholders’ Equity Capital stock 10 761,943 733,481 Common share purchase warrants 11 11,393 11,393 Contributed surplus 13 17,150 18,050 Deﬁcit (146,649) (123,982) 643,837 638,942 661,892 658,694 Nature of operations and going concern (Note 1) Non-controlling interest (Note 9) Commitments and contingencies (Note 18) Approved by the Board of Directors Keith Hulley Wayne Kirk Director Director The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Gabriel Resources 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity For the year ended December 31 Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars Note 2010 2009 Common shares At 1 January 733,481 560,052 Shares issued from a public and private offering less share issue costs – 172,671 Less: Share issue costs 10 – (4,293) Shares issued on the exercise of stock options 10 19,339 3,049 Shares issued on the redemption of DSUs 10 357 123 Transfer from contributed surplus exercise of stock options 13 8,766 1,399 Shares issued on purchase of non-controlling interest shares – 480 At December 31 761,943 733,481 Common share purchase warrants At January 1 11,393 – Warrants issued from a private placement 11 – 11,393 At December 31 11,393 11,393 Contributed surplus At January 1 18,050 15,051 Stock-based compensation 13 7,866 5,403 Exercise of stock options 13 (8,766) (1,399) Purchase of non-controlling interest shares – (1,005) At December 31 17,150 18,050 Deficit At January 1 (123,982) (97,084) Net loss (22,667) (26,578) Purchase of non-controlling interest shares – (320) At December 31 (146,649) (123,982) Accumulated other comprehensive loss – – Total shareholders’ equity at December 31 643,837 638,942 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 22 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Statements of Loss and Comprehensive Loss For the year ended December 31 Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars Note 2010 2009 Expenses Corporate, general and administrative 7,490 12,880 Stock based compensation 8,12 6,469 6,860 Project ﬁnancing costs (31) 571 Severance costs – 1,516 Amortization 210 237 14,138 22,064 Other expense (income) Interest (448) (404) Foreign exchange loss 15,902 4,726 Loss before income taxes 29,592 26,386 Income tax expense (recovery) 14 (6,925) 192 Loss for the year 22,667 26,578 Loss per share (basic and diluted) 0.07 0.09 Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 343,904 285,487 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss For the year ended December 31 Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars 2010 2009 343,904 285,487 Loss for the year 22,667 26,578 Other comprehensive loss – – Comprehensive loss 22,667 26,578 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Gabriel Resources 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the year ended December 31 Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars Note 2010 2009 Cash flows from (used in) operating activities Loss for the period (22,667) (26,578) Items not affecting cash Amortization 210 237 Stock-based compensation 6,469 6,860 Unrealized foreign exchange loss 9,952 796 (6,036) (18,685) DSU cash settlement (2,118) (1,991) Net changes in non-cash working capital 19 (1,957) (478) (10,111) (21,154) Cash flows used in investing activities Increase in short-term investments and restricted cash (48,763) (46,174) Development and exploration expenditures (38,174) (43,560) Purchase of capital assets (3,665) (22,174) Purchase of non-controlling interest shares – (845) Net changes in non-cash working capital 19 (3,257) (2,486) (93,859) (115,239) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issuance of capital stock and warrants, net of issue costs – 179,687 Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 19,339 3,049 19,339 182,736 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (84,631) 46,343 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (4,900) (2,466) Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of the year 116,110 72,233 Cash and cash equivalents – end of the year1 26,579 116,110 1 At December 31, 2010, closing cash and cash equivalents do not include $94.9 million (2009 – $46.2 million) of short-term investments, which had original maturities in excess of 90 days at the time of purchase. Supplemental cash ﬂow information (Note 19) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these interim consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 24 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (Amounts in thousands of Canadian dollars, unless otherwise stated) 1. Nature of operations and going concern Gabriel Resources Ltd. (“Gabriel” or the “Company”) is a Canadian-based resource company engaged in the exploration and development of mineral properties in Romania and is currently in the process of obtaining permits to develop its 80.46%-owned Rosia Montana gold project (the “Project”). Since acquiring the exploitation license, the Company has deﬁned a world class orebody. In the last ﬁve years, the Company has been focused on engineering to design the size and scope of the Project, environmental assessment and permitting, rescue archaeology and surface rights acquisition activities. The underlying value of the Company’s mineral properties is dependent upon the existence and economic recovery of such mineral reserves in the future and the ability of the Company to obtain all necessary permits and raise long-term ﬁnancing to complete the development of the Project. In addition, the Project may be subject to sovereign risk, including political and economic instability, changes in existing government regulations, for example, a ban on the use of cyanide in mining in Romania or in the European Union, re-designation of the Project area as an archeological site of national importance, government regulations relating to mining which may withhold the receipt of required permits or impede the Company’s ability to acquire the necessary surface rights, as well as currency ﬂuctuations and local inﬂation. These risks may adversely affect the Company’s investment and may result in the impairment or loss of all or part of the Company’s investment. These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“Canadian GAAP”) applicable to a going concern, which assume that the Company will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of operations. As at December 31, 2010 the Company had no sources of operating cash ﬂows and does not have sufﬁcient cash to fund the development of the Project and therefore will require additional funding which, if not raised, would result in the curtailment of activities and the Project delays. Once Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) approval has been granted, the Company will re-examine ﬁnancing alternatives with a view to presenting the various options open to the Company to its board of directors. The timeline to build the Project is dependent on a number of factors which include both the permitting and ﬁnancing processes. There can be no assurances that the Company’s ﬁnancing plan and permitting efforts will be successful or sufﬁcient and, as a result, there is signiﬁcant doubt regarding the “going concern” assumption and, accordingly, the use of accounting principles applicable to a going concern. These consolidated ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect adjustments that would be necessary if the “going concern” assumption was not appropriate. If the “going concern” assumption were not appropriate for these consolidated ﬁnancial statements, then adjustments to the carrying values of the assets and liabilities, the reported expenses and the balance sheet classiﬁcations, which could be material, would be necessary. 2. New accounting policies Business Combinations, Consolidated Financial Statements and Non-Controlling Interests The CICA issued three new accounting standards in January 2009: Section 1582, “Business Combinations”, Section 1601, “Consolidated Financial Statements” and Section 1602, “Non-Controlling interests”. These new standards will be effective for ﬁscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. Section 1582, “Business Combinations” replaces section 1581, “Business Combinations”, and establishes standards for the accounting for a business combination. It provides the Canadian equivalent to IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The section applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the ﬁrst annual reporting period beginning on or after January 1, 2011. Sections 1601, “Consolidated Financial Statements”, and 1602, “Non-Controlling interests”, together replace section 1600, “Consolidated Financial Statements”. Section 1601 establishes standards for the preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements and applies to interim and annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements relating to ﬁscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. Section 1602 establishes standards for accounting for non-controlling interest in a subsidiary in consolidated ﬁnancial statements subsequent to a business combination. The Company opted to early adopt these standards as of December 31, 2009 and applied Section 1602, “NonControlling Interests”, in accounting for the purchase of non-controlling interest shares in Rosia Montana Gold Corporation (“RMGC”) (refer to Note 8). Consequently, the difference between the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest shares and the fair value of the consideration paid was recognized directly in shareholders’ equity. The early adoption of Section 1582, “Business Combinations” and Section 1601, “Consolidated Financial Statements”, did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 3. Significant accounting policies Sources of GAAP These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian GAAP, and reﬂect the following signiﬁcant accounting policies: Basis of consolidation The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the accounts of the Company and the following subsidiaries: Gabriel Resources (Barbados) Ltd. 100%-owned Gabriel Resources (Netherlands) B.V. 100%-owned RM Gold (Services) Limited1 100%-owned Gabriel Resources (Jersey) Ltd. 100%-owned Rosia Montana Gold Corporation S.A. 80.46%-owned Rom Aur SRL 100%-owned Gabriel Finance SA 99.91%-owned 1 RM Gold (Services) Limited. During December 2010 the Company incorporated a UK based wholly owned subsidiary, RM Gold (Services) Limited. The purpose of this subsidiary is to provide management and administrative services to the Company and its subsidiaries commencing in January 2011. Gabriel Resources 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Estimates, risks and uncertainties The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the ﬁnancial statements and the reported amount of expenses and other income during the year. Signiﬁcant estimates and assumptions include those related to the recoverability of mineral properties, beneﬁts of future income tax assets, estimated useful lives of capital assets, and share purchase warrants and stock based compensation assumptions. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable, actual results could vary signiﬁcantly. Capital assets Capital assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization of capital assets used for exploration and development is capitalized to mineral properties. Amortization is recorded using the straight-line method based on a useful life of ﬁve years for vehicles and varying rates between two and ﬁve years for ofﬁce equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective lease. Mineral properties Acquisition costs of mineral properties, together with direct exploration and development expenses incurred thereon, are capitalized. Upon reaching commercial production, these capitalized costs will be transferred from exploration properties to producing properties on the consolidated balance sheet and will be amortized using the unit-of-production method over the estimated ore reserves. Impairment of long-lived assets Capital assets and mineral properties to be held and used by the Company are reviewed regularly for possible impairment or whenever triggering events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Estimated future cash ﬂows are calculated using estimated future prices, mineral resources and operating and capital costs on an undiscounted basis. When the carrying value of a mine or development project exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash ﬂows, the asset is impaired. The impairment loss is recorded to the extent the carrying value exceeds the discounted value of the estimated future cash ﬂow. Foreign currency translation Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, expenses and other income arising from foreign currency transactions are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the date of the transaction. Exchange gains or losses arising from the translation are included in the determination of losses in the current year. Integrated foreign subsidiaries are accounted for under the temporal method. Under this method, monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at historical rates. Expenses and other income are translated at the rate in effect on date of the transaction. Exchange gains or losses related to expenditures on project activities arising from the translation are included in mineral properties which are capitalized. Loss per share (LPS) LPS is calculated based on the weighted average number of common shares issued and outstanding during the year. Diluted per share amounts are calculated using the treasury stock method whereby proceeds deemed to be received on the exercise of options and warrants in the per share calculation are assumed to be used to acquire common shares. The effect of potential issuances of shares under options and warrants would be anti-dilutive, and accordingly basic and diluted LPS are the same. Income taxes Income taxes are calculated using the asset and liability method of tax accounting. Under this method, current income taxes are recognized for the estimated income taxes payable for the current year. Future income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the ﬁnancial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the substantively enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is recognized to the extent the recoverability of future income tax assets are not considered more likely than not to be realized. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are comprised of cash at banks, cash on hand and other highly liquid short-term investments, having an original maturity date of three months or less. Short-term investments Short-term investments represent investments in guaranteed investment certiﬁcates with maturity dates of more than a period of 90 days. Short-term investments are carried at cost, including accrued interest, which approximates fair value. Stock-based compensation Stock-based compensation relating to stock options is estimated based on fair value at the grant and/or measurement date using the Black-Scholes model, and charged to the Statement of Loss or capitalized to Mineral Properties on the Balance Sheet over the vesting period. Stock-based compensation relating to deferred share units is calculated based on the quoted market value of the Company’s common shares, and is charged to the Statement of Loss or capitalized to Mineral Properties on the Balance Sheet with corresponding credit to Contributed Surplus. The compensation cost and liability is adjusted each reporting period for changes in the underlying share price. 26 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (Amounts in thousands of Canadian dollars, unless otherwise stated) Asset retirement obligation The fair value of the liability for an asset retirement obligation is recorded when it is incurred and the corresponding increase to the asset is depreciated over the life of the asset. The liability is increased over time to reﬂect an accretion element considered in the initial measurement of fair value. At December 31, 2010, the Company has not incurred or committed to any asset retirement obligations related to the development of its mineral properties in Romania, as it has not received its construction permits or commenced mine construction activities. 4. Short-term investments and restricted cash Short-term investments 2010 2009 Money market investments with maturities from the date of acquisition of 4-12 months 94,941 46,201 Short-term investments held at period end yielded a weighted average interest rate of 0.45% in 2010 (2009 – 0.67%). Restricted Cash 2010 2009 Restricted cash1 149 126 1 Restricted cash represents environmental guarantees for future clean up costs. 5. Capital assets 2010 2009 Cost Ofﬁce equipment 4,032 4,207 Building 1,080 1,082 Vehicles 1,383 1,282 Leasehold improvements 215 215 Construction in progress1 52,621 50,249 59,331 57,035 Less: Accumulated amortization Ofﬁce equipment 3,241 3,122 Building 73 63 Vehicles 1,172 1,207 Leasehold improvements 204 179 4,690 4,571 Net book value Ofﬁce equipment 791 1,085 Building 1,007 1,019 Vehicles 211 75 Leasehold improvements 11 36 Construction in progress1 52,621 50,249 54,641 52,464 1 Amounts included in construction in progress are not subject to amortization. Construction in progress includes the following amounts: 2010 2009 Resettlement site development costs 1,048 1,951 Long-lead-time equipment 51,573 48,298 52,621 50,249 Gabriel Resources 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 6. Mineral properties Rosia Montana Bucium Baisoara Total Balance – December 31, 2008 396,239 10,458 387 407,084 Development costs 33,314 – – 33,314 Exploration costs 1,016 1 130 1,147 Balance – December 31, 2009 430,569 10,459 517 441,545 Development costs1 40,402 – 40,402 Exploration costs1 846 – 116 962 Balance – December 31, 2010 471,817 10,459 633 482,909 1 Mineral property additions of $41.4 million (2009 – $34.5 million) are $3.2 million higher than the amount reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of $38.2 million. The Company’s principal asset is its 80.46% direct ownership interest in RMGC, a Romanian company, which holds two mineral licenses in Romania, being Rosia Montana and Bucium. Minvest S.A. (“Minvest”), a Romanian state-owned mining company, together with one other private Romanian company, hold a 19.54% interest in RMGC, and Gabriel holds the pre-emptive right to acquire the 19.54% noncontrolling interest. The Company is obligated to fund 100% of all expenditures related to the exploration and development of these properties and holds a preferential right to recover all funding plus interest (other than on non-interest bearing loans) from future cash ﬂows prior to the non-controlling shareholders receiving dividends. RMGC will be required to pay a 4% net smelter royalty on all production from the Project. An exploitation license is held by RMGC as the titleholder in respect of the Project. RMGC has the exclusive right to conduct mining operations at the Project for an initial term of 20 years expiring in 2019, and thereafter with successive ﬁve-year renewal periods. RMGC holds rights to an exploration license over the Bucium property. The license was extended in 2004 and expired on May 19, 2007. The expired exploration license can be converted into an exploitation license upon submission and approval of a feasibility study. During 2007, the Company ﬁled the necessary documentation to convert the exploration license into an exploitation license and the Company is awaiting a response from the authorities on this item. No additional work on the Bucium property is planned until the license is converted from an exploration to an exploitation license and until the Project progresses further. The Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Rom Aur SRL (“Rom Aur”), holds an exploration license with respect to the Baisoara property in Western Romania. The license is for an initial term of 5 years and expires in July 2011. Upon granting of the license, the Company committed to spend US$3.2 million over the term of the license. Due to the delay in the Rosia Montana permitting process, the Company has reduced the exploration expenditure for Baisoara to a level required to maintain the license and permit in good standing. The Company is currently assessing exploration data with a view to renewing or relinquishing the license. 7. Resettlement liabilities For a number of years, the Company has had a program for purchasing homes in the Project area, which was suspended in February 2008 due to the suspension of the EIA review process in September 2007. Under the resettlement program residents were offered two choices. They could either choose to take the sale proceeds and move to a new location of their choosing or they could exchange their properties for a new property to be built by the Company at one of two resettlement sites. For those residents who choose the resettlement option, the Company increases its mineral properties on the balance sheet as well as resettlement liabilities for the anticipated construction costs of the resettlement houses. As the construction takes place, the cost of newly built houses is capitalized as construction in progress. After the transfer of legal title of the property is completed, the Company reduces the amounts capitalized as construction in progress and at the same time its resettlement liabilities. All resettlement associated costs will remain capitalized in mineral properties and will be amortized over the life of the mine once the Project moves into production. At December 31, 2010, the Company had accrued resettlement liabilities totaling $4.7 million (December 31, 2009 – $5.4 million), which represents the cost of building the remaining new homes for the local residents and outstanding delay penalties. The construction of all 125 homes at the Recea resettlement site in Alba Iulia has been completed. The Company is currently reviewing the technical merits for a further resettlement village to be built, as well as the process of obtaining permits for this resettlement site. The remaining 24 property owners who chose to resettle within Rosia Montana have signed a three year extension contract. As a result of the delay in the delivery of homes, the Company has paid or accrued a penalty of up to 20% for the remaining 24 property owners of the agreed upon unpaid property value per year of delay as required by the agreement. As at December 31, 2010, the Company has accrued $0.6 million (December 31, 2009 – $0.4 million) representing its total estimated delay penalty. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company paid $0.2 million of delay penalties (2009 – $0.8 million). The acquisition process for private properties is currently on hold pending progress in the permitting process. 28 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (Amounts in thousands of Canadian dollars, unless otherwise stated) 8. Other liabilities (a) Deferred Share Units (“DSUs”) Price per Common DSU’s Share Value Deferred Share Units 000’s $ $ Outstanding – December 31, 2008 1,155 1.52 1,755 Issued 68 2.43 165 Settled (623) 3.39 (2,114) Change in fair value – – 2,811 Outstanding – December 31, 2009 600 4.36 2,617 Issued 41 7.09 290 Amortized1 89 4.19 375 Settled (551) 4.49 (2,475) Change in fair value – 606 Balance – December 31, 2010 179 7.89 1,412 1 During the second quarter of 2010 the Company issued 358,000 DSUs to the Company’s CEO. The expense associated with this issuance is being amortized over a two-year period. During 2010 89,000 of these DSUs were amortized. The Company implemented a DSU Plan under which qualifying participants receive certain compensation in the form of DSUs in lieu of cash. On retirement or departure from the Company, participants, at their discretion, may redeem their DSUs for common shares of the Company, cash, or a combination of common shares and cash. If the holder elects to settle the DSUs in common shares of the Company, the Company, at its sole discretion, can elect to settle the amount in common shares either purchased in the open market, or issued from treasury. Initially valued at the ﬁve-day weighted average market price of the Company’s common shares at date of issue, DSUs are revalued each period end based on the closing share price at the period end, with the difference between the fair value of the DSUs at period end compared to the fair value at the end of the previous period. The initial value assigned to the DSUs plus the change in the fair market value of the DSU liability at the end of each reporting period has been recorded in stock based compensation expense except for costs relating to personnel working on projects in Romania, which are capitalized. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $1.3 million (2009 – $2.7 million) of stock based compensation expense related to DSUs and capitalized Nil (2009 – $0.3 million). (b) Fidelity bonus and other benefits Fidelity bonus and other benefits Balance accrued – December 31, 2008 1,310 Additions 228 Foreign exchange movement (247) Balance accrued – December 31, 2009 1,291 Additions 1,083 Foreign exchange movement (171) Balance accrued – December 31, 2010 2,203 Total Other Liabilities 3,615 Under the Collective Bargaining Agreement between RMGC and its employees, under certain conditions, employees of RMGC are entitled to a bonus equal to one month of average gross salary when celebrating 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 years of uninterrupted service as well as other beneﬁts related to death beneﬁts and termination of employment. As of December 31, 2010, $2.2 million (December 31, 2009 – $1.3 million) has been accrued for these beneﬁts. 9. Related party transactions The Company had related party transactions, with directors of the Company or associated corporations, which were undertaken in the normal course of operations and were measured at the exchange amounts as follows: (a) In December 2004, the Company loaned a total of US$971,000 to the four non-controlling shareholders of RMGC, who held an aggregate of 20% of the shares of RMGC, to facilitate a statutory requirement to increase RMGC’s total share capital. At December 31, 2010 US$948,000 of these loans remain outstanding to the two remaining non-controlling shareholders. (b) During 2009, the Company received a formal offer to purchase the shares held in RMGC by two of its non-controlling shareholders, each of whom owned 23,967 common shares in RMGC representing each 0.23% of its share capital. The Company responded to the offer of the non-controlling shareholders and purchased 47,934 common shares of RMGC held by these two non-controlling shareholders for 222,708 common shares of the Company and US$0.8 million in cash. Upon completion of this transaction, the outstanding indebtedness of the two non-controlling shareholders of $23,000 was deemed to be paid in full. As a result of these transactions, the Company’s ownership interest in RMGC increased from 80% to 80.46%. Gabriel Resources 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 (c) In 2009, the Company loaned a further US$40 million to the remaining two non-controlling shareholders of RMGC to facilitate another statutory share capital increase in RMGC. At December 31, 2010 these loans remain outstanding. The loans are non-interest bearing and are to be repaid as and when RMGC distributes dividends to its shareholders. The loans and related non-controlling interest contribution have been offset on the balance sheet until such time as the loans are repaid. Once the loans are repaid the non-controlling interest component will be reﬂected on the balance sheet. 10. Capital stock Number of shares Common shares issued and outstanding Note 000’s Amount Balance – December 31, 2008 255,449 560,052 Shares issued from public and private offerings 81,806 172,671 Less: Share issue costs – (4,293) Shares issued on the exercise of stock options 12 1,654 3,049 Transfer from contributed surplus – exercise of stock options 13 – 1,399 Shares issued on settlement of DSUs 68 123 Shares issued on purchase of non-controlling interest shares 223 480 Balance – December 31, 2009 339,200 733,481 Shares issued on the exercise of stock options 12 8,909 19,339 Shares issued on settlement of DSUs 74 357 Transfer from contributed surplus – exercise of stock options 13 – 8,766 Balance – December 31, 2010 348,183 761,943 In June 2009 the Company closed a private placement and a public offering ﬁnancing and issued 51.8 million common shares, including common shares issued under an over-allotment option, for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $117 million. The share issuance costs related to the public offering and private placement were $4 million. As a result of the public offering, the Company sold 29.8 million common shares, which includes the exercise in full of the over-allotment option, at $2.25 per common share to a syndicate of underwriters for aggregate gross proceeds of $67.1 million. Pursuant to the private placement, each of Electrum Strategic Holdings LLC and Paulson & Co. Inc., two of Gabriel’s signiﬁcant shareholders, purchased 10.6 million and 11.4 million common shares respectively at a price of $2.25 per common share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $49.5 million. In December 2009, the Company closed a private placement with BSG Capital Markets PCC Limited, which is part of the Beny Steinmetz Group (“BSG”). Pursuant to the private placement, BSG subscribed for 30 million Units at a subscription price of $2.25 per Unit for gross proceeds to the Company of $67.5 million. The share issuance costs related to the private placement were $0.3 million. Each Unit consists of one common share of the Company and one common share purchase warrant entitling BSG to purchase one additional common share of the Company (see Note 11). The net proceeds of the private placement were allocated between share capital and the share purchase warrants on the basis of their relative fair values. The amount allocated to share capital was $55.8 million while $11.4 million was allocated to the share purchase warrants. 11. Share purchase warrants (a) Warrants issued to two financial institutions As at December 31, 2010, the following share purchase warrants were issued and outstanding: Number of Exercise warrants price Assigned 000’s $ Value Expiry date Balance – December 31, 2008 and 2009 1,125 $4.88 US$1,500 November 28, 2010 Warrants settled (750) (US$1,000) November 28, 2010 Warrants expired (375) (US$500) November 28, 2010 Balance – December 31, 2010 – – During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company entered into mandate letters with two international ﬁnancial institutions to arrange project debt ﬁnancing for the development of the Project. The two institutions were to provide a committed underwriting in an amount up to US$350 million. As a result of the suspension of the EIA review process, the mandate letters terminated during 2008 and 1.125 million warrants vested. Each warrant had a four-year term and an exercise price of $4.88. The assigned value of the warrants of US$1.5 million represented their cash settlement value. The Company accrued this amount in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. It was at the holder’s discretion to settle the warrants in cash or shares of the Company. In March 2010, one of the two ﬁnancial institutions exercised its option to receive a termination fee of US$1 million in respect of 750,000 warrants, which was fully paid during the ﬁrst half of 2010. The remaining warrant holder did not exercise the warrants prior to their expiry date of November 28, 2010. 30 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (Amounts in thousands of Canadian dollars, unless otherwise stated) (b) Warrants issued to BSG Number of Exercise Assigned warrants price Value 000’s $ $ Expiry date Balance – December 31, 2008 – – – July 18, 2011 to Warrants issued 30,000 2.50 – 3.00 11,393 December 18, 2011 Balance – December 31, 2009 July 18, 2011 to and December 31, 2010 30,000 11,393 December 18, 2011 During 2009, the Company closed a private placement with BSG. Pursuant to the private placement, BSG subscribed for 30 million Units at a subscription price of $2.25 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one common share of the Company and one common share purchase warrant entitling BSG to purchase one additional common share of the Company at $2.50 per share for 18 months rising to $3.00 per share for the ﬁnal six months of the two year warrant. The assigned value of the warrants represents relative fair value allocated between share capital and the warrants based on the net proceeds from the private placement with BSG. The amount allocated to share capital was $55.8 million while $11.4 million was allocated to the share purchase warrants. 12. Stock options The Incentive Stock Option Plan (the “Plan”) authorizes the Directors to grant options to purchase shares of the Company to directors, ofﬁcers, employees and consultants. The exercise price of the options equals the ﬁve-day weighted average closing price prior to the option allotment. The majority of options granted vest over three years and are exercisable over ﬁve years from the date of issuance. The Plan was amended on May 8, 2007 to allow for the maximum number of common shares issuable under the Plan to equal 10% of the issued and outstanding common shares of the Company at any point in time, and that options once exercised would be re-endorsed into the pool of ungranted options. As at December 31, 2010, 9.6 million options are available for issuance under the Plan (December 31, 2009 6.6 million). As at December 31, 2010, common share stock options held by directors, ofﬁcers, employees and consultants are as follows: Outstanding Exercisable Weighted Weighted average Weighted Number of average remaining Number of average Range of exercise prices options exercise price contractual life options exercise price $ 000’s $ Years 000’s $ 1.18 – 1.96 4,614 1.57 2 .3 4,254 $1.56 1.97 – 2.22 5,000 2.00 2.0 1,667 2.00 2.23 – 4.16 4,566 3.08 3.0 3,007 3.01 4.17 – 7.18 5,019 4.67 3.9 1,146 4.60 7.19 – 8.12 5,082 8.12 5.0 – 8.12 24,281 3.95 2.9 10,074 2.41 During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, director, ofﬁcer, employee and consultant stock options were granted, exercised, forfeited and cancelled as follows: Number of Weighted average options exercise price 000’s $ Balance – December 31, 2008 22,514 2.16 Options granted 3,870 3.05 Options forfeited/cancelled (496) 3.54 Options exercised (1,654) 1.84 Balance – December 31, 2009 24,234 2.29 Options granted 9,432 6.54 Options forfeited/cancelled (476) 3.75 Options exercised (8,909) 2.17 Balance – December 31, 2010 24,281 3.95 The estimated fair value of stock options is amortized over the period in which the options vest which is normally three years. For those options which vest on a single date, either on issuance or on meeting milestones (the “measurement date”), the entire fair value of the vesting options is recognized immediately on the measurement date. The fair value of stock options granted to personnel working on development projects is capitalized over the vesting period. Gabriel Resources 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company granted 9.4 million options. Of the 9.4 million options issued, 2.8 million vest over a three-year period and the remainder vest based on achievement of certain milestones. The fair value of options that vest upon achievement of milestones will be recognized and capitalized as milestones are achieved and the value can be reasonably measured. The value of the stock options granted in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was calculated with the following assumptions: 2010 2009 Weighted average risk-free interest rate 1.70% 1.60% Volatility of the expected market price of share 101% 102% Weighted average expected life of options 2.59 years 2.7 years Weighted average cost per option ($) 3.26 2.02 As of December 31, 2010, the remaining fair value of outstanding measurable unvested options to be expensed and capitalized is $12.4 million. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of stock options expensed and capitalized is as follows: 2010 2009 Expensed 5,198 4,192 Capitalized 2,668 1,211 13. Contributed surplus The following table identiﬁes the changes in contributed surplus for the years indicated: Total Balance – December 31, 2008 15,051 Stock-based compensation 5,403 Exercise of stock options (1,399) Purchase of non-controlling interest shares (1,005) Balance – December 31, 2009 18,050 Stock-based compensation 7,866 Exercise of stock options (8,766) Balance – December 31, 2010 17,150 14. Income taxes In April 2010, the Supreme Court in Romania admitted an RMGC appeal and irrevocably cancelled a ﬁscal assessment concerning the period 2003 and 2004. The original assessment arose from the disallowance of the application of state tax incentives related to unrealized foreign exchange gains on inter-company debt. On September 2, 2010 the Company received the equivalent of $7.0 million from the ﬁscal authorities in Alba Iulia and Abrud in Romania as a result of the cancelled ﬁscal assessment. The full recovered amount was recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Loss for the year. The following table reconciles the expected income tax expense (recovery) at the Canadian statutory income tax rate to the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Loss. 2010 2009 Income tax rate 31% 33% Income tax at statutory rates (9,174) (8,708) Adjustment for foreign subsidiaries 90 192 Stock based compensation 2,005 2,263 Tax recovery by subsidiary (7,015) – Valuation allowance 7,169 6,445 Provision for income taxes (6,925) 192 32 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (Amounts in thousands of Canadian dollars, unless otherwise stated) The following table reﬂects future income tax assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009: 2010 2009 Loss carry forwards 15,560 15,710 Share issue costs 1,022 1,862 Capital assets 387 335 Cumulative eligible capital expenditures 3,167 3,167 Valuation allowance (20,136) (21,074) The Company has available tax losses for Canadian income tax purposes which may be carried forward to reduce taxable income derived in future years. A summary of these losses is provided below: Non-capital losses expiring in: 2010 2009 2010 – 11,421 2014 6,309 6,309 2015 6,397 6,397 2026 7,364 7,364 2027 6,717 6,717 2028 6,855 6,855 2029 17,951 17,775 2030 10,645 – 15. Segmented information The Company has one operating segment: the acquisition, exploration and development of precious metal projects located in Romania. Geographic segmentation of capital assets and mineral properties is as follows: 2010 2009 Romania 537,380 493,697 Canada 170 312 Total 537,550 494,009 16. Financial instruments The recorded amounts for cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair values based on the short-term nature of those instruments. The Company’s risk exposures and the impact on the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments are summarized below: Credit risk The Company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments that are held in investment accounts with Canadian banks and invested in sovereign debt. The Company has adopted a strategy to minimize its credit risk by substantially investing in sovereign debt issued by France and Germany with the balance of cash being invested in short-term Term Deposits issued by Canadian banks. The Company strives to maintain at least 85% of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments in sovereign debt. The Company is exposed to the credit risk of Romanian banks that hold and disburse cash on behalf of its Romanian subsidiaries. The Company manages its Romania bank credit risk by centralizing custody, control and management of its surplus cash resources in Canada at the corporate ofﬁce and only transferring money to its Romanian subsidiary based on short-term cash requirements, thereby mitigating exposure to Romania banks. The Company’s credit risk is also attributable to value-added taxes receivable. Value-added taxes receivable are collectable from the Romanian government. Liquidity risk The Company has sufﬁcient funds as at December 31, 2010 to settle current and long-term liabilities. Gabriel Resources 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Market risk (a) Interest rate risk The Company has signiﬁcant cash balances and no debt. As discussed above in the section entitled “Credit Risk”, the Company’s policy is to primarily invest excess cash in sovereign guaranteed investments. With the Company maintaining a short-term investment horizon, typically less than 12 months, for its cash, cash equivalent, and short-term investment balances, it minimizes the risk of interest rate volatility as investments mature and are rolled over. With a short-term investment horizon and the intent to hold all investments until maturity, the Company is only marginally exposed to capital erosion should interest rates rise and cause its ﬁxed yield investments to devalue. The Company’s primary objective with respect to cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments is to mitigate credit risk. The Company has elected to forego yield in favour of capital preservation. (b) Foreign currency risk The Company’s functional currency is the Canadian dollar and its operations expose it to signiﬁcant ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company has monetary assets and liabilities denominated in European Union Euros (EURO), Romanian Ron and United States dollars, and is therefore subject to exchange variations against the functional and reporting currency, the Canadian dollar. The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments in the currency of planned expenditures and is therefore susceptible to market volatility as foreign cash balances are revalued to the functional currency of the Company. Therefore, the Company may report signiﬁcant foreign exchange gains or losses if signiﬁcant market volatility continues. Financial instruments As at December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments consisted of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, other current assets, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and other long-term liabilities. With respect to all of these ﬁnancial instruments, the Company estimates that their fair values approximate their carrying values at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table illustrates the classiﬁcation of the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments within the fair value hierarchy as at December 31, 2010 and 2009: Financial assets and liabilities as at December 31, 2010* Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash – 4,913 – 4,913 Cash equivalents – 21,666 – 21,666 Short-term investments 4 – 94,941 – 94,941 Deferred Share Units 8 (1,412) – – (1,412) (1,412) 121,520 – 120,108 Financial assets and liabilities as at December 31, 2009* Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash – 13,674 – 13,674 Cash equivalents – 102,436 – 102,436 Short-term investments 4 – 46,201 – 46,201 Deferred Share Units 8 (2,617) – – (2,617) (2,617) 162,311 – 159,694 * at fair value Sensitivity analysis The Company has designated its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as held-for-trading, which are measured at fair value. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount of the ﬁnancial instruments equals fair market value. Based on management’s knowledge and experience of the ﬁnancial markets, the Company believes the following movements are “reasonably possible” over a twelve month period. n For a cash and cash equivalents a plus or minus 1% change in earned interest rates would affect net income from deposits by $0.25 million. n For short-term investments a plus or minus 1% change in earned interest rates would affect net income by $0.9 million. n As of December 31, 2010 a plus or minus 1% change in foreign exchange rates of the Company’s signiﬁcant balances in foreign currencies would affect net income by $0.9 million. 34 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (Amounts in thousands of Canadian dollars, unless otherwise stated) 17. Capital management The Company’s objective when managing capital is to safeguard its accumulated capital (cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments) in order to fund development of the Project. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it based on the level of funds on hand and anticipated future expenditures. To safeguard capital and to mitigate currency risk, the Company invests its surplus capital in highly liquid, highly rated ﬁnancial instruments that reﬂect the currency of the planned expenditure. 18. Commitments and contingencies The following is a summary of contractual commitments of the Company including payments due for each of the next ﬁve years and thereafter. Note Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Baisoara exploration license 6 2,562 2,562 – – – – – Resettlement 7 4,686 4,686 – – – – – Goods and services (a) 13,577 12,059 1,234 7 7 7 263 Long lead time equipment (b) 1,581 1,581 – – – – – Rosia Montana exploitation license (c) 1,496 187 187 187 187 187 561 Surface concession rights (d) 794 15 20 20 20 20 699 Lease agreements (e) 251 251 – – – – – Total commitments 24,947 21,341 1,441 214 214 214 1,523 (a) The Company and its subsidiaries have a number of agreements with arms-length third parties who provide a wide range of goods and services which totalled $13.6 million at December 31, 2010 (December 31, 2009 – $14.7 million). Typically, the service agreements are for a term of not more than one year and permit either party to terminate for convenience on notice periods ranging from 15 to 90 days. Upon termination, the Company has to pay for services rendered and costs incurred to the date of termination. (b) During 2007, the Company entered into purchase agreements for long-lead-time equipment, the cost of which is to be paid over several years beginning 2007. The following is a summary of the long-lead-time equipment orders and the payment status: 2010 2009 Total purchase agreements: Grinding area systems 42,032 41,731 Crusher facilities 3,961 3,961 Foreign exchange movement (86) 3,023 45,907 48,715 Amount paid to date: Grinding area systems (40,439) (37,011) Crusher facilities (3,961) (3,881) Foreign exchange movement 74 (2,676) Outstanding payment obligation 1,581 5,147 (c) Under the terms of the Company’s exploitation mineral license for the Project, an annual fee is required to be paid to maintain the license in good standing. The current annual fee is approximately $0.2 million. These fees are indexed annually by the Romanian Government and the license has 9 years remaining. (d) RMGC has approximately 41 years remaining on a concession agreement with the Local Council of Rosia Montana Commune by which it is granted exploitation rights to property located on and around the proposed Carnic pit for an annual payment of $20,000. (e) The Company has entered into agreements to lease premises for various periods until May 31, 2011. The annual rent of premises consists of minimum rent plus realty taxes, maintenance and utilities. The Company has an agreement with a consulting ﬁrm to provide ﬁnancial advisory services in relation to deﬁning and implementing the ﬁnancing plan for development of the Project. A success fee of up to US$4 million will be payable on execution of deﬁnitive credit agreements and/or ﬁnancing documents for the senior, mezzanine and cost overrun debt facilities for the Project. No amount has been accrued for these services. In March, 2009 the Company entered into a professional service agreement with an international communications ﬁrm providing services in media planning and related activities. The term of the agreement is 3 years from the commencement date of March 1, 2009 until February 29, 2012. The agreed fee consists of annual fee of 450,000 EURO and success fee of 800,000 EURO payable at the end of the 3 -year agreement and upon fulﬁllment of certain criteria. The Company has paid or accrued 450,000 EURO for the 2010 annual fee as at December 31, 2010. Gabriel Resources 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19. Supplemental cash flow information 2010 2009 (a) Net changes in non-cash working capital Operating activities: Accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and supplies (129) (101) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (1,866) 6 Unrealized foreign exchange gain on working capital 38 (383) (1,957) (478) Investing activities: Accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and supplies (297) 3,843 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 2,129 (8,382) Unrealized gain (loss) on short-term investments (5,089) 2,053 (3,257) (2,486) (b) Exploration and development expenditures Balance sheet change in mineral properties (41,364) (34,461) Reclassiﬁcation of mineral properties from construction in progress – 13,718 Decrease in resettlement liabilities (756) (24,766) Non-cash depreciation and disposal capitalized 1,278 430 Stock based compensation capitalized 2,668 1,519 Development and exploration expenditures per cash ﬂow statement (38,174) (43,560) (c) Cash and cash equivalents is comprised of: Cash 4,913 13,674 Short-term investments (less than 90 days) weighted average interest of 0.78% (2009 0.27%) 21,666 102,436 26,579 116,110 20. Reclassification of comparative figures Certain comparative ﬁgures have been reclassiﬁed to conform to the current year’s presentation. 36 Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes Gabriel Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Investor Information DIRECTORS CORPORATE OFFICES SOLICITORS Keith Hulley 5 Registered Office: Stikeman Elliott LLP Non Executive Chairman Suite 200 204 Lambert Street 5300 Commerce Court West Whitehorse, Yukon 199 Bay Street Ed Flood 4,5 Canada Y1A 3T2 Toronto, Ontario Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer 3 M5L 1B9 Jonathan Henry Corporate Office: Wayne Kirk 1,3 RM Gold Services Ltd Igor Levental 3,4 16 Great Queen Street REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT David Peat 1,2 London Computershare Investor Services Inc. Simon Prior-Palmer 1,4 WC2B 5DG Tel: +1 (514) 982 7555 Walter Segsworth 2,5 United Kingdom Murray Sinclair 2,4 Toll Free: 800 564 6253 Email: (within North America only) 1 Audit Committee info@gabrielresources.com 2 Compensation Committee Tel: +1 (514) 982 7888 3 Corporate Governance Committee www.gabrielresources.com (outside of North America collect calls accepted) 4 Finance Committee 5 Technical Committee Email: service@computershare.com ROMANIAN OPERATIONS Rosia Montana Gold Corporation S.A OFFICERS SHARE CAPITAL 17 Herastrau Str. Keith Hulley 1st District, 011981 Authorised – Unlimited Common Shares Non Executive Chairman Bucharest, Romania Issued and Outstanding 348,474,394 (as at March 31, 2011) Jonathan Henry Chief Executive Officer PUBLIC RELATIONS SHARE LISTINGS Max Vaughan Buchanan Communications Chief Financial Officer 107 Cheapside Toronto Stock Exchange London Symbol: GBU Richard Brown EC2V 6DN Chief Commercial Officer and Acting Corporate Secretary ANNUAL MEETING AUDITORS The Annual Meeting of Shareholders PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will be held on Thursday June 16, 2011 Chartered Accountants, at 9:30 a.m. in the Main Dining Room, Licensed Public Accountants St. Andrew’s Club, 150 King St. West, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Royal Trust Tower, Toronto-Dominion Centre 77 King Street West, Suite 3000 Toronto, Ontario M5K 1G8 This report is printed on Cocoon Offset which is made from 100% recycled fibres sourced only from post-consumer waste. The paper is certified according to the rules Design / Mediasterling Print / Royle Print for the Forest Stewardship Council. www.mediasterling.com www.royle-print.co.uk www.gabrielresources.com info@gabrielresources.com
