Corporate responsibility report 2010 Ernst & Young Ukraine Table of contents Corporate responsibility at Ernst & Young — stable development in a period of change 2 About Ernst & Young 5 Our commitment to corporate responsibility 9 Workplace 12 • Our people culture 12 • Ernst & Young people 13 • Employee surveys, FY2010 results 15 • Bodies for people matters 15 • Learning and development 17 • Employees rights and benefits 19 • Life outside the office 22 Marketplace 24 • Our clients 24 • Our commitment to quality and risk management 24 • Independence practices 25 • Data privacy and information security 26 • Launch of new services in 2010: CCaSS and FIDS 26 • Public events and intellectual leadership 27 • Professional and business associations 28  • Engagement with the government and NGOs – corporate responsibility development 28 • Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year program – www.eoy-ua.com 30 • Awards for Ernst & Young Ukraine 30 Environment 31 • Our principles, results and targets in terms of procurement and materials consumption 32 • Green group 35 Community 39 • Projects for students 39 • Charity work 44 Report parameters 48 Contact information 48 GRI G3 disclosures and performance indicators table 49 • GRI application level 51 List of abbreviations used in the Report 52 Corporate responsibility at Ernst & Young — stable development in a period of change Alexei Kredisov, Managing Partner Natalia Telenkova, Head of the Corporate Responsibility Committee NT: A tough year of recovery from the Just like Ernst & Young offices across the We are glad to present financial crisis is behind us. Despite our globe, Ernst & Young Ukraine is dedicated to Ernst & Young’s second apprehensions, activity in the field of corpodoing business responsibly, and our employrate responsibility has not come to naught, ees devote their time and experience to Corporate Responsibility and even gained greater importance. New projects which make the world better. That’s a reflection of our strategic vision of Report in Ukraine. projects have been launched and each year the role we play in a community and of our more and more volunteers are being inIt highlights our economic, volved in activities organized by the Corporesponsible approach to the development of local communities and society as a whole. environmental and social rate Responsibility Committee. According As you know, achieving a stable business is to a survey among Ernst & Young partners performance and activities and employees, 87% of respondents assess possible only in a socially developed community. At the project level, we are talking during the period Ernst & Young’s social investments in educahere about efforts to support public, education, environment and charity as significant July 2009 – June 2010. and are proud of their involvement. tional, environmental and business initiatives. These pillars structurally support our AK: The high level of support that responsocial activities in the medium-term perdents have given to the company’s corporate spective. I am sure that our corporate reresponsibility initiatives is very important sponsibility projects in Ukraine will be sucfor us, as the keystone of our CR work is cessfully implemented over the next five voluntary participation of our employees. years, because even in the most difficult cri2 sis years, we as an organization were able responding to pressing issues that are of NT: Analyzing the year that has passed to increase our activity in these areas. And great interest to our Ukrainian community. since the first report, we realize that there the most important thing is that our people has been a significant shift in awareness of NT: We are preparing a social report for the have demonstrated their support for our corporate responsibility. Several innovations second year now, and the first report providvalues and projects. We’re on the right path. and the expanded range of activities in cored very valuable experience. Preparing the porate responsibility has brought us to a new NT: In communicating with colleagues from report and analyzing feedback allow us to level. other Ernst & Young offices – in Moscow, systematize information about the relationParis, Almaty, New York – I realize that deship between the company and its partners, AK: I’ll start with the changes across the spite we have common trends in corporate employees and community. It helps us to whole market arena: last year we launched responsibility, in many respects the prioriidentify areas in which we can work towards a separate service offering in sustainable ties of the Ukrainian team are determined the future and hear the opinions of coldevelopment. Within the scope of nonfinanby the needs of the community in which we leagues and partners. This year we compiled cial reporting and beyond it, this departwork. So the global social investment strateour report according to the requirements of ment provides consultancy on CR strategy gy is refracted through the appreciation the standard G3 of the GRI (Global Reporting and dealing with climate change and makof what business has to do in Ukraine today. Initiative), which pushed for more thorough ing sure that business processes stay preparation of the indexes and information. steady. We launched this new direction in AK: Certainly. On the one hand we’re part response to the needs of Ukrainian market. of a global organization, but on the other we AK: Indeed, working on social responsibiliFor us, it’s first of all a recognition that the work within the specific socio-economic conty reports is a rewarding experience for all leading Ukrainian companies are finding ditions of Ukraine, which is a young country organizations. It gives the chance to look at these problems important. with little experience of entrepreneurial acthe company’s work from the stakeholder’s tivity. And in Ukraine, we primarily work for NT: Last year we launched a range of imviewpoint. How can the community benefit the sake of Ukrainian business and society. portant initiatives at Ernst & Young Ukraine. from the fact that our company is at work in During the last year a significant portion of Those are meant to recognize, support, Ukraine? When we say “community” here, our projects in the sphere of business supmeasure and stimulate employee involveof course, we mean specific stakeholders, port was focused on provision of informament in corporate responsibility projects. including our employees, customers, parttion and explanation of future changes in We’ve added to the staff appraisal system ners and business associations colleagues. the tax area. Tax reform was the project of matrix a criterion for employee engagement This year we decided to follow the requirethe year for Ukrainian business, and we had with community-related activities (providing ments of GRI, which defines our approach to respond appropriately to the needs of the free consultation to unprofitable organizato the list of indexes and topics that are to tions, giving lectures to students and chilcommunity in gaining direct access to the be covered. While preparing the report, we dren, participation in environmental events, developers of the Tax Code and conducting public debates about the most difficult also put great weight on the feedback that etc). Employees who voluntarily take a leadissues. We always try to follow the we received in response to our prior period ing role in a corporate responsibility project Ernst & Young global agenda, even while report. receive all the support they need from management. They get a working hours quota Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 3 for their voluntary activities; the company country. Governments of different countries means fostering our relationships with covers expenses for the necessary training are developing packages for changing regulaexisting partners and finding new ones, and conferences. In addition, the spectrum of tory standards and the political leadership of working to develop responsible leaders within social projects that company takes part in has Ukraine has also expressed ambitious plans to the company, helping the community bring expanded. Our representatives have become reform the country. Under such circumstancup a healthy and responsible generation, promembers of the Verkhovna Rada committee es, Ernst & Young will follow its corporate remoting volunteerism, maintaining a dialogue on the development of a national corporate sponsibility program, one that meets internawith stakeholders and encouraging feedback. responsibility strategy and we have estabtional standards and provides for the necessary AK: These are the priorities that Ernst & Young lished partnerships with NGOs that promote public consultation about changes and in Ukraine has approved and we will follow them and develop corporate responsibility in reforms. It also supports entrepreneurship, in all areas of our work: with clients, employees, Ukraine. You will find more detailed informadriving the economy, and increases access partners, business associations and the society tion on these projects in the report. to education. And most importantly, one more as a whole. I started the conversation by saying priority is a concern for the environment. AK: In releasing a corporate responsibility that our employees are the main driver of our report for 2010, we are looking ahead. We will NT: CR committee’s priority in the nearest responsibility work and our mission as an orgaact in the future within the areas that we’ve future is to continue within chosen course, nization is to motivate and guide them ensuring defined. The world today is overcoming the and to steadily and systematically implement progress in the four stated areas: Marketplace, crisis and we can see some instability in our responsibility principles at all levels. This Workplace, Environment and Community. Key highlights for Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 in the area of corporate responsibility Facts Figures • CR governance structure formalized • Average personnel turnover went down by 17% • People Board formed to give more attention • In 2010 employees spent 114 hours at an average on training to people matters and certification • Key performance indicators for corporate • 27 roundtables for clients and the public on business issues organized responsibility embedded into the annual • 72 events on business and investment climate improvement assessment matrix organized or supported • New initiatives for working mothers proposed • 11 roundtables and seminars on Tax Code organized • New projects for the community launched • 5 thousand students covered by vocational programs 4 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young sistent quality of service worldwide, while respecting the legal and regulatory requirein the world ments in each country. We invest in leadingedge thought leadership to interpret busiErnst & Young is a global leader in assurness trends, which delivers valuable insights ance, tax, transaction and advisory servicto our clients. In 2010, for the thirteenth es, with offices in 700 cities in 140 counconsecutive year, Ernst & Young was recogtries, with the headquarters in London. Our nized as a Most Admired Knowledge Enterrevenues for the fiscal year ended 30 June prise (MAKE). Our networking events 2010 were USD 21.3 billion. Worldwide, our around the world – seminars, conferences, 141,000 people are united by our shared roundtables – provide clients with regular values and unwavering commitment to qualforums to discuss current and emerging isity. We continually invest in methodologies, sues relating to the business environment. training and technology to promote the deGlobally, Ernst & Young provides assurance livery of seamless, consistent, high-quality and advisory services for many of the client service worldwide. Our global industry world’s leading businesses. We audit 25% of centers draw upon teams of professionals the companies listed on the Standard & from across the global organization with Poor’s Global 1200 (publicly disclosed audideep technical and industry experience. tors as of November 2010). Our considerThey help clients by anticipating trends, able resources to serve global businesses identifying their implications and developing are clearly recognized by the market, and in points of view on relevant industry issues. the last several years we have won appointOur cross-border management structure alments as auditors for large global compalows us to align our people and activities nies including Siemens, Apple, AES Corpobetter to meet clients’ demands for a conration, Eni S.p.A., Danone and Allianz. 5 Ernst & Young in the CIS We are organized by functional business units and industry business units. Our serErnst & Young in Ukraine With the opening of our Moscow office in vice lines include Assurance, Advisory, Tax Ernst & Young was among the first 1989, we were the first professional servicand Transactions. Our industry specializainternational professional services firms es firm to establish operations in the Comtion in the CIS covers the following key secto establish its practice in Ukraine, in 1991. monwealth of Independent States. Since tors: Automotive, Financial Services, ConErnst & Young in Ukraine provides high then our presence in the CIS has expanded sumer Products, Diversified Industrial quality services to a number of world-famous as demand for our services has continued Products, Government & Public Sector, multinational corporations and influential to grow. We currently have 3,500 people Life Sciences, Media & Entertainment, Ukrainian enterprises. In September 2006, working in 17 offices located in Moscow, Mining & Metals, Oil & Gas, Power & Utilities, we were the first among the Big Four to open St. Petersburg, Ekaterinburg, Novosibirsk, Private Equity, Real Estate, Retail & Wholea branch office in Donetsk. In the period Togliatti, Kazan, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Kyiv, sale, Technology, Telecommunications and covered by this Report Ernst & Young emDonetsk, Minsk, Almaty, Astana, Atyrau, Transportation. ployed 505 professional staff, 42 of them in Baku, Tashkent, Tbilisi and Yerevan. Donetsk. Ernst & Young provides services in the area of Assurance, Advisory, Tax & Legal and Transaction advisory. Ernst & Young is a private limited liability company. The main executive officer in Ernst & Young Ukraine is the Country Managing Partner, alias the Chair of Partners Board. Partners Boards St. Petersburg is a group of partners working in Ukrainian offices, including Service Lines Heads. Minsk Belarus Moscow Kyiv Kazan Ukraine Donetsk Ekaterinburg Russia Togliatti Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Atyrau Novosibirsk Georgia Tbilisi Armenia Astana Yerevan Baku Kazakhstan Azerbaĳan Uzbekistan Almaty Tashkent 6 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young Ukraine organisational structure Partners board Country Managing Partner Corporate Responsibility Committee Service Lines Heads, Client Service Core Business Services Marketing & Tax & Transaction Finance business In-house Legal Assurance Advisory development Legal Advisory Human Information General Resources Technologies Administration Performance Corporate Transaction Audit Improvement Tax Support Fraud Ernst & Young Ukraine economic performance Investigation IT Risk & Human Corporate & Dispute Assurance Capital Finance Economic Performance Million UAH, Services FY2010 Total net revenue 329 182 Financial & Valuation Accounting Risk & Business Paid taxes 61 367 Advisory Services Modeling Collected taxes 22 697 Climate Change Academy Real Estate & Sustainability of Business Advisory Services Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 7 Our commitment to corporate responsibility Building a better future – how can we make a difference? Corporate responsibility is integral to Ernst & Young’s in communities close to home and around the world. business strategy. Our community engagement is Volunteering is an important part of our culture. mostly focused on education, entrepreneurship and We contribute more to our communities and give environmental sustainability. It’s our role in creating a our people more meaningful experiences by tapping sustainable context — in other words, a thriving cominto our professional skills and capabilities. Our munity able to protect its environment, educate its people serve on not-for-profit boards, support children and become prosperous by fostering innovaschools, mentor students and strive to reduce tion and generating new businesses. The communiour environmental footprint. In 2010 in Ukraine ties around us have a profound impact on the future we introduced a set of Key Performance Indicators of Ernst & Young and our clients, and we invest in (KPIs) that reflect our people’s involvement in them through these 3 key areas of corporate responcorporate responsibility activities and serve sibility. As a talent-driven organization, our people as additional points that are included in the annual Natalia Telenkova, and their skills are the best asset we can offer a comassessment. In doing so, we declare that time spent Head of the Corporate munity. As a responsible employer, we encourage our on voluntary corporate responsibility initiatives Responsibility Committee people to apply their skills to create positive change is valuable from the business standpoint. 8 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 3E strategy • Education • Entrepreneurship • Environmental sustainability We work to broaden access to education We support entrepreneurs because they We reduce our impact on the environment so that the next generation has the skills it create jobs, build communities and conwherever we can. Because we believe that needs to make a positive contribution to tribute to macro-economic growth. Entreany commitment to a greener world has society. In our knowledge-based global preneurs transform communities as well to start at home, we’re also challenging economy, children need an education to as industries. And entrepreneurs are ourselves to work in an environmentally secure their future. At the same time, orextremely resourceful in both good times responsible manner and to find new ganizations like Ernst & Young need to reand bad. Working with and supporting ways to improve our impact on the cruit a talented workforce in every country entrepreneurs has given us a profound environment. A healthy environment where they do business. Yet a quality eduunderstanding of the value of entrepreis important to our people and to our cation is out of reach of many young men neurship. The Entrepreneur of the Year business. Ernst & Young’s Climate Change and women. As one of the world’s great contest held by Ernst & Young Ukraine and Sustainability Services practice helps global training organizations, we help our draws public attention to the importance our clients and our communities move people realize their full potential. And of entrepreneurship in the modern to a low-carbon way of operating and through educational programs and outeconomy. lower their costs. reach, we are able to help young people in the communities around us realize their full potential as well. We build links between academic education and business reality for future specialists; we also support deprived children, ensuring they get their chance for a proper education. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 9 Stakeholder engagement The chart of our stakeholders has taken shape over many years of work in Ukraine. Employees have always been the core of our business. Relationships with clients are the key to success for any company. Being more and more engaged with the community, we have established relationships with governmental bodies, business associations and NGOs. The chart below shows how we see our stakeholders today, through the prism of our corporate responsibility strategy. Corporate responsibility area Stakeholders Means and channels for engagement partners, employees, retirees job terms, professional development, employee surveys, people board, people advisory council, corporate events Workplace recruits open doors events, vocational guidance alumni alumni club clients service quality assessment tool, infrastructure for quality control and risk management, public events Marketplace legislators, government active involvement, advocacy business and professional associations lead role, participation procurement team, suppliers, employees, community events, green office program, educational Environment local community, NGOs programs universities, academics, students educational programs, lectures Community NGOs, deprived children volunteer initiatives, charity programs 10 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Corporate responsibility management in Ukraine In our previous CR report we discussed the Green Group head, the Human Resources discussed during quarterly committee work of our Charity Committee (established department/Educational projects head and meetings. Project details are elaborated in 2004) and its responsibilities. In 2010 the heads of the Orphans and Oncology via workgroup meetings and online discusErnst & Young’s Charity Committee transGroups. The mission of the committee is to sions. The committee aligns its activities formed into the Corporate Responsibility implement a global corporate responsibility taking into account an ongoing dialog Committee. The committee now consists of strategy with respect to local specifics; to with the global corporate responsibility 10 people, including the head of the comimplant corporate responsibility values and team and colleagues in other Ernst & Young mittee, the Managing Partner in Ukraine, principles throughout all the company’s offices, the partners and employees of the Head of the Climate Change and Susoperations; and to manage community Ernst & Young Ukraine and the partners tainability Services practice and the leaders engagements projects. Fundamental and beneficiaries on the Corporate of the corporate responsibility projects: the decisions in corporate responsibility are Responsibility Committee. CR Committee Head • Partners Board • Employees • Business partners Orphans Educational CR development Oncology Green • Community group group group group group • Beneficiaries Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 11 Workplace Our people culture more focused on what really matters in the post-financial crisis world. • we want our people to feel that Ernst & Young is the best organization for them; we want them to be excited We aspire to maintain a leading people The following was on our agenda in terms and proud to work here; and we want culture everywhere in the world. To achieve of people culture in the past year: them to achieve their potential while this aspiration we invest in including, helping others and our clients to succeed; •o ur leading people culture, which ensures developing and engaging all of our people. that we attract and retain the best; • we pride ourselves on our teamwork. Our increasingly complex and intercon•a ttracting and retaining the best nected world requires businesses to be people to deliver the best results for more global, more accepting and underour clients, resulting in a competitive standing of diverse points of view and advantage; «We are fostering a corporate culture that conforms to our people’s expectations and helps them succeed professionally and personally; a culture in which each individual is valued and respected; a culture that fosters teamwork, integrity and the courage to lead». Marina Zakharina, HR Manager 12 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young People Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 turnover Gender % Age % Region % This chapter of the Report represents Male 20% age 20-29 17% Kyiv 15% statistics pertaining to the Ernst & Young workforce. Female 11% age 30-49 10% Donetsk 12% age over 50 0% Type of Agreement/ № of Employees Contract The average turnover rate in 2010 decreased to 14% from 31% in 2009, a sign Permanent labor of reversion to stability. Turnover is calculated as the ratio of employees who left 462 91% agreements the company to the total number of employees at the end of the reporting period. Fixed labor agreements* 1 0% Outsourced personnel 23 5% Diversity and inclusiveness Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 by age Contractors** 19 4% We view multiculturalism and diversity 2% * Fixed labor agreement includes an expiry date as strengths of our global organization. **Contractors are services providers that are not A sustainable and inclusive culture enables 29% 69% eligible for paid vacation, sick leave days or Ernst & Young to deliver high quality service medical and life insurance. to our clients, create a competitive advantage and drive market leadership. Diversity 2010 99% of Ernst & Young employees and inclusiveness have become a part work full-time. of the way we operate. 69% of our employees are 30 or younger. Young people traditionally prevail in the 20 – 30 assurance profession, where availability 30 – 50 for frequent business trips is a major job Over 50 requirement.The turnover percentage downfall correlates with the increase in middle-aged personnel (29% versus 21% in FY2009). Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 13 Ernst & Young Ukraine by gender, FYs 2009, 2010 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Partners Senior Managers Seniors and Directors and Managers and Staff Female Male Our firm’s culture and environment provide In 2010 Ernst & Young was recognized at leadership opportunities to both men and the Equal Opportunities competition, which women. There is no gender differentiation was jointly organized by the EU-funded made when pay or career advancement project “Women and children’s rights issues are considered. Female employees in Ukraine — communication component” prevail at the junior and middle manageand the Ministry of Ukraine for Family, ment levels. The majority of partners and Youth and Sports. We were ranked second directors are men; however, the number among companies employing 101 to 1000 of female partners increased since 2009. employees that provide for gender equality In overall 62% of our employees are at work. women. 14 Employee surveys, the lowest (57%). Still, a 6% increase since 2009 shows that this indicator is improving. Bodies for people FY2010 results As a result of the People Pulse survey, we matters identified counseling and coaching as key arRegular and ad hoc surveys conducted People Board eas on which to focus in our people policies among employees help the management In January 2010 we established the People in the future. to understand and measure employee Board aimed at developing and refining our satisfaction and engagement. overall people strategy. The People Board is Hewitt Best Employers Survey a group of partners and managers from People Pulse Survey In June 2010 we received the results of the different service lines, who are dedicated to Hewitt Best Employers 2010 Survey, in which and ready to develop different people initiaIn August 2010 approximately 55% of our 47% of our employees and 73% of our top tives and resolve current people issues. people responded to the People Pulse Surmanagement participated. According to this It cooperates closely with the Human vey, an internal Ernst & Young survey which survey, our highest scores are in the area of Resources department and Service Line serves as an important “pulse check” supplecompany reputation (92% of the responses Leaders as well as with the Managing ment to the Global People Survey (GPS) and were positive), work environment (72%) and Partner. Through it, people-related innovais conducted every two years. The People education and development (67%). The lowtions can be promptly implemented. Pulse was a short survey with 10 questions est scores traditionally are for work-life baltaken from the GPS 2009. The results of the ance and reward and recognition. As part of Survey have given us a valuable opportunity this survey, employees’ answers were comto measure our progress against the actions initiated in response to our employees’ feedpared with those of our top management so People Board 2010 that the “opinion gap” could be kept and an back in the GPS 2009. The answers showed “alignment score” calculated. That score was that our employees (80%) share Ernst & Marina Zakharina, 68%, which indicates that there was a high Young values. Some 70% of our employees Human Resources department amount of alignment between employees believe that the leadership of the company and top-management responses. Olesya Melnyk, Assurance considers the impact on people when making important decisions and 67% indicated that The survey results were brought to the attenDmitry Litvak, TAS Ernst & Young provides a work environment tion of the Human Resources department, in which they feel free to be themselves. Nadiya Konovalenko, Advisory the Partners Board and the People Board for However, we had less favorable responses review and further actions. The next chapter Olga Gorbanovska, TAX about career development and recognition. discusses some of these actions. The score for “meaningful conversation regarding your career development” remains Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 15 The following initiatives and projects, People Advisory Council (PAC) Some of the PAC solutions that were put among others, were developed into practice: by People Board: The People Advisory Council (PAC) is a tool for communication between employees and •M  S Excel 2007 training materials were • Global People Survey; results analysis management of the Firm. It serves as an interdeveloped by the IT team; and action plan; nal “labor union” where employees of all • t he KPI assessment matrix in the • salary survey; results interpretation grades and service lines raise and discuss Assurance service line was amended; and methods of communication with issues and provide suggestions to improve • t raining materials log and storage were employees; work-related matters and processes. During established; • plan of activities to improve quality of the 2010 financial year the PAC gathered four times and discussed the following topics: train• f ast reading courses organized; counseling and communication in the company, including the Thomas Internaing opportunities and access to training mate•a  dditional tool for feedback exchange tional Personal Profile Analysis tool, rials; criteria for annual assessment; drawwithin the company launched; used for testing and adjusting behavioral backs to the work of the medical insurance • c orporate credit card limits expanded styles at work; company and taxi service; comfort in the office; amendments to travel policy; reducing Some of the issues raised at the PAC found • new work-life balance solutions, including impact on the environment; options for feedimmediate solutions; more complicated flexible time for working mothers back exchange; and corporate discount opissues needed time to be reconciled at tions. A separate meeting was held for the different levels; some got negative assurance team in December 2009 to respond responses from either the PAC or from to widespread worries about business the management as being contradictory turbulence. to internal policies or financially non-viable. The PAC has become a trusted platform where all sort of issues, from the most critical to the most minor, can be raised openly and find resolution. 16 Learning and development We are passionate about helping our employees reach their goals and achieve their potential. A unique global career development framework has been designed called EYU. EYU stands for Experiences «Ernst & Young and You,» reflecting the mutual siness commitment we have to supporting our people Our clie r bu nts Ou and that each employee has to owning his or her ds Your ro r nee career. It provides the right mix of learning, expele You Your rience and coaching to make a difference to our development employees, our clients, our business and our ing Co arn communities. ac hin Le g Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010: •1  00% of Ernst & Young Ukraine employees are entitled to have a counselor from the first day You of employment; r competences •1  00% of Ernst & Young employees undergo the Our c ommunities Performance Management and Development Process and receive annual feedback and assessment of their performance; • 100% of counselors undergo training EYU diagram to help employees develop their in counseling and coaching knowledge and insights and become Experiences – putting knowledge successful Ernst & Young profesMentoring — each employee has a Mentor into practice and developing new sionals. from the Partners group as an additional option skills to stretch and grow as an for personal and professional support within Coaching is a meaningful conversaErnst & Young professional. Ernst & Young Ukraine. Mentoring focuses tion that, when applied to day-toon providing guidance, direction and career Learning – all employees have day feedback, counseling and advice. Through mostly informal communication, access to high-quality learning mentoring, helps you transform partners help their mentees to manage their own through a tailored, structured learning and experience into learning so that the mentees can maximize their curriculum that is both service-line practice. EYU provides consistent potential, develop skills, improve performance specific and enterprise-wide. coaching capability as an essential and achieve targets. The learning curriculum is designed part of Ernst & Young culture. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 17 Professional Education and Certification Professional education is an essential part of career development at Ernst & Young. It ensures that employees are continuously Ernst & Young Ukraine annual training hours on average, FY2009, 2010 enhancing their professional skills and that 45 they receive professional certification adequate to their roles and responsibilities as 40 their career progresses. Ernst & Young pro35 vides a significant amount of support, including sponsoring, to employees in their 30 professional education and certification 25 programs. This enables Ernst& Young pro2009 fessionals to propose services in accor20 dance with world best practices, interna2010 15 tional standards and local requirements and to continuously improve their skills and the 10 quality of their performance. 5 As the result of our focus on education, our 0 client-serving personnel spent 114 hours Partners and Directors Senior Managers Seniors and Staff and Managers (including hours for professional certification) on average on their studies during Ernst & Young Ukraine professional certification, data as of FY2010 year-end FY2010. Ernst & Young Ernst & Young Certification Program employees, employees, students of certificate holders a certification program ACCA 33 212 CPA 7 Ukrainian National auditor and NBU 23 8 certificates CIMA, CFA 3 6 PMP 1 1 CISSP, CISM, CISA 9 CIA 2 1 Valuation certificates 16 18 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Employees rights Remuneration comparison by grade, October 2009 and benefits 33% We maintain strict compliance with the 35% Ukraine Labor Code and all requirements for Ernst & Young Pay Market (Median) social protection, and ensure payment of all 38% BIG4 Kiev Pay Market (Median) social charges, including pension and social insurance funds, unemployment compensa27% tion and work accident insurance. We con35% stantly monitor the level of wages on the Ukrainian market and ensure appropriate 29% rewards for our employees. The firm pro29% 33% vides competitive salary to employees; our 37% 20% aim is to be at the higher end of the market. We participate in surveys on remuneration Intern Staff Advanced Advanced Senior 1-2 Senior 3 Manager 1 Manager 2 Manager 3 Senior conducted by an independent surveyor anStaff 1 Staff 2 Manager nually; employees receive the results. The range of existing benefits for our employees, in excess of legal requirements, The company provides a range of benefits to • flexible work schedules for mothers; includes: support mothers. Ernst & Young encourages • possibility for women who have children •m  edical insurance to an employee women to continue their professional careers under 14 have to use an hour per day and one family member; with the firm after childbirth and offers: (five hours per week) at their own • life and accident insurance; • additional payments to ensure that an emdiscretion; • vacation allowance above statutory ployee’s aggregate income (Social Insur• 100% payment for five days on which an norms; ance Fund payment + additional payment employee’s children are sick (beyond existat the Firm’s expense) amounts to 80% of • additional pay for sick and maternity ing additional payments for sick leave for her base pay during the first 12 weeks of leave. all employees) maternity leave; Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 19 «The «mothers hours» option helps to reduce the pressure on me as I try to combine my work and my personal life. I appreciate the company’s recognition of working mothers in introducing such a good initiative». Tatiana Iarygina, auditor In addition: A special Intranet tool is at hand to answer Induction to new employees topical questions about life at Ernst and • three working days’ paid paternity The company makes continuous efforts Young. In 2010 general induction sessions leave for the new fathers upon the birth to make the first days at the company led by the Human Resources department of their child; for new-comers as smooth and fruitful became more regular, so that the time lag • a gift from the company to all employees as possible. Each new employee undergoes between the first day and the induction day who have a new-born baby an induction training course covering is kept to a minimum; an executive assistant Ernst & Young’s history, values, company in each service line has been appointed Service anniversary awards — in recognistructure, policies and procedures and to handle administrative issues a new tion of long, successful years of work with so on. The new-comer is appointed employee might face during the accomErnst & Young, the company has a tradia counselor since the first day in the modation process. tion: employees who work 5 years for the company. company receive golden Ernst & Young pins, those working 10, 15 etc years receive golden pins with diamonds. 20 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Work-life balance Balancing between work and life is a serious issue for most consulting and auditing firms. The prosperity of business often depends on people’s readiness to sacrifice their personal time in favor of clients interests, i.e. work overtime to achieve high business and career targets. One of the key priorities for the Human Resources department at Ernst & Young is to find solutions for this issue. Twenty-five working days of vacation, which is seven days more than the legislation suggests, are meant to overcome busy-season fatigue. The whole range of benefits for working mothers, initiatives for kids, out-of-office corporate activities, corporate discounts for fitness etc. is proposed to employees in order to support their health and emotions at a proper level. Courses on time management skills help employees to rethink their priorities and elaborate their own methods of navigating between work and leisure, between professionalism and exhaustion. 21 Life outside the office We maintain a tradition of regular entertainment and sport activities outside the office. The New Year Party 2009/2010 turned into a real talent show. Ernst & Young’s achievements in sports are a traditional story. Ernst For one night employees who are generally known as serious & Young teams are regular participants in EBA and AmCham footconsultants, auditors and administrators became singers, dancers, ball and basketball tournaments. In 2010 new sports were included rock musicians and showbiz stars, and enjoyed stunning success. in Ernst & Young’s profile – paintball and beach volleyball. One of the most joyful events of the year is the summer picnic, dedicated to the fiscal year’s end. In July 2010 employees gathered on Trukhaniv Island to enjoy a variety of entertainments, one of them being a film festival. Everybody was involved in shotting brief movies in different genres. The team led by aduit partner Olesya Melnyk was the winner, thanks to a bunch of talented actors (all EY employees) and their excellent performing of scenes from an Odessa restaurant. 22 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Initiatives for kids More traditions for Ernst & Young’s kids evolved in FY2010. All Ernst & Young kids get gifts from the company before Christmas; Another nice option for giving kids the taste of Christmas is for them since FY2010 they have also had an option of participating in a marto participate in a picture contest; the winners get memorable gifts velous kids’ party instead. Master classes on Christmas tree decoraand fill their parents’ hearts with pride. tions, fun contests, a quiz for elder children, body art, oil painting, Outdoors events and parties for kids strengthen links between people a disco – the party program was put together to delight everyone. and create a family-like atmosphere among employees. WORKPLACE targets for 2011: stay committed to • a cycle of surveys is to be conducted to gather feedback from our values and principles stated; develop new initiatives for employees. employees on various aspects of the company’s life and improve our workplace environment; Forthcoming steps: • more work-life balance solutions are to be introduced, including extended medical insurance package, more activities for the • the Employer Brand strategy is to be up-dated and implemented; employees’ children, etc.; • new tools for communication with personnel are to be introduced; • new comers induction activities are to be enhanced in order to facilitate their adaptation period in the company. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 23 Marketplace Our clients crucial to its member firms’ success as independent auditors and advisors. We continuthat provides Ernst & Young’s people and clients and others outside the organization ally strive to improve quality and risk with confidential means for reporting activiWe perform a wide range of professional management processes across member ty that may involve unethical or improper services for clients of our Ukrainian pracfirms, with the goal of achieving consistentbehavior that may be in violation of profestice. We are particularly proud of the fact ly high-quality client service worldwide. sional standards. The client acceptance that we provide assurance and advisory serErnst & Young recognizes that in today’s and continuance policy sets out principles vices for many of the leading local and interenvironment – characterized by continuing to determine whether to accept a new client national companies with operations in globalization and the rapid movement or a new engagement or to continue a relaUkraine. Our clients are large domestic and of capital – the quality of the member firms’ tionship with an existing client. We have reinternational companies including Ukrzalizservices has never been more important. strictions on accepting as a client an entity nytsja (Ukrainian Railways), EastOne, the Inin the gaming and pornography industry or dustrial Union of Donbass, the State ExportErnst & Young has designed a comprehencompanies that are involved in illegal or unImport Bank of Ukraine, Naftogaz of sive set of global quality control policies and ethical activities. These principles are fundaUkraine, Ferrexpo-Poltava Mining, System practices that meet the requirements of the mental to maintaining quality, managing Capital Management, the Donbass Fuel and IAASB (International Standards on Quality risk, protecting Ernst & Young personnel Energy Company (DTEK), Konti and Roshen. Control issued by the International Auditing and meeting regulatory requirements. Our and Assurance Standards Board) and IFAC global culture strongly supports collaboraOur commitment (International Federation of Accountants. tion and consultation and places special Each member firm is individually responsible to quality and risk to its clients and is required to adopt these emphasis on the importance of consultation in dealing with complex or subjective acmanagement global policies and procedures, supplementing them as necessary to comply with local counting, auditing, reporting, regulatory and independence matters. A comprehenQuality is the foundation of our organization laws and professional guidelines and to adsive hierarchy of responsible partners is and is reflected on every Ernst & Young docdress specific business needs. The Code of developed to ensure that each and every asument: Quality in Everything We Do. Conduct provides a clear set of standards pect of quality risk is insured. Each member and behaviors that guide the member firms’ firm is also required to execute the Ernst & Ernst & Young’s reputation for providing actions and business conduct. The global Young global Quality Review programs and high-quality professional services in an indeethics hotline is an external and, if so deannually evaluates whether its system of pendent, objective and ethical manner is sired, anonymous hotline reporting service quality control has operated effectively. 24 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Results of the global Quality Review proErnst & Young FY2010 Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 gram and external practice-monitoring and Ukraine inspection activities are evaluated and comIndependence policy training update 100% to client serving personnel municated so that quality improvement acAssurance Audit quality review v tions can be taken at the appropriate level. Independence confirmation for client Advisory quality 100% Advisory v serving personnel review Independence practices TAX TAX quality review v Anti-bribery policy compliance confirmation 100% TAS GICT review v Independence is a concept fundamental to Insider trading policy compliance 100% confirmation the audit profession and is pervasive in all dealings between audit firms and their audit assurance clients. Maintaining Ernst & Client satisfaction surveys Young’s independence is pivotal for achieving Our unwavering commitment to quality and risk management is supported by a variety of audit quality. We consider and evaluate indepolicies, procedures and tools. This means our clients can be confident of high-quality work. pendence from several relevant perspectives. We measure our clients’ satisfaction through our Assessment of Service Quality (ASQ) and Annually, all Ernst & Young professional perseek to continuously improve our service delivery based on the feedback we receive. sonnel are required to confirm compliance with Ernst & Young independence policies and procedures. The Global Independence Assessment Service Application to large client FY2010: 80% favorable Compliance Team (GICT) conducts an array Quality* engagements. Annual feedback; 94% of responof testing and member firm visits to assess survey. dents would recommend compliance with several independence matErnst & Young as a service ters. Compliance with professional standards provider. governing the provision of non-audit services * Ernst & Young Global to audit clients is designed to be achieved online monitoring tool, through a variety of mechanisms, including which allows for moniAll unfavorable comments toring the quality of our have been passed on to the use of the Ernst & Young portfolio of serservices. Survey requests vice reference tools, training and business reengagement partners are sent to clients chosen lationship evaluation tools. according to certain for follow-up. criteria. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 25 Data privacy and We also maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information Launch of new services information security through the protection of our technology in 2010: CCaSS and FIDS resources and assets, using proven technoWe are proactive in securing and properly logical means including but not limited to: Two new subservice lines were introduced managing confidential and personal informain Ukraine in 2010: Fraud Investigation and • full disk laptop/desktop encryption; tion through our ISO 27002-based Dispute Services (FIDS) and Climate Change information security program. • removable media encryption; and Sustainability Services (CCaSS). These • personal firewall; two sub-services are gaining their momentum The Ernst & Young Global Information Secuas businesses are recovering from the • anti-virus and anti-malware software; rity Policy, known as the Code of Connececonomic crisis. tion, defines the security rules, roles and • multi-factor authentication solutions; responsibilities protecting information and •a  utomated patching and security In today’s environment, managing risk for global information systems and is reviewed annualvulnerability assessments; organizations is more important than ever. Genly. Information security policy statements • strong physical, environmental security; erally prevalent perceptions of fraud can vary span nearly a dozen information security from country to country. In Ukraine fraud is per• intrusion detection and prevention areas including but not limited to: ceived differently than in developed economies, technologies. and it is extremely important to provide fraud-re• access control; lated services that take into account local specif•a  sset management classification Ernst & Young has not experienced ics. FIDS department assists clients with the foland control; any breach of network security resulting lowing solutions: in the exposure of data. • communication and operations • fraud detection and investigations; management; • anti-fraud solutions such as assessment • human resources security; of fraud risks and anti-fraud controls • physical and environmental security. in different business processes; • corporate compliance; • forensic Technology & Discovery Services; • transaction risk services (“forensic due diligence”); • dispute services; • fraud and corruption awareness trainings on various topics. 26 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Companies in Ukraine these days are also giving increasing attention to business repuPublic events and • We are serving as a strategic partner for the Donetsk Investment Summit for the tation — and larger companies are looking to intellectual leadership third year in a row. In 2010 the Donetsk be transparent and green. Building up social event was planned as a year-long project capital and a proactive approach to corpoErnst & Young Ukraine is an active organizthat comprised the Donetsk Restructuring rate responsibility not only promote a comer of workshops on various business issues. Forum and the Donetsk Private Public pany’s image, but also strengthen trust In 2010 we conducted 27 roundtables and Partnership Forum, attended by the Presiof shareholders, investors, authorities and seminars for clients and the general public. dent of Ukraine, top government officials other stakeholders. The CCaSS practice proThe aim was to discuss current and emergand leading international investors. We vides the following services to our clients: ing business issues and share views and see our involvement in these events as a knowledge in order to maintain business in contribution to the improvement and de• s trategic advisory on corporate social rethe economic downturn. The themes covvelopment of the investment climate of sponsibility issues, including CSR strategy ered during this period were tax code adopthe region. and program development; tion, human capital management, technolo• A number of special public projects were •a  ssistance in the development and imgy security, real estate and others. The year launched, among which were an Expatriprovement of non-financial reporting sys2010 was marked by increased Ernst & ate Survey in cooperation with Delo Newstems and processes, as well as in the prepYoung public activity on the market. We orpaper and the American Chamber of Comaration of non-financial reports; ganized or supported 72 events devoted to merce. The survey was held to see how •► audit of non-financial reporting in accorimprovement of the business and investexpatriates feel about infrastructure and dance to international standards; ment environment in Ukraine. We strategisocial standards in Ukraine and about the • advisory on climate change, including cally support leading business events. tax and regulatory regime, and to see how strategy development and the introduction the crisis impacted the cost of living and Examples of our intellectual leadership: of relevant tools and controls, as well as compensation package. The results of the the carbon emission verification; • To support and promote Ukraine as an survey were of great interest to foreign in• assessment of the company’s environmeninvestment destination, Ernst & Young vestors and the Ukrainian business comtal, health and safety (EHS) risks and has served as a co-organizer or sponsor munity in general: the survey indicated liabilities. of a number of leading business events, the level of satisfaction with living in in particular the Adam Smith Ukrainian Ukraine and addressed hot issues hinderStrengthening FIDS and CCaSS helped us Investment Summit, the Zaporozhie ing the flow of investments into Ukraine. capitalize on these offerings in Ukraine, Investment Summit, the Lugansk InvestThe results of the survey were presented bringing benefits to our clients. ment Summit and the Ukraine-Poland in the Delo newspaper and at a number of Economic Forum. public events. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 27 Professional and tively involved in contributing to the success of these associations. This means that our Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, meanwhile, enables a systematic dialog with business associations people are not only knowledgeable about authorities, in order to maintain a mutually the political and economic drivers of our cliresponsible relationship between business We are committed to serving not only our ents’ businesses, but also have insight into and government and foster country clients, but also the community in which we developing matters and key influencers on priorities. operate. This is underlined by our involveevents. Ernst & Young members take active ment in the Foreign and Local Investors Adpart in various European Business AssociaThe year 2010 was marked by the adoption visory Council under the auspices of the tion debates. Alexei Kredisov, Ukraine Counof the new Tax Code, which influenced every President of Ukraine. Karl Johansson, Ernst try Managing Partner of Ernst & Young, business in Ukraine. Vladimir Kotenko, & Young CIS Managing Partner, is a particiis Vice President of the European Business a member of the Advisory Council at the pant in the body. Association (for the third year). Jorge Ministry of Finance, played an important Intriago and Tom Cradock-Watson are role in drafting the tax principles and faciliErnst & Young has also demonstrated its Advisors to the EBA Board. Vladimir tating dialog between businesses and govleadership in the Ukrainian business enviKotenko is the chair of the EBA Tax Commiternment on improvements to the new tax ronment through its extensive work with the tee for the fourth year in a row. One of the system. In addition, series of roundtables European Business Association, the Ameriaims of participation in the EBA and Amand seminars on the Tax Code (11 in total) can Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine, the cham events is to discuss and resolve probwere held by Ernst & Young with the particiUS-Ukraine Business Council and the Ukrailems faced by the private sector in Ukraine. pation of top government officials and the nian Union of Industrialists and EntrepreAnother aim is collective advocacy of memtop managers of the leading businesses in neurs, and through interaction with Ukrainibers’ interests with the central and local Ukraine. an legislative and ministerial processes authorities of Ukraine and with foreign and affecting business. Our employees are acinternational organizations. The Ukrainian Engagement with the government and NGOs — corporate responsibility development Community engagement is one of the priorities for our company’s corporate responsibility agenda. At Ernst & Young Ukraine we understand the importance of building momentum for the development of corporate responsibility traditions in the country. 28 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine We see raising the level of business involvement; we understand the historical context that may hinder further progress. Ernst & Young specialists took part We are ready to share our expertise and give our support to facilitate advancement in the following corporate responsibility of corporate responsibility best practices in the community. That’s why: events: • we have been part of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Adlai Goldberg, advisory partner, Kyiv, spoke at the Verkhovna Rada network in Ukraine since 2008 and Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship hearings are actively involved in network’s on “Developing Corporate Social Responsibility: the Ukrainian Perspective,” initiatives; November 2009 • we have been members of the MultiJulien Perez, an expert from the Climate Change group, France, spoke stakeholder Advisory Council (MAC) on at the Climate Change conference organized by the United Nations in Kyiv the development of CSR National strategy in March 2010 under the Parliamentary Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Ksenia Leschinskaya, ССaSS leader in CIS, spoke at the IV international since its establishment in February 2010. conference on corporate responsibility organized by Expert magazine We have shared with MAC’s colleagues in April 2010 European experience in sustainability concept development and will be more involved in the future; • for two years we have supported the CSR case contest organized by the CSR Development Center. About 70 • in June 2010 we supported the publica• we have supported the summer school of companies and NGOs have used the tion on non-financial reporting (NFR) that the Ukrainian Association for Management contest to present their corporate was prepared by the CSR Ukraine CommuDevelopment and Business Education and responsibility practices in the “problemnity with the support of UNGC; the publiits study program for CSR academic solution-results” format for public cation gives an overview of non-financial course instructors acknowledgement. Printed practices will reporting in the world and a detailed picbe used in the future as study materials ture for Ukraine; it also functions as a for CSR academic courses at Ukrainian manual on NFR preparation; institutions; Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 29 Ernst & Young celebrated its 24th anniversary. In those years, the Entrepreneur of the Year program • In 2010 the International Tax Review’s annual European Tax Awards recognized Entrepreneur has expanded to more than 140 cities in Ernst & Young Ukraine as Transfer Pricing more than 50 countries, with awards presentFirm of the Year in Ukraine. Of The Year Program — ed annually to over 900 of the world’s most •M  arketing Media Review has recognized www.eoy-ua.com successful and innovative entrepreneurs. Ernst & Young Ukraine as one of the most Ukraine joined the program in 2006 and withPR professional and friendly companies in these years had honored four outstanding in the country. According to Ukraine’s Ukrainian entrepreneurs: Mikhail Levchenko, Best Corporate Press Service survey, Millenium Capital (2006), Nikolay Lagun, Ernst & Young Ukraine is in the Top 10. Delta Bank (2007), Boris Lozhkin, United •E  qual Opportunities competition jointly orMedia Holding (2008) and Sergiy Grygoroganized by the EU-funded project “Women vych, GSC Game World (2010). In June 2011 and children’s rights in Ukraine communiMr. Grygorovych will represent Ukraine and cation component” and the Ministry of compete with the world’s best entrepreneurs Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports at the World Entrepreneur of the Year Award ranked us second among companies emfinal in Monte Carlo, Monaco. ploying 101 to 1000 employees that proThe Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the vide for gender equality at work. Year® (EOY) is the world’s most prestigious business award for entrepreneurs. As the first Awards For MARKETPLACE — targets for 2011: stay committed to quality, enhance quality and only truly global award of its kind, EOY Ernst & Young Ukraine control and information security tools; stay honors those who are building and leading active participants of the business community: successful, growing and dynamic businesses, While our work is rewarding, we’re always encourage entrepreneurs, continue traditional recognizing them through national and global delighted and honored when respected programs and develop new ways to invest awards programs. The participants in the organizations recognize our achievements. into community’s benefit and development. contest are middle and large businesses, and •T he Kyiv Post’s Best of Kyiv poll recognized the winners in each participating country are Among future plans: Ernst & Young Ukraine as the country’s — implementation of global CRM program announced by a national jury consisting of inBest Audit, Tax and Consulting Services — s upport of Adam Smith Ukrainian dependent experts who are well-known memFirm for 2009. Ernst & Young Ukraine won Banking Forum, Adam Smith Ukrainian bers of the business community. In 2010 EOY this honor for the second year in a row. Investment Summit 30 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Environment As our Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) enable clients to become more environmentally sustainable, we are looking at every aspect of our own organization. We are taking a closer look at environmental sustainability and continuously working on initiatives designed to reduce our impact on the environment. For the Ukrainian offices of Ernst & Young, a commitment to environmental sustainability means well-thought-out procurement in combination with voluntary initiatives organized by the Green Group. «We understand that we need to be open to new ways of managing our business so that the business targets are met and our impact is less. In many cases, solutions can have a double advantage». Tatiana Yatsenko, administrative director Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 31 Our principles, results and targets in terms of procurement and materials consumption Item Our approach and results, FY2010 Suppliers We consider eco-criteria when choosing suppliers to work with. Office Our procurement policy defines a list of manufacturers that are eco-labelled. We reduced the number equipment of printers in 2009 and did not increase it in 2010. Energy In FY2010 energy consumption fell by 10% Ernst & Young Ukraine monthly energy consumption, compared to the prior period. FYs 2009, 2010, kw/h We are taking measures to consume energy economically 64000 • all PCs switch to energy saving mode after a few minutes being unattended as the default setting; 54000 • no light is left unattended; security and cleaning 44000 staff control electricity usage during non-working hours; 34000 • corporate desktop background suggest steps to take towards saving energy; 24000 • energy-saving bulbs are used 2009 2010 Re-use options: 100% of day-light bulbs are given to a specialized company for further use. 32 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Item Our approach and results, FY2010 Paper We use eco-labelled paper (FSC). Ernst & Young Ukraine monthly paper consumption, FYs 2008-2010; packs Compared to the prior period, consumption of paper has increased by 6% due to growth in business activity. 500 We continue our initiatives and propose new steps 400 to reduce paper consumption: 300 • double-side printing is used as the default setting for all PCs; 200 • intelligent printing options are being promoted 100 using various internal communication tools; 0 • electronic solutions have been elaborated 2008 2009 2010 to replace a number of paper-based internal procedures; • resealable envelopes are being proposed for interoffice correspondence; • on-screen presentations are used instead of printed materials at our meetings wherever appropriate; • training materials exchange among employees is organized to reduce the number of printed copies Re-use options: across all our offices in Ukraine confidential papers are collected in boxes that are sent to a supplier for confidential shredding and further recycling. Up to 64% of paper waste is thus re-used. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 33 Item Our approach and results, FY2010 Cartridges Compared to the prior period, consumption Ernst & Young Ukraine toner consumption, FYs 2009, 2010; kg of toner has increased by 10% due to increase in business activity. 300 A clarification on data measurement: we have 250 changed our approach to measuring our impact 200 in regard to cartridges use. As different models of printers and copy machines are used in our 150 offices, we have defined the toner’s weight and 100 expense for each model. Units of measurements are thus kilos. 50 0 Re-use options: 100% of cartriges go 2009 2010 to a specialized company for further use. Travel An increase in business activity has led to an increase in travel. Promoting responsible travel has thus become more critical. We suggest that our employees: • video-conference instead of travel; • take the train instead of fly. Kitchen We promote reusable tabeleware instead of plastics among our employees. 34 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Green group In 2009 a Green Group was established During FY2010 the Green Group developed under the auspices of the Corporate and supported the following initiatives: Responsibility Committee. Employees from different departments of the company Climate Week volunteered to join. In September 2009 Ernst & Young’s Green The targets for the Group: Group took an active stance in promoting Climate Week, a worldwide United Nations •e  ducational campaign on environmental initiative, among employees of the company. issues for employees; Tuesday of that week was “Refuse a car” day • leading change while implementing for many employees. On Wednesday volun“green” behavior; teers joined “Seal the Deal” campaign and •a  ctive involvement in nationwide signed an online global petition on the part of environmental initiatives and ecological civil society to governments of the world beprograms. fore the global summit on climate change in Copenhagen. Friday was Green Casual Friday, when all employees were encouraged to wear green clothes to show their support for protecting the environment. «Although our business does not have a significant impact on the environment, we will continue drawing attention of our employees to environmental issues, as we realize their significance for every human being on the planet». Yulia Byba, Head of the Green Group, 2010 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 35 «We did a good job! I’m pleased that there are people who are not indifferent to the troubles of our country. I’m grateful to everyone who spent a weekend for the benefit of the worldwide climate week in Ukraine. We planted 6 trees and 12 bushes in Poznyaky park. If each of us plants at least one tree a year, our future generations will live in a greener world». Victoria Starynets, auditor On Saturday volunteers went to Poznyaki Park to participate in the “Plant a tree and save the planet” initiative. An internal newspaper on Climate Week highlights was distributed among employees. Green principles In February 2010 the Green Group announced a kind of contest for employees – a list of Green Principles, rules to be followed in the workplace and at home, was proposed, and employees could sign up for them and add new ideas. Those who signed up for the most positions and shared their own principles for “green” behavior were announced Green Champions and received gifts. An interview with them was distributed via internal 36 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine mail. That list of Green Principles formed the Green Rush basis for the Ernst & Young Green bookmark, which was used to disseminate the principles In 2010 Ernst & Young became a partner during various ecological events. in the Green Rush project, organized by the AIESEC Kyiv Youth Organization. The project’s aim is to implement Earth Hour theoretical knowledge about environmental In March 2010, a global action initiated by responsibility in the everyday life of youths the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Earth Hour, in Ukraine. Young people from 20 schools was supported by Ernst & Young employees. and 5 universities from different Ukrainian Many joined in the initiative. cities participated in an educational campaign (100 academic hours), an ecological Zelena Toloka seminar and an eco-poster contest. In April 2010 Ernst & Young traditionally The winners of the contest were invited supported a UN Global Compact initiative in to the Ernst & Young office, company’s Ukraine – Zelena Toloka. This time the Ernst & certificates and memorable gifts were Young Green team joined 300 volunteers in handed by the Managing Partner in Ukraine, Syretsky Gai to clean up the park; about eight Alexei Kredisov. tons of garbage was collected. Participants were entertained by Oleg Skrypka, ate some delicious kulish and took part in a lottery. «For the Earth Hour, in my family we had a dinner with candles and spoke about the damage people make to nature and how we can use fewer resources.I appreciate that it was my child’s decision to start separating paper and plastic garbage to practice recycling». Irina Levadnaya, finance Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 37 Trypilske Kolo ENVIRONMENT — targets for 2011: • taking additional steps to increase the continue considering every possibility to percentage of paper waste that is re-used; The Third International Eco-Cultural Festival reduce the negative environmental impact • continuing an educational campaign “Trypilske Kolo 2010: Fire” took place this of our business. to keep the amount of plastic tableware summer in Rzhyschiv, Kyiv region, under to a minimum the slogan “We Light Up Hearts.” The festival The primary focus will be on: • supporting national projects in takes place annually and is devoted to one of the four elements: Water, Fire, Air and Earth. • developing and implementing a supplier environmental education. Ernst & Young was a partner to this year code of conduct; festival and was invited to the ECO-ground to • reviewing opportunities for online present green principles and inform the visisubscriptions to reduce paper tors about the steps the company is taking consumption; towards the full-scale development of its • continuing to develop electronic solutions Green Office program, as well as about the for paperless internal procedures; rules its employees observe in everyday life. 38 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Community As a responsible employer, we encourage our people to apply their workplace skills Educational projects 2009 2010 to create positive change in communities sponsoring fees, UAH 42,063 312,042 close to home and around the world. This Kyiv chapter of the Report describes the investErnst & Young people value, UAH 112,055 324,825 ments the company makes in the future sponsoring fees, UAH — 6,000 of the country by supporting projects Donetsk targeted at the students and children Ernst & Young people value, UAH 32,977 47,164 of Ukraine. Ukraine fees general, UAH 187,094 690,031 Projects for students We often hear from students today that the Step Into the Future program consultant; get acquainted with the basic requirements for entry level positions in education they obtain has a wholly theoretiIn 2010 Ernst & Young started the Step various departments and discuss key tencal character, detached from the realities Into the Future program for students at the dencies in professional development and of business and from the knowledge Kyiv and Donetsk universities that provide possible career growth directions with requirements of potential employers. the company with the largest number of Ernst & Young employees. “Coffee with While discussion of the educational system successful job candidates. “Ernst & Young a Partner” is another initiative that foresees reform is ongoing, we developed and University” is one of the initiatives from this meetings with the company’s Partners supported programs that aimed to help program, representing a suite of meetings to discuss secrets of a successful career and students get practical knowledge in the in Ernst & Young office for Kyiv universities to find out what is evaluated during testing chosen profession. In total, about 5,000 students. Here they can get a foretaste of and interviews at Ernst & Young. students were involved in these during such professions as auditor, tax consultant FY2010. and IT risk and informational security Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 39 We are thankful to those Ernst & Young Ernst & Young and Students colleagues who took part in the List of universities “Step Into the Future” program: in Free Enterprise program 2010 that participate •O  lesya Melnyk, Oleksandr Berchiy, In June 2010 Alexei Kredisov, the Managing Partner of Ernst & Young, became the coin the program: Kateryna Rabtsun, Volodymyr Zabrodskiy, Ganna Kurylenko, chairman of the advisory business council of the Students in Free Enterprise, or SIFE, orOlga Makara, Oleksandr Dermanets, ganization in Ukraine. The council’s main • Kyiv National Economic University Natalia Deryzemlia and Svitlana Suponina goal is to develop a strategy and budget for named after V. Hetman from Assurance department, Kyiv SIFE Ukraine activities. The group includes • Kyiv National Trade and Economic representatives of Ukrainian businesses and • Yuliya Boietska, Olexander Chausovsky, University education sphere who make a considerable Maryna Kostina, Viktor Nikolov, Viktoria • National University «Kyiv Mohyla contribution to the development of talented Turska and Darya Zhuravska from Academy» young people in Ukraine. SIFE is an internaAssurance department, Donetsk tional organization that unites together stu• National University “Kyiv •A  aron Johnson and Rostyslav Grygorenko dents, teachers and business representatives Polytechnic Institute” from Transaction Advisory Services in 40 countries. Working in a team under the • Taras Shevchenko National group, Kyiv guidance of a mentor-teacher, SIFE students University of Kyiv use knowledge they gained at university to • Donetsk National University •T  etyana Mykolenko and Iryna Kalyta educate others in market economics, entrefrom Tax & Law department, Kyiv preneurial skills, financial competence, prin• Donetsk National Technical ciples of environmental protection and busiUniversity •K  ateryna Gorbunova, Dmytro ness ethics. This year, seven teams from • Donetsk National University Lazuchenkov and Oksana Hontar universities in Kyiv, Lviv, Odesa, Chernivtsi of Economics and Trade named from Information Technology and Kharkiv competed for the national after Tugan-Baranovsky and Risk Services department, Kyiv championship on 1 June. The SIFE teams put • Donetsk National University •N  atalia Krivtsova and Yelizaveta Babych their outreach programs into a presentation of Management from Human Resources department, Kyiv format and communicated it to the jury. Lviv • Donetsk Institute for Artificial National University named after Ivan Franko Intelligence •K  ateryna Kayda and Natalia Vyshnevetska won the national competition for the second from Administration, Donetsk time in a row. The winners presented five projects: “Hlynchyky,” “Job Co,” “New Farm,” “Sashko-Meta” and “Discount Boom.” 40 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young supports Students’ Global Management • “Hlynchyky” was aimed at providing people with Down’s syndrome with economic opportunities to increase their personal income and foster inclusion Challenge Championship in the communities where they live. The team organized a club where disabled (GMC Junior) people could make special souvenir pottery and distribute it through a chain of souvenir shops. The project helped the disabled people to conclude long-term In 2008 Ernst & Young supported the GMC agreements with five shops in Lviv region. Junior competition in Ukraine for the first time. Today we are a strategic partner of •T  he “Job Co” project consisted in conducting a Career Forum that gathered the initiative, which involves students in around 300 participants, who also had the opportunity to attend training their third to fifth years of study at Ukrainiseminars on how to write a CV and search for a job. The team also developed a an universities. Teams of students in the career site for university students where they can find up-to-date information contest perform the roles of key decision about vacancies in different Ukrainian and international companies. leaders in a virtual company: CEO, Finance • In the “New Farm” project, the LNU SIFE team organized training seminars Director, Marketing Director, Human Reon 1C for 15 farmers to raise farming efficiency and profit margins. sources Department Director, Sales DirecIn collaboration with the Swedish SIFE team they also created a hotline tor, etc. They have to analyze the financial call center where farmers could receive professional advice. status of the company, its production capacity, market share and potential for de•“ Sashko-Meta” helped a Ukrainian painter drive consumer awareness of his velopment. On the basis of the conclusions brand, make it well-known in the community and start his own business. The team they develop and implement their teams’ organized several promo-actions for him and ensured his participation in the strategies in order to achieve maximum Open International Festival of Modern Art in Lviv. As a result, artist Sashko turned stock value. Only eight teams reached the his hobby into a profitable business and increased his monthly income by 39%. final 2010, and the Crimean branch • The winners tried to encourage students and university staff to recycle paper. of the Kyiv National Economic University In the framework of the “Discount Boom” project they collected paper for in Simferopil has become the winner. recycling in exchange for discount cards for 16 stores and 14 restaurants. Some 485 students participated in the project and brought in around three tons of waste paper. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 41 «During GMC junior we observed both the joy of victory and the bitter taste of the defeat. However, despite the fact that some participants were less lucky than the others, all of the teams are united in striving for new knowledge. They are the future leaders and elite of our country. Our company is looking ahead and would like to invite talented young experts on board». Alexei Kredisov, Managing Partner of Ernst & Young, Ukraine Incentive Scholarship Fund Scholars for the 2009-2010 school year: professional education and development of Ukrainian university students. The program for KMA •► Iryna Grygorivna Luk’yanenko, head includes five cities: Donetsk, Lviv, Kharkiv, of the finance platform, Associate In 2008 jointly with the National University Odesa and Dnipropetrovsk. Professor of Economic Science Kyiv Mohyla Academy Ernst & Young From October 2010 till May 2011 Ernst & created a special fund to present an annual • Victoria Dobrynska, fifth year student of the law faculty Young and AIESEC will conduct educational award to the institution’s best teachers seminars and presentations for students and students. We contribute to the who want to know more about the auditor’s university’s endowment, which will guaranprofession. The program gives future spetee the realization of its statutory objectives, Ernst & Young Ambassadors cialists the unique opportunity to underits self-government and its independence. stand better what skills and knowledge the In October 2010 Ernst & Young introduced The fund also supports scientific researches labor market demands. Students will meet a new initiative in cooperation with the AIEand the latest projects in technology with Ernst & Young professionals and SEC in Ukraine Youth international organidevelopment. recruitment specialists. zation. The objective of the program is the 42 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Open Door Days at Ernst & Young Universities participating in the program: In spring 2010 we held several Open Door Days for graduates of the Kyiv National Uni• Odesa National University • National University Lviv Politechnika versity of Trade and Economics, the Kyiv named after I.I. Mechnikov • V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National National Economic University named after • Odesa State Economic University University V. Hetman, the Kyiv School of Economics and the National University “Kyiv Mohyla • Odessa National Polytechnic • Kharkiv National Economic Academy.” The participants were told about University University career opportunities for graduates at our • Dnipropetrovsk National University • Donetsk National University firm and introduced to the Ernst & Young named after Oles Gonchar structure and corporate culture. The guests • Donetsk National Technical asked questions about the daily work rou• Dnipropetrovsk National Financial University tine of the audit, transactions and advisory Academy teams and learned the specifics of different • Donetsk National University of • Dnipropetrovsk University Economics and Trade named after departments. The event was followed by a of Economics and Law Tugan-Baranovsky Human Resources department presentation named after Alfred Nobel with focus on how to take the first steps to• Donetsk National University of wards a successful career. The presentation • Prydniprovs’k State Academy of Management was supported by personal examples and Civil Engineering and Architecture valuable tips. • Donetsk Institute for Artificial • Ivan Franko National University Lviv Intelligence In Donetsk we also organize meetings beNational University tween students and employees. During these meetings students get useful information about auditor’s profession and employment details and can ask questions on how to prepare a solid CV and go through the interview process successfully. They can also meet successful Ernst & Young employees and ask questions about the requirements international companies have towards potential staff. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 43 «I never thought such big companies as Ernst & Young could be so close to students. Now it doesn’t seem so scary to start looking for a job there». One of the participants of the Open Door Day event Meetings with accounting and audit professors in Donetsk In 2010 we started a new initiative for Donetsk universities. The Donetsk office of Ernst & Young opened its doors to professors of accounting and audit from leading local universities. The first event was an introductory meeting, while the second one had the B2Universities format – Olena Lyakh, Senior of Audit department, prepared a presentation about hot points in auditing. We consider it important that academics who are responsible for the new generation’s development should be updated about changes in audit standards and procedures. We hope these meetings between practitioners and teachers will become regular ones. 44 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Charity work Ernst & Young Ukraine’s charity program took ties. FY 2010 strengthened the Ernst & Young Christmas gifts for orphans shape back in 2006 and its main trends have volunteers team. The scope of volunteers enremained unchanged since then. Volunteering gagement has expanded and the relationship The 2010 New Year holidays were especialis an important part of our culture, and we with the beneficiaries of charity programs — ly warm for participants in the charity don’t only provide an extra pair of hands. We kids in orphanages, kids with cancer who unprogram. The charity committee proposed contribute more to our communities and give dergo long, costly treatment — has deepened; a detailed template for a child’s letter our people more meaningful experiences by the charity foundations that work in these to St. Nicholas for kids in the three orphantapping into our professional skills and capabilisame areas have become our true partners. ages: Ivaniv, Boyarka and Snizhne. The children told St. Nicholas about their achieveCharity donations FY2009 FY2010 ments, confessed their sins and shared their dreams. How surprised the children Orphanages and projects for orphans 76,782 117,917 were when they saw their cherished wishes Help to children with cancer and projects in healthcare 134,607 209,265 had come true! Here’s how St. Nicholas worked: the children’s letters were sent to Charity, other* 54,000 125,900 the attention of Ernst & Young Ukraine emTotally charity donations 265,389 453,086 ployees, many of whose hearts melted. Ernst & Young mothers and fathers had one more task on their pre-Christmas “to do” lists. Some joined visiting teams and went to hand their gifts to the children in person. More initiatives for orphans In 2010 the Best Pupil contest was re-launched at the three orphanages. Though in lot of cases good marks in school are only subject of a self-belief to be rebuilt in a child. Good marks in school, however, can rebuild a child’s self-esteem. The rewards that this Ernst & Young contest brings provide stimulus towards academic achievements. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 45 Here are the winners for 2009/2010 The amateur movie “5 years of friendship” meetings and training courses the Fund and their prizes: was produced by Ernst & Young volunteers organizes are of great value for program and shown at the Ivaniv orphanage during the participants. At one such meeting in April •N  atalia Rudenko, Boyarka, 15: a shopping Christmas visit. Picnics, concerts, excursions, 2010, Ernst & Young presented PCs to the tour to Kyiv; she chose a nice dress and master classes, contests, journeys, subbotstudents who were recommended by the shoes for her graduation party along with niks — unforgettable moments from these and program’s coordinator as most deserving her Ernst & Young friends; other events from the friendship between for their engagement with Fund projects •Z  henya Gerasimenko, Boyarka, 10: and excellent academic results. At the same Ernst & Young and the Ivaniv kids were a new school suit and a set of toy cars; meeting Natalia Krivtsova of the Human Reon display and made a great impression. • Kristina Bekher, Snizhne, 10: sources department gave an interesting and nice clothing of Kristina’s choice; Support to graduates important for all students training session • Margarita Gavrilyuk, Ivaniv, 15: on CV writing and employment hints. For three years we have been providing a mobile phone; input into the Pryiateli Ditey Fund program, Way to Success summer • Sergiy Buts, Ivaniv, 14: a mobile phone which is aimed at supporting orphanage camp for orphans graduates during their student years. This We usually visit kids at the end of the school year we sponsored 10 students to particiIn 2010 Ernst & Young supported the Way to year and organize various entertaining and pate in the program. The monthly stipend Success summer camp for orphans in educational activities. In 2010 a master class allows students to pay for extra classes and Skadovsk. The camp was organized by the on tissue painting, where each participant purchase books, clothes and food. The charity fund of Edinstvennaya magazine. produced an original t-shirt, was organized at the Boyarka orphanage, while children in Snizhne played pirates with their friends from Ernst & Young and enjoyed shashlyk. A monthly birthday celebration was organized this year by Ernst & Young’s Donetsk employees for the children at the Snizhne orphanage. Kids got gifts of their choice, plus sweets, music and a party with real guests — their friends from Ernst & Young. This year Ernst & Young employees have announced a books drive for Snizhne kids. Dozens of encyclopedias, scholarly and fiction books were gathered and enlarged the orphanage’s library. 46 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young has been supporting the program since it was launched in 2007. The goal is to teach the children to plan their future, believe in success, work in teams and resolve conflicts in a healthy manner. The camp’s curriculum included psychological training aimed at overcoming communication barriers, computer literacy training, artistic molding activities, hairdressing and master classes in photography, journalism, cinematography, make-up and other subjects. This year the program included over 100 boys and girls from orphanages in Kyiv, Chernigiv and Cherkasy regions. Leaders help in their cruel fight for life. The funds are the opportunity to demonstrate their artiswho showed their worth in 11 nominations being spent on medication, diagnostics, treattic talents and offer their handmade masdefined by Ernst & Young received special ment costs, surgeries and sometimes food terpieces for purchase by colleagues. The prizes. The young person who won the Acand toys for children staying in onco centers amazing photos, paintings, knitted goods tor’s Talent category, for example, received in Ukraine. Apart from targeted financial supand stationary decorated in decoupage a book of biographies of popular modern acport to children, we also provided assistance style sold out in one day. Some 3,000 hryvtors; the Paparazzi winner received an mp3 to hospitals and charity funds implementing nia were raised for Vadym. player with a voice recorder. We hope that projects in the oncology sphere. We have esthe children, having tasted success during tablished regular deliveries of consumables COMMUNITY — targets for 2011: we plan those unforgettable summer days, keep on (disposable syringes, gloves, detergents) to to stay committed to the targets set in our striving throughout their challenging lives, the transplant department at Okhmatdet. corporate responsibility program, develop and that the prizes they won help them culWe are also continuing to support the Krona existing and new partnerships that will add tivate their favorite pursuits. foundation with the Tochka Zhyttya project. efficiency to our community-related proIn 2009 we have given our support for a labograms. Ongoing surveys on community New developments ratory for bone marrow donor diagnostics to needs and Ernst & Young people engageof the oncology group be open. In 2010 we made our input into proment will help us pursue our priorities. viding chemical reagents for the laboratory. Targeted help to children with cancer is on one of the main support channels for Ernst & In December 2009 the oncology group volYoung Ukraine charity group. This year the unteers held a charity sale for Vadym Grenumber of Salary Deduction Program particiben, who had undergone an auto bone marpants grew to 80, which is twice as many as row transplantation and needed medicine before. This means that more children got our for his rehabilitation period. Employees had Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 47 Report parameters This is the second Corporate Responsibility • agree on approach to scope for the Report in four chapters: : Workplace, Marketplace, Report prepared for Ernst & Young practice with regard to GRI criteria Environment and Community. The Report in Ukraine. • evaluate results of feedback survey presents company’s performance in ecofor the Report 2009 nomic, social and environmental areas It covers the activities of the three offices wherever the effect may be considered located in Kyiv and Donetsk during the • ensure accuracy, completeness, and as significant. It is prepared in accordance financial year 2010, i.e. the period from reliability of the information collected. with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) July 1, 2009 to June 30, 2010. G3 sustainability guideline. Representatives from corporate responsiPrior report was inssued in March 2010 bility committee, Human Resources The Report was reviewed by company’s and covered the period from July 1, 2008 department division, procurement team, specialists in the area of non-financial to June 30, 2009. marketing/PR department have entered reporting and sustainable development. the Lead Committee. Our intention is to contuinue reporting Lead Committee has been established to: The structure of the report corresponds to on corporate responsibility on a yearly • define the format of the report and report Ernst & Young overall approach to corporate basis. preparation schedule responsibilty and represents information Contact information Your feedback on the Report is important for us. We look forward receiving your comments and will be ready to answer your questions at the following address: cr@ua.ey.com 48 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine GRI G3 disclosures and performance indicators, UNGC principles table GRI disclosures Short description Page, UNGC and indicators comments principle 1.1 Statement on corporate responsibility strategy from the chief executive 2-4 I, II 2.1 Name of the organisation 5 2.2 Primary brands, services 6 2.3 Operational structure 7 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 2.7 Markets served 6 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 6,7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or There were no significant ownership changes apart from partners number changed from 15 to 16 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 30 3.1 Report period 48 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 48 3.3 Reporting cycle 48 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 48 3.5 Process for defining report content 48 3.6 Boundary of the report 48 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report No limitations 3.8 Basis for reporting on other entities that can significantly affect comparability No other entities from period to period 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 34 reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, No significant changes or measurement methods 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standards disclosures 49,50 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 7, 11 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 6 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 49 GRI disclosures Short description Page, comments UNGC and indicators principle 4.3 The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent No independent or nonand/or non-executive members executive members of governance body 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 15, 16 I, II, III to the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 3,4,11,12,24,31,39 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.13 Membership in associations and (inter)national advocacy organizations 28,29 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10 EC1 Economic performance 7 EC5 Relevant comparison of wages 19 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 39,45 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement EN1 Materials used 33,34 EN 4 Energy used 32 EN5 Energy saved 32 VII, VIII, IX EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of services 32-38 VII, VIII, IX EN27 Percentage of materials collected for recycling 32-34 VII, VIII, IX LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 13 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 13 V LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part13,19,20 IV time employees LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 18 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 17 reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according 14 I, II to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 14 VI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and 25 X procedures SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 27-29 PR5 Practice related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 25 customer satisfaction GRI application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self declared √ Third party checked Optional GRI checked Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine 51 List of abbreviations used in the Report ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants GICT Global Independence Compliance Team AmCham American Chamber of Commerce GMC Global Management Challenge ASQ Assessment Service Quality GPS Global People Survey CCaSS Climate Change and Sustainability Services GRI Global Reporting Initiative CEO Chief Executive Officer HR Human Resources CFA Chartered Financial Analyst IAASB International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board CIA Certified Internal Auditor IFAC International Federation of Accountants CIMA Chartered Institute of Management Accountants ISO International Organization for Standardization CISA Certified Information Systems Auditor IT Informational Technologies CISM Certified Information Security Manager KMA Kyiv Mohyla Academy CISSP Certified Information Systems Security Professional KPI Key Performance Indicator CPA Certified Public Accountant LNU Lviv National University CR Corporate Responsibility MAC Multi-stakeholder Advisory Council CSR Corporate Social Responsibility MAKE Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise EBA European Business Association NFR Non-financial reporting EHS Environment, Health and Safety NGO Non-governmental Organization EOY Entrepreneur of the Year PAC People Advisory Council EU European Union PC Personal computer EYU Ernst & Young and You PMP Project Management Professional FIDS Fraud Investigation and Dispute Services SIFE Students in Free Enterprize FSC Forest Stewardship Council TAS Transaction Advisory Services FY Fiscal year UNGC United Nations Global Compact 52 Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Notes __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transactions and advisory services. Worldwide, our 141 000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients, and our wider communities achieve potential. For more information, please visit: www.ey.com/ua. In Ukraine Ernst & Young established its practice in 1991. Ernst & Young Ukraine now employs about 500 professionals providing a full range of services to a number of multinational corporations and Ukrainian enterprises. © 2011 Ernst & Young All rights reserved.
