Mirae Asset Securities Sustainability Report 2011 MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Printed on recycled paper Mirae Asset Securities Sustainability Report 2011 Contents Report Overview 03 Report Overview We would like to share the details of our sustainability management activities Objective 06 Message from the Vice Chairman through the publication of this report, the Mirae Asset Securities Sustainability 08 Company Overview Report 2011. We have collected opinions from various stakeholders and these 09 Value Structure opinions will serve as the basis for improving our operation to realize enhanced stakeholder value and to contribute to the sustainable development of humanity. 01_Sustainability Reporting Period The reporting period covered by this report is the fiscal year 2010, from April 1st 12 Corporate Sustainability Management Structure and Scope 2010 to March 31st 2011. Some data from 2008 and 2009 was also used in order 15 Governance Structure to show changes in performance. Likewise, some data from 2011 activities, up to 18 Business Ethics August was used where appropriate. 20 Compliance This report contains detailed information on the activities and achievements of 22 Risk Management the sustainability management efforts made by the Mirae Asset Securities headquarters and branch offices. The report also contains information on relevant 24 Stakeholder Participation sustainability management initiatives of the Mirae Asset Group and subsidiary companies. Although limited in detail, basic information from overseas offices 02_Service and subsidaries is also included in the report. 28 Customer Satisfaction Management Fiscal year is employed for all data and graph included in the report except the 32 Providing the Best Service ‘Responsibility’ section of the report, in which calendar year is employed. Reporting Intervals and This report is the first sustainability report by Mirae Asset Securities. The report 03_Business Reporting Guidelines was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines and the Finan38 Enhancing Client Value cial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) as guidance. Stakeholder opinions, 39 Economic Achievements which were collected during the report preparation stage, were also reflected in 42 Business Partners the report. A dedicated task force was set up to collect and verify all the necessary information for the report, and to organize the structure of the report. Mirae Asset Securities plans to publish future sustainability reports on an annual basis. 04_Cooperation 46 Employee Diversity and Capacity Building Verification The report was subjected to an assurance process by a third party assurance 54 Work Place Improvement Initiatives service provider in order to ensure data reliability and compliance with GRI guidelines. The assurance report is included in the appendix section of this report. 05_Responsibility Additional Information Additional information on Mirae Asset Securities can be found at business report 58 Social Contribution Activities posted on the Financial Supervisory Service’s Data Analysis, Retrieval and Trans60 Human Resource Development Programs fer System (http://dart.fss.or.kr), Mirae Asset Social Contribution White Paper and 62 Social Welfare on the website (www.miraeassetaccount.com). 64 Culture of Sharing 66 Contribution with Financial Services 68 Green Management Activities and Achievements 06_Appendix 71 Our History of Growth 72 Independent Assurance Report 74 GRI Index 76 Key Economic / Environmental Performance Data 77 Credits : List of Contributors Mirae Asset Securities Sustainability Management Service Clients First Business Objectivity Cooperation Team Play Responsibility Citizenship Our Future, Our Sustainability Mirae Asset Securities has been a path finder venturing into many new territories for over ensuring the best possible future for all of humanity. We will serve as a trustworthy partner a decade since its foundation in 1997. We are now preparing for a long journey into the future. who aids and shares the fruits of its success. Moreover, we will ensure Mirae Asset Securities The journey will be full of challenges but we are ready to tackle them all as we work towards is an active participant in all areas of sustainable development. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Message from the Vice Chairman Dear stakeholders I am delighted to share the details of our sustainability management activities and achievements through the publication of this our sustainability report. More than a decade has passed since we entered the 21st century and we are losing faith in things we previously accepted without question. For example, the use of fossil fuels such as coal and oil, which served as the prime driving force for modern economic growth, is now striking back as climate change. The neoliberalism which replaced Keynesian Economics and served as the core philosophy behind many new global policies that shaped today’s global economy is under heavy criticism and viewed by many as the cause of the current global economic crisis and deepening social inequalities. Nobody is free from the threats and unrest caused by this aforementioned phenomena. People used to value unhindered competition as a rightful means to achieving maximum output but now many are beginning to realize how it can weaken the fundamental values that sustain us all. In this light, rising emphasis on ‘Sustainability’ is a necessity as we begin to make an effort to preserve our fundamental values. In 1997, Mirae Asset was founded with an emphasis on promoting four core values of ‘clients first’, ‘independence and competitiveness as an investment specialty company’, ‘faith in the value of the individual and team work’ and ‘recognition of social responsibilities’. Using these values as our guidelines, we strived to not only increase the value of our clients’ assets but to also create values for the whole of society which we see as our responsibility as a top financial service provider in Korea. For example, we established the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation, which provides scholarships for young students and funded many local community support initiatives. Mirae Asset Securities has also been operating its own social contribution programs including volunteer activities and purchasing locally produced products. We are also collaborating with volunteer groups to provide free medical services and home building services in communities overseas. We are also working with international agencies. For example, we joined the UN Global Compact in 2009 and pledged our support for its ten principles for achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project 2011 as one of the key signatories in order to promote carbon reduction from businesses. In 2009, we were selected as one of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Korea members in recognition of our sustainability management achievements. We will pursue shared growth We also received excellent reviews from the Economic Research Institute of Sustainable Society and a number of other sustainability management evaluation agencies. Mirae Asset Securities is committed to contributing to the sustainable development I sincerely hope that this report serves as a channel for openly sharing our achievements and is a of humanity, using our business philosophy “We value our people and embrace the window of communication between stakeholders and us. Lastly, all employees of Mirae Asset Sefuture with an open mind” and our four core values curities, including myself, pledge to sustain solid economic, social and environmental performance, and ultimately contribute to the sustainable development of humanity. Thank you Choi, Hyun Man Vice Chairman, Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 cOMPANY OVERVIEW cOMPANY OVERVIEW 8 9 Company Overview Value Structure Established in 1999, Mirae Asset Securities quickly became a company that led the growth Mirae Asset Securities is making the utmost effort to contribute of the securities market, with continuous innovation and client-focused management. as much as it possibly can to the sustainable progress of humanity using We will further strengthen our position as a market leader in Korea and strive to become its business philosophy of “We value our people and embrace the future a worldwide top securities company by continuously strengthening our expertise with an open mind” and four core values as guiding principles. in emerging markets and investing in businesses with exceptional growth potential. General Information FINANCIAL AND OPERATING STATUS Mirae Asset Securities ■Financial ■Sales We value Value Structure Item Information our people and Status (billion KRW) (billion KRW) embrace the future Name Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. * As of end of March 2011 * As of end of March 2011 with an open mind. Mirae Asset CEO Cho, Woong Kee / Kim, Shin Securities 45,407 1,424 Year of December 2nd 1999 establishment Business Core East Tower 15F–19F, Mirae Asset Philosophy Values Headquarters CENTER1, 67 Suha-dong, Jung-gu, location Seoul, KOREA 100-210 Vision Clients first Wealth Management, Brokerage SerObjectivity Business area vices, Investment Banking, Retirement 10,279 Team play Pensions, Overseas Businesses As emerging market experts, we contribute to our Citizenship 182 clients’ successful investment management and help End of fiscal year March 142 1,889 people prepare for a secure retirement. No. of employees 2,203 Total Total Total Operating Operating Net No. of branch offices 119 customers’ assets stockholders’ revenue profit income No. of subsidiaries 47 assets equity Business Philosophy “We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind” is the business philosophy * No. of Employees: 2,114 (Full-time), 89 (Part-time) * No. of Branch Offices: Domestic offices only of Mirae Asset Securities (MAS), which serves as the basis of all management activities and * No. of Subsidiaries: Companies that are members of the Mirae Asset Securities * As of end of March 2011 decisions. It encourage us to focus on long-term success rather than immediate gains, and to emphasize the value of employee talents which makes such long-term success possible. Overseas Subsidiaries Status Vision Paid in capital No. of Year of “As emerging market experts, we contribute to our clients’ successful investment management and (in billion KRW) employees establishment help people prepare for a secure retirement” is the official statement which define MAS employee Hong Kong 11.3 (24.7) 70 Jan. 2007 identity. Our vision makes it clear that we will invest all our capacity towards increasing value for our Brazil 10.5 44 Aug. 2010 clients. Vietnam 0.85 40 Dec. 2007 US 1.0 7 Aug. 2008 Core Values UK 1.0 9 Oct. 2008 The core values are essential beliefs and a value standard which must be upheld when applying Others 0.68 11 Jul. 2007 business philosophy in our business management. The four core values are all closely linked to Total 24.7 181 stakeholders including clients, business partners, suppliers, employees of all levels, local communi* Others: Mirae Asset Investment Consulting (Shanghai), Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore), ties and future generations. We decided to organize this report in four sections corresponding to Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) each of the four core values in order to demonstrate how the four values contribute to enhancing * Mirae Asset Securities (HK) has 11.3 billion KRW as its own asset however it also owns shares of other overseas subsidiaries of Mirae Asset Securities. stakeholder values. Sustainable Management Mirae Asset Securities is built on the trust and support of our stakeholders including clients, employees, business partners and local communities. We recognize the support we have received, and we remain committed to our social responsibilities and will work towards increasing stakeholder values. 2011 Republic of Korea Securities Industry Sector Sustainability Evaluation (ERISS) 3 rd rank 2007 Implementation of Fair Trade Compliance Program Board of Directors Participation Rate in 2010 97% Mirae Asset Securities has been promoting a wide range of activities to fulfill our responsibilities in economic, social and No.1 Best Practice in Client Complaint Handling environmental areas. We will further strengthen our by Financial Supervisory Service (April 2011) transparent governance structure, business ethics, compliance rate, risk management system and stakeholder communication in order to create a better tomorrow. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 12 13 Corporate Sustainability Management Structure Corporate Sustainability Management Structure Mirae Asset Securities has been at the forefront of the growth in the securities market for many years. Using as its basis the corporate capacity that made We have established the Corporate Sustainability Management TF (Task Force) which consists Mirae Asset Securities’ business a success, we will strive to become a respected of 14 teams. The TF is in charge of planning, monitoring, awareness raising and training of suscorporate citizen that contributes to the sustainable progress of humanity. tainability management activities. Acting as secretariat of the TF, the Global Strategy team is responsible for collection and verification of data and taking care of matters related to the external evaluation of MAS’ sustainability management performance. Sustainability Management : Activities and Achievements Responding to Sustainability Management Evaluation Sustainability Management of Mirae Asset Securities Corporations are increasingly evaluated not just on their financial performance but also on non-financial achievements. In order to adapt to this change, we have established a database Our sustainability management encompasses a wide range of activities that are related to the on sustainability management evaluation criteria and an internal manual for effective response to triple bottom lines of profit, people and planet. In terms of profit, we aim to expand retirement ensure strong evaluation results. The database contains information on evaluation bodies, pensions in preparation for aging society, secure a sustainable growth engine and strengthened detailed evaluation criteria, data required for assessment and priority areas of evaluation for each global presence to enhance the value of the company and share it with our stakeholders. For evaluation method. We are monitoring changes to ensure that the database is kept up to date. people, we are focusing on three key social contribution areas including ‘human resources development’, ‘social welfare’ and ‘sharing’. The direct impact of MAS’ operation on the environment is limited, yet we are determined to make a positive impact on climate change mitigation through Mirae Asset Securities to be named the third most sustainable company in the industry development of green financing and investment in renewable energy. We will also make an active On April 2011, Mirae Asset Securities was placed third in the securities industry sector effort to reduce our direct impact on the environment by establishing green offices and tracking sustainabiliy evaluation by the Economic Research Institute for Sustainable Society (ERISS). our progress with better environmental data management. The company scored especially highly on environmental management and social contribution activities, indicating its strengthened foundation in sustainability management. Objective Promotion Expected status benefit Sustainability Management Initiatives UN Global Compact Principle Compliance MAS joined the UN Global Compact and pledged to abide to its ten principles in human rights, Sustainability management structure Sustainability management labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are also actively contributing to achieving the MilA leading financial •Strengthen investment company that •Establish improved management structure using assessment corporate image lennium Development Goals. In addition, we are committed to increasing communication and creates a responsible sustainable management performance assessment •Establish database of evaluation by being a leader exchange of information among member companies in Korea. investment culture that •Incorporate sustainability management activities in bodies in corporate enables green and socially job descriptions and corporate management plan •Establish evaluation response process responsibility responsible investment. •Advanced integrated risk management project •Publish sustainability report •Improve MAS’ score in Socially CDP Signatory Responsible MAS has signed up for the Carbon Disclosure Project and pledged to reduce our greenhouse gas Investment Triple Bottom Line performance emission. The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent non-governmental organization which evaluation index has established the largest corporate carbon emission and environmental performance database. •Join SRI Index group and Currently, over three thousand companies are participating in the CDP by sharing their data and Profit People Planet increase MAS’ management information on GHG emission, water usage and so on. •Establish strategic brand •Quantitative management •Appoint an executive as the market share in management structure of achievements in social chief environmental officer SRI market •Increase retirement contribution activities •Launch energy & resource DJSI Korea pensions business •Publish CSR report savings campaign •Expand overseas •Conduct employee •Develop and promote green MAS included the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Korea both in 2009 and 2010. The DJSI business activities satisfaction survey finance products and •Increase client base •Establish internal renewable energy is one of the most well established corporate evaluation indexes in the world, which uses indicaombudsman system investment products tors in the triple bottom lines of business performance, social contribution and environmental management. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 14 15 Corporate Sustainability Management Plan Governance Structure We will continue to enhance our sustainability management structure and devise detailed impleA number of devices are established in the governance structure of mentation plans for any areas that require improvement. We will also continue to increase investor Mirae Asset Securities for balancing the priorities of different stakeholders including relations activities, client relationship management activities in addition to increasing our effort to shareholders, top management, employees and so on. We are also making the upmost engage with other stakeholders. We are currently preparing for the launch of our first on-line suseffort to ensure transparency in governance structure of Mirae Asset Securities. tainability management training program for executives, in the second half of 2011. We are also working on an online training program for working level employees. ■Corporate Sustainability Management Plan • Enhance sustainability management •Increase participation in carbon trading implementation structure • Conduct regular client satisfaction • Qualify for global and regional sustainability manageassessments ■Materiality Test Process ment index such as DJSI Asia Pacific and DJSI World • Prepare to become a member of Equator Board of Directors Status • Establish investor relations activities and promotion Principles Board of Directors Composition Identification of high priority structure for engagement with SRI agencies • Create green finance and socially issues by external criteria The corporate governance structure of MAS begins with the shareholders’ meeting, the com•Launch financial products for investment in clean responsible investment products •Review sustainability technology projects •Conduct environmental education pany’s highest decision making body and then the board of directors. The board of directors management guidelines there are also various internal committees. All of these bodies operate in a transparent manner including GRI, ISO 26000, DJSI questionnaire for the protection and enhancement of stakeholders interests. Although the shareholders’ meet•Media analysis: analyzed ■Mirae Asset Securities Sustainability Management Priority Issues ing is the highest decision making body, the board of directors serves as the top decision making 532 media articles and Materiality Test clips by 38 media body which makes management decisions on a regular basis following the principles contained companies We conducted a materiality test to identify •Interview stakeholders in the articles of association, to ensure long-term growth of the company. The board of directors Board of Directors priority issues that are regarded as important are also fully compliant with the standards contained in the Financial Investor Company Board of High by stakeholders. The identified issues are Directors Criteria established in 2010. The criteria provide guidelines on the qualification of nonStakeholder interest Identification of high priority covered in greater detail in the sustainability issues by internal criteria standing directors, a limit on the duration of board member’s term of service, public notification of report. The sustainability reporting guidelines •Analyze internal key non-standing directors’ activities and performance evaluation, ban on performance bonus for experformance indicators (GRI, ISO 26000, DJSI questionnaire), media ternal directors and so on. As of August 2011, the MAS board of directors consists of four inside coverage analysis, key performance indicators Medium and five non-standing directors. The board is chaired by an inside director. and stakeholder interviews were used to idenIssue mapping tify the eleven priority issues for sustainability ■Board of Directors Status *As of August 2011 •Map high priority issues Low Term identified using external management of MAS. Name Position Working title and internal criteria on a (Years) Low Medium High matrix Choi, Hyun Man Chairman of BOD 3 Vice chairman Business impact ■Important Sustainability Issues Cho, Woong Kee CEO 2 President Selection of high priority issues Category Key issues Kim, Shin CEO 2 Vice president Increase sustainability management Chief audit •Identify priority issues that Lee, Gwang Seob Chief audit executive 2 implementation capacity executive are categorized as Sustainability Management (general) Strengthen risk management structure Senior non-standing important by both internal An, Seok Gyo Professor, Gwangju Inst. of Science & Technology 1 Strengthen stakeholder communication director and external criteria Non-standing Strengthen client information protection Sin, Jin Young Professor, Yonsei University 1 director/Audit MAS Core Value 1: Clients first Increase brand value Committee member Incorporate high priority issues Non-standing in sustainability report structure Continue to generate positive business Kim, Jeong Tak Professor, Sungkyunkwan University 2 director outcomes •Adjust sustainability report MAS Core Value 2: Objectivity Increase competitiveness via strengthened Non-standing Senior research fellow, Korea Capital Market structure using the final collaboration with business partners Noh, Hee Jin 2 director/Chairman of Institute priority issue list as basis Audit Committee •Ensure use of the priority MAS Core Value 3: Team play Recruit new talent and nurture employees Non-standing Kim, Woo Pyung Advisor, SK Securities 2 issue list as basis of report director structure through Expand global scholarship program MAS Core Value 4: Citizenship Make positive contribution to society via communication financial services Appointment of Non-standing Directors Enhance environmental awareness Our Non-standing directors are experts in their respective fields including finance, economics, Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 16 17 Board of Directors business management, law, media and so on, with significant real life experience using their expertise in the business environment. Qualified experts who have limited interest in the operation of MAS are recommended by the Non-standing Director Recommendation Committee and then Audit Committee Management Non-standing Director Reward Committee Risk Management formally appointed at the shareholders’ meeting. One of the Non-standing directors is appointed Committee Recommendation Committee Committee as the senior non-standing director. This position was created to enhance communication, particInside: 1 Inside.: 3 Inside: 1 Inside: 1 Inside: 2 ularly of management information to the non-standing directors. The senior non-standing director Non-standing: 2 Non-standing: 0 Non-standing: 1 Non-standing: 2 Non-standing: 2 receives information about company management from the executives and chair of the board and communicates this to the other non-standing directors. Board of Directors Activities 2010 Board of Directors Activities Evaluation of BOD Performance and Compensation In fiscal year of 2010, the board of directors met eight times including four regular sessions and four An independent Reward Committee has been established, in line with the Model Criteria on Comad-hoc sessions, to pass decisions on issues including hosting of general shareholders’ meeting, pensation Structure in Financial Investor Company by Financial Supervisory Board. The Reward appointment of the CEO and issuance of corporate bonds. The non-standing directors’ participation Committee design compensation schemes for all the company executives and board members. rate was 97 percent. The final remuneration packages must be disclosed in the form of public notices. The remuneration packages for all members of the board of directors are approved at the annual ■2010 Board of Directors Meetings and Activities shareholders’ meeting each year. Non-standing director receive annual salaries and performance Participation of Date Decisions made non-standing pay which is linked to business performance. In order to ensure independence, the remuneration director (in %) of non-standing directors is determined regardless of MAS’ business performance. In 2010, the 1. Approval of the 11th financial statements and business report 2. Appointment of new member of the non-standing director final amount of compensation paid to the Board members was 2.26 billion KRW. 2010.04.15 recommendation committee 100 3. Amendment of company regulations 1. The convening of 11th regular session of shareholders' meeting BOD Conflict of Interest Prevention Process 2010.05.13 2. Amendment of reward committee rules 100 According to the MAS articles of incorporation, any director who has an interest in a matter is not 1. Appointment of CEO 2. Decision on proxy of CEO (Vice chairman) allowed to vote. MAS prevents conflict of interest by abiding to the principle. 2010.05.28 3. Appointment of inside directors to the Board of Directors 100 4. Amendment of company rules and establishment of new rules 5. Appointment of senior non-standing director Committees within BOD 2010.07.15 1. Extension of term of regulation compliance auditor 100 2. Extension of term of fair trade compliance manager The committees are designed to ensure optimal decision making by supporting the board with 1. D ecision on investment in ‘Mirae Asset Maps Frontier the 29th their respective expertise. Private Equity Fund for Real-estate Investment Trust’ product 2010.09.17 100 ■Committee Status 2. D ecision on increasing investment in Mirae Asset Brazil by * As of August 2011 Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong Name of Committee Responsibility Key Activities 1. D ecision on issuance of the 2nd set of unsecured debentures 2010.10.19 75 of Mirae Asset Securities Review of agenda for general shareholder’s meeting Audit accounting practices and management Audit of acting director 1. D ecision on issuance of the 3rd set of unsecured subordinated bonds Audit Committee 2. D ecision on payment guarantee of bonds issued by activities of BOD members Audit report preparation and submission Internal audit of corporate affairs Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong 2010.01.16 100 3. Decision on submission of documents and reports in regards to Investment of less than 10% equity capital increasing maximum amount of 12th derivative linked securities issuance Make corporate management decisions on Relocation, opening or closing of branches 4. Decision on amendment of company management rules Management Committee issues delegated by the BOD Appointment of branch managers Compilation of annual budget 1. D ecision on submission of documents and reports regarding increas2011.03.14 ing the maximum amount of 13th derivative linked securities issuance 100 Non-standing Director -Make recommendations for non-standing Review of non-standing director candidates 2. Appointment of Risk Management Committee members Recommendation director candidates Recommendation of non-standing directors Committee Design remuneration policy for company execu■Record of BOD Meetings Held for Past Three Years tives and board members and assess its fairness Non-standing director Check compliance of the remuneration policy Establish performance pay postponement policy Fiscal year No. of BD meetings held participation rate Note Reward Committee with the Model Criteria on Compensation Select executives and directors subjected to delayed Structure in Financial Investor Company and its performance pay Regular sessions: 4 appropriateness in light of financial status of the 2008 11 95% Ad-hoc sessions: 7 company and risk status. Regular sessions: 4 Establish risk management policies 2009 9 100% Establish comprehensive policy on risk Ad-hoc sessions: 5 Risk Create and revise detailed policies on risk management management and oversee company’s risk Management Committee Manage risk following established policies and assess Regular sessions: 4 management 2010 8 97% management status Ad-hoc sessions: 4 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 18 19 Business Ethics With its goal of becoming one of the top financial service providers in the Business Ethics practice program world, Mirae Asset Securities continues to strengthen its business ethics by establishing a world-class business ethics management system for full Business Ethics Management Practice and Legal Compliance Pledge compliance with all regulations and ethical standards. All MAS employees sign the business ethics management practice pledge and legal compliance pledge every year in April to renew their determination to promote an ethical business environment and ensure legal compliance. All new employees sign the pledge in order to further enhance the ethical standard of employees. Whistleblower reporting system Clean Contract Policy ■Timeline on Voluntary The ‘clean contract policy’ requires all suppliers to either sign a pledge to transparent business Compliance Program Business Ethics Management System transactions or to have clauses on transparent contract arrangements in the supplier contracts. Public declaration on History of Mirae Asset Securities Ethical Management The policy is designed to prevent unethical business conduct with suppliers such as bribery and voluntary compliance (April 23rd 2007) to ensure that all contracts are fair between suppliers and Mirae Asset Securities. All contracts are Business ethics activities are a collection of measures and initiatives designed to help all employPledge made by all also reviewed by the legal compliance department prior to signing, in order to ensure complete employees including the ees make decisions that consistently support MAS’ four core values when faced with situations CEO transparency and fairness in supplier-MAS business relationships. that involve ethical dilemmas. We recognized the importance of business ethics early on and esLaunch of voluntary tablished ‘Ethical obligations’ on October 2000. We also established an internal ‘code of conduct’ Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program compliance monitoring in order to ensure full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations in business conduct, and program (Feb. 2008) Top management at MAS publicly declared their desire to act fairly in all of MAS' business to encourage all employees to uphold the highest moral standards. We publicly announced our conduct. A compliance manual was posted on the MAS intranet shortly after the announcement. Appointment of MAS compliance auditor ambition to strengthen business ethics management by holding an ethical management declaraThe program was also introduced to ensure implementation of this such as posting of compliance tion ceremony on January 2008. (http://www.miraeassetaccount.com/index.jsp) manual with latest information on compliance. In March 2008, a monitoring system was estabPublication of compliance management manual lished which included measures such as quarterly check-ups of 30 departments, (Feb. 2008) Business Ethics ■Legal Compliance and Management Practice Structure Management on Acceptance of Gifts and Treats Distribution of the manual Practice Structure All MAS employees are subjected to strict rules regarding the acceptance of gifts between MAS has established an ethical busiemployees as well as between MAS employees and suppliers. The rules prohibit acceptance of ness management practice structure Board of directors Launch of training any gifts or treats from parties in relations with MAS’ business affairs. program with a legal compliance manager and compliance observer. Letters of Ethical Management to Suppliers On-line legal compliance CEO Audit Committee and fair trade We send a letter about ethical management to all our suppliers that sign more than one contract •Legal Compliance Observer The legal compliance observer is the per year. In it we request their collaboration to help us ensure all our business is conducted in an Established compliance monitoring system executive in charge of ethical Legal compliance ethical manner. (Mar. 2008) Ethical management practice pledge management who is responsible for observer form setting ethical management goals and Risk management establishing the strategic direction in order Whistleblowing Policy system (RCSA), check-ups (minimum four to achieve these goals. Compliance We have been operating an online whistleblowing system since 2002. Designed to encourage times a year) Legal support team management team •Compliance Division whistleblowing and to protect the identity of the whistleblower, the system can be accessed Established penalty Compliance Division is designed to support from outside and does not require any personal information. The system was managed by Korea on non compliance of the legal compliance observer. fair trade rules It is responsible for the daily management Headquarters Sales office Business Ethics Institute until September. However, the system is now managed internally using of the ethical management practice compliance team compliance team a secure customized system. The internal rules also include relevant areas for whistleblowing, Defined in relevant program and the establishment company rules of relevant training programs. reporting process and reward scheme for information provider. Legal compliance Establishment of •Legal Compliance Managers manager system On-line Training document management Legal compliance managers are managers system (Mar. 2008) appointed to monitor the business conduct We have been conducting annual on-line training on business ethics, regulatory compliance, of the members of the teams they belong Manage evidence on to. They are also responsible for conducting Working level Sales offices money laundering, client complaint-handling and so on. Designed to increase employee’s capaccompany management departments decisions Legal compliance pledge form ethical business management training. ity to comply with regulations, the training is mandatory for all employees. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 20 21 Compliance five new systems and are preparing for their launch in the near future. Using advanced IT, we have created an abnormal transaction monitoring system, an anti-money laundering system, inspection Our compliance system not only sets out the procedures and processes checklist. The ‘Compliance Plaza’ a dedicated portal site for integrated compliance management to ensure all companies within Mirae Asset Securities abide by work which was developed to enable increased effectiveness. We also developed a ‘Universal the regulations but is designed to actively promote the four core values internal compliance management standard and checklist’ in collaboration with our overseas subof Mirae Asset Securities. sidiaries in order to strengthen MAS’ compliance throughout its global operations. Compliance Management Activities Nurturing a Culture of Full-compliance Whenever the Korean Financial Investment Association announces a change to the ‘Internal Organization Management Standards’ we revise our internal management rules and guidelines accordingly. In July 2008, as we began to realize the importance of compliance our compliance department Compliance manuals are subsequently reviewed and amended as necessary before being changed from being a small team to a department all of its own. To ensure independence, the distributed to all relevant departments and compliance managers. executive in charge of legal compliance was appointed in February 2009 reporting directly to Monthly Compliance Campaign the CEO. We hired five full-time lawyers to review relevant rules and regulations in order to avoid Each month a particular compliance issue is chosen and we run an internal campaign, using any non-compliance and to improve our compliance departments’ ability to accurately assess Sample compliance campaign computer pop-up screen display to ensure full compliance on the issue. The pop-up screen pop-up the risks. MAS has an independent compliance department which is responsible for internal displays campaign messages each time the employee turns on the computer until he or she control systems, compliance monitoring, legal review, government collaboration support, clicks on the screen, serving as a daily reminder of the issue. employee ethics training and much more. ■Establishing Compliance Structure Legal Compliance and Ethics Training Program Monitor everyday operations We have developed an on-line training program on legal compliance & ethics and anti-money launEstablish internal to ensure compliance, analyze dering. All employees involved in relevant work have to take the training course once a year. Cuscompliance management relevant laws, check and structure tomized tools for self-assessment and awareness raising are also supplied to relevant departments. investigate compliance status Investor protection Employee protection ■Three Phase Compliance Training Structure Status Collaborate with Conduct regulation government agencies compliance and ethics Phase 1 Phase 2 and implement new Phase 3 training regulations Time of Time of Time of Implementation Implementation Implementation 2010.12 2010.12 2011.1~6 Internal Compliance Management System Publication and distribution of Departmental self training and Group training and With the help of some outside experts, as part of our compliance program we have developed customized compliance guidebook circulation of manual ad-hoc training for different departments ■Internal Compliance Management System ■Compliance Achievements Consulting companies Management system Time of introduction participated in development Won Operation Risk Management System Booz Allen Hamilton 2009.01 Selected as Financial Services Selected exemplary company Commissioner’s as one of the Details in mystery shopping Recognition of top performing Anti-Money Laundering System KPMG 2009.02 conducted by Excellence on company dealing financial supervisory Anti-Money with client Internal Accounting Management service Laundering complaints Deloittle Anjin LLC System Date New Sales Process Kim & Chang 2009.03 awarded 2010.08 금융감독원 미스터리쇼핑 2010.11 2011.04 Integrated Voice of Customer 우수사 선정 Spectra 2009.11 Evaluation Financial Supervisory Korea Financial Financial Supervisory Management System agency Service Intelligence Unit Service Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 22 23 Risk Management fifteen times in 2010. Subcommittee meetings were also held as needed. The committee and ■Committee Activities Summary subcommittees made decisions on many issues including: amendment of risk management rules, Mirae Asset Securities has established a systematic risk management adjustments to the risk threshold, reporting risk threshold overshot cases and responses, princiRisk Management Committee Financial product subcommittee framework for comprehensive management of all risk associated with fulfilling pal investment cases and fund product sales. Investment evaluation subcommittee its long-term goal of “establishing stable profits and long term growth whilst Trust business subcommittee ■Mirae Asset Securities Risk Management Structure maintaining a sound financial structure.” (Meetings) Process Details 35 3 Identification •Early risk warning system based on macroeconomic analysis of performance indicators 30 and classification •Internal risk analysis conducted on new products by the Financial Product Subcommittee 1 of risks •Internal portfolio system in place to ensure the effective management of assets including bonds, commercial paper, and credits 25 12 •Detailed risk assessment of all new work processes is conducted by the New Product 1 Subcommittee 20 12 •Classifying risk into four types: market, credit, liquidity and operational; and monitoring and 4 assessing these. 15 7 10 5 Risk assessment •A team of expert with the capacity to accurately assess the price of complex derivative products 5 Risk Management Structure & Analysis •Credit evaluation system capable of independent credit rating assessments •Experienced risk analysis expert specialized in corporate and real estate project financial risk 5 9 15 •Launched the upgraded risk management system to enable the integration of new risk 7 management methods into the existing system 0 “Mirae Asset assesses investment risks with expected return.” This is one of MAS’ key investment 2008 2009 2010 Risk •Monitoring of defined thresholds on risk associated investment positions, amount of loss, principles. We have systematic risk management structures in place to assess all possible risks and monitoring and sensitivity (duration, Greeks and etc), Value at Risk, Stress test and so on. management •Risk management actions including selling assets at a loss and temporary halt on transaction to manage them as soon as they are identified. •Created a global risk management structure based at Mirae Asset Securities (HK). Risks of all Mirae Asset subsidiaries are analyzed at HQ on a daily basis Risk reporting •Comprehensive daily risk report on investment position, threshold status, profit/loss and so on •Identification and Classification of Risks : MAS has a systematic process in place •Monthly report on decisions made by the Management Committee and subcommittees, and management status (changes made beyond threshold, position change, adjustment of threshold) for the identification and classification of risks to ensure effective management. •Publication of report on qualitative and quantitative analysis of market risk factors and causes of Identification and Risk assessment credit risks classification of risks and analysis •Risk Assessment : MAS has a strong team of risk management experts and an ad•Ad-hoc report on MAS’ risk exposure and critical changes made in case of abnormal market turmoil vanced risk management system in place to minimize all risks. •Risk Analysis and Management System report on net capital ratio reported to Financial •Risk Monitoring and Management : MAS’ risk management system is working 24 Supervisory Service hours a day, monitoring market changes and any risks associated with the changes. Risk •Annual verification conducted on effectiveness of internal risk evaluation standards assessment •Evaluate and adjust risk threshold Risk Management We have our own internal protocols on risk thresholds and take actions to manage and adjustment •Comprehensive assessment of risk and business performance is conducted and the threshold Monitoring and Risk evaluation Process is set using these assessment results and management management these risks, following our internal management rules. of risks •Risk Reporting : A risk monitoring report is created on a regular basis and submitted to the Risk Management Committee and the top management of MAS. We also reguRisk management organization larly report on our risk position to the relevant supervisory bodies. MAS has an experienced and dedicated risk management organization. It consists of the board of diRisk reporting •Risk Assessment and Adjustment : MAS regularly assesses the risk management rectors, Risk Management Committee, departmental risk management subcommittees and supportprocess and system and continually makes improvements. We also conduct risk to pering risk management teams. We also have a new product counsel, consisting of experienced working formance analysis and make adjustments to our investment portfolio to reduce risk. level staff, that conduct modelling for price setting and risk analysis of new products. ■Risk Management : Organizations and Roles Risk Management Rules •Serves as top level in the risk management structure Board of directors •Delegate responsibilities for supervision and policy making regarding risk ■Change in Net Capital management to the Risk Management Committee We have systematic risk management rules and standards in place at MAS. Risk is managed fol•Two non-standing directors as members Ratio Risk Management lowing the internal risk management regulations, departmental risk management guidelines and a •Creates an environment conducive to efficient risk management by (%) Committee establishing an internal management structure 700 manual which details how to deal with each type of risk. We also have a derivative product value •Includes Financial product subcommittee, Trust business subcommittee, Departmental risk Investment evaluation subcommittee 600 evaluation manual and a real-estate project financing management standard, which enables even subcommittees •Makes quick decisions and takes actions tailored to individual departments risk management needs 500 more thorough risk management. CRO and risk manage•Execute committee and subcommittee decisions 400 ment departments •Assess, manage and regulate various risks through established bodies 300 Risk Management Activities Net Capital Ratio management 200 Net capital ratio 100 Committee Activities and Risk Management Monitoring Net Capital Ratio (NCR) is an indicator designed to assess the soundness of financial investors in 0 We are actively managing our risk through the Risk Management Committee and relevant subKoreas’ asset composition. The law on financial markets and the regulations on exchange require 1st Q 1st Q 1st Q 2nd Q 3rd Q 4th Q 2008 2009 2010 committees. The Risk Management Committee met seven times in 2008, nine times in 2009 and NCR to be kept above 300% and MAS fully satisfies this requirement. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 24 25 Stakeholder Participation Tailored Stakeholder Communication Activities Key stakeholders of Mirae Asset Securities include clients, shareholders, business partners, Mirae Asset Securities’ management activities are conducted bearing in mind governments, employees, local communities and leaders of the future. Our four core values are our relationships with all our stakeholders. We have established various channels designed to enhance stakeholder values and so are all of our communication activities. of communication with our stakeholders in order to more effectively reflect their opinions. We will continue to improve our management system in order to ensure ■Core values and Stakeholders effective stakeholder engagement. Core values Stakeholder Communication channels and activities Clients first Clients Account Village, client briefing events, call center IR conference, non-deal Roadshows, general shareholders’ Shareholders meeting, annual report, sales report, public notices Business Regular conference calls, supplier company-hosted Objectivity partners seminars, supplier company visits Stakeholder communication Government / Regular reportings, participation in supervisory organization Mirae Asset Securities Stakeholders supervisory hosted briefing events, submission of survey response to organizations supervisory organizations Stakeholders include all bodies and people who are significantly affected or affect MAS’ activities, products, services and ultimately the successful achievement of its business goals. Key stakeholdEmployee satisfaction survey, employee performance Team play Employees review, internal employee seminar, company newspaper ers of MAS include clients, shareholders, business partners, employees and local communities. and publications, company intranet We are well aware of the importance of stakeholder relationships in our business activities and are Local Collect opinions from the local community, free seminar on therefore making a continuous effort to maintain active communication with all our stakeholders communities Wealth Management at HQ and local branches in order to better meet their demands and interests. Citizenship Overseas exchange student sponsorship program and All of our stakeholder communication, including on-line and our quarterly or biannual events are Leaders scholarship program for Korean students, global cultural of the future designed to enhance stakeholder values. experience events and other scholarship programs Clients : We believe excellent client relations can be only maintained when we strive to understand ■Mirae Asset Securities Stakeholders all of clients’ needs and respond in a timely and effective manner. At MAS all employees place clients’ interest as the most important consideration in all management activities. In addition, we are Shareholders constantly improving our management infrastructure to ensure it is the best and thereby enhancing IR activities, enhancement of research capacity, client value. Clients sustained profit generation Shareholders : We host general shareholder’s meetings to report on management status, to provide Provision of best available information and to listen to shareholder’s opinions. The investor relations (IR) team also holds various information, protection of Business partners investor events and discloses key management decisions on a timely basis to the Korean Exchange client information, provision of The spread of socially as well as on the IR homepage. top class trade system, responsible investment reasonable transaction fees, Business partners : MAS works in partnership with a number of international investment banks, practices, strengthened systematic processing of collaboration for global which makes us even more competitive. We also promote socially responsible investments with all client feedback collected as business competitiveness our suppliers. Voice of Customer Sta keh Government and Financial Industry Supervisory Organizations : We are fulfilling our responsibility to to the national government and local government by creating economic value through business activol Value Leaders ities and paying tax on the profits generated. We are also complying with all the rules and regulations d ers of the future Mirae Government in the financial markets and actively contributing to the improvement of all relevant policies. Asset Scholarship program Accurate tax Employees : Our employees are vital to our business. How we communicate with employees plays an Securities for students in Korea reporting and important role with regard to job satisfaction and productivity. MAS is well aware of the importance of and overseas, Global payment, regulation and our employees’ job satisfaction. We listen when our employees tell us there is insufficient capacity and investment expert guideline compliance, invest accordingly in resources to address this and improve the work-life balance of all employees. education program sharing of information Local communities : We work together with a range of civic groups in local communities in order on capital market to contribute to the sustainable development of our cities. Our particular focus is on what we can contribute through offering financial services. As a financial service company that is not a property owner, we have less potential to contribute through environmental activities. However, we are still Local communities Employees making an effort to make a positive impact by increasing our employees’ environmental awareness. Volunteer activities, scholarship Promotion of Great Work Place Leaders of the future : We firmly believe that discovering and nurturing talented people is the key to program, contribution through financial initiative, capacity building services, activities to tackle social through training, establishment of fair the successful future of MAS. We have established various scholarship programs and global investissues, environmental awareness raising performance evaluation and remuneration ment expert programs in order to find and nurture new talent. Clients First Our clients' success is our success. We will nurture long-term relationships by helping our clients build wealth for life with proven investment strategies. Rate of complete 91 pt. / 100pt. information provision at sales (Apr.~Jun. 2011) Number of client complaints registered through the Voice of Customer 0 1 st rank Korean Service Quality Indicator (KSQI) Highest score in the industry 31% Rate of on-line stock trading using Mirae Asset Securities Smartphone application (Aug. 2011) Mirae Asset Securities has always operated with clients as the priority and created profits for our clients while abiding to all legal obligations. We will further improve our client service using our existing client management structure and enhancing the protection of client information in order to create new value for clients. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Service Service 28 29 Customer Satisfaction Management Mirae Asset Securities has established a customer satisfaction management Customer satisfaction activities structure that takes active measures to ensure customer satisfaction. In addition to actively reflecting the customer’s voice in our business manageImproving Services at the Point of Contact We are always striving to promote a corporate customer service vision which will motivate employment, we also ensure the highest security of customer information to maximize ees to improve customer satisfaction. Additionally, we are strengthening employee training and customer value. assessment in order to increase employee capacity and raise awareness, which are the keys to enhancing customer satisfaction. Enhancing CS Manager Capacity Customer satisfaction Management Structure CS managers of all MAS sales branches are subjected to annual capacity building training. The All employees of MAS recognize that customers are a key stakeholder group, integral to the commanagers also report CS activity results each month which serves as the basis for the assessment pany’s existence, and are therefore making the utmost effort to enhance customer value. of CS performance of each branch. The managers also take improvement measures using funding allocated by HQ. There are annual quality service assessments and the CS managers with strong performance records are rewarded for their contribution. Ethical obligation of Mirae Asset Securities employees to customers “All employees should always remember that customers are the foundation of Mirae Asset Sales Branch Service Evaluation Securities’ existence and we must think and act on behalf of customers in all our business MAS regularly conducts service assessments of all the sales offices. The assessment is conducted conduct to generate profit for customers in a fair and law-abiding manner” every quarter and is designed to check that all branches are implementing the customer service improvement measures. The evaluation score contributes to the overall branch performance score. Branches with high scores are given modest cash prizes. Branches with low scores receive extra As competition increases, it is increasingly becoming challenging to provide differentiated services support in the form of monitoring, and one to one on-site coaching in order to identify areas where and products, making strong customer loyalty an important source of competitiveness. improvements can be made and to improve customer satisfaction. Understanding such change, we are making the maximum effort to improve overall quality of our services, enhancing customer experience so it is the finest in the industry. Currently, we are focusing Responsible Sales Program on three themes: ‘In-depth design of customer experience’; ‘provision of integrated and coherent In December 2008, MAS launched a newly enhanced sales program. This includes a mandatory customer experience’; and ‘reflection on customer feedback’. detailed explanation of the product characteristics and suitability in order to provide enhanced ■Mystery Shopping protection to the customer and improve our customers’ overall experience. Assessment Result Responsible Sales ■Customer Satisfaction Management Structure ■Responsible Sales Program Program Reflection on customer 92.5 feedback Date of  Score Service Detail introduction 92 •Conducted updated mystery shopping event Incorporated detailed explanation of product characteristics 91.5 Introduction •Addressed customer opinions and suitability as a part of sales process to provide enhanced of Responsible 2008.12 collected through customer protection to the customer (MAS was the first company to 91 Provision of integrated and Sales Program introduce such a program) satisfaction survey coherent customer 90.5 experience Commitment for Conducted two internal mystery shopping assessments 90 high quality Launching of every quarter •Included ‘customer satisfaction Expanded scope of internal mystery shopping to wrap 89.5 (CS) and advanced etiquette’ MAS customer Enhanced Mystery account and trust products 2009.04 experience Shopping Program 89 course as part of mandatory Conducted employee coaching for branches with inadequate employee training program In-depth design of Apr~Jun Jul~Sep Oct~Dec Jan~Mar Apr~Jun performance 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 •Sustained customer satisfaccustomer experience tion activities by appointing CS managers •Strengthened CS activities at •On-site coaching provided for CS Audio Broadcast Headquarters each branch office to address •Sustained customer satisfaction issues identified in customer We have a regular dedicated CS audio broadcast in which we share case studies and lessons learnt campaign and relevant events satisfaction assessment results •Hosted customer satisfaction about customer satisfaction. The program is designed to enhance the capacity of all MAS employees in order to instill excellence in customer satisfaction as a part of tips sharing session for relevant and is entitled ‘Good Morning Mirae Asset’ and is broadcast to all employees four times a year, with MAS’ culture employees each episode running for ten minutes. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Service Service 30 31 Next-generation CEO Program Customer Satisfaction Survey We conduct telephone surveys with customers who have visited our sales offices. The survey results ■Customer Information The next-generation CEO program is a unique program for children of MAS customers. The are used to enhance customer services and to improve the marketing strategy of each office. The teleProtection Team program is designed to enhance working level business management capacity of the students phone survey is conducted with twenty customers each quarter within one week of their visit to the to prepare them for being the CEOs of the future. The first internship program of its kind, the sales office. The survey result is then analyzed and used as a performance indicator for the respective IT Division program includes hands-on experience including working as interns in offices and visiting sales office. MAS received 96 out of 100 in the 2010 Korea Service Quality Indicator assessment conoverseas subsidiaries. The four-week program also includes training modules on CEO leadership, ducted by the Korea Management Association, which was the highest score in the industry. Seventy character building, economics, the financial industry and the global mindset. Applications are four organizations in fifteen industry sectors, including ten securities trading companies, were included IT Next-generation CEO program Management collected from all branches and fifteen students are selected each year. to the survey. The survey was conducted using the ‘mystery survey’ method between March and April HQ ■Next-generation CEO Program of 2010. In addition, MAS was placed second amongst securities trading companies, on the National Customer Satisfaction Survey conducted by the Korea Productivity Center. The survey was carried out Program modules Detail through face to face interviews with customers who had used the services of the companies. Information IT System Online Leadership Meeting with the CEO, management strategy simulation, leadership style security audit team team service team team development analysis, effective network management Character building Humanity and arts experience Honorary Branch Manager Economics and In 2010, we implemented the ‘honorary branch manager’ system which promotes respected VIP customUnderstanding financial industry, analysis of corporate finance and cash financial industry ers and opinion leaders as honorary branch managers. The honorary branch managers serve for one year ■Customer Information flow knowledge Security Management as members of the respective branches and participate in management as both advisors and representaGlobal mindset Overseas subsidiary visit, global cultural experience System by tives of MAS customers. The honorary branch managers have meetings with branch managers and are Work Process invited to MAS-sponsored cultural events as part of our plan to enhance customer satisfaction. A. User Customer communication Protecting customer information •Keyboard MAS communicates with customers through a variety of channels including the Account Village, protection •Vaccine and firewall which is a custom Voice of Customer (VOC) management system. We are also constantly investing Raising Awareness about Protecting Customer Information •Memory alteration prevention in our systems to ensure they are as up-to-date as possible and conducting customer satisfaction Protecting customer information is becoming an important social issue as customer information has •Anti-reversing surveys to improve our services. •Certified security key been revealed due to inadequate management, leading to major customer complaints. As a result, •Disposable ensuring customer information is protected has become an important legal and social responsibility password Preventing Customer Complaints and VOC Management System for all companies that manage customer information. Recognizing this issue early on, MAS orgaWe are proactively identifying issues and tackling them in a preventive manner. For example, B. Internet service nized a dedicated department in March 2008 responsible solely for the protection of our customers’ the ‘Proactive Customer Liasion’ and ‘Catching complaints before they happen’ programs ideninformation, ahead of other companies in the industry. tify customers who are likely to raise complaints and prompts MAS employees to contact them ISO 27001 Certification in order to proactively address issues they may have. The company website, sales branches and Establishing an Information Protection System •Encryption customer service center also serve as important channels for customer communication, gathering A comprehensive customer information protection system has been established to ensure the hightheir opinions and suggestions for improvements. We also have an integrated Voice of Customer est security in all areas from our internet service to internal management activities. Dedicated expert management system in place to analyse and implement customer’s suggestions in MAS’ manteams are also monitoring customers’ information protection status 24 hours a day throughout the C. Service agement. Thanks to our proactive effort with regard to customer complaints, we did not have a year to respond to any issues and threats. single complaint from customers in 2010. •DDos attack block system Information Protection Activities and Achievements •Infiltration block system Voice of Customer Management Process All MAS employees receive annual training on information protection. In December 2010, a special •Infiltration Honorary Branch Manager’s Dinner detection system Event Implementation information protection training session about the regulations and using case studies was conducted •Web firewall Utilization of Submission Registration Internal Processing of Improvement Lessons learned to further increase awareness. The dedicated information protection teams are constantly reviewMeasures ing and amending the security rules, checking for blind spots and devising protection measures, in D. Internal system •Collection •Classification •VOC processing •Analysis of •Incorporation addition to conducting regular evaluations, auditing and implementing new measures to ensure the •Registration •Search •Registration cause of lessons in highest possible protection of our customers’ information. Thanks to the comprehensive customer •Server access •Analysis of issue •Assessment management control •Customer of Response •Removal of cause information protection measures and implementation of cutting edge system to deal with security •Database access feedback •VOC c ommittee •Lesson sharing control, encryption ISO 27001 Information security man(monthly) breaches, MAS was awarded ISO 27001 certification which is an internationally recognized certifi•Logging, tracking agement system standard certificate •CS evaluation •NMS, SMS, ESM handover ceremony cation given to companies who have comprehensive information protection measures in place. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Service Service 32 33 Providing the Best Service Brand Reputation MAS makes regular assessments of its brand image and uses the findings to ensure it never stands Mirae Asset Securities is a core subsidiary of the Mirae Asset Financial Group. still. MAS scored very highly on all indicators of brand reputation in the research conducted by AGB We are striving to establish a strategy that is in line with the wider corporate strategy Nielsen Media in June 2011. It scored particularly highly on market leadership, global mindset, exand yet tailored for our business of securities trading. Overall, we are making maximum pertise in wealth management and diverse product portfolio. The high scores are evidence of MAS’ effort to provide the best service possible in order to increase client value. strong brand reputation. Providing services that enhance client value VIP Asset Management Service (Wealth Management) Brand management Mirae Asset Wealth Management is a premium integrated wealth management service which is designed to enhance client value. As a premier financial service company with an extensive netCorporate brand strategy of the Mirae Asset Group is an important part of our management work in securities, wealth management, insurance and other relevant sectors, we provide tailored strategy for achieving our vision of “As emerging market experts, we contribute to our clients’ consulting services including wealth management, legal and tax advice and real estate-related successful investment management and help people prepare for a secure retirement.” As stated in services to our VIPs. We also have Wealth Management centers which are only accessible to our our vision, we aim to become a leading financial service provider in Asia, that provides profitable VIP members while offering services on donations and other social interests to satisfy our client’s wealth management services to Korean clients through investment in both Korea and overseas and various needs. provides emerging market investment services to overseas clients. We are especially keen to become a leader in wealth management for retirees to ensure a prosperous post-retirement life for clients. Using our existing brand as the foundation, we are focusing on VIP Wealth Management of Global Perspective ‘retirement’, ‘VIP wealth management’ and ‘social contribution’ as key areas of focus for our brand ‘Mirae Asset Oblige Club’ management. What are the things that have values beyond wealth and honor? We have created a VIP wealth management service ‘Oblige Club’ for clients who want more than wealth and honor. The Brand Strategy ‘Mirae Asset Oblige Club’ is both a service and a brand designed As a key player, who also played an essential role establishing the comprehensive wealth manfor ensuring a prosperous post-retirement life through the successagement services industry, MAS strives to build a strategic brand image to deliver maximum value ful management provided by the experienced managers at Mirae Asset. Our VIP clients are for our stakeholders. From day one, Mirae Asset Securities was established as a ‘Comprehensive provided with the most advanced services, created with the full commitment of MAS staff, wealth management company’ with a focus on the client and an advanced business model. As and only found at MAS. The competitiveness of wealth management services is dependent a true pioneer in the securities market, its history is full of ‘industry-firsts’ and ‘unique’ services on the quality of the service yet our Oblige Club asset management service for VIPs not only and products, which has led to the establishment of a strong reputation as the leading wealth provides a top quality service but is in fact a service in a class of its own. management service provider in Korea. Innovative thinking and industry-leading expertise are the cores of MAS’ brand image. Contributing to a prosperous post-retirement life for our clients, and ■Wealth Management Overview expanding our client base to contribute to the prosperous post-retirement life of as many memWealth Managing bers of society as possible is the ultimate goal of MAS’ brand strategy. Our Wealth Managers provide a complete solution for our VIP clients, in our exclusive Wealth Management centers. These are specially designed for wealth management beyond retirement for clients. ■List of Awards for Excellence in Brand Reputation Wealth Building Name of award Host organization Date of award This is a one to one investment consulting service tailored for individual clients, provided by our Top Brand Grand Award wealth management experts who all have great experience in investment portfolio building. imbc, Donga.com, Hankyung.com Apr. 2010 ‘MAS Comprehensive’ Wealth Management’ First Class Brand Award Baeksang Economics Research Jun. 2011 Wealth Care ‘Mirae Asset Oblige Club’ Institute, Seoul Economics Daily Our efforts are ongoing to ensure we manage clients’ assets in the best possible way. We use National Competitiveness Grand Award – Financial Korea Institute of Management Jul. 2011 Services Commissioner’s Award – ‘Mirae Asset Securities’ Evaluation, Seoul Economics Daily a large variety of measures including regular reporting on asset management status and a large The Most Trusted Brand of South Korean Clients Korea Brand Management Association number of services which are defined in the client management system and premium wealth Dec. 2009 ‘MAS Comprehensive Wealth Management’ Hankook Economics Daily management consulting and advisory services. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Service Service 34 35 Wealth Transfer system is designed for securities and ELW products. F.O.X Plus is for future and options trading In addition to services that enhance the value of client assets, our experts also provide services and Web Plus allows users to trade assets over the Internet. Lastly, we also offer a trading service on inheritance, donations and other forms of social contribution activities which ensure the safe widget named Mini Plus. Our clients can trade stocks in overseas markets including the US and transfer of wealth. Hong Kong. We plan to provide access to the Brazilian and Japanese market in order to further strengthen our market position as a global securities trading company. Advisory Service The Mirae Asset Advisory Service is a premium comprehensive wealth management consulting Increasing Convenience through Smartphone Applications ‘M-Stock’ is a smartphone application developed by MAS with identical functionality to an service designed to provide the best management for VIP clients. Internet-based home trading system which supplies clients with great deal of investment ‘M-Stock’ smart phone trading information. We also provide real-time updates on the market and research information using our application by MAS ■Advisory Service ■Advisory Service Overview twitter account, allowing our clients with smartphones to take necessary actions and receive a Structure variety of information relevant to their investment decisions. As a measure of ensuring enhanced Service Detail Asset manager convenience for MAS clients who access our services using smart phones, we are offering zero • Identification of needs We provide a comprehensive wealth management service which consists commission for all transactions made using our smart phone application until the end of 2011. • Consulating scheduling of a tailored long-term wealth management plan, portfolio evaluation, global Plan & Allocation We received the Korea Grand Award for Excellence in Service in the e-finance award scheme. As • Consulting feedback asset allocation and regularly scheduled reports, using our global research and investment strategy. of August 2011, there were over 597,000 downloads of our M-Stock application and an average Wealth Capitalizing on the expertise of the real-estate experts at our real estate of 68,000 people log on everyday, trading stocks of more than 300 billion KRW. The cumulative management research institute, Budongsan 114, Mirae Asset Maps, Global Investments we amount of stocks traded using M-Stock exceeds 7 trillion KRW. We expect smartphones to beservice All about provide a comprehensive consulting service on real-estate including survey, Client management real estate come the dominant mobile stock trading platform in the near future. As of August 2011, more than service price evaluation, sales, purchase, renting, corporate real estate management Post-consulting advice, corporate real estate portfolio strategy planning and much more. 31 percent of on-line stock trading was conducted through the smart phone application. MAS will management Our wealth management experts and tax experts review in detail each clients’ create solutions that will allow our clients to not only trade stocks but to access information about Tax management assets and provide tips on reducing the tax burden over the lifetime of real estate, MAS’ other financial services. Our ultimate aim is to provide a comprehensive range of solutions company inheritance, businesses operation as well as on specific transactions. Provision of strategic comprehensive that will allow our clients to manage their asset wherever there are. wealth management service with Using our extensive network of experts including the MAS VIP legal advisory a proactive attitude team, MAS legal affairs management teams and expert law firms, MAS’ legal Legal advisory advisory is a comprehensive service tailored to each client’s needs be it civil, criminal or financial affairs, including issues involving inheritance and wills. The competitiveness of our corporate advisory service lies in MAS’ own management, network between industry financing organizations and our subsidiary. Using Interview: Kim, Young Bo (Client – Daechi branch) Corporate advisory our unique strength as the basis, we provide a specialized investment banking service including M&A, IPO and bond issuance, and general management conClient sulting services on personnel affairs, training, corporate culture and so on. “I am truly impressed by Mirae Asset Securities’ service they pay outstanding attention to details” Investor Seminars I have been a loyal client of MAS since I made my first visit to the Daechi branch in 2002. MAS has We host seminars for our clients in order to share our findings and predictions about global market taken great care of my assets leading to significant gains. I make deposits into my CMA account changes and suggest investment strategies to cope with the changes. Designed to maximize client’s whenever I have spare money and consult regularly with my asset manager on its management. access to useful information, the seminars range from local seminars hosted by sales offices on new I have also asked for advice on assets that I have invested in other financial service companies and products and market review to a national wealth management seminar which is held simultaneously at all in real estate, I have always found the MAS experts advice very helpful. Consulting branches. We also provide video conference opportunities with asset managers in overseas subsidiary service In addition to excellent Wealth Management and a first class advisory service, I thoroughly enjoy In-depth offices for VIP clients so they can hear the most up-to-date information on new products and market consulting by areas the cultural events they host. I particularly enjoyed an art museum tour last year, where MAS had Consulting report changes. For example, we recently held special seminars on Brazilian government bonds investment stratorganized a special tour by an expert. The experience proved once again that MAS people were egy and an overseas wrap product overview. We also hold social events such as private music concerts, paying attention to the details that really mattered. I have heard that MAS plans to host a wide Expert consultant tea ceremony classes, health tip classes all aimed at further strengthening our relationship with clients. variety of cultural events in the coming year and I am looking forward to them all. • Asset allocation planning In the future, I think it would be helpful if MAS could create an investor community, where people • Legal advice • Tax affairs Competitive Trading System with a particular interest in economic affairs can network. MAS has done a great job in managing • Real estate MAS provides a number of tailored home trading systems to satisfy different client needs. my assets and I look forward to MAS enriching my personal life with cultural experiences and more. • Corporate advice For example, our Maps Plus is designed for comprehensive wealth management while the F1 Objectivity We assess opportunity impartially. Our independence helps ensure our decisions are aligned with the needs of our clients. No. of IR events in 2010 52,983 No. of VIP Clients 142 billion KRW 288 1 FY2010 Net Profit 142.1 billion KRW trillion KRW Mirae Asset Securities has been leading growth in the The first in the industry to securities industry generating profit with innovative have entrusted pension fund hit one trillion KRW business models and active communication with investors. (end of 2010) We plan to expand our pension fund and overseas business and to collaborate with our partners in order to continue enhancing our corporate value in a sustainable manner. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Business Business 38 39 Enhancing Client Value Economic Achievements Mirae Asset Securities has achieved steady growth, thanks to its capacity to Mirae Asset Securities has become a leading financial service provider thanks to generate profits and maintain a sound financial structure. We are determined to its rapid growth in wealth management, brokerage services and investment create innovative business models, expand our overseas business and banking business. We will expand retirement pensions and overseas business strengthen communication with our shareholders and investors in order to while maintaining steady growth in our established businesses. further enhance client values. Shareholder Status Key business areas 14% As of 30th June 2011, the total number of outstanding shares of MAS is 41,892,229. The Mirae Wealth Management Asset Capital is the majority shareowner with thirty seven percent. Non-Korean investors own 14 We are at the forefront of the wealth management industry with our advanced business model 41.89 36.9% million shares percent while Korean investors have 17 percent. Free floating shares account for 59 percent of and strong client focus. Starting in 2011, we began a renewed effort to lead in the VIP wealth 28% outstanding total shares. At the end of June 2011, a total of 1.54 percent of stocks is owned by approximately management market. By strengthening our integrated advisory service for the VIP class client, in 20 percent of MAS employees. MAS incorporated measures to protect the voting rights of minoraddition to maintaining our solid business performance record and corporate image as an wealth 1% ity shareholders by allowing the submission of their opinion in writing. We also respect the minority management expert, we expect to further strengthen our market position and contribute to a 17% 1.4% shareholder’s right to request a general shareholders’ meeting as stated in the law. 1.7% prosperous life not just for VIPs but for all MAS clients. Mirae Asset Capital Brokerage Mirae Asset Life Insurance MAS employees Shareholder and investor communication Our brokerage service is designed to enhance the growth of our business. In February 2010, we Treasury stock launched the ‘M-Stock’ smart phone application, which was the first stock trading system designed Institutional investor (Korea) We strive to share useful investor information with our shareholders and investors in a timely and for mobile phones in Korea. Private investor (Korea) effective manner. The Investors Relations department holds various events to do just that such as Non-Korean investor briefing sessions, non-deal overseas roadshows, one to one meetings and so on. A total of 288 IR Investment Banking *41,892,229 shares outstanding as of 30th June 2011 meetings and 10 investor conferences were held to share MAS’ business achievements, strategy As an expert financial investment company, we use a wide range of tools including Mirae Asset *Institutional investor (Korea): ING and management plans both in Korea and overseas locations. We also publish various reports and SPAC, PEF, mezzanine fund and project fund in investing in companies with high growth potential Asset, Meritz Integrated Finacial Securities, National Pension SerIR information on a regular basis on the company website and Financial Supervisory Service’s puband good business stability. vice, Shinhan Bank and etc. *Non-Korean investor: Vanguard, lic notice system site (dart.fss.or.kr) in order to keep our investors up to date. Government of Singapore, HSBC, Retirement Pensions Wellington Trust and etc. We have made considerable investment in the retirement pensions management business and Corporate credit rating we are beginning to see the positive impact of our early investment. For example, the total amount ■Shareholders and of entrusted funds hit one trillion KRW at the end of 2010. In addition, we recorded the top Investor CommunicaMAS received AArating on April 2008 by Korea Investors Service Co. Ltd and received AArating tion Overview performance in terms of new client recruitment and number of corporate contracts signed, setting again at the end of fiscal year 2010. ■MAS Corporate Credit a new watermark in the industry. Rating History Event type 2008 2009 2010 No. of public Overseas Business notices 164 188 77 Top Research Capacity published MAS currently has six overseas subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Brazil, Vietnam, US, UK and China. MAS No. of MAS Research Center was selected as the 14th most capable research institute in Asia Hong Kong serves as the global operation center in addition to providing a research service and Conferences 12 16 11 in a survey conducted by finance magazine ‘Institutional Investor’. Three thousand asset held stock trading service for investors worldwide. MAS Brazil set an excellent example by becoming an AAmanagers and analysts working in financial institutions active member of the Mirae Asset network early on. Held 7 9 6 A+ overseas participated in the survey. The center was the only A Held in Korean institute that made it onto the list. 5 7 5 Korea 06.4 07.4 08.4 08.9 09.4 09.10 10.4 10.9 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Business Business 40 41 Client Base The client base of MAS is growing stronger than ever with a rapid increase in VIP client. At the Generation and distribution of profits end of the 2010 fiscal year, client assets entrusted to MAS increased to 45.4 trillion KRW. The net worth of assets entrusted to MAS by VIP clients has significantly increased to 19.3 trillion KRW Financial Performance from 12.4 trillion KRW. The number of VIP clients also increased to more than 53,000 from 29,000 We have achieved a steady growth using the strength of our diversified business portfolio. in 2008. We are currently placed as the third best performing wealth management service provider  Total Customers’ Asset (Unit: trillion KRW)  No. of VIP Clients (Unit: in 10,000) WM Center One Opening Ceremony thanks to our highly profitable products. We are also making a comeback in the brokerage 45.4 5.3 (Mar. 28th 2011) sales as the second in the market, with a 7% market share, thanks to the smart phone stock 42.4 4.6 trading application we recently launched. Our investment in retirement pensions business 2.9 capacity is paying off handsomely, making MAS the security trading company with the largest 38.6 retirement pension client base and a strong reputation as a competitive service provider. ■Profit Structure Trend (Unit: %) ■Operating Profit (Unit: billion KRW) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 VIP client event 206.8 (Sept. 9th~13th 2010)  AUM of VIP Clients 19.3 28 34 15.4 30 191.1 32 182.1 12.4 31 6 32 5 5 40 30 34 (Unit: trillion KRW) 2 -5 -6 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Distribution of Profits PI Wealth management In 2010, MAS achieved a healthy business outcome of 1,424 billion KRW in operating revenue Income and interest and etc Brokerage and 142 billion KRW in net income. The revenue was then distributed to our stakeholders includInvestment banking ing clients, shareholders, employees, local communities and the government. We will maintain steady business growth and continue to share the fruits of our operation with all our stakeholders to achieve the best possible development for all. ■Net Income (Unit: billion KRW) ■Total Assets (Unit: billion KRW) 10,279 168.2 ■Distribution of Profit Operating revenue 1,423.8 142.1 7,896 (Unit: billion KRW) 126.1 6,607 Employee compensation Operating expense 1,241.7 (Salary, retirement package, fringe Local communities benefits, training fees) / NGO 204.0 (Donation) 2.5 Media 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Property owner advertisement fee (Rent) 20.3 17.5 Depreciation 12.3 Misc. operating ■Total Stockholders’ (Unit: billion KRW) ■Return On Equity (Unit: %) Equity expenses Operating profit 182.1 1,889 16.9 Government 1,772 9.8 (corporate tax) 1,658 7.8 7.8 49.9 Shareholders (Dividends) Retained earnings 111.2 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 30.9 Net income 142.1 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Business Business 42 43 Business partners Using our success in our domestic business, we are strengthening our collaboration with business partners in order to increase our capacity to cope with the fast changing business environment. We are also making an effort to provide practical assistance to try and reach an agreement with the Korean Medium Industries Association in order to achieve shared growth for all. Mirae Asset Securities’ Business Partners Agreement for Collaboration on Shared Growth with Our business partners are not mere ‘suppliers’ of products in a supply chain. We formed strategic the Korean Medium Industries Association alliance with our business partners in order to proactively respond to changes in financial market and realize growth of MAS as leading financial service provider. We recently strengthened collaboration with strategic partners including China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd and Winton Capital On June 30th 2011, MAS signed a collaboration agreement with the Korean Medium Industries Management. We also launched a new initiative designed to support better management of midAssociation. MAS will focus on the provision of practical support for the growth of medium-sized size business using our expertise in finance. companies in areas including training development, community, consulting programs as well as the provision of a variety of financial services to members of the association. MAS plans to focus on sustaining collaboration in areas of high strategic importance including China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd corporate finance, VIP wealth management and retirement pensions. MAS plans to gradually increase the scope of collaboration in the future. MAS had a signing ceremony with China Merchants Securities (CMS) Co., Ltd on business By providing a tailored financial service, we hope to help medium-sized companies, who plays an collaboration in investment banking. The agreement allows us to collaborate with CMS on IPOs, integral role in the Korean economy, sustain their growth, in turn paving the way for the growth of M&As, establishment of PEFs and principal investments. We also expect to share each others’ the Korean economy to the next level. We will continue to develop tailored support programs for expert resources and investment information. medium-sized companies in order to realize a solid shared growth. Established in 1991, the CMS is one of the most prominent securities companies with total assets of 17 trillion KRW and is ranked 2nd in IPO business in China. Our partnership with CMS will provide us with an opportunity to further increase MAS’ investment banking capacity and global network. Interview: P  ark, Sang Woo (CEO of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. Korea Representative Office) “Transparency and Fairness in Mirae Asset Securities’ Winton Capital Management business practice leads to ever stronger business partnership” MAS has signed up to a strategic partnership with Winton Capital Management (WCM). The agreement allows MAS to sell Winton Futures Fund, which is the flagship product of WCM. MAS A great majority of businesses in advanced economies recognize sustainablity management as an also expects to benefit greatly from Winton’s industry-leading hedge fund management infrastrucimportant requirement in the sustainable development of humanity and are implementing measures ture, database and post-sales management system. Created by Winton Capital Management, an accordingly. Transparency and fairness in business activity are two key requirements among many independent wealth management company that specializes in alternative investment products. that can make sustainability management a success. The Winton Futures Fund is a hedge fund designed for stable low risk profit by investing in future Throughout our business relationship MAS has always acted transparently and fairly, continually Signing of strategic partnership with Winton Capital Management products worldwide. It was selected as the ‘Best Directional Hedge Fund over 10 Years’ by the strengthening our business relationship which is based on trust. In addition to maintaining MAS’ Hedge Fund Review in 2008 and 2009. MAS has been a market leader in the CTA strategic hedge leadership in the security trading industry with innovative ideas and a wide selection of investment fund market and the sales agreement with WCM will further strengthen MAS’ market position products, I am confident that MAS will continue to contribute to sustainable development by upin hedge fund product sales. The agreement will also help us provide even more refined wealth holding its principles. management services to our clients with even more extensive financial service products. Team Play We grow through respect for each individual and belief in team spirit. We aim to create an ethical meritocracy in which talent is rewarded and opportunity is equally available to all. Temporary workers at end of fiscal year 2010 (14.7% decrease compared to 2008) 4.0% 13.1% Female employees in managerial positions 2,203 No. of employees (as of March 2011) Mirae Asset Securities has a systematic employee training program designed for the effective capacity building of 4,892 Training costs in million KRW employees. A performance evaluation system is also in place to fiscal year 2010 ensure fair remuneration based on performance. Further improvements to the employee benefits package and internal communications will be made to enhance employee satisfaction. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Cooperation Cooperation 46 47 Employee Diversity and Capacity Building Female Workforce We are an equal opportunity employer with equal employment opportunities, promotion and remuneration for both male and female workers. The ratio of female workers has been very high “We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind” is the business from 45 to 50 percent. The percentage of females in managerial position has increased from philosophy of Mirae Asset Securities, which guides us throughout the recruiting and 8.1 percent in 2008 to 13.1 percent in 2010. In our new recruitment drives the ratio of females has nurturing of new employees, which we aim to do in a transparent manner whilst increased to 43.6 percent, an increase of 12 percentage points. building a transparent personnel management system. ■Female Employee Ratio (unit: persons) Ratio of female employees 2008 2009 2010 Male 1,141 1,121 1,194 Female 1,110 959 1,009 Employee diversity Total 2,251 2,080 2,203 Employee Vision Ratio 49.3% 46.1% 45.8% Aiming to become ‘Asia’s leading financial services company’, MAS requires its employees to be Ratio of female employees creative intellectuals with a mindset that places the client first, high ethical standards and excellent risk in new recruitment 2008 2009 2010 management capacities, in order to ensure the best possible business outcome for our clients. Male 85 87 159 Female 39 75 123 ■Mirae Asset Securities Employee Vision Total 124 162 282 Mirae Asset Securities Ratio 31.5% 46.3% 43.6% Employee Vision Ratio of female employees in managerial position 2008 2009 2010 Male 554 583 609 Placing the client first Creativity and knowledge High ethical standard Risk management Female 49 53 92 Total 603 636 701 Always think and act on Capable of creating Have uncompromisCapacity to accurately behalf of clients. Build opportunities out of ing mindset with the assess changes made Ratio 8.1% 8.3% 13.1% expertise and use it to nowhere, see things from highest integrity which in business environ* Managerial position: managers and higher generate profit for both different perspectives and earns the trust of clients ment and proactively clients and others deliver tangible results and companies manage risk Employees with Disabilities Employee Status MAS has a bonus point scheme for the disabled and veterans within the recruitment scoring system. The bonus point scheme is designed to promote a creative and innovative corporate culture At the end of the 2010 fiscal year, a total of 2,203 employees which consists of 2,114 full time and employee diversity. We are also making an effort to nuture a corporate culture where Koreans employees and 89 temporary workers were working at MAS. The employment status of many of our and foreign nationals can collaborate with respect. long serving temporary workers has been changed to full-time employees, as we faithfully followed the new law on the protection of temporary workers and part time workers. As a result, the propor■Employee Diversity (Unit: persons) tion of temporary workers was drastically reduced from 18.7% in 2008 to 4.0% in 2010. A total of Type 2008 2009 2010 281 employees became full-time employees during the period. Using 2008 as the base year, 66.7% of temporary workers became full-time employee of MAS. The temporary workers are part of the Veterans 39 42 42 same salary scheme and have the same benefits as full-time employees. Disabled 7 7 8 ■Employee Status Foreign workers 22 18 16 (unit: persons) * Foreign workers: Employees with non-Korean nationality Classification 2008 2009 2010 Total 2,251 2,080 2,203 Employment Turnover Employment Full-time 1,830 1,962 2,114 The employee turnover rate for 2010 was 9.5 percent, which is quite high compared to national type Contracted 421 118 89 average but on par with the securities trading industry average. We are making an active effort to * Temporary workers: part-time, contracted and outsourced workers lower the rate by such measures as reasonable remuneration and improved benefits package. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Cooperation Cooperation 48 49 ■Trend in Employment Separation Rate (unit: persons) AM Academy Main Programs 2008 2009 2010 The MAS AM Academy courses are categorized into four groups: ‘rank-specific skills’, ‘job skills’, No. Ratio No. Ratio No. Ratio ‘leadership’ courses and ‘all employee training course’. There is also a set of special courses. Employees 258 10.8% 392 17.4% 199 9.5% that left MAS Male 76 6.8% 124 10.9% 92 8.2% ■Rank-specific Course Gender Female 182 14.3% 268 24.1% 107 11.1% Introductory Course (for new recruits, graduates and those with experience) Ratio = (No. of employees left / Total employees at baseline)*100 The introductory course is conducted in two separate modules, one for graduates and one for new recruits with relevant previous experience. Created to help new MAS members become familiar with the history, vision and core values of MAS. The course is four weeks long including two weeks of Employee capacity building intensive training and two weeks of on-the-job training at our sales offices. The graduate recruits are Employee Capacity Building Program also put through an intensive capacity building process in their first year at MAS to quickly build the The objective of the MAS training program is “to nurture leading wealth management experts mindset and fundamental understanding of financial markets. who can generate new value for clients.” A capable asset manager should have three assets New recruits with previous related experience participate in a training program which has a stronger namely knowledge, values and attitude. Our Wealth Management Academy was established to focus on teamwork, core values and the corporate culture of MAS, in order to help them quickly specifically nurture these three assets. The relevant knowledge includes in-depth knowledge of familiarize themselves with MAS’ culture. markets, products and clients. Relevant corporate values include MAS CEO’s business philosophy, corporate culture and MAS core values, all of which should serve as guidelines for all Work Passion Program MAS employees. A good attitude is formed as a result of relevant experience, and in turn serves to The Work Passion program is designed to help develop the company’s vision and individual create a great synergy with the knowledge and values that each employee has, resulting in greater employees’ values and to help the employees better establish themselves as part of the core workforce of MAS. In 2010, the tasks completed by participants all required teamwork, and varied from creativity and thinking outside of the box which together creates the best results. mountain hiking to meeting the CEO. ■MAS Employee Capacity Training for Newly Promoted Building Objectives Knowledge MAS has a special training program for those newly promoted. Designed for employees who are assistant managers to general managers, the program helps the newly promoted develop the necessary capacity required for their new responsibilities. In 2010, the trainees were shown a documentary program by SBS entitled “I want to wear the leader’s armband” which was designed to inspire creativity and innovation. Attitude Value New Executive Training Program The program is offered to all new executives of MAS. In 2010, the training was conducted in close collaboration with Seoul National University’s graduate school of business. The trainees were given opportunities to further familiarize themselves with MAS’ business philosophy and corporate strategies, and to nurture the ability to develop tailored strategies for different Strengthening Promoting good Incorporation of MAS subsidiaries. The training material is carefully selected to ensure new executives strengthen knowledge base attitude values in mindset their knowledge, attitudes and values. The program also serves as an opportunity to help the new Expertise in markets, Share positive energy of trust, Spread and instill core corporate products and clients values and CEO’s business executives strengthen their internal network. passion, challenge and devotion philosophy in employee mindset ■Job Skills Course Work Smart Training Module – New Recruit Capacity Building Program New recruits who completed introductory training and on-the-job training are enrolled in the ‘Work Leading wealth Smart’ training module in order to quickly become experts in wealth management. The program management experts who can focuses on improving attitude and communication skills whilst studying emerging markets. The generate trainees finish the training with an extensive knowledge base about emerging markets. new value for clients Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Cooperation Cooperation 50 51 Asset Manager (AM) Modules of ways to strengthen the competitiveness of MAS, and to share their ideas and experiences. The AM module is taught by internal experts to nurture financial experts with a focus on knowledge The 2010 event was entitled ‘Creativity and Innovation Olympics’, all departments contributed, building while touching on improving attitude and values of MAS employees. providing details of their innovative ideas and success stories, helping participants learn all about The AM Fresh and AM Basic modules are designed for associates and assistant managers. The MAS’ corporate culture. Many employees were provided with job shadowing opportunities to modules consist of both online and offline courses. The online course of the module provides a enable them to experience the work of their colleagues and to give opportunities to suggest ideas basic study of the market, products and clients while the offline training focuses on real-life case for improving the management of the organizations based on their experience. studies. Managers and deputy managers who completed AM Fresh and AM Basic modules are subjected to AM Junior and AM Senior programs with a focus on more specialized knowledge. In Self-management Learning Module addition to studying the market, clients, and products, trainees are given lectures on culture and The self-management learning module is a unique design-for-yourself overseas training program for humanities, in order to nurture them as future leaders in their respective areas. MAS employees. The module is created to motivate MAS employees to discover their own ways of extending their expertise within their areas of specialty. The participants in this module were not ■AM Fresh-Senior Academy Training Focus for Each Module only given an opportunity to fulfill their desire for self development but also to strengthen the global competitiveness and mindset of MAS. Twenty of the most promising employees are given the opportunity to participate in this module each year. FRESH BASIC JUNIOR SENIOR Outsourced Training Module Outsourced training is offered for employees whose responsibilities require in-depth knowledge which can not easily be gained from internal training. The training can be categorized into job training or •Introductory course •Strengthen basic •Nurture expertise in •Designed for VIP academic training. Academic training is conducted by universities and other equivalent institutions. for new associates knowledge wealth management asset managers •Learn basic about the market, by becoming experts •Conducted in knowledge about the products and clients on the market, collaboration with Financial Support for Certificate Programs market, products and through case studies products and clients university partner on clients •Conducted in finance, culture and Mirae Asset Securities has a support program for employees taking certificate training in order to collaboration with humanity topics. university partnership encourage employees to become experts within their respective fields. The programs with the most with links to other MAS direct relevance are given priority for support and all expenses and examination fees for approved training programs training are covered by MAS. The company also supports professional certificate training reimbursement payment for employees who successfully earned the professional certificate. Employees who earn the certificates may claim all the training expenses after they have obtained the certificates. ■Leadership Course ■Training Expense ■Training Expense Summary Summary Operations Manager in Branch Training Module (Unit: million KRW) Others All operations managers in branch receive leadership training twice a year. The first training session Overseas training Category 2008 2009 2010 Note Outsourced training is focused on understanding the business philosophy and responsibilities of operations managers (Unit: million KRW) Internal training Expenses for internal training conducted as well as increasing job capacity, leadership and communication skills. The second training session Internal 2,756.6 3,316.0 3,543.2 6000 (On-offline training programs) is focused on learning how to improve work processes to ensure optimal performance. Domestically conducted outsourced training Outsourced 1,228.4 285.6 746.4 5000 Ex) Online, group training and academic training Executive Workshop Program Overseas training programs It is a special two-day program designed to strengthen the competitiveness of MAS and to identify 4000 Overseas 112.9 68.5 241.7 Ex) Self-management learning module, new ideas. A focus item or person (e.g. companies, people, food and so on) is selected and the exoverseas conference ecutives are sent to have hands-on experience with the item, providing them with an opportunity to Misc. training fee, certificate program 3000 Others 182.8 186.1 360.3 learn the secrets of their competitiveness. The participants go away with new insights, contributing examination fee and etc. The 2010 Creativity and Innovation 2000 to the competitiveness of MAS’ overall operation. Total training Olympics 4,280.7 3,856.1 4,891.5 expense 1000 Training ■All Employee Training Course expense per 1.89 1.85 2.22 Corporate Culture Module 0 employee The corporate culture module is designed as an annual event to encourage all employees to think 2008 2009 2010 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Cooperation Cooperation 52 53 Performance evaluation and remuneration Performance Management Process The new program also facilitates understanding of the company goals with its members, linking the ■Use of Performance objectives of the company and individual employees and evaluating both, ultimately providing a Evaluation Performance management is a matter of foremost importance for a securities company which values human resources as its most important asset. Our performance management system links sense of direction for all MAS members. The individuals increased role in the evaluation process is Short-term Long-term focused focused together promotion, training programs, and all matters of personnel affairs. expected to benefit all parties involved by increasing communication, strengthening objectivity and fairness and ultimately making personnel’s affairs more satisfying for all. Value-sharing The PDP program has a four step evaluation process: ‘employee target setting, interim-term review Performance evaluation MAS Job composition Performance Recruitment (ad hoc), end of term review and feedback every six months. The process is designed so that emCapacity management system assessment ployees are not only given opportunities to learn the goals of the organization and to set goals for Vision Job description Placement themselves, but also to have opportunities to develop within their areas. Performance evaluation ■PDP Evaluation Process Mission Job profile Transference Summated Six month evaluation period evaluation Target sharing and personal Intrim-evaluation End of term evaluation Individual feedback Strategy Job analysis Salary raise development planning PDP process Self-evaluation Check strength Goals Job evaluation Promotion Intrim self Target setting (excluding capacity and weakness evaluation Training evaluation) area Employee Perfor& develBase PromoAction plan Capacity Capacity evaluation Succession plan mance opment salary tion pay opportuEvaluation nities result check/ Training/development make adjustment if needed On-going On-going (Directors) Immediate Longer term Target Target communication adjustment communication adjustment reward reward Performance evaluation is conducted twice a year following a systematic three step procedure of (Review of work if (Review of work if self evaluation, 1st evaluation and 2nd evaluation. The employees are evaluated on job performance plan and etc.) needed plan and etc.) needed Countersigning by head of and three criteria: core values, job skills and leadership capacity. The result of the evaluation is used business division (PDP Session) as the basis for other personnel decision including immediate benefits such as adjusting base salary Hand over/ and bonus pay to longer-term benefits of promotion, transference, special training opportunities and commuPrepare perfornicate Check Check target so on. Overall, the evaluation scheme and remuneration scheme are managed in such a way that targets status and provide mance evaluation Meetings with indiKPI to results set by feedback on areas vidual employees they motivate employees to produce strong performances and to increase their skills. Evaluator HQ and staffs of improvement (including capacity the team assessment) ■Evaluation Criteria Composition Evaluation criteria 360 Degree Leadership Evaluation Employee rank Performance Capacity evaluation Total Since 2008, staffs have conducted evaluation of their heads of department using ten key competen■Total Compensation evaluation Value Leadership Job skills cies. The evaluation result is key when decisions are made on personnel affairs. Scheme Structure Head of department or higher 20 50 Cash Team leader/branch manager 30 30 40 100 Fair Remuneration Scheme Benefit Compensation MAS has a fair remuneration scheme which consists of financial and non-financial measures including Associates 40 30 base salary, performance bonus, fringe benefits and so on. The system is reviewed each year and People Development Program adjustments are made each year in order to ensure it is fair and competitive. We also conduct Base Salary MAS is preparing for an innovative change to the performance management process with the comparison studies every year with similar organizations to ensure that we are in line with our counintroduction of the PDP program. Designed with a focus on aligning the core values of client with terparts in the industry. The annual salary system is adjusted for individual performance to encourage good performance and the fair compensation of individual employees’ contribution. Individual Performance the core values of MAS, the PDP program focus’ on performance evaluation from the company’s Pay perspective and skills evaluation from the personal perspective, requiring sustained communication performance pay is used to motivate employees to use their full capacity to obtain the best results. between the evaluator and evaluated. Ultimately, the PDP program is designed to more effectively MAS also has team performance pay which promotes teamwork and allows team members to Benefits support employee development and skills development. share the fruits of their outstanding achievements when they beat their profit targets. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 Cooperation Cooperation 54 55 Work Place Improvement Initiatives Mirae Asset Securities respects the rights of its employees, offers comprehensive Labor-management collaboration benefits packages and is always striving to make MAS a great place to work. MAS actively supports the association and activity of labor organizations within the company. All members of MAS may communicate their demands and ideas through their representatives in the labor-management counsel meetings. Individual employees may also communicate directly any issues of concern through the grievance management process. Labor-management Council The labor-management council meeting is held once every quarter in order to strengthen communication between the two parties. Ad-hoc meetings are also held when the need arises. As defined in Human rights protection and prohibition of unfair the labor-management council management rules, the council consists of four members including labor practices the CEO and employee representatives. A wide variety of matters that impact on employee perWe are committed to preventing any form of favoritism or discrimination from having any influence on formance including productivity improvement, distribution of profits, personnel affairs (recruitment, corporate affairs. Gender equality is a valued principle at MAS, and we strive to support employees placement, training, grievance handling, physical environment improvement, employee health conhaving a good work-life balance and being able to fulfill their maternal and paternal responsibilities. cern) are discussed in the meetings. For example, we guarantee monthly off day for female staff and paid maternity leave of up to 90 days as well as extended unpaid maternity leave, following the recommendations of the National Human Grievance Management System Rights Committee. We also strictly prohibit child labor and forced labor. All employees receive training A grievance management system is in place, as required by the labor-management council manageon sexual harassment prevention once a year. ment rules and labor law. Two MAS members, one executive and one working level member of staff are appointed as grievance management committee members and work together to address issues raised. In addition to serving as a communication channel for employees, the committee members are Employee benefits also making an effort to make improvements by understanding the issues and potential solutions. We offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits package which boosts morale and helps employees concentrate on their work with less worries about other issues in their lives. For example, ■MAS Employee Interview: Park, Young Sun (ManagerRetirement Pension Consulting Department) Benefits Package we offer special loans for home purchasing and also provide tuition and medical expense support. Benefits Description We also provide employees with access to condominiums and fitness clubs to help them enjoy their “We value individual employees whilst recognizing type of benefits free time. Policies are in place for promoting work-life balance such as social security, pension, and the importance of teamwork” Off-work Condominium leisure access / fitness club maternity support programs. support membership support Mirae Asset Securities has became a dominant player in the securities trading industry in just one Paid maternity Maternity leave / congratulatory Interview: Oh, Jun Hyung (Deputy manager–Bundang branch) decade. It was the pioneering and cutting edge spirit which made the successful establishment of support bonus MAS possible but what has brought MAS this far is the strong teamwork combined with a respect Housing Home purchasing loan / and Housing down payment for the individual employee and the excellent communication links between top management and disaster loan / disaster relief “A decade that gave me a vision for the millennium” the working level employees. When I joined MAS in 2007 MAS the company was preparing to relief support support Medical/ Medical expense supexpand its operation into a number of new strategic business areas and to further stabilize its operahealth support port / health checkup Dynamic business ventures are the norm for Mirae Asset Securities, as one of Asia’s leading finantion in its main business areas. The total number of employees nearly doubled and I was concerned Education Tuition support for support children cial services companies. There is no gene for ‘maintaining the status-quo’ in the corporate DNA that such rapid expansion may destabilize the company. However, the new members quickly fitted Special Congratulatory or of MAS. I know from my experience that top management are already working on the next great in, getting to know existing staff and becoming familiar with MAS’ corporate culture through events personal condolence money, event support flower services thing. Although some people have expressed concern about MAS’ fast growth and industry-leading such as the MAS Culture Festival, town hall meetings with CEOs and Creativity and Innovation Birthday gift, anniverinitiatives, I think MAS is on a stable growth path because we stay true to our sound principles and Olympics. It was remarkable how quickly I and the other new comers felt part of the MAS commuSpecial sary day off, traditional clear corporate philosophy. Many expressions are used to describe MAS, such as ‘industry leader’, nity and took pride in MAS’ successful growth and expansion. Top management continues to comcelebration holiday gift, day off for support school entrance and ‘differentiated service provider’, ‘investor in people’ and ‘corporate social responsibility’ but I want municate regularly with working level employees by explaining corporate strategies and creating graduation of children to describe my experience at MAS as a decade that gave me a vision for the millennium. I am conconsensus. I believe this kind of effort has made MAS’ success possible. Trust and communication Materniity leave, Legally paternity leave, annual fident that Mirae Asset Securities will be a world class company that will ensure great prosperity for are the two values that are at the core of MAS’ competitiveness and this makes me feel very proud. mandated leave, four public benefits insurances including its clients in the free market economy of the future. I hope all employees and the top management will continue to work to maintain these values. social security fund Citizenship Profoundly aware of our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, we give back to the communities that nurture us and pledge to continue to support a range of community initiatives. No. of students receiving the Global Exchange Scholarship (cumulative) 1,967 No. of local 1,736 scholarship recipients (cumulative) 1,218 1.24 billion KRW Total amount of donations No. of employees who made donation made (cumulative, up to March 2011, (Mar. 2010-April 2011) excluding matching grant fund) Working with Office of Corporate Social Responsibility and subsidiaries, the social contribution activities of Mirae Asset Securities are focused on three areas: “Nurturing Future Leaders”, “Social Welfare” and “Fostering the Culture of Sharing.” Mirae Asset Securities is constantly looking for ways to contribute to the positive development of society using our expertise as a financial services company. We will continue with our social contribution activities and environmental protection efforts as a respected corporate citizen. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 responsibility responsibility 58 59 ■Key Social Contribution Areas Social Contribution Activities Mirae Asset Securities’ social contribution activities are not just one off events Nurturing Future but they are tailored to give substantive aid to those in need on a long term basis. Leaders Our social contribution activities are concentrated in three key areas: “Nurturing Future Leaders”, “Social Welfare” and “Fostering the Culture of Sharing”. Fostering the Culture of Social Sharing Welfare The General Framework of Implementing Social Contribution Activities Philosophy of Social Contributions General Direction for Implementing Social Contributions Mirae Asset regards social contribution as one of its core corporate values. Since the founding of Mirae Asset’s social contribution activities are implemented around the following three core areas: the company, we have strived to fulfill our role as a corporate citizen. We will continue to give back “Nurturing Future Leaders”, “Social Welfare” and “Fostering the Culture of Sharing”. These are areas to our community through volunteer activities and social contributions which aim to create a better where Mirae Asset, as a financial group, has the most potential to make a significant long term conworld for everyone. tribution to our society. In particular, the human resource development program is operated under the slogan of “Mirae Asset! Guiding light for young people!” and it has received positive feedback as Organizations for Implementing Social Contributions one of Mirae Asset’s typical social contribution activities. Mirae Asset’s social contribution activities are carried out in partnership with the Park Hyeon Joo Foundation, cooperating closely with the Office of Corporate Social Responsibility and each ■Key Social Contribution Areas affiliated company’s social contributions office. The Group’s Social Contributions’ Office carefully establishes welfare policies by monitoring areas of little investment. Each of the affiliated companies  2000 ~ 2004 (The Nascent Phase) working parents (4 times) •E stablishment of the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo •O ne Company-One Village Bonding program, etc identify and implement social contribution themes suited to local circumstances. In addition, Mirae Foundation Asset Investment Research Center, Retirement Pension Research Institute and Mirae Asset Media •S election of the first scholarship recipients for the  2009 ~ 2011 (The Maturity Phase) Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation jointly organize a series of activities to help those who are financially vulnerable by providing finan•T he provision of first round of financial support to •1 ,736 local scholarship recipients selected for the Mirae Asset scholarship program cial consulting, financial training and holding economic classes for children. households without working parents •1 ,967 scholarship recipients selected for the Mirae •T he first support programs for Asset Global Exchange Scholarship Program “The Bookclub for Hope” ■Organization of Mirae Asset’s Social Contribution Activities •S ponsoring programs for sharing love with children •1 05 scholarship recipients selected for the Global Investor Scholarship Program suffering from cancer and leukemia •5 76 participated in the Bookclub for Global Cultural •S ponsoring charity concert in aid of leprosy patients Experience •S ponsoring Fuel for Neighbors campaign Mirae Asset Mirae Asset •M ore than 7,000 participated in the Mirae Asset Global Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Investment Leaders’ Great March Forward Education Research Center  2005 ~ 2008 (The Expansion Phase) •More than 15,000 participated in the Mirae Asset Foundation Foundation •S election of the first scholarship recipients for the School Tour program Global Investor Scholarship Program •L aunching of the first “Family Camp” for children raised •S election of the first scholarship recipients for the by grandparents Retirement Mirae Asset Global Exchange Scholarship Program •L aunching of the first “Hope project for Youth” Pension Research •T he first Great March Forward •T he first renovation project of installations of bookclubs The Group’s Institute •T he first thematic camp for disabled children/youth •MOU for supporting meal plans for needy children Social •T he launch of the first Bookclub •P roviding financial support for purchase of school Contributions’ •F irst Book Cafe of Hope project uniforms for youths participating in the bookclub Social Office •T he first Economics Camp for children •S upporting cultural events during the Month of Family contributions’ •T he first Teachers’ Workshop for Bookclubs •H osting events for sharing books/flowerpots office from Mirae Asset •T he launching of Mirae Asset Volunteer Corps •M irae Asset’s board members participating in activities affiliated Media •S election of local scholarship recipients for the Mirae of sharing fuel with our neighbors in need companies Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation (4 times) •L aunching Santa Claus volunteer corps at the end of •Supporting “The Bookclub for Hope” year and sharing Kimchi with our neighbors project (5 times) •M irae Asset’s scholarship recipients participating in •P rovision of financial support to household without volunteering project of “Constructing Houses of Hope” Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 responsibility responsibility 60 61 Human Resource Development Programs Nurturing Future Leaders is one of Mirae Asset most influential social contributions 1 to our society. Such developmental programs are being carried out through The 11th MAS scholarship award ceremony Mirae Asset Global Investor Scholarship Program, Mirae Asset Global Exchange Scholarship Program, Mirae Asset Local Scholarship Program and etc. 2. 3 Energetic scholarship recipients The symbol “Hope” created in March 2011 and humanities, and who will undoubtedly contribute in strengthening our nation’s global competirepresents Mirae Asset’s strong determination tiveness. Starting from 2000 (the first round) to 2011 (total of 12 rounds), a total of 1,736 students to become a beacon of hope for young people have received scholarships from the program. Over the past three years the program has greatly exthrough various development programs. The panded its scope by selecting 1,320 scholarship recipients. Mirae Asset is determined to continue emblem symbolizes the collection of lots of its scholarship programs so that more students can focus on their studies. individual young people leads to the formation of a thick forest which is depicted by a group of Mirae Asset Global Exchange Scholarship Program pens which symbolizes academics. The word Mirae Asset launched the Global Investor Scholarship Program for talented young students to en“Hope” on the bottom of the emblem symbolizcourage them in becoming global investment professionals armed with practical experience and 미래에셋은 젊은이의 희망이 되겠습니다 es the root of the tree which in turn shows Mirae vast knowledge of capital markets who will become leaders in developing Korea’s financial market. Asset’s resolution to provide steady support to The selected scholarship recipients will be offered four years of undergraduate tuition and stipends young people to achieve their dreams. In addition, the three colors (orange, green, pea-green) repreor two years for graduate and MBA programs which amount up to 50,000 US dollars per annum. sent the progress of young people’s dreams as they are fulfilled. They will also have the opportunity to participate in internship programs at various Mirae Asset business units during school breaks to gain a general understanding of the current global financial environment. From 2006 to June of 2011 (six rounds) a total of 105 recipients have been selected Mirae Asset Global Exchange and offered opportunities to study to become global investment professionals at leading universities Scholarship Program ■Regional Breakdown of Global Exchange Scholarship Program such as Harvard, Stanford, MIT and Oxford. Mirae Asset launched the Mirae Asset Global (unit: persons) Exchange Scholarship Program to support Volunteering Activities with Scholarship Recipients 64 young Koreans who display the potential to 89 Mirae Asset scholarship recipients refine their academic skills and at the same time, they voluntarily become global leaders. The scholarship offers US participate in volunteer work sponsored by charity foundations such as “Constructing Houses of 224 Europe students a chance to enhance their academic Hope”, sharing love with our neighbors during the national holiday seasons and sharing Kimchi and China abilities and increase their understanding 972 Russia and meals with those in need. Mirae Asset is keen to build a compassionate world where the scholarof various cultures around the world. Start250 24 other nations ship recipients willingly give back to the community from which they have received. Canada ing from the spring semester in 2008, MAS Singapore has supported 1,967 students (8th round) 368 through the program. Selected scholarship ■Recipients of the Global Exchange ■Recipients of the Mirae Asset Local recipients have opportunities to fulfill the proScholarship Program Scholarship Program (unit: persons) (unit: persons) gram requirements not only in advanced countries such as the USA and the UK but also in emergYear No. of students Phase No. of schools No. of students ing countries such as China. Mirae Asset grants tuition, living and travel expenses to the selected 2000 59 1st 27 100 2001 80 scholarship recipients for six months up to one year, with priority given to those in financial distress. 2002 41 2nd 33 247 In 2010, a total of 570 scholarship recipients were selected to participate in the program. 2003 28 3rd 32 150 2004 42 Mirae Asset Local Scholarship Program 4th 41 300 2005 26 2006 40 Mirae Asset Local Scholarship Program offers financial support to diligent students in Korea who 5th 51 350 2007 40 have a passion for their studies despite adverse economic conditions. The scholarship covers one 6th 42 400 2008 60 2009 520 years tuition. Through the scholarship program Mirae Asset is proud of cultivating future leaders, 7th 28 170 2010 500 recommended from universities in a diverse range of majors such as business, science, liberal arts 8th 40 250 2011 300 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 responsibility responsibility 62 63 Social Welfare Supporting Basic Living Expenses and Meal Plans for Needy Children Since 2000, Mirae Asset has concluded cooperation agreements with local borough offices, social welfare institutions and community centers to support the basic living expenses of children and In conjunction with regional community centers and welfare institutions, Mirae Asset youths from low income households where they are raised by grandparents or children who are the sponsors various social programs for underprivileged children. In addition, Mirae Asset has head of their own household. Furthermore, Mirae Asset supports meal plans for children from low held “Workshop for Teachers Working at Regional Children Center” since 2008 and sponsored income households during the school break where the school cafeteria is the main source of their the “Camp for disabled children” since 2007 which aims to inspire hope and give dreams to meals. In 2010 a total of 1,300 children’s meal plans (estimated 150 million KRW) were supported Supporting basic living expenses and meal plans for needy children disabled children. “Rehabilitation and Hope project” is launched to promote physical and through this program. mental health among disabled people through rehabilitation therapy. Furthermore, “Tteokguk (sliced rice pasta soup) sharing with love” and “Kimchi sharing with love” and Supporting Cultural Enrichment Programs for Culturally-underprivileged other volunteer activities are all run as part of our philosophy of sharing. People To celebrate the spirit of Family Month in May, Mirae Asset holds numerous cultural events for culturally underprivileged people including disabled persons where access to these cultural events is limited for them. In 2010, a total of 1,350 people were invited to our sponsored concerts through Bookclub for Global Cultural Experience this program. Since 2007, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has given opportunities to low income household students and teachers at the bookclub to visit Shanghai China for four days where they Rehabilitation Program for Hope and Sharing Happiness can experience and feel the heart of China’s thriving economy. In 2010, a total of 305 students from Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has made a positive impact in promoting the health of 42 bookclubs were given the opportunity to participate in the global cultural experience program. disabled people by providing assistance to projects which provide physical and mental rehabilitation therapy. Since 2008, Mirae Asset has taken a leading role in social integration by implementing Bookclub for Global Cultural ExperiSupporting Book Cafe of Hope the “hope and happiness rehabilitation program” which provides rehabilitation support to disabled ence Since 2003 as one of Mirae Asset’s measures to create a compassionate world, the Mirae Asset people. Mirae Asset receives applications for program participation from rehabilitation centers and Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has maintained the project of Book Cafe of Hope to provide books and Rehabilitation program for hope welfare institutions for disabled persons. After careful review of the applications, Mirae Asset prorenovation services to regional children centers and bookclubs in underprivileged areas. Mirae Asset and sharing happiness vides rehabilitation expenses for art, group music therapy and other medical expenses for selected provides furniture, interior renovation services, PDP, white boards, book management programs etc. recipients. In 2010, a total of 15 organizations received support through this program. So that students can study in a better environment. In 2010, the program included 21 bookclubs. “Family Camp” for Children raised by Grandparents Interview: Lee, Je Hun (Chair of ChildFund Korea ) Since 2009 Mirae Asset has launched “Family Camp” for children raised by grandparents to emphasize the importance of family values and love among family members. The camp is held “Principles that sustain and guide in the beautiful island of Jeju in May, the Family Month. The camp is held for two days filled with Mirae Asset Securities’ social contribution activities” exciting programs such as visiting Jeju island’s famous tourist attractions, watching fantastic water fountain shows, a welcoming reception and other exciting events. In 2010, a total of 131 children MAS has been operating special programs ranging from scholarships for young talent to welfare and grandparents were invited to participate in the program. programs for low income families, children and the disabled. Since 2005, MAS has been an important partner of the ChildFund Korea working on a range of programs including the free lunch program Supporting School Uniforms for Low-income Households for children of low income families, school uniform support, and free Kimchi making and distribution Since February 2009, Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has supported projects that provide program. It is remarkable that MAS began its social contribution activities so early in its establishment setschool uniforms to students from low income households. Students from low income single parent ting a remarkable example, particularly as increasing emphasis is placed on corporate social responsibilifamilies or raised by grandparents and children who are the head of their own household are eligible ties (CSR). I think MAS’ business philosophy of ‘building on principles’ is also an important CSR activity. for this support program which aims to instill hope and confidence throughout the course of their In addition to MAS’ welfare programs targeted at underprivileged members of communities, I think the school life. Under the slogan “Beginning new semester with confidence and a new school uniform”, programs designed to identify and nurture young students with potential to become a globally competitive Supporting school uniforms for low the support program has attracted the participation of NGO experts to distribute school uniforms workforce are remarkably valuable. income households to those in need. Mirae Asset provides the financial support to purchase summer and winter school MAS has been an excellent leader in CSR, with its activities based on firm principles. I hope this will be uniforms for middle and high school students from low income households recommended by nafurther strengthened by the publication of its first sustainability report. I also look forward to a continued tionwide regional children centers and welfare institutions. Mirae Asset has consistently increased partnership with the ChildFund Korea in its existing programs and to new innovative programs in the futhe budget size of this support program over the years and in 2010 a total of 270 students received ture. Let’s continue to work together to help all our children become valuable leaders of our society. financial support from this program. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 responsibility responsibility 64 65 Culture of Sharing Since the early stages of Mirae Asset’s social contribution activities, all of our support projects to community centers, welfare institutions and local bookclubs have been implemented in close collaboration with the volunteer activities of our employees. We would like to strengthen this tradition by actively promoting a sharing culture through Mirae Asset Volunteer Corps. *As of March 2011 Mirae Asset Volunteer Corps (49 Volunteer Corps / supporting 92 facilities) Volunteer Medical Service for Vietnam In November 2010, MAS provided volunteer medical services in Ngoc Linh Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City and our volunteers helped construct houses in collaboration with Water Love Exchange Association in Tien Giang and My Tho. More than 400 local Vietnamese received free medical treatment and three houses were built for residents living in the Korean-Vietnam Friendship village near the suburb of Ho Chi Minh City. MAS is determined to continue its mission of social contribution in close cooperation with local volunteer organizations. Mirae Asset Life Mirae Asset Global MAPS Global Mirae Asset Securities Other subsidiaries Insurance Investments Investments 28 corps 16 corps 1 corps 1 corps 3 corps Feeling the Warmth of National Holidays with People in Need 28 volunteer groups of MAS provide a diverse range of events during the national holiday season to senior citizens living alone, disabled people, children who are the head of their own households and ‘I Love You’ Donation Movement others who need help from the community. Mirae Asset’s “I love you” donation movement is operated on the basis of one to one matching In particular, during Korea’s traditional New Year’s day, a free soup kitchen was created in front of grants where Mirae Asset matches the amount pledged by the donor. Not only can Mirae Asset emSeoul Central Train Station to give out free Tteokguk (sliced rice pasta soup) to those in need. And ployees but to anyone interested in helping others participate in this program by visiting the website for the following two weeks, a “Sharing Free Tteokguk with Love” campaign was conducted by 135 of Park Hyeon Joo Foundation. The matching fund is appropriately allocated to welfare projects welfare institutions around the country. MAS’ employees and scholarship recipients participated in selected by donors and the complete expenditure details of the fund is accessible on the website. this program and delivered more than 3,000 Tteokguk and small gifts to the homeless and senior The “I love you” donation movement is distinguished by three types of sponsorship: regular sponcitizens living alone. sorship, temporary sponsorship and urgent sponsorship. Regular and temporary sponsorships are for children’s welfare projects, seniors’ welfare projects and welfare projects for the disabled. On the ■Donation Status (unit: Million KRW) other hand, urgent sponsorship is for situations where urgent and unexpected help is needed. In 700 this case, funds are raised in a short time period to address the urgent situation. *Cumulative donation: 1.24 billion KRW (As of March 2011) 600 One Company-One Fishing or Farming Village Bonding Program 500 1,218 MAS’ “One Company-One Fishing or Farming Village Bonding Program” is about more than just 957 ‘I love you’ Donation Movement providing volunteer services. It has become Mirae Asset’s ideal social contribution activity that 400 seeks to achieve our corporate objectives of coexistence and sharing. Mirae Asset Securities and 395 Seosan Woong-do village initiated this program in 2006. As part of the program, volunteer services 300 419 and feasts for senior citizens are provided in May, the month of celebrating family values. In 2010, 166 200 MAS held feasts for senior citizens and provided medical equipment as gifts. Furthermore, the comMember donation 258 Non-member pany provided cleaning services around the seashore and the village. As a result, five tons of solid 100 210 donation 139 waste and fish waste was collected and treated. 73 No. of participants 0 One Company-One Fishing or MAS will continue to expand the exchange programs between the city and village which will solidify 2008.04 2009.04 2010.04 Farming Village Bonding Program the bonds between them. ~2009.03 ~2010.03 ~2011.03 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 responsibility responsibility 66 67 Contribution with Financial Services ■Economics Class for Children Item Details Class concept Fun and interactive basic economics education for the whole family Mirae Asset Securities is constantly looking for ways to contribute to the positive Programe1: Elementary school students (1st~3rd grade) & parents development of society using our expertise as a financial services company, including Target audience Programe2: Elementary school students (4th~6th grade) & parents the launch of green investment products, retirement fund management products and Target schools Over sixty schools in Seoul, six metropolitan cities and small to medium sized cities Economics education programs for elementary school students. Program schedule Offered on Saturdays or during vacations Program1: Elementary school students (1st~3rd grade) & parents ·For children: ‘I am a rational consumer’ How to manage your pocket money Green finance and renewable energy investment products Program ·For parents: Fun ways to learn economics at home -Programe2: Elementary school students (4th~6th grade) & parents by Mirae Asset Securities ·For children: ‘I am a wise investor’, Learning economics through experience ·For parents: Fun ways to learn economics at home Market interest in renewable energies including solar and wind energy has increased significantly as concern about nuclear safety has grown since the Fukushima incident. In Korea, the government ■Summary of students participating in MAS’ Children’s education programs has shown a strong political will to nurture the clean energy industry with the announcement of the Mirae Asset Maps Green Index Fund Korean New Deal policy and a special support program for new growth engine industries including Children’s School Tour Economics Class for Children for green growth industries renewable energies. The pressure on polluting industries is also becoming stronger with the 2010 14,205 students 2011 68 classes in 19 locations, 1,504 (483 class units in 124 schools) 1st semester families (including 3,491 parents) announcement of new regulations. MAS has launched various green investment products. For ex2011 6,358 students 2011 summer 52 classes in 15 locations, ample, the ‘Mirae Asset Maps Green Index Fund’ has become a flagship green fund in Korea both in 1st semester (222 class units in 51 schools) vacation 1,953 students terms of its size and performance. The index fund is created using the MKF green index as the basis. The MKF Green Index is made up of stocks from twenty companies, listed on the Korea Exchange, Aging society and retirement products that specialize in renewable energy, energy efficiency and green growth businesses. The index fund The importance of post-retirement asset management has increased greatly with the retirement of mainly consists of companies that specialize in LEDs, batteries, solar photovoltaics and smart grid baby boomers in 2010. For example, the pension fund product which provides salary-like monthly companies. The ‘Mirae Asset Maps Renewable Energy Private Equity Fund’ was recently registered dividend payments is gaining great popularity amongst retirees. Early products had an emphasis as a Clean Development Project at the UNFCCC. The product is expected to yield 12,996 tons of on low risk, and therefore mainly consisted of bonds issued by governments in developed nations. CO2 reduction credits, which will be sold at a profit at exchanges and through off-board transactions. However, the product portfolio is becoming increasingly diversified as the target has changed. ■Green Financing and Renewable Energy Investment Products of MAS MAS launched a wide variety of funds, all of which had a minimum A+ credit rating and provided a monthly dividend payment for clients with different risk preference. For example, the Mirae AsName of product Public/Private Sales balance set Perpetual Salary Global Dynamics Fund and the Franklin Templeton Monthly Dividend Global Mirae Asset Maps Green Index Securities Investment Trust (Securities-only) Public 45.2 Fund are designed for mid-risk, mid-profit, with the aim of providing a perpetual salary payment Mirae Asset Green Growth Securities Investment Trust (Securities-only) Public 8.1 and therefore consists of low risk government bonds and some currency hedging to provide a profit Mirae Maps GL Alternative Energy IN Securities Investment Trust (Securities-only) Public 4.0 margin higher than bonds. We also sell high risk, high return products, such as the AB Monthly DiviMirae Asset Green Growth Private Securities Investment Trust (Securities+Bonds) Private 10.8 dend Global High Profit Fund and the Franklin Templeton Monthly Dividend High-yield Fund and Mirae Asset Green Growth Private Securities Investment Trust 2 (Securities+Bonds) Private 15.1 Black Rock Monthly Dividend US Dollar High-yield Fund. We also offer a wide range of products Mirae Asset Maps Renewable Energy Special Private Security Private 51.3 Investment Trust No.1 including the Monthly Dividend Brazilian Bond Trust and personal pension funds with different com*As of August 31st 2011 (unit : billion KRW) bination of stocks and bonds for clients from different age groups and with different preferences. Economics Class for Children ■Products that Provide a Monthly Dividend Payment by Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Securities is collaborating with Mirae Asset Global Investments ‘Economics Class for Children’ in order to help young students understand the basics of financial market economics. Name of products Annual dividend rate Size of fund The Economics Class for Children is an interactive educational program tailored for elementary Mirae Asset Perpetual Salary Global Dynamics Fund 6.72% 1.1 school students. The participants learn about ‘economics and consumption patterns in Korea’, Franklin Templeton Monthly Dividend Global Fund 7.2% 49.4 ‘Industry and production’, ‘Three key players in the modern economy’, ‘Savings and investments’ AB Monthly Dividend Global High Profit Fund 7.8% 4.0 Economics Class for Children through custom-made board games and other educational tools. We have been offering an EcoFranklin Templeton Monthly Dividend High-yield Fund 8.31% 21.1 nomic program called ‘Children’s School Tour’ since 2010, which offers economics classes at public Blackrock Monthly Dividend US Dollar High-yield fund 6.0% 2.8 libraries and schools. The ‘Economics Class for Children’ was launched in March 2011 to enable us (unit: trillion KRW) *Dividend rates are calculated as of August 2011. (Dividend rate for some products is determined quarterly) to make the class available for young students all over the country. *The size of funds are calculated as of 30th June 2011 on off-shore funds Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 responsibility responsibility 68 69 Green Management Activities and Achievements Energy use MAS has been making a sustained effort to save energy, ■Energy consumption trends following the ‘Energy Saving Action Plan’. Actions include (unit: Mwh) As a financial service provider, Mirae Asset Securities can not make a direct impact on Sales offices IT center Headquarters turning off lights during lunch time and other non-working the environment. Nevertheless, we have established a green management structure hours, minimizing air conditioner use, reduction of electric and reward scheme for environmental achievements in order to ensure we make an heater use and minimizing elevator use. Such behavior has 8,326 7,364 7,616 active contribution to addressing global environmental concerns. been promoted through internal campaigns. We have also replaced indoor and outdoor halogen lamps with energy 1,643 1,857 1,117 4,333 4,316 4,226 efficient LED lights. We are also changing all light fittings in our headquarters with LED lamps. Thanks to the cor2008 2009 2010 porate wide energy reduction effort made, Headquarters’ electricity consumption has decreased from 4,316 Mwh in 2009 to 4,226 Mwh in 2010. We will continue to moni■Change in Water Use Strengthening our environmental management skills (unit: ㎥) tor energy use and eliminate any unnecessary electricity Headquarters Environmental Management use. ■Environmental MAS sets a number of targets each year in various management areas. In 2010, we established a Management Key sustainability management system and an assessment response system to help promote green Water Use 16,636 Implementation Areas management. In 2011, we launched a number of initiatives including a carbon emission credit prodAll water used by MAS is municipal water, the use of both 16,343 16,024 uct, clean technology investment products and introduced high efficiency equipment in our offices. ground water and recycled water is zero. Regular mainteWe will continue to strive to manage MAS in a green way while raising environmental awareness and nance checks on piping and faucets are made to prevent 2010 2008 2009 2010 building green management skills. any unnecessary water use due to leakage. Since MAS established its sustainability management plan in 2009, MAS has undertaken a number of measures including defining annual implementation targets and the systematic instillation of an enGreenhouse Gas Emissions Appointment of an executive as environmental manager vironmental management process. Achievements are assessed against departmental environmental MAS manages GHG emissions in two groups: Scope2 and Scope3 emissions. GHG emissions Establishment of environmental management system as a part management targets, and improvement plans are created to address any issues. The improvement over the last three years did not change much. Even though MAS is not responsible directly for any of sustainability management measures are also incorporated into the organizational rules and corporate management plan. emissions an effort is made to reduce indirect GHG emissions through campaigns such as banning system Establishment of environment paper cups, reducing paper use and encouraging double sided printing. management achievement Environmental Regulation Compliance assessment response system MAS has never been subjected to a financial or non-financial penalty for violation of any environ■GHG Emissions Trend (Scope2) ■GHG emissions Trend (Scope3) mental regulation. As a financial services provider, MAS does not make any direct impact on the environment such as the air, soil or water quality. However, we are aware of the indirect impact our (unit: tCO2e) (unit: tCO2e) 2011 business may have on the environment and are trying to promote compliance within our relevant Sales offices IT center Headquarters Headquarters IT center business activities. 28 Promotion of carbon credit 8,326 7,364 7,616 business 3,530 3,122 3,587 Launch of financial products Environmental Impact Reduction Activities 29 in clean technology 19,399 Introduction of high Environmental Performance Management 697 787 526 24 efficiency equipment to 18,632 reduce environmental impact MAS is a financial service provider and therefore its business activities do not lead to any significant 1,837 1,830 1,990 17,894 Energy saving campaigns environmental impact. However, we are making every effort to make a positive contribution to global Environmental awareness raising environmental issues such as climate change, by managing our energy consumption, as well as ad2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Introduction of environmental training courses on issues dressing the indirect environmental impact from the operation of MAS. We are committed to manincluding climate change aging environmental data in a systematic manner and reducing our environmental impact in order to Wastewater and Solid Waste Management response set an example as a green financial company. All Wastewater generated from MAS’ operations are domestic sewage water which is treated at MAS has been recording environmental data for over one hundred offices since 2008. Using the the Seoul municipal Wastewater treatment facilities. Solid waste generated by MAS is also general data, we have set targets to reduce CO2 emissions and our paper consumption and launched actividomestic waste, consisting of paper, glass bottles, aluminum cans and plastics. We make every ties to achieve these. effort to classify waste to ensure maximize recycling of solid waste. Mirae Asset Securities SustainabilIty Report 2011 APPENDIX 71 Our History of Growth Corporate history 2006.02 2008.08 Listed on the Korean Stock Exchange Mirae Asset Investment Consulting (Shanghai) established 2006.03 Appendix Approved for over the counter derivative products 2008.09 Mirae Asset Securities (USA) established 2006.07 2008.10 Opened Financial Products Center Mirae Asset Securities (UK) established 2006.07 2009.08 Opened Retirement pension Consultation Center Approved for domestic future product business 2006.08 2009.09 Launched on-line new account Launched “Mirae Asset Account” brand registration service 2010.08 2006.08 Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) established Launched Global MAPS market information service 2010.09 Approved for overseas future product business 2006.10 Launched MAS Asset Management 2010.09 CMA account Launched asset management expert visit service 71 Our History of Growth 2007.06 2010.10 72 Independent Assurance Report Launched overseas futures and foreign Opened Asia-Pacific Research Center 74 GRI Index exchange margin trading 2007.07 76 Key Economic/Environmental Performance Data Beijing office established 2011.01 77 Credits : List of Contributors MAS (Brazil) launched web trading system 2007.12 Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) established 2011.03 Signed strategic partnership agreement with Winton Capital Management AWARDS AND COMMENDATIONS Date awarded Name of award Host organization Apr. 2010 2010 Korea Master Brand Awards ‘Mirae Asset Account’ Korea Master Brand Committee Jun. 2010 The 10th. Korea e-Business Award Korea Economic Daily 2010 First half-year Hit Product ‘Mirae Asset Account’ Jul. 2010 EToday Award 2010 Asia Capital Investment Award ‘Best Wealth ManageOct. 2010 Asia Economy ment’ Oct. 2010 2010 Seoul Economy Advertising Grand Award Seoul Economy Feb. 2011 Selected as outstanding bond dealer six consecutive times Financial Supervisory Service Apr. 2011 2011 Herald Biz ‘Wealth Management Grand Award’ Herald Biz Jun. 2011 2011 Korea Top Brand Award ‘Mirae Asset Oblige Club’ Seoul Economy Jul. 2011 2011 National Competitiveness Contribution Awards Seoul Economy Won recognition as outstanding bond dealer seven Aug. 2011 Financial Supervisory Service consecutive times Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 APPENDIX APPENDIX 72 73 Independent Assurance Report •A media analysis and an internet search for references to MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES during the reporting period •Interviews with a selection of MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES senior managers and key stakeholders to understand the current status of We were engaged by MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES Co., Ltd. (‘MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES’) to sustainability activities and progress made during the reporting period provide assurance on the information presented in the Sustainability Report 2011 (‘the Report’). •An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the systems and methods used to collect and process the information reported, including the aggregation of data into information as presented in the Report MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES is responsible for preparing the Report, including the identification •Reviewing the internal documentation and intranet sources of stakeholders and material issues. Our responsibility is to provide an opinion on the Report. •With regard to the financial data included in the key figures on page 76, verifying that they were correctly derived from the 2010 audited financial statements of MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES. During our investigation, we discussed the necessary changes to the Report with MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES and verified that these changes were adequately incorporated into the final version. Context and Scope Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether: Conclusions •M  IRAE ASSET SECURITIES has applied the “AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008)” ■On the AA1000APS Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness: •T  he information in the Report is fairly stated in all material respects, based on the reporting criteria set out on “Report Overview” In Relation to the Principle of Inclusivity: The scope of our engagement conforms to the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement as set out in the AA1000AS •MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES operates a communication channel with the customers, employees, stockholders/investors, (2008) of AccountAbility, including the aspect of “reliability”. NGOs, peers and others through the stakeholder participation process. With regard to the financial data included in the key figures on page 76, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were •We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups which have been excluded from dialogue in the Report. Going forward, we suggest correctly derived from the audited financial statements of MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES. To obtain a thorough understanding of improving the communication channels to deal with local communities and supplier on aspects of sustainability management. MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES’ financial results and financial position, the audited financial statements of MIRAE ASSET SECUIn Relation to the Principle of Materiality: RITIES for the year ended 31 March 2011 should be consulted. •MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES operates a materiality determination process regularly to define which issues should be considered in stakeholders’ priorities for setting mid-term strategy. Criteria •We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES applies the criteria set out in the AA1000APS (2008) for the three principles of inclusivity, materialWe recommend establishing advanced materiality process to reflect changes of business environment and relevant risks. ity and responsiveness. In preparing the report, MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) In Relation to the Principle of Responsiveness: of the Global Reporting Initiative as set out on “Report Overview” •MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES has appropriately responded to stakeholders’ demands and material issues. •With the exception of the issues highlighted in the Report in relation to materiality, we are not aware of any additional issues of Assurance Standards stakeholder interest that are not currently being managed by MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES. It is recommended that the materiality process would be improved and thus the communication procedure and conclusion would be described to the next report, •W  e conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance which would contribute to enhance the responsiveness of sustainability management. Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and with the AccountAbility ‘AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)’. On the Content of the Report: •R  eaders should note that limited assurance in ISAE 3000 is consistent with a moderate level of assurance as defined by AA1000AS (2008). •Based on the above work, we conclude that the information in the Report does not appear to be unfairly stated. •Among other things, these standards contain requirements regarding the independence and competency of the assurance team. Comments Independence, Impartiality and Competence Without prejudice to our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters can be considered: We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants •MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES provides sustainability information effectively to stakeholders through this first sustainability report. which requires, among others, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) as well as the assurance firm (assurance To upgrade the level of sustainability management, there is a need for developing systematic evaluation process of needs of stakeholders. provider) be independent of the assurance client, including not being involved in writing the Report. The Code also includes •We recommend MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES to establish long-term sustainability vision, and to build up integrated detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence, due care, confidentiality and process and scheme to manage detailed program. professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. We have discussed our observations regarding the reporting process and reported outside the scope of our assignment with We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team including specialists in AA1000APS/AS, stakeholder engageMIRAE ASSET SECURITIES management. They were receptive to our comments. ment, auditing, environmental, social and financial aspects, with experience in similar engagements in the sector. Work Undertaken Shin, Kyung Sup Our work included the following activities: Managing Partner •A  n evaluation of the results of stakeholder consultation processes of MIRAE ASSET SECURITIES. Samjong KPMG Advisory Inc. •A  n evaluation of processes for determining the material issues for key stakeholder groups Seoul, October 2011 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 APPENDIX APPENDIX 74 75 GRI Index ■PROFILE ■PERFORMANCE INDICATOR ■PERFORMANCE INDICATOR ■PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Indicator No. Page Note Indicator No. Page Note Indicator No. Page Note Indicator No. Page Note Strategy and 1.1 6,7 Economic Manage8 EN25 Not applicable SO6 Not applicable analysis ment approach 1.2 6,7,22,23 EN26 66,68 SO7 None made 2.1 8 EC1 40,41 EN27 Not applicable 2.2 32,33,34,39 EC2 66 SO8 16,17,20,21,46 EN28 68 2.3 8,39 EC3 54 Product Responsibility 28 Increased use of Management Approach 2.4 8 EN29 video conferencing EC4 None received 2.5 8 PR1 31 Organizational EC5 52,53 EN30 Not managed profile 2.6 38 PR2 30 Labor practices ManEC6 Not applicable agement approach 46,48 2.7 8,39,41 PR3 29 2.8 8,40,46 EC7 Not applicable LA1 46,47 PR4 29 2.9 38 EC8 41,60~67 LA2 47,48 2.10 appendix LA3 46,54 PR5 29,30,31 EC9 41 3.1 3 Environmental LA4 54 PR6 29 3.2 Nov. 2011 Management 68 approach LA5 54 PR7 23 3.3 3 LA6 54 EN1 appendix PR8 31 3.4 appendix LA7 54 3.5 9,14,24,25 EN2 appendix PR9 19,23 LA8 54 3.6 3 EN3 69 Report LA9 54 parameters 3.7 3 EN4 69 3.8 3 LA10 51 EN5 69 3.9 3 LA11 49,50,51 ■Financial sector supplement EN6 67 3.10 Nov. 2011 LA12 52,53 Indicator No. Page Note EN7 appendix LA13 15,47 3.11 Nov. 2011 FS1 12 3.12 appendix EN8 69 LA14 54 3.13 appendix EN9 69 Human rights ManFS2 66,67,68 agement approach 54 4.1 15,16,17 EN10 69 FS3 22,23 4.2 15 HR1 19 EN11 Not applicable FS4 14,19,21 4.3 15 HR2 54 EN12 Not applicable FS5 42,43,66 4.4 38,54 HR3 19,21,54 EN13 Not applicable HR4 54 FS6 66,67 4.5 16 4.6 16 EN14 HR5 54 FS7 66,67 4.7 15 EN15 Not applicable HR6 54 FS8 66,67 Governance, 4.8 9 EN16 69 HR7 54 commitment FS9 16,23 and 4.9 13 EN17 69 HR8 31 engagement 4.10 16 FS10 66,67 EN18 69 HR9 None made 4.11 22,23 FS11 46,66,67 EN19 Society Management 4.12 13 Not applicable Approach 58 FS12 66,67 4.13 13 EN20 Not applicable SO1 58~67 FS13 60~67 4.14 24,25 EN21 69 SO2 19 4.15 24,25 FS14 66,67 EN22 69 SO3 19,21 4.16 24,25 EN23 Not applicable SO4 19,21 FS15 19 4.17 14,35,43,54, FS16 60,61,66,67 55,65 EN24 Not applicable SO5 66 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Securities SustainabilIty SustainabilIty Report 2011 Report 2011 APPENDIX APPENDIX 76 77 Key Economic / Environmental Performance Data Credits : List of Contributors ■Economic Data (Unit: billion KRW, %) Category 2009 2010 2011 Operating revenue 2,065.1 1,809.2 1,423.8 Operating expense 1,873.2 1,602.4 1,241.7 Operating profit 191.9 206.8 182.1 • Project Management : Mirae Asset Global Strategy Team Securities Income from continuing 174.0 224.6 192.1 operations before taxes Kim, Joon Hong SustainabilIty Net income 126.1 168.2 142.1 Kim, Myoung Joo Report 2011 Earning per share (in KRW) 3,037 4,087 3,454 Total assets 6,607.2 7,895.9 10,278.8 Total liabilities 4,949.3 6,123.6 8,389.5 01 Sustainable Management Total stockholders’ equity 1,657.9 1,772.3 1,889.3 Return on equity (ROE) 7.8 9.8 7.8 • Corporate Planning Team Kim, Joo Sup Return on asset (ROA) 1.9 2.3 1.6 • Risk Management Team Kweon, Joo Won Net capital ratio (NCR) 501.4 579.9 453.1 • Compliance Devision Heo, Nam Kyu Shin, Sung Cheol ■Environmental Data (Total amount) Category Sub-category Unit Scope 2008 2009 2010 02 Clients First Mwh HQ 4,333 4,316 4,226 • Public Relations Team Lee, Jung Hoon Electricity Mwh IT center 1,645 1,857 1,117 • IT Planning Team Kim, Jeom Soo Mwh Sales offices 8,326 7,364 7,616 • Information Security Team Beak, Nam Joon Energy use Gasoline ℓ All offices 92,519 263,990 497,910 • Online Marketing Team Park, Keun Ro Gcal HQ 374 354 463 • Wealth Management Division Kim, Dong Hoon Heating Gcal IT center 129 159 151 Park, Su Sie tCO₂e HQ 1,837 1,830 1,990 Park, Sang Jin Scope 2 tCO₂e IT center 697 787 526 Greenhouse tCO₂e Sales offices 3,530 3,122 3,587 03 Objectivity gas emissions tCO₂e HQ 17,894 18,632 19,399 • Investor Relations Team Bae, Kyung Deuk Scope 3 tCO₂e IT center 24 29 28 Water use Municipal water ㎥ HQ 16,343 16,636 16,024 Waste generated Solid waste ℓ HQ 187,564 190,282 191,168 04 Team Play 1) Scope2 : Indirect GHG Paper • Human Resource Management Team Park, Jin Hwan Copy paper ton HQ 98 79 84 emissions related to electricity consumption consumption • Human Resource Development Team Rhee, Jeong Myung 2) Scope3 : GHG emissions ■Environmental Data (per person indicators) related to fuel use for transporCategory Sub-category Unit Scope 2008 2009 2010 tation, municipal water, waste, district heating and so on. Electricity Mwh HQ 1.92 2.08 1.92 3) Calculation method and Energy use Heating Gcal HQ 0.17 0.17 0.21 05 Citizenship conversion factors follow • General Affairs Team Lee, Jong Min IPCC guidelines and the Korea Scope2 tCO₂e HQ 0.82 0.88 0.90 Energy Management CorporaGreenhouse Scope3 tCO₂e HQ 7.95 8.96 8.81 • Marketing Team Chang, Hee Jin tion GHG Emission Calculation gas emissions Total tCO₂e HQ 8.77 9.84 9.71 • Office of Corporate Social Kang, Sang Sin Guideline was used 4) As of Dec. 31st 2010 Responsibility Water use Municipal water ㎥ HQ 7.26 8.00 7.27 5) The per employee indicator is calculated using HQ data only Waste generated Solid waste ℓ HQ 83.32 91.48 86.78
