a green agenda | COP 2011 contents A GREEN AGENDA | Statement of support 4 vision 6 Principles which guide our practice 7 human rights 9 labour 11 Environment 13 a scope of green projects 17 Extension of the Panum complex 18 Housing+ 20 Bagsværd Park Masterplan 22 HOUSE FOR THE ELDERLY IN STENLØSE 24 Bestseller, offices in Aarhus 26 Sølvgade School 28 New, high Security prison in Falster 30 Athletes Village, plot N13 32 Low-energy office building for the Municipality of Aarhus 34 Youth residence, Aarhus Waterfront 36 New ferry terminal, Stockholm 38 Anti-Corruption 41 About C. F. Møller Architects 43 Contact 44 A GREEN AGENDA | Statement of support We have in the reporting period won a number of large As an architectural practice, we see a great potential public competitions, where we have pushed competition in contributing to the goals of the Global Compact by programmes with more ambitious goals and integration continuously working with a green agenda in planning for of higher sustainability goals for the solution of the projects, social, economical and sustainable construction. one of the latest e.g. the new 35.000 m2 research tower for the University of Copenhagen with cutting-edge We have always in our projects naturally and traditionally laboratories. specified for sustainability in the Brundtland Commission’s three-legged definition, in the sense that we We are proud to be able to say, that in 2010 80 % of all new have been planning for the good of place and man, with C. F. Møller projects integrate sustainable solutions man in the centre of our design. – whether it is environmental screening of projects, particularly high energy standards or a certification of some Since 2008 C. F. Møller Architects has supported the Global kind, and the number is constantly growing. Compact, and our awareness of the 10 Global Compact principles has grown steadily since then. In 2010-11 we have developed a new CRS-policy, which has given us a code of conduct within Labour Rights and In 2009, C. F. Møller Architects became the first major Corruption-issues. Danish architectural practice to achieve the environmental With a 90% rate of projects carried out within Scandinavia, certification DS/EN ISO 14001. The certification means that we are normally met by projects that have to be processed the company systematically has introduced eco-friendly within the EU and Scandinavian regulations which all live project planning and environmentally sound company up to ethical measures in terms of Anti-corruption, Human operations. Rights and Labour Rights. With the principles of ISO 14001 we have been able to For more than 87 years, C. F. Møller Architects has keep up, and increase the sustainability goals for our contributed to the shaping of the Danish and Nordic own organisation, for our competence-building and for welfare societies. We have developed programmes, spaces developing cutting-edge innovation in our projects. We and buildings for hospitals, universities and schools, have continued our quest for motivating our clients public administration, master plans, and housing from an to include as many sustainable enablers as possible, into evolutionary point of view and with a constant eye to social the briefs of their buildings and development-projects, by innovation through architecture. performing green building screening. 4 | COP In the future we expect to be part of the systematic export We are happy to introduce a set of rules that will guide of the Scandinavian “welfare state model”. us and our future global clients through good and We are experiencing an increasing international interest in sustainable processes. our health sector design, which we expect will take more We continue to participate as members of the Nordic projects outside the EU, but also create jobs especially Global Compact Network with our experiences, to discuss related to sustainability-issues. The 3rd world is ready to lay possible dilemmas and challenges, we or other members out the foundations for their welfare societies. C. F. Møller present, when working in the global market outside Architects will naturally turn its attention to these new Scandinavia and the EU. global markets and contribute to this development with our long experience and architectural mindset. In the last two years, C. F. Møller Architects has fully supported the Global Compact, and we wish to continue doing so in the following year ! C. F. Møller Architects, 11th of November 2011 Tom Danielsen Klavs Hyttel Anna Maria Indrio Lars Kirkegaard Mads Mandrup Mads Møller Klaus Toustrup Julian Weyer Lone Wiggers COP | 5 Vision Emerging from our architectural and philosophical foundation, it is the goal to be recognized globally and to be among the best practices in Scandinavia and Europe. The building industry is in a constant state of change. We want to be part of this process by setting new standards for the design and construction of buildings, for example, in developing new models for procurement and collaboration as well as motivating clients, users and collaborators to set higher standards within sustainable architecture. 6 | COP Principles which guide our practice As architects, we create environments for human beings, This shared architectural base, nurtured by a long history of and it is part of our social responsibility as consultants to craftsmanship and Nordic tradition, has evolved naturally further our knowledge and become skilled in minimizing from the extensive activities of the practice. People, place the environmental effects of everything we do. This design and function are the sources of our procedural foundation. approach also applies to the six branches of C. F. Møller Our architectural base, solely intended as a basic belief, Architects. not a straightjacket preventing testing and the research of new ideas, is an essential ingredient for communicating Simplicity, clarity and unpretentiousness, the ideals that in a common language. It must, however, constantly be have guided our work since the practice was established discussed and further developed via internal production in 1924, are continually re-interpreted to suit individual and debate. With our philosophy, we strive with artistic projects, always adapting to site-specific and user-analyzed vigour for an animated and evolving architecture that requirements and based on international trends and applauds simplicity, clarity and unpretentiousness, but also regional characteristics. diversity. International trends and the changing ideals of society inspire us and are interpreted and translated into Our mindset is founded on modernism, functionalism our architecture. and humanism on principles and values such as social sustainability, democracy, consensus dialogue, liberal We consider the environment, resource awareness, a solidarity, cooperative thinking, equality and freedom of sensible building budget, higher productivity and good speech. As architects we strive to solve societal problems quality to be an indispensable part of our current and with human needs and sustainable thinking as the driving future work. These overall considerations are built into our force, we pay attention to adaptation rather than the projects, including everything from general planning to the spectacular, and we always work with sensitivity to local design of building components. cityand landscape and local techniques. COP | 7 8 | COP Human Rights Outcomes: Principles: C. F. Møller Architects has used 2010-2011 to develop a CSR 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of policy including the areas of Human Rights to guide us, internationally proclaimed Human Rights when working in new markets, particularly outside the EU. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit According to this policy, C. F. Møller Architects has decided in Human Rights abuses to obey the UN Charter for Human Rights. Actions: Reference to policies: When working in the countries in the European Union we • The International UN-Acclaimed Human Rights are working according to European laws, which protect • Any current legislation that ensures equal treatment the Human Rights in both our own branch offices as well regarding Human and Labour Rights, unaffected by race, as regarding the people involved in the building sites we skin colour, religion or faith, political or sexual orientation, specify or are involved in. age, handicap or national, social or ethnical origin, or is directed towards ensuring ethnical equal rights When working in countries outside the European Union, we aim in our projects to describe and refer to binding Human Rights legislation and regulations, that should be taken into account when carrying out the described work i.e. buildings. Particular importance should be placed in the safety issues for the labour involved, as well as making sure that labour is carried out in accordance with the UNacclaimed Human Rights Standards. C. F. Møller Architects will seek to ensure Human Rights by describing the necessary enforcement of these in any building specifications that may be exchanged with contractors or other collaborators in countries inand outside the European Union. COP | 9 10 | COP Labour Outcomes: Principles: C. F. Møller Architects’ policy statement on Child Labour is a 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association qualified no. and the effective recognition of the right to collective C. F. Møller Architects will seek to ensure labour rights bargaining by describing the necessary enforcement of these in 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of any building specifications that may be exchanged with forced and compulsory labour contractors or other collaborators in countries outside the 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child European Union. labour Furthermore It is the goal to implement internal audits 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of of subsequent selected projects on an ad-hoc basis, discrimination in respect of employment and occupation if and when we have projects outside the EU and the Scandinavian markets. Actions: In general, we are dedicated to ensuring the best possible When working in countries in the European Union, we are psychological and physical conditions for all employees at working according to European laws, which protect the our offices. workers and their rights in both our own branch offices as Other than following the national Health, Safety and well as regarding the labour-rights and safety issues on the accessibility rules in our officer, we examine the Health and building sites we are involved in. Safety issues amongst our employees on a yearly basis, and develop new solutions for improving the working When working in countries outside the European Union, conditions in our offices. we aim to describe in our projects a number of rights and All our offices have appointed Health and Safety safety regulations that should be taken into account when representatives elected by the employees, who are carrying out the described work, i.e. buildings. Particular working with the management of C. F. Møller to improve importance should be placed in the safety issues for the on any environmental issue in our own offices. The goals, labour involved, as well as making sure that labour is carried plans and actions for this are also forming part of the ISO out in accordance with the UNacclaimed Labour Rights 14001-system. Standards. When employing new staff in the offices, we are looking C. F. Møller Architects has used 2010-11 to develop and for qualifications and experience first and gender and integrate a CSR policy, including a Statement on Labour nationalities secondly, although we recognize any Rights to guide us, when working in new markets. advantages given to the quality of work when executed from multiple backgrounds and cultures. At the moment C. F. Møller Architects employs staff from 18 different nations and the ratio between men and women is 54% to 46%. COP | 11 12 | COP Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to C. F. Møller Architects is the first major architectural practice environmental challenges in Denmark to have introduced a sustainable management 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote system, certified in 2009 under the international ISO 14001 greater environmental responsibility standard. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and The certificate extends to our 3 Danish and 1 UK-based diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies offices. It is a 2011-2012 goal to obtain the certificate for our Oslo and Stockholm based offices as well. Actions: The certification documents our proactive efforts to C. F. Møller Architects aims to be at the cutting edge when minimize the environmental effects of both the company’s it comes to sustainability. Future energy environmental and operations of 4 of our 6 offices as well as our sustainable requirements towards buildings represent products, i.e. the designs we do in terms an architectural challenge for a practice that intends of energy use of buildings as well as to be a pioneer in the field and at the same time environmental cycles of building achieve high architectural quality. materials. The ISO 14001-managerial system C. F. Møller Architects has chosen to take up this sets out goals and indicators challenge, under the heading of “sustainable for sustainability in our own design”. Sustainable design is C. F. Møller Architects’ office buildings, as well as for the term for design which takes account of energy and buildings we design and for the CO2 environmental and sustainable concerns. It is continuous development of new knowthus an umbrella term which embraces a wide range of how in the organization. energy-conserving design solutions as well as knowledge of materials, LCA, LCC, indoor climate and technology. There is no contradiction between sustainable concerns and good architecture. On the contrary, it opens up new, attractive possibilities for innovation in form, spaces and materials which are very much to the benefit of the coming users and residents. Sustainable project planning is a systematic working method which ensures that the environmental effects of construction remain limited. The method makes it possible to include environmental concerns in project planning on an equal footing with other considerations, such as accessibility, time, quality and finances. COP | 13 The goals for the buildings we design are: Due to our ISO 14001 certification process we are able to 2009: An obligatory sustainability screening of all new measure the results of our work with sustainable buildings projects is carried out as standard scope of work, in from 2010-2011. In this period we have seen an increase order to motivate every client to integrate sustainable of work with sustainable buildings and environmental components in his/her building. design. Not only are demands rising, but our strong focus on 2011: C. F. Møller Architects is offering Integrated developing new know-how in green buildings does pay off. Environmental (Energy) Design (IED) on all projects as a The following diagram reports the outcome of our work standard scope of works. with sustainable buildings. The statistics show that 80% 2012: C. F. Møller Architects is offering Cradle to Cradle of C. F. Møller’s new projects in Denmark in 2010 integrate Design (or similar LCA-design) and certification in sustainable solutions either it is environmental screening of DGNB-DK and BREEAM as special scope of works. projects, particularly high energy standards or a certification 2015: C. F. Møller Architects is offering Cradle to Cradle Design of some kind. Outcomes DK 2010 (or similar LCA-design) as standard scope of works on 142 projects from 2010 all projects. Outcomes DK 2010 142 projects from 2010 Outcomes: The indicators which we measure annually Outcomes are: DK 2010 20% • The amount and quality of the sustainable design. 10% 142 projects • The amount and quality of the competences of our from 2010 10% 38% enviromental screeni 10% employees within sustainable design. (C. F. Møller Architects 38% projectsofwith enviromental screening (energy projects 2015 or 2020 is continuously investing in capacityand competenceprojects with certifica projects with (energy) standards/dem building of staff.) 32% 2015 or 2020 planning/documentat conventional projects with certification, LCA,projects enviro • The amount and quality of the tools needed to carry out planning/documentation 32% 20% sustainable design such a database for environmental conventional projects within standard 10% friendly materials. • The visibility and brand value of our work with sustainable38% enviromental screening of projects design. projects with (energy) standards/demands DK for 2015 or 2020 projects with certification, LCA, enviromental planning/documentation 32% conventional projects within standards 14 | COP The ISO 14001 System also encompasses goals and A head of this organization has been pointed out, to ensure indicators for our own environmental footprint. that responsibility for this area is placed. We are constantly striving to minimize the environmental The ISO 14001 Environment Managerial System is annually load produced by the operation of the practice. We work to surveyed, audited and evaluated and results are being used cut down on our energy consumption, for example by using to set up new goals and strategies. The system is furthermore less electricity, water and heating, fewer environmentallyannually audited by an impartial auditor, namely “Dansk hazardous office supplies, Standard” – in 2010 C. F. less paper per member of Møller Architects received staff, and less air travel. a Clean Sheet Report by Dansk Standard. Results (examples): reduction of 20% electricity use from Reference to policies: Green Management 2010-2011 as well as E 2010 reduction from 2010SES ARBE JDiSo 14001 • C. F. Møller Architects MILJØLEDEL ordningerne i dS/en for i forhold til 2011 in international ISO 14001 Environment flights of 40% and a Managerial System reduction of purchase regarding products and use of office supplies and operations of 30% The company has developed and implemented an environmental organization. Each branch of the practice has an environmental coordinator who records local results as well as implementing behavioural patterns. COP | 15 16 | COP a scope of green projects COP | 17 Client The Danish University and Property Agency and the University of Copenhagen Size 35,000 m2 (30,000 m2 laboratories and common functions, 3,500 m2 canteen and classrooms, 1,500 m2 auditoriums) Year 2010-2014 Address Nørre Campus, Copenhagen, DK Prizes 1st prize in international architectural competition, 2010 18 | COP Extension of the Panum complex at the University of Copenhagen The design of the building takes its point of departure in several environmental goals. Firstly, the goal to create a signal building that will exude organic life, professionalism and openness on the Copenhagen skyline, and secondly, with respect to the immediate surroundings, High performance Sustainable planning the goal of adapting a large building volume to the city thermal insulation scale. The latter is primarily achieved by ensuring that the urban spaces towards Nørre Allé and Blegdamsvej form well-shaped areas which convey the building’s large scale to the neighbouring buildings, and by adapting it to the Daylight: Low energy windows slender shape of the church spire through the building’s slim southern gable. In addition, the primary choice was to make this a tall building, in order to keep as much of the terrain space as possible in the public domain. Energy efficient design Healthy building Finally, the building has been designed with round corners to aerodynamically mitigate the wind conditions induced at ground level by the tall part of the complex. The narrow south gable of the tall building is also in harRainwater harvesting Green Roof: mony with the goal of making the south-facing surfaces as small as possible in order to reduce heat incidence in the building. To this end, daylight is exploited to the LCA maximum by extending daylight incidence to the core of this relatively deep building, for example through the LCA use of large storey heights at the facades and daylightreflecting side panels on the facade windows, and by carving out atria in the building’s sides in order to extend the reach of the facade’s daylight input. COP | 19 Housing+ The Housing+ concept sets the ambitious target of a zero-energy housing scheme, which also includes the Energy efficient design Rainwater harvesting tenant’s primary household energy consumption. The complex will thus be 100% relying on renewables. The 60 units take the form of a sloped volume, from 12 to 4 storeys, creating a large south-facing roof-plane, High performance Passive solar design ideal for solar energy, and just the right size to supply thermal insulation the housing units. This optimized shape also creates a landmark silhouette, prominently positioned between Aalborg’s bridges. The roof-plane stretches all the way into the Limfjord, Low energy windows Green Roof where it shelters a public gazebo and café. The extension of the roof underlines the dramatic shape of the building, and the entire surface of the roof becomes the building’s power plant using both solar cells, solar heating and a combination of the two. Photovoltaic Cells /solar Ground cooling/heating heating The housing is built to passive-house standards, ensuring reduced energy consumption for heating and hot water LCA Clean air supply, which can thus be covered by the solar array and Ventilation heat pumps operating on fjord water temperatures. A 3 LCA meter wide by 12 meter tall highly insulated water-tank is integrated to store the generated energy during daytimes. The 1200 m2 solar array produces sufficient power to cover the annual 1740 Kwh electricity demand of each unit, a Daylight total of 104.400 Kwh. The building need not be connected to an external CHP. 4 vertical low-noise wind turbines take advantage of the windy location for additional power generation, and to recharge electric cars. 20 | COP Client Enggaard A/S Size 7400 m2 Address Nørre Sundby, Aalborg, DK Year of competition 2009 Landscape Vogt Landschaftsarchitekten, Engineer Moe & Brødsgaard Collaborators, other Cenergia COP | 21 Client Gladsaxe Municipality Size 10 hectares, 230,000 etage m2 10 ha urban area, 230.000 m2 floor area Address Grusgraven, Gladsaxe, DK Year Competition 2009 22 | COP Bagsværd Park Masterplan Master plan for the conversion of a polluted industrial site The site’s prerequisites, location, historic traces, fraginto a new, modern and sustainable urban area mented ownership, and current state are the foundation The master plan is for a transformation which exploits for the pragmatic layout of the master plan. The existing former and current remains and limitations to create the qualities are enhanced, and potential risks turned into offset for tomorrow’s urban nature. The vision shows advantages, to ensure social, economic and environmenhow yesterday’s landfill, and today’s mixed and run down tal sustainability in a long term implementation within an industrial site can become a modern and sustainable undefined timeframe. town part. Photovoltaic Cells Green Roof Sustainable planning Prefabricated elements /solar heating LCA Clean air Energy efficient design LCA Rainwater harvesting Ventilation COP | 23 HOUSE FOR THE ELDERLY IN STENLØSE Client Stenløse Municipality Size 460 m2 Address Stenløse, DK Year 2003-2007 Collaborators Birch & Krogboe (engineers), Skt. Knudsgade’s carpenters and Jesper Christensen, joiners (building contractor) The HEP house in Stenløse is a centre for the elderly The building is constructed from welded steel plates, which has a very low rate of energy consumption. The and is thereby completely airtight. It is also considerably building is classified in low-energy class 1, which means better insulated than usual, and is equipped with ecothat energy use does not exceed 30 kWh/m2 per year. friendly windows. Such a low level has not previously been achieved in a single-storey building of this size in Denmark. Even though the house is airtight, it has a good indoor climate. Air exchange is operated mechanically via a heat The centre for the elderly is centred on a large, highexchanger, which ensures that fresh air is drawn in from ceilinged common room surrounded by smaller rooms: outside. The heat in the outgoing air is transferred to the kitchen, conservatory, billiards room, computer room, incoming air via the heat exchanger, helping to keep toilets, store, equipment room and administration office. energy consumption low. Clean air High performance Passive solar design Energy efficient design Low energy windows Ventilation Photovoltaic Cells thermal insulation /solar heating 24 | COP COP | 25 Bestseller, offices in Aarhus New sustainable urban office block at the Aarhus waterEnergy efficient design front for the clothing company Bestseller. The development is composed as a series of independent volumes, with atriums, terraces and roofgardens in between creating in effect a city within the city. The Daylight building marks the entrance to the new urban waterfront development, and is surrounded by canals and water on all four sides. The building is planned to be in low-energy class 1, i.e. with an energy consumption that is 50% less than the Low energy windows minimum requirements of the Danish building regulations Client Bestseller A/S Size 20000 m2 High performance thermal insulation Addres Pier 2, Port of Aarhus, DK Construction period 2010-2013 Architects C. F. Møller Architects Phase changing materials Photovoltaic Cells /solar heating 26 | COP COP | 27 28 | COP Sølvgade School Client Copenhagen Council Size: 4500 m² (renovation 2100 m² , newbuild 2400 m²) Address Sølvgade, Copenhagen, DK Year 2008-2011 Prizes 1. prize after competitive tender, 2005 High performance thermal insulation Sølvgades School is being extended to enable it to LCA become a two-track school. A new school building of approximately 2,400 m² is being constructed in the LCA existing school courtyard, while the listed school building from 1847 is being extended. The new, six-storey school building inclines in order to Low energy windows accommodate the surrounding housing blocks: both the tall houses in Klerkegade and the lower ones in Sølvgade. The school area is surrounded by an old green Clean air border hedge which embraces the entire campus. This Ventilationy will be replaced by a new glass fence, which will also be integrated into the ground floor of the new building. The building has been constructed in compliance Daylight with the latest guidelines for environmentally-friendly development issued by Copenhagen Municipality. The project has achieved environmental classification as a ‘low-energy class 2’ building, which means that its energy consumption does not exceed 68 kWh/m²/year. COP | 29 New, high Security state prison in Falster The inspiration for the star-shaped form of the new the occupation building, which is crystal-shaped and clad prison, which will house approximately 250 inmates, was with perforated metal plates in green shades, and the drawn from its location in a rural area of small villages. The cultural centre, which is round, covered with glass and shape is reminiscent of that of the surrounding villages, ringed by green slats. and the complex is also intended to provide a small, Social sustainability focuses on environment for inmates condensed urban environment with the kind of varied and employees in placing of functions and flows. The spatial experiences, functional density and clarity of overall architectural concept of the prison as “the village” layout that such an environment offers. reflects the world outside and creates good foundation Each individual building in the total complex has its for rehabilitation. own identity. The prison constitutes the whole world for In the project we screen the most used materials and the inmate, and the various building expressions thus make sure that we focus on the enviromental impact. comprise an important part of the prisoner’s experiential There is a focus on water and a strategy for handling the universe. Overall, the complex is in a warm, grey shade of rainwater, both through green roofs, reuse of water and in brick. Variation is provided by, amongst other things, collection of rainwater. 30 | COP High performance Waterrec Rainwater thermal insulation harvesting ycling Low energy windows Sustainable planning Client The Danish Prison and Probation Service Size 32000 m2 Healthy building Daylight Address Gundslev, Falster, DK Year 2010 Collaborators CRECEA aggebo&henriksen Marianne Levinsen Landskab Photovoltaic Cells /solar heating Rambøll COP | 31 Athletes Village, plot N13 Our approach to the design of Plot N13 has been informed by an understanding of the design intentions and principles outlined in the Fletcher Priest Zonal Masterplan. We similarly see our scheme in the context of the plot design guidelines by Patel Taylor. This is due to our understanding that Plot N13 is not a stand-alone development, but part of a new urban framework, which responds and contributes to its context. C. F. Møller Architects have based key design decisions on the ability to deliver dwellings with access to a variety of outdoor spaces, good daylight, efficient layouts, and well proportioned rooms. C.F. Møller Architects takes the view that buildings made from good quality, durable materials which require little maintenance and improve with age is the best way to create a sustainable architecture. Through careful design studies, C. F. Møller Architects have created a building massing that utilises the scale and corners of each building within Plot N13 to generate identity for the blocks. This, in turn, promotes a sense of place and orientation within the urban fabric. 32 | COP Client ODA (Olympic Delivery Agency), LendLease Size 20000 m2 approx. Address Stratford, East London, UK Year 2008-2011 Clean air Engineer WSP (structural) Hoare Lea (mechanical) Ventilation Low energy windows Sustainable planning Passive solar design High performance thermal insulation LCA LCA COP | 33 Low energy windows LCA LCA Passive solar design Clean air Ventilation High performance thermal insulation Vacuum insulation/ Thermal Break Photovoltaic Cells / solar heating Daylight 34 | COP Client Aarhus Municipality Size 1800 m2 Address Kalkværksvej, Aarhus, DK Architect C. F. Møller Architects Engineer Alectia Year 2009-2010 Low-energy office building for the Municipality of Aarhus The office building, located in a development zone of the in the building’s corner conclusion, extending over all Port of Aarhus, is intended to provide a new landmark for storeys of the building. The solar wall collects energy the city of Aarhus – a striking image of energy architecture. which it uses to warm up the ventilation air to the offices The aim has been to create an example of progressive in winter and to cool the offices in summer. office building construction, with energy consumption at The office building has a large, south-facing facade and ‘passive house’ level and a good indoor climate. thus receives plenty of sunlight. To provide shade from The facade tells the story of a building in which energy the sun, the windows are recessed and are equipped with design has been used as a holistic approach. A 200 m shade panels. These are clad with solar cells, and thus also slatted wall of solar panels and a 170 m solar wall provide 2 produce electricity for the offices. Energy-friendly materidistinctive, sculptural elements in the facade. als and elements with ultra-low thermal conductivity The wall of solar panels, which is slightly tilted in relation have been used throughout, such as vacuum-insulated to the rest of the facade, produces electricity for the buildwindows. The building is twice as airtight in its design as ing. The 170 m solar wall comprises a vertical element 2 required by the Danish building regulations. COP | 35 Youth residence, Aarhus Waterfront The building contains 50 student housing units and communal leisure areas, and is located in the new docklands development area in the Port of Aarhus. The concept of the living units is centered on a super-opHigh performance Daylight timized core, a compact prefabricated unit that combines thermal insulation toilet/bath, kitchen, storage and risers, and functions as a freestanding piece of furniture that divides the flats into two rooms. The living units come in different sizes, but Low energy windows Energy efficient design share the same basic structure. In addition, there are generous bay windows and French balconies in every apartment, and the idea is that the window bays can be used for LCA Clean air Ventilation both sitting and sleeping for one or more persons. LCA The entire ground floor houses common areas for all residents: kitchen, laundry, locker rooms and a large flexible Rainwater harvesting space for parties as well as everyday life. The ground floor is generously glazed, creating a strong visual connection between indoors and outdoors. Ample bicycle parking is designed into the ground floor layout, with bikes ‘docking’ at the building like ships in the port. The building is designed to the low-energy standards previsioned for 2020, with a very low energy consumption of 15.2 kWh/m2 year. As a renewable energy source, newly developed encapsulated vertical wind turbines are proposed on the roof to supply the building with electricity. 36 | COP Client Boligforeningen Ringgården Size 2400 m2 Address Dagmar Petersens Gade, Aarhus Waterfront, DK Architect C. F. Møller Architects Engineer Orbicon Year 2011 COP | 37 New ferry terminal, Stockholm The aim is that the ferry terminal will be predominantly self-sufficient in energy and thus stand as an environmenClient Stockholms Hamn AB tal model for public construction. Therefore the archiSize 16500 m2 and a new costums area of 1100 m2 tecture of the terminal will integrate i.e. solar and wind Address Värtan, Stockholm, SE Architect C. F. Møller Architects | Berg Arkitektkontor power, for example the terraced landscape on the roof will Construction period 2009integrate beds of solar cells along with the planting. 38 | COP Sustainable planning LED Photovoltaic Cells /solar heating High performance thermal insulation Low energy windows Green Roof COP | 39 40 | COP Anti-Corruption When signing new countries with a reputation of Principles: corruption, we seek legal guidance and address any issue 10. Business should work against corruption in all its form, in our contracts and/or negotiations to encourage integrity including extortion and bribery and prevent corrupt behaviour. Outcome: Actions: C. F. Møller Architects has used 2010-2011 to develop and We are aware of and bound by our role as decision-makers integrate a CSR policy including a statement on antifor our physical environment. corruption to guide us, when working in new markets. Our As independent consultants, we choose methods, answer to corruption is a clear no. techniques and materials in dialogue with professional partners, but independent of manufacturers’ interests. Reference to policies: • C. F. Møller Architects agrees with the Code of Ethics and When we are met with encouragement to corruption Code of Conduct as defined by FIDIC, the International or bribery, we say no to work, and/or abort any form of Federation of Consulting Engineers collaboration. To guide us we wish to observe the tool developed by “Danish Industry” and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, known as the “CSR-Compass”, as well as exchanging experiences with the network of the Nordic Global Compact partners. COP | 41 The Team 325 in ToTal * 9 Partners | 1 CEO | 16 Branch Heads/Leaders | 145 Architects | 8 Designers | 10 Landscape Architects | 35 Constructing Architects | 17 Technical Illustrators/Assistants | 13 Consultants | 8 IT | 27 Administration etc. | 10 Engineers | 26 Trainees naTionaliTies 18 counTries in ToTal * 221 Danes | 40 Swedes | 31 Norwegians | 5 British | 4 Germans | 4 Poles | 3 Americans | 3 Italians | 3 Icelanders | 2 Spaniards | 2 Fins | 1 Australian | 1 Russian | 1 Mexican | 1 Hungarian | 1Lithuanian |1 Iranian | 1 Portuguese Gender 46 % women • 54 % men * 148 women | 161men * status october 2011 42 | COP About C. F. Møller Architects C. F. Møller Architects, Denmark, is one of Scandinavia’s Over the years, we have won a large number of national oldest and largest architectural practices. Our work and international competitions. Our work has been involves a wide range of expertise that covers programme exhibited locally as well as internationally at places like RIBA analysis, town planning, master planning, all architectural in London, the Venice Biennale, and the Danish Cultural services including landscape architecture, as well as the Institute in Beijing. development and design of building components. Today C. F. Møller Architects has app. 325 employees of Over the years, we have won a large number of national 18 different nationalities and with a 46/54 % division and international competitions. Our work has been between female and male staff. Our head office is situated exhibited locally as well as internationally at places like RIBA in Aarhus, and we have branches in Copenhagen, Aalborg, in London, the Venice Biennale, and the Danish Cultural Oslo, Stockholm, and London, as well as a limited company Institute in Beijing. in Iceland. Today C. F. Møller Architects has app. 325 employees of 18 different nationalities and with a 46/54 % division between female and male staff. Our head office is situated in Aarhus, and we have branches in Copenhagen, Aalborg, Oslo, Stockholm, and London, as well as a limited company in Iceland. COP | 43 REYKJAVIK contact www.cfmoller.com OSLO stockholm AALBORG AARHUS COPENHAGEN LONDON AARHUS C. F. Møller Architects A/S AALBORG C. F. Møller Architects A/S Europaplads 2, 11. Nytorv 28, 2. sal 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark 9100 Aalborg, Denmark Tlf. : +45 8730 5300 Tlf.: +45 9632 9797 Email: cfmoller@cfmoller.com Email: aalborg@cfmoller.com COPENHAGEN C. F. Møller Architects A/S OSLO C. F. Møller Architects NORGE AS Danneskiold-Samsøes Allé 28 Postadresse: Postboks 1347 Vika, 0113 Oslo 1434 Copenhagen K, Denmark Besøksadresse: Dronning Mauds gate 15, 5. et. Tlf.: +45 3288 7844 0250 Oslo, Norway Email: kbh@cfmoller.com Tlf. : +47 2413 3400 Fax: +47 2413 3499 Email: oslo@cfmoller.com reykjavik C. F. Møller Architects Island ehf stockholm Berg Arkitektkontor AB Managed by C. F. Møller Architects A/S Box 15055 Europaplads 2, 11. 104 65 Stockholm, Sweden 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark Besöksadress: Södermalmstorg 2, 116 45 Stockholm Tlf. : +45 8730 5300 Fax: +45 8730 5399 Tlf.: +46 8 555 760 00 Fax: +46 8 555 760 99 Email: cfmoller@cfmoller.com Email: mail@bergark.se LONDON C. F. MØLLER ARCHITECTS UK Ltd. 36-38 Whitefriars Street London, EC4Y 8BQ, uk Tlf.: +44 7427 1530 Fax: +44 7427 1531 Email: london@cfmoller.com 44 | COP COP | 45 Layout & text : Arkitektfirmaet C. F. Møller rev: november 7, 2011
