Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 April 2010 March 2011 For Our Customers, For Society Management Philosophy (established July 1989 & revised March 1999) Epson is a progressive company, trusted throughout the world because of our commitment to customer satisfaction, environmental conservation, individuality, and teamwork. We are confident of our collective skills and meet challenges with innovative and creative solutions. (The Epson Management Philosophy has been translated into 14 languages, and is shared by all members of the Epson Group worldwide.) About Sustainability Report 2011 Editorial Policy This report describes Epson’s CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives oriented around the Epson Management Philosophy. In compiling this report, we placed the customer at the top of our target audience. In addition, we used the words of the employees who are actually carrying out the activities whenever possible so they can convey their thoughts directly to our stakeholders and rekindle a sense of pride in the work they do. In deciding important matters to report, we took into account the opinions of internal and external readers. The feature articles describe two initiatives where we leveraged Epson’s strengths to create products that meet customer needs in new business domains as we pursue the goals of SE15, a long-range corporate vision established in 2009. We also included information on our relief efforts for the March 11 earthquake and describe the disaster’s impact on our operations. Reporting Period Memberships April 2010 to March 2011 • Global Compact Japan Network Note: Contains some information on activities conducted after March 2011 • Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association Scope • Japanese Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren) This report describes the sustainability efforts of Seiko • Japan Business Machine and Information System Epson Corporation and 92 consolidated subsidiaries. The Industries Association scope of environmental reporting, however, covers Seiko • Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry Epson Corporation, 19 affiliates in Japan and 49 affiliates • Communications and Information Network Association overseas that have acquired ISO 14001 certification and of Japan in which Seiko Epson owns a majority of voting stock. • Center for Information on Security Trade Control Note: Epson refers to the Epson Group, unless indicated otherwise. Organizational Changes in This Reporting Period Referenced Guidelines • Addition of two consolidated subsidiaries • GRI* Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006) 1 • Removal of five consolidated subsidiaries • Environmental Reporting Guideline issued by the Japanese Ministry of Environment (2007) Refer to the following website for details on changes to the Epson Group. • ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) Full year ended March 31, 2011 1 Global Reporting Initiative: This international organization creates a reporting http://global.epson.com/IR/financial_results/index_2010.html framework and guidelines that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 1 Contents Overview of the Epson Group 03 Message from Management 05 The Epson Corporate Vision 09 Feature: For Our Customers, For Society 11 Feature 1: Micro Piezo Technology in New Categories 13 Feature 2: Capturing Emerging Markets—Indonesia 17 Management Trust-Based Management 21 CSR Initiatives at Epson 23 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Creating Customer Value 25 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Environmental Management Platform 31 Environmental Management 34 Environmental Accounting 35 Providing Environmental Know-How 36 Biodiversity 37 Development & Design / Materials Procurement 39 Manufacturing & Logistics 41 Environmentally Considerate Products 45 Collection & Recycling 47 2010 Results 49 Previous Reports  Individuality and Teamwork Epson has published a report every year since 1999. In Human Development at Epson 51 2003 the name of the report was changed from EnvironOccupational Safety and Health 55 mental Report to Sustainability Report, to reflect the addition of social reporting. Trusted Throughout the World Organizational Governance 57 Next Scheduled Report Sustainable Procurement 63 July 2012 Prospering with the Community Corporate Citizenship 65 Communication 69 Worldwide Recognition / Survey 73 Inquiries about Sustainability Report 2011 Seiko Epson Corporation Disclaimer 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 This report includes forward-looking statements, estiTel: +81-266-52-3131 (main) mates, and plans based on the information available at CSR activity web page the time of publication. Actual results may be different http://global.epson.com/SR/index.html from those discussed. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 2 Overview of the Epson Group Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2011) zzCompany Seiko Epson Corporation zzNumber of Employees zzFounded May 18, 1942 Consolidated: 74,551 zzHead Office 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Parent Company: 13,311 Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 zzCapital ¥53,204 million Global Network zzGroup Companies 100 (including nonconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies): 25 in Japan and 75 overseas Europe Regional Sales ¥189.5 billion The Regional Sales ¥199.2 billion Employees 2,305 Americas Employees 2,449 Japan Regional Sales ¥367.5 billion Employees 20,704 Asia & Regional Sales ¥217.3 billion Oceania Employees 49,093 Regional headquarters Sales/service site Production site Development site Representative office/branch  Net Sales by Region  Employees by Region (April 2010 March 2011) Asia & Asia & Oceania Japan Oceania Japan 22.3% 37.7% 65.8% 27.8% Americas 3.3% Europe Europe Americas 3.1% 19.5% 20.5% Consolidated Results Highlights Net Sales ¥ 973.6 billion Operating Income ¥ 32.7 billion Net Income ¥ 10.2 billion (billions of yen) (billions of yen) (billions of yen) 1416.0 19.0 1347.8 57.5 10.2 1122.4 50.3 985.3 973.6 -7.0 -111.3 -19.7 32.7 18.2 -1.5 March March March March March March March March March March March March March March March 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 3 *A new accounting standard came into effect in the year under review. Results from the previous fiscal Performance by Business Segment*1 year have been recalculated using the new method for calculating segment income. Information-Related Printer Business Equipment Net Sales Trend (Billions of yen) Inkjet printers, page printers, dot-matrix printers, large-format printers, 712.6 702.9 printer consumables, color image scanners, mini-printers, POS systems products, Net Sales: ¥ 702.9 billion inkjet digital label presses, etc. (down 1.4% year over year) Segment Income: ¥ 70.1 billion Visual Instruments Business Miscellaneous (down 2.2% year over year) 3LCD projectors, label writers, etc. Personal computers, etc. Percentage of Net Sales *2 (2011 fiscal year) March March 2010 2011 70.0% Segment Income Trend (Billions of yen) Inkjet printers Page printers 71.7 70.1 Large-format printers March March Dot-matrix printers 3LCD projectors Inkjet digital 2010 2011 Mini-printers label presses Quartz Device Business Electronic Devices Net Sales Trend (Billions of yen) Timing devices, sensing devices, optical devices, etc. 248.0 231.2 Net Sales: ¥ 231.2 billion Semiconductor Business Display Business (down 6.8% year over year) CMOS LSI, etc. High-temperature polysilicon TFT liquid crystal panels for 3LCD projectors, smalland medium-sized displays, etc. Segment Income: ¥ 5.5 billion (up 264.3% year over year) March March 2010 2011 Percentage of Net Sales*2 (2011 fiscal year) Timing devices Sensing devices Optical devices Segment Income Trend (Billions of yen) 23.0% 1.5 5.5 March March e-Paper display Microcontrollers High-Temperature 2010 2011 controllers Polysilicon TFT LCD Precision Products Net Sales Trend (Billions of yen) Watch Business Optical Device Business Wristwatches, watch movements, etc. Plastic eyeglass lenses, etc. 57.7 68.2 Net Sales: ¥ 68.2 billion Factory Automation Products Business (up 18.2% year over year) Parallel-axis joint robots, IC handlers, industrial inkjet devices, etc. Segment Income: ¥ 3.3 billion March March (¥1.3 billion loss previous year) 2010 2011 Percentage of Net Sales*2 (2011 fiscal year) Segment Income Trend (Billions of yen) 3.3 6.8% -1.3 Wristwatches Eyeglass lenses Six-axis robots IC handlers March March 2010 2011 Other and Corporate Business Incubation Projects Other Net Sales: ¥1.2 billion (down 12.7% year over year) Intra-Group Services Segment Income: -¥0.2 billion (¥0.1 billion loss prev. year) Corporate Net Sales: ¥3.7 billion (up 17.8% year over year) Segment Income: -¥46.4 billion (¥53.8 billion loss prev. year) Epson Innovation Center 1 The devices and precision products segment was created on February 1, 2011, by integrating the electronic devices segment with the precision products segment. 2 The percentage of net sales includes inter-segment sales. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 4 Message from Management To Our Stakeholders Aiming to Be an Indispensable Company by Creating Lasting Customer Value Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 5 Northeastern Japan was struck on March 11 by a devastating earthquake and tsunami that tragically swept away lives and livelihoods in untold numbers. Epson was not immune. One of our employees regrettably lost his life and operations at our manufacturing plants in the region were forced to a halt. The Epson Toyocom plant in Fukushima has been especially hard hit. It is currently closed, and we still do not know when, or if, operations there can be resumed, given its proximity to the stricken nuclear power plant. Our other sites in the region, however, were able to resume production much sooner than anticipated thanks to outstanding help and cooperation from the community and from our suppliers, customers, and employees, whose rapid response made a difficult situation a little easier. Moving forward, the entire Epson team, from the board room to the factory floor, is united in its commitment to contribute to the rebuilding of the Japanese economy, as well as to global growth and prosperity, by fulfilling our mission of serving customers. Megatrends and Opportunities become increasingly more powerful and influential as The pace of global change is fast, and growing faster, they evolve. We intend to stay on top of these technoloand I believe that Epson is accelerating in a direction that gies and take advantage of opportunities they present. will intersect with a number of rising megatrends. One megatrend—global economic growth driven by emerging Compact, energy-saving, and high-precision technolonations—has already arrived. The ascendance of these gies*3 are Epson strengths. These strengths intersect with emerging nations has attracted manufacturing infrastructhe direction of society toward greater eco-consideration ture, creating ripe conditions for the incubation of new and device mobility. For example, our inkjet technology competitors. Epson is positioned to respond to the new can be used to reduce the environmental impact of competition by providing customers in emerging nations processes used to print product labels, textiles, and with unique, differentiated value. industrial products by depositing ink and other materials on-demand; that is, when, where, and in the exact Another megatrend is consumers’ heightened environamounts they are needed. Meanwhile, the micro-displays mental consciousness. The soaring cost of petroleum and we produce for 3LCD projectors can be adapted for use other natural resources and a chronic shortage of electricin a variety of mobile devices. They also have tremendous ity are only likely to further spur interest in saving energy potential for use in giant signage systems*4. QMEMS*5 and the environment. Accordingly, we will also be focusing technology for crystal devices is another core strength. It on creating products and business models that resonate allows us to increase customer value while lowering costs with the environmental sensibilities of these customers. through advances in microfabrication. We will leverage these advanced technologies to capture opportunities In yet another megatrend, cloud computing*1, social presented by the changes afoot to grow existing and networks , and similar transformative technologies will *2 future businesses. 1 Cloud computing: A model for delivering and using computer resources and services over the Internet. 2 Social network: Communication services that link service members over the Internet. 3 Compact, energy-saving, and high-precision technologies: Technologies that save energy, time, and unnecessary labor; technologies that make products smaller, lighter, and greener ; and technologies that provide product with greater precision and accuracy. 4 Signage systems: Electronic systems for displaying maps, advertisements, and other visual information. 5 QMEMS: Micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) made of quartz material that has been processed using semiconductor microfabrication technology. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 6 A Year of Visible Growth zz2010 Accomplishments In 2010, the second year of our current three-year busiElectronic Devices Segment ness plan, we continued to drive the restructuring proTransferred the smalland medium-sized displays business to gram that we had undertaken the previous year in the the Sony Group electronic devices segment. We made a number of Reorganized the semiconductor business and reassigned personnel Focused on businesses in the quartz device business moves to more tightly focus our management resources on our core strengths. For example, we transferred our Focused management resources on Epson's strengths smalland medium-sized displays business to the Sony Group, and we reorganized the semiconductor business, Information-Related Equipment Segment reassigning some personnel to other businesses. We Revamped the commercialization process to enable us also focused more heavily on QMEMS device businessto create and deliver products tailored to local markets es. In the information-related equipment segment we made a certain amount of progress in revamping the Made significant progress, including product launches in specific markets product commercialization process to enable us to create and deliver localized products that meet the wants and needs of customers in any given region. Maximizing Customer Value This year, 2011, we want to provide our stakeholders with Customers in different parts of the world use products in visible evidence that we are steadily moving toward fresh different ways and require different functions. We respect growth. While our progress could be impeded to some this diversity and think that by pinpointing what customextent by the impact of the Tohoku earthquake and ers want in each country or region, we can create new tsunami on production, we want to demonstrate that we products and business models that will have obvious can chart solid growth in the future. benefits for them. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 7 For Our Customers, For Society Last year, in Indonesia, we launched a very popular inkjet printer with a high-capacity ink tank. This high-quality Epson is a global company whose mission, as stated in printer is the result of extensive research into customer the company's Management Philosophy, is to be a needs in Southeast Asia combined with Epson's engicompany trusted throughout the world. Put another way, neering expertise. We were able to create a truly customwe are committed to what we call trust-based manageer-pleasing product by re-analyzing and capitalizing on ment. We create value that exceeds customer hopes our strengths and technologies to customize the product and expectations via fair means, and we want to be in every detail. recognized as a company that is capable of doing so. The Epson tagline Exceed Your Vision states these Epson's worldwide sales network and manufacturing hopes and our commitment. It is our goal, the role we infrastructure are another important source of strength. should fulfill. It is our promise to stakeholders. For example, we have been able to meet the needs of customers and rapidly expand our factory automation I have been making the rounds at our production plants systems business in China, where sales of industrial and sales and marketing sites around the world to disautomation robots are growing, because we have been cuss with the various management teams the implicaable to effectively use the manufacturing and sales tions of Epson's Management Philosophy. I will continue infrastructure we have had there for years. to engage Epson personnel in roundtable discussions to help ensure that we embrace the same hopes and misProfit is the proof that we have been able to fully leverage sion and that we work as a team to make them a reality. our strengths and business infrastructure to create value for customers. We use profit to reward our shareholders Indispensable to earning society’s trust are concrete with dividends, give back to society through taxes, and actions based on universally understood concepts and invest in the future as a sustainable enterprise. Fulfilling principles. Epson has participated in and pledged to this cycle is part of our corporate social responsibility, uphold the 10 principles of the United Nations Global and we hope to continue to prosper along with society as Compact since 2004. In 2005 we established “Principles a progressive company by creating ever greater customof Corporate Behavior,” rules of conduct that are aligned er value. with the principles of the Global Compact, followed by an employee code of conduct for achieving our management philosophy. All employees are trained in these as the cornerstone of our business activities. Through a shared commitment to these principles and conduct worthy of trust, Epson continues to work wherever we operate around the globe, to make Epson an indispensable company for our customers and society. President Inkjet printer with a high-capacity ink tank Seiko Epson Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 8 The Epson Corporate Vision In 2009 Epson, looking at global megatrends and opportunities, unveiled the “SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision,” a strategic plan that crystallizes the company’s vision of how it wants to be in the year 2015 and that outlines how we plan to become indispensable for our customers and society. We complemented this with the SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2009–11), a detailed three-year action plan to set us on track for achieving the goals of SE15. Under the business plan, 2011 is a year in which we will seize opportunities for new growth in order to achieve the goals of SE15. z SE15 Vision Statement Epson is committed to the relentless pursuit of innovation in compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies, and through the formation of group-wide platforms will become a community of robust businesses, creating, producing, and providing products and services that emotionally engage customers worldwide. The Epson Envisioned in SE15 that exceed customer expectations in the printing, proThe graphic below illustrates how Epson is envisioned in jection, and sensing domains. SE15 in terms of technologies, business domains, and customer value. In addition, we will achieve growth by drawing out the maximum potential of these core technologies so as to We will pursue perfection of our three precision mechameet the needs of customers in emerging economies as tronics-based core technologies (Micro Piezo, 3LCD, and well as in the commercial and industrial sectors. QMEMS technologies), and create products and services Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 9 SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2009–11) Epson set the goals of this plan to ensure we realize the The plan also defines goals for each year. SE15 vision. z Goals by year FY2011 z SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2009–11) Goals Set Epson on a new growth path aimed at fulfilling the SE15 LongRestore profitability. Range Corporate Vision FY2010 Set a profit-generating corporate Rebuild our business foundations to become structure firmly in place a community of robust businesses. FY2009 Shift management resources to areas of strength, Reach break-even potential growth areas, and priority areas. Restructure and reinforce the business foundations that underpin the long-range vision 2010 in Review and 2011 Initiatives The goal for 2011 is to set Epson on a new growth path The SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision sets forth quanaimed at fulfilling the SE15 vision. Toward this end, we will titative financial goals for 2015 predicated on net sales use the profit-generating corporate structure we are growth: a return on sales (ROS) of 10% or more and a putting in place in 2011 as a springboard to seize opporsustained return on investment (ROE) of 10% or more. tunities for new growth. The SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2009–11) provides The success of the actions we have taken to date indimilestones along the way. We achieved the targets for the cate that Epson is headed in the right direction, and so first two years of the plan, reaching break-even in ordinary we remain firmly committed to the management strategy income in 2009 and break-even in net income in 2010. we have been pursuing to achieve the SE15 vision. z Financial Goals of SE15 z 2011 Actions We remain firmly committed to ROS 10% ROE 10% or more the management strategy (predicated on net sales growth) for achieving the SE15 vision Seize opportunities for new growth as outlined in SE15 (Net sales: billions of yen) (ROS: %) Net sales Determine the effects of the March 11 disaster, and ROS make up for losses 1,122.4 985.3 973.6 970.0 10 Inkjet printers 1,000.0 10 Expand and enhance the lineup to provide the best products for customer segments 750.0 3LCD projectors Provide an extensive lineup as the No.1 name in projectors 500.0 4.4 5 Microdevices 3.4 Provide competitive products based on our compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies 250.0 1.8 0.1 Achieving the Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2012–14) 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 Pursue perfection in the creation of customer value Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 10 Feature: For Our Customers, For Society Epson's Micro Piezo Technology Fulfilling Customers' Dreams and Society's Wishes Epson began developing Micro Piezo technology in 1989. Four years later, we commercialized the MJ-500, an inkjet printer featuring the fi rst Micro Piezo head. Over the ensuing years, we have refi ned the technology and launched a large number of inkjet products to market. Our expertise in ink was developed to complement Micro Piezo technology. The potential of this technology for our customers and for society is boundless and will continue to expand into the future. The Expanding Potential of Micro Piezo Technology On-Demand Material Delivery Boundless Potential Micro Piezo technology is well-positioned to meet The perfection of Micro Piezo technology is one of some of the most advanced needs of today. No our primary goals. A number of characteristics give longer is it simply used to print information on this technology the potential to accomplish what paper. It has evolved to produce and deliver prints other inkjet systems cannot. The most important of on a wide variety of matethese is that it ejects ink droplets by using mechanrials on demand (when, ical pressure instead of heat. Since the ink is not where, and in the exact heated, there are far fewer limitations on the types quantities needed). Moreof solutions and materials that can be ejected. This over, it does so with flexibility is critical. It allows Micro Piezo heads to minimal energy consumpeject mixtures of adhesive and ink to dye fabric in a tion and without wasting textile printing process. It allows them to simultanethe jetted ink solutions. The Micro Piezo print head ously deposit RGB materials for LCD color filters. It maximizes the potential of the technology even allows them to spray a solution containing metal micro-particles to draw circuitry on PCBs. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 11 What is Micro Piezo Technology? Epson's proprietary Micro Piezo technology uses piezo elements arrayed in a print head to eject ink materials. The force needed to eject the ink is created by applying a voltage to the piezo elements, causing them to change shape, thus creating mechanical pressure that at ejects the ink droplets. Ink controllability High accuracy The size and landing positionition off ink i k droplets can be preciselyy controlled. co ontrolled. How a piezo system works 2 Ink compatibility Wide range of uses A voltage is applied to “pull” Wide selection of the piezo element and determine the ink droplet size. A reverse voltage is ink materials can be used d applied to push the piezo element and 1 Piezo element eject the droplet. Head durability Stable production Micro Piezo print heads are re Vibration plate 3 highly durable. Ink chamber Broad applicab applicability,bility from the bility, home to industry ry r 4 A voltage is applied to “pull” the piezo element and control the vibration of the liquid surface after a droplet is ejected. Home Micro Piezo Emerging technology Business domains Expanding Product Categories with Micro Piezo Technology In the feature articles that follow, we will introduce some of the initiatives by employees Commercial Industrial involved with products and services that are maximizing the potential of Micro Piezo technology, creating customer value in the industrial and emerging markets, and demonstrating consideration for the environment. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 12 Feature 1 Micro Piezo Technology in New Categories Turning Collective Strength into Customer Value The SurePress L-4033A Digital Label Press Faced with ever-shifting needs and preferences, many consumer industries such as the food, cosmetics, and personal hygiene industries find themselves needing to introduce a wider variety of goods with shorter market cycles and shorter production runs. Accordingly, labels and packages, the recognizable faces of products, are increasingly being ordered in multiple versions and in lower volumes, thus generating demand for presses that can efficiently and economically take care of short-run jobs. Zeroing in on this demand, Epson began development on a digital label press with new features that add flexibility. Printing Industry Technology Shift Most label printing businesses currently use conventional analog printers called presses. Analog presses are generally well-suited to high-volume printing jobs. For short run jobs, however, analog presses can add to costs due to long setup times and the need to carry excess inventory. Also, in addition to requiring complicated and time-consuming plate preparation and color matching processes, analog presses waste resources. Epson's latest digital label press answers important needs of label providers and of society. It prints labels efficiently, is simple to operate, and requires minimal maintenance. Running costs are lower and environmental performance is improved because there is less paper and ink waste, no plates or chemicals are used, and turnaround times are short. The Micro Piezo Multi-Print Head Array uses 15 of Epson’s Micro Piezo print heads to achieve accurate, stable, and high quality printing. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 13 Create, Produce and Deliver labels, and they needed to produce a wide variety of One of the things Epson aims to do under the SE15 labels in short runs and with fast turnaround. However, Long-Range Corporate Vision is to create new customer they could not charge extra even if their employees had value (p. 9) by perfecting our core Micro Piezo technolto work overtime to fill orders, so they struggled to turn a ogy, unleashing its full potential to provide products and reasonable profit and were unable to reach out to new services that exceed the vision of customers in the customers. To address these problems, Epson leveraged commercial and industrial printing segments. its strength in Micro Piezo technology to come up with a total solution that, in addition to boosting efficiency at the The I Project (the “I” stands for “industrial”) is a small front and back ends of the printing process, also: team that operates like a venture company and has functions that span the value chain. It was created to 1. Increases the efficiency of the proofing process with a develop a commercial industrial digital label press, a digital color proofing system*1 product larger than anything Epson had taken on before. 2. Enables direct printing of DTP data (eliminated the The project team brought together people from a range need for plate making) of backgrounds, encouraged tight, face-to-face commu3. Eliminates the need for a cutting die by using a cutnication, and ended up effectively combining the knowlting plotter system*2 edge and skill sets of each in a successful project. Seeking to incorporate the voice of the customer at every opportunity, we increased label waterfastness by using Maximizing Customer Value water-based pigment inks. We also gave the SurePress a Analog label providers faced a dilemma. They needed to 15 Micro Piezo head array for outstanding image quality meet rising demand for attractive, attention-grabbing and high throughput on uncoated, untreated media, a capability high on users' wish lists. z Analog Vs. SurePress Digital Label Press Workflow The digital SurePress, launched to worldwide markets in Digital Workflow Analog Workflow (SurePress) October 2010, uses newly developed water-based pigment ink that is nontoxic, virtually odorless, and Design Design nonflammable. Moreover, it has a dual drying system that enables the use of media that do not require pretreatment. Besides eliminating the need for plate makDesktop Pre-press ing, these features maximize customer value and envipublishing ronmental performance. Plate preparation z Dual Drying System Printing Micro Piezo Multi-Print Head Array Make-ready Printing Unwinder Air drying system Platen heater Rewinder Finishing Finishing Inspection and Inspection and Ink deposited Ink heated Second drying Ink firmly adheres delivery delivery on substrate on platen process to substrate 1 A color proofing system that uses a printer with color management that reproduces the same colors as the actual finished print 2 A system that uses a sharp knife to cut out pre-programmed shapes. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 14 Epson's Underlying Strength opment process and a storehouse of technologies that The members of the I Project worked together as a team we blended together. That's Epson's underlying strength. to solve tough problems that cropped up one after another along the road to commercial development of the The I Project Team SurePress. Reflects Hiroshi Oshige, a member of the I Project's development squad, “Sharing a common goal Mutsuaki Yamazaki, general manager of Quality Assurof coming up with a production system that would create ance in the I Project, says, We had to deliver a comprofit for our customers forced us to approach this projpletely new product from a completely new domain to a ect differently as individuals and really brought us togethcompletely new customer. So we decided that providing er as a team with a single mindset. stable, reliable operation to customers would be our focus and that to do so we would have to get hands-on, “The I Project, which drafted people from departments performing repairs and maintenance ourselves. We came that deal with industrial production equipment and conto the conclusion that the quickest route to providing the sumer information equipment, is desired level of operation to an independent, end-to-end customers would be to create organization with functions a good organization and from planning and design to system for field service engisales and service. Creating neers (FSEs). In other words, products and services in a new FSEs won't be thrown into a domain and maximizing site to fix problems by customer value take a themselves; we have collective, team effort. positioned the orgaHowever, the team was nization so that they made up of people will have the backfrom very different Hiroshi Oshige, I Project Mutsuaki Yamazaki, QA general manager ing of the entire I business cultures, Project team. industrial and consumer, which, in the beginning, led to constant clashes. Ultimately, though, we all had the same “As a result, problems that arise in the field will be comgoal and eventually came to accept, respect and trust municated to the entire project team on the same day each other. When we started working across departmenthrough the FSE. We designed the system so that team tal boundaries, we found that the cultural differences members can immediately respond to customers' needs actually worked in our favor and helped us take maximum and feed information back into the design loop. advantage of individual team members' strengths. Consumer printer knowledge and experience alone probably “We all feel personally invested in this project, and the would not have been enough to make the huge ink heads composition and empowerment of the team give us on the SurePress work. We were able to reach our goal speed and agility. through a combination of passion for the product develThe I Project team Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 15 Making Customers Smile buried needs. I firmly believe that good customer comField service engineer Yoshihiko Ito expresses his work munication and action that originates from customer like this: needs will eventually lead to customer satisfaction and build trusting relationships.” “My job is to support customers while, at the same time, working with the rest of the I Project team to make a better product. If I bring back customer issues to talk over with the team, they’ll help me come up with solutions. And, even if there is something I don’t understand, all I have to do is ask the design engineer sitting next to me. It’s a very responsive, satisfying place to work. “When I’m with customers, I’m always keenly aware that I’m Epson’s representative. Obviously the most important thing is to make the customer happy. Sometimes, though, I can’t respond to their demands on the spot, and so I get an earful. But the thing is, if you really listen to what they’re saying, you can unearth their Yoshihiko Ito, Field Service Engineer, I Project Voice of the Customer Seikou Co., Ltd. has three core businesses: film secondary processing, farm produce packaging materials, and digital printing. We’ve been doing business with Epson for a decade, since installing Epson’s PL-1000 inkjet label press. The PL-1000 led to some hit products, such as produce traceability stickers with the farmer’s photo, so half a year later we ordered several more. Then, in October 2010, we installed a SurePress. The deciding factor was our confidence in being able to provide customers with color reproduction. Greens and oranges are used extensively on farm produce labels, and the SurePress beautifully reproduces these colors because both are in the ink set. The ability to choose from a wide range of uncoated media was also very attractive. Throughput was raised significantly thanks to improved ease-of-use and maintenance-free operability, and we are still amazed by the functional quality in terms of things such as image waterfastness and lightfastness. One of the benefits of introducing the SurePress to our work flow is that it has enabled us to provide even greater customer care and service. While we would like to see even better support for even shorter-run print jobs and improvement in usability, this label press is what we have been waiting for and shows that Epson is a breath of fresh air in the printing industry. Even if per-print costs are somewhat higher, digital printing more than makes up for the cost differential by improving profitability, shrinking inventory, and reducing environmental impacts. With a business that takes advantage of digital printing’s simplicity and responsiveness, we have been able to boost corporate value and, ultimately, our estimation in the eyes of customers. We celebrated our centennial anniversary in February 2011. By strategically investing in a SurePress, we have put ourselves in a position to take a strong first step as we start off our 101st year in business. Masaki Hayashi, Managing Director Seikou Co. Ltd. http://www.seikou-web.co.jp/ Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 16 Feature 2 Capturing Emerging Markets—Indonesia Delivering True Customer Value L100 & L200 High-Capacity Ink Tank Printers Emerging nations such as China, India, and Brazil are driving the global economy, and their influence is rapidly growing in step with their economies. One of the emerging nations expected to grow the fastest is Indonesia, the fourth most populous nation on Earth, with a population exceeding 230 million. It is in Indonesia that Epson began revamping its inkjet printer business model to match local markets needs. The new business model is now beginning to spread to various spots around the world. Modified Printers Provide Clues to True Customer Value In Indonesia consumer inkjet printers are used by businesses for large print jobs. These business users place the greatest value on the ability to print large amounts of documents inexpensively. This spawned an industry in inkjet printer modification. Printers modified to supply ink directly to the head from external tanks or bottles became a frequent sight in the Indonesian marketplace. However, cost-sensitive consumers who purchased modified printers found themselves facing unexpected Jakarta problems, including printing defects and ink leaks. Republic of Indonesia Once we began to really listen to our customers in Indonesia and Population: 234,550,000 (4th) began to see where true value resides for them, we had to admit Per-capita GDP: 2,963 dollars (107th) that our communication with them to that point had not been Economic growth rate: 6% (41st) deep enough to uncover their actual wants and needs. Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook Database, October 2010 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 17 Knowing and Delivering Customer Value model, including sales and service, so as to meet the Says Muchammad Husni Nurdin, deputy country manneeds of consumers in the region. They began developager at P.T. Epson Indonesia (EIN), You have to know ing a printer with Epson's own high-capacity ink tank what constitutes customer value before you can deliver it. system that would supply ink to the print head from Once you know what is happening in the market, you external ink tanks instead of from ordinary on-carriage ink have to have a process for building true customer value cartridges. The goal was commercialize a printer with a into products. Doing so in a short time frame is a huge reliable genuine Epson ink tank system in half the normal challenge, yet we managed to achieve just this in the development time and offer it at a price that would be Indonesian market with the L100 and L200, a singleattractive to local consumers. function inkjet printer and an all-in-one unit, respectively. We succeeded in delivering the value that customers Responding to the Voice of the Customer wanted and, ultimately, in winning their trust. Listening more closely to our customers and behaving like a buyer Development started with a cost analysis. The focus was rather than a seller are the keys. to determine how to realize a price that Indonesian consumers would find acceptable and, moreover, that would be in line with Epson's criteria. We had to avoid making a low-quality printer on the cheap. Ink Tank Usability We leveraged our ink cartridge design expertise to come up with a low-cost, leak-free, ink tank of sufficient size that conforms to Epson's safety standards. The utmost care was taken to ensure good usability, with a removable ink tank unit that is easy to refill. The printer also incorporates design features that prevent ink from leaking Muchammad Husni Nurdin (far right) at product launch during transport and that maintain the ink supply at a constant pressure during operations to ensure excellent The inkjet models that Epson marketed in the past in print quality. Care was even taken in the design of refill Indonesia fell far short of the vision of consumers in this ink bottles. The shape of the nozzle, the nozzle hole market in terms of cartridge cost and ink volume. As a diameter, even the thickness of the bottle walls, are all result, modified printers had become the de facto standesigned to make it easier for customers to refill their ink dard in Indonesia. Shops dealing in modified printers had tanks. sprung up around Jakarta, and uses of these products were buying low-cost third-party ink instead of genuine ink. For them lower cost prints were more important than print quality. At the same time, the large majority of users were concerned about modified printer reliability, warranties, and service. And not without reason: five of 20 modified printers purchased and evaluated leaked ink. Epson team members in Indonesia, Singapore and Japan discussed the problem and came up with a welldefined objective of delivering as soon as possible a Ink tanks and ink bottle product that would satisfy local consumer expectations. Developers in Japan, seeing the alleviation of customer concerns as a significant step toward delivering customer value in Indonesia, resolved to transform the business Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 18 Leak-Free Operation less to run over the life of the product when one takes A lot of Epson know-how was channeled toward assuring into account the repair costs and related time losses. fundamental product quality. Since ink tanks are considIndonesia has been eagerly awaiting this business modered used the moment they are filled with ink, we cannot el. fill them at the factory to perform print tests or leak tests. So, instead, we pump pressurized air into the ink supply The L100 and L200 are transforming the inkjet business system and use pressure sensors to check air-tightness model, starting with Indonesia. These products are now and detect leaks along the ink supply path. being rolled out to other markets with similar needs. As of the end of May 2011 products based on this concept had We were able to assure quality in this way because print been released in Thailand, India, China, South Korea, tests are conducted before the head unit is built into the and Taiwan. product. By providing bottle-refillable, high-capacity ink tanks in a unit that sits beside the printer, we were able to provide the Indonesian market with a differentiated product and service. Customers have the security of knowing they can use their unit for many years to print in high volume and at high quality. Ultimately, as Muchammad Husni Nurdin told journalists at the October 2010 press conference to announce this product, We managed to deliver ink-tank printers that will cost our Indonesian customers Exhibition in Jakarta Eco Performance CO2 Reduction The L100 generates some 46% fewer CO2 emissions across the product life cycle than the Epson Stylus T13, a similar printer with replaceable ink cartridges, largely because ink is supplied by high-capacity bottles instead of cartridges. In terms of volume, this is the equivalent of 2,500 soccer balls. zzLife Cycle CO2 Emissions Material Product manufacturing manufacturing Use (energy use) Use (ink cartridge use) Disposal/recycling Transport 54 Epson Stylus T13 (2010) 29 Approx. 46 % lower CO2 emissions CO2 emissions equivalent to the Epson L100 cubic volume of 2,500 soccer balls (2010) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 (kg-CO2) Figures calculated under Epson’s test conditions. A life-cycle assessment was used to calculate the global warming impact of the product at each phase of its assumed 3-year life cycle and express this as a CO2 equivalent. The life cycle includes material & product manufacturing, transport, use by customer, and disposal/recycling of end-of-life products. Calculated assuming 20 A4-size color documents per day, per month (with 20 working days a month). The reduction in CO2 emissions is expressed as a soccer ball equivalent, wherein 1 kg of CO2 is equivalent to the cubic volume of 100 soccer balls. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 19 Customer Focus of Epson products. I make it a point to get out on the It was the sales and marketing team's task to get costsales floor as much as possible to speak directly with conscious Indonesian consumers to recognize the value shoppers. One of the things I do is explain the reasons of the L100 and L200. Our marketing campaign thus behind the launch of the L100 and L200 in Indonesia, so keyed in on customer savings across the product life that consumers understand Epson's approach. cycle as the biggest source of customer value. We explained to our dealers and In price-sensitive Indonesia, however, I sometimes find it distributors how we are difficult to explain how the L100 and L200 provide value able to reduce the total commensurate with the upfront hardware costs. When cost of ownership (TCO), that happens, I think like a consumer and talk more including running costs and about product value that is not tied to price—value dethe cost of repairs. We rived from print quality, ease of use, and after-sales selected 127 dealers and service, for example. distributors across Indonesia who we trained to The L100 and L200 embody our commitment to customer accurately communicate value in Indonesia. We are working to educate consumers the value proposition to In-store booth explaining product to recognize that a simple comparison of hardware prices customers. does not tell the whole value story; one has to also consider the TCO and peace of mind across the life of the product. I believe we're getting the message across. Introducing the product to dealers and distributors Devina Erlita Trisnie, a member of P.T. Epson Indonesia's sales and marketing staff, says, My primary responsibility is to help expand sales by educating general consumDevina Erlita Trisnie explains a product ers and retail outlets about the advantages and features As described in the examples given above, Epson is extracting the full potential of Micro Piezo technology and is taking an eco-conscious approach to create customer value in new domains. Providing value that exceeds the vision of our customers and identifying and meeting the underlying wants and needs unique to customers in a given region are what people expect of Epson and are what create corporate value. Epson, aiming to make itself indispensable to customers and society, will continue to grow by providing products and services that the world needs. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 20 Management Trust-Based Management Practicing fair and transparent business management to grow and prosper with communities Becoming a Trusted Company by Fulfilling Our Corporate Social Responsibility Management Philosophy Building Trust (established July 1989 & revised March 1999) Epson’s Management Philosophy is rooted in the belief Epson is a progressive company, that strict adherence to legal and regulatory requirements and ethical conduct as a good corporate citizen build trusted throughout the world stakeholder trust. Our mission is to build and maintain because of our commitment to customer satisfaction, trusting relationships with stakeholders, grow and prosenvironmental conservation, individuality, and teamwork. per with communities, and help to create a better world. We are confident of our collective skills and meet challenges with innovative and creative solutions. Principles of Corporate Behavior and (The Epson Management Philosophy has been translated into 14 languages, Epson Employee Code of Conduct and is shared by all members of the Epson Group worldwide.) Epson’s Principles of Corporate Behavior sets forth nine core principles that form the foundation for fulfilling our corporate social responsibility and building trust. The Principles of Corporate Behavior principles are shared throughout the Epson Group. The 1 Acting ethically, building trust Epson Employee Code of Conduct breaks these prinWe will abide by the law and conduct all our business with high ciples down further, providing a clear model of conduct ethical standards. for all managers and employees. 2 Protecting people, assets, and information We will maintain systems to provide the security of people and all corporate assets, and will be prudent in handling information. The CSR Organization 3 Generating value for our customers Epson strives to earn and maintain stakeholder trust by We will keep the customer in mind at all times and make the quality of our products and services our highest priority. upholding our corporate social responsibility. Toward this From the quality assurance efforts of each employee to the quality of our company as a whole, we will devote ourselves to end, corporate departments provide general oversight of creating products and services that please our customers and business activities, while a Trust-Based Management earn their trust. Council, chaired by the president of Seiko Epson and 4 Creating a safe, healthy, and fair workplace We will respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, whose membership includes all Seiko Epson directors, safe, healthy and pleasant work environment. statutory auditors, and the general administrative man5 Fostering diverse values and teamwork We will draw strength from our diversity, creating a positive synergy between the individual and the company. Customers 6 Co-creating with our business partners Global environment Shareholders/investors We will expect our business partners to live up to the same Government Local communities NGOs/NPOs ethical standards we observe and aim to work together to our mutual benefit while respecting applicable laws and our Employees Suppliers mutually independent business strategies and stances. 7 Initiating honest dialogue with our stakeholders We will maintain open lines of communication with our Trust-Based Management = CSR Management stakeholders, thoughtfully considering their views and suggestions. Preserving the natural Acting ethically, Protecting people, Generating value for Prospering with the Creating a safe, healthy Initiating honest dialogue Co-creating with our Fostering diverse values 8 Prospering with the community building trust We will actively contribute to the communities in which we Community environment operate, as well as the international community, facilitating our customers business partners assets, and information and fair workplace with our stakeholders mutually beneficial relationships. and teamwork 9 Preserving the natural environment We will integrate environmental considerations into our corporate activities and actively strive to meet high conservation standards in fulfilling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Principles of Corporate Behavior http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/ Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 21 ager of the SEC Audit Office, assesses whether the the Epson Management Philosophy and Epson Employee Epson Group is fulfilling and steadily improving its corpoCode of Conduct. In conjunction with this, departments rate social responsibility. and individuals This council, which met quarterly in 2010, reviews general • Recited and discussed the Management Philosophy; CSR topics, including compliance management, risk • Read and discussed the Epson Employee Code of management, and adherence to the Principles of CorpoConduct; rate Behavior. It also assesses internal controls, identifies • Completed an online course in the Epson Employee vulnerabilities, and deliberates corrective action. Code of Conduct. The heads of divisions drive important CSR projects with A survey at the end of the month gathered information on their divisions and the subsidiary companies they overactions taken, as well as ideas and opinions that can be see. Projects that span the entire Epson Group are used for future campaigns. administered or supported by corporate departments in cooperation with the divisions. Trust-Building Exercises Epson also looks to fulfill its responsibilities and build CSR Month stakeholder trust by implementing special campaigns Every year, in October, Epson holds “CSR Month.” CSR during Information Security Month, Environmental AwareMonth serves as an opportunity for management and ness Month, and CS/Quality Month, as well as by providemployees to think about corporate social responsibility ing level-based CSR training and seminars on topics and about how their actions contribute to building trust. such as anti-trust law. The focus of programs for 2010 was to learn more about Realizing Our Management Philosophy Epson has been addressing the economic, social, and environmental components of CSR in line with the SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision. The truth is, however, that we have not always been able to meet stakeholders’ expectations from an economic perspective over the past few years. To redress this situation, we need to proactively and rapidly react to economic, environmental, and social changes in accordance with pre-defined individual and organizational roles and objectives, in the “create, produce and deliver” value chain. The Trust-Based Management Office began in 2010 to redefine the role of each organization so as to optimize the whole. In conjunction with this, we are looking this year to raise internal awareness of the history and convictions behind Epson’s Management Philosophy to align the sense of mission of individual employees with that of our organizations, to help enable us to engineer systematic business processes to create customer Masahiro Koyama value from a customer-centric perspective. General administrative manager, Trust-based Management Office Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 22 CSR Initiatives at Epson Fulfilling our corporate social responsibility means behaving with integrity and building trust The United Nations Global Compact As a multinational corporation, Epson must maintain its We have been analyzing Epson’s challenges and issues, reputation as an indispensable company among customdriving continuous improvements, and reporting the ers and communities around the world. It is thus essential status of programs to our stakeholders in a timely manthat we uphold our commitment to being a progressive ner. Specific conduct in these areas have been incorpocompany, trusted throughout the world, as stated in our rated into the Principles of Corporate Behavior and have Management Philosophy. Each of us has to look into the been broken down into further detail in the Epson Emfuture to decipher what needs to be done in the present. ployee Code of Conduct. As individuals we must be willing to conduct business in a way that meets universally accepted principles of conduct. In 2007, Epson also became a signatory to “Caring for In view of this, Epson has participated in the United Climate: The Business Leadership Platform,” a statement Nations Global Compact (GC) since 2004, endorsing and prepared by the UN Global Compact, together with the pledging to uphold its 10 principles in the areas of human World Business Council for Sustainable Development rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. (WBCSD) and UNEP. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and Our Principles of Corporate Behavior United Nations Global Compact Epson Principles of Corporate Behavior Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights . . 1, 4 & 5 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2, 4 & 5 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Epson Code of Conduct of the right to collective bargaining . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 & 7 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor . . . . . . . . . . 4 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 8 & 9 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility . . . . . . . . 5, 8 & 9 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3, 5 & 9 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery . . . . . 1, 5 & 6 United Nations Global Compact Epson's UN Global Compact http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ http://global.epson.com/SR/un_global_compact/index.html Supply Chain Subcommittee Initiatives As one of the driving members of the Supply Chain Subcommittee of the Global Compact Japan Network (GC-JN), a working group under the GC, I have been working with people from nearly 20 companies in different industries while fulfilling my obligations as a member of one of the executive companies. A subcommittee made up of people from diverse corporate cultures is an asset, and we take advantage of it by discussing experiences and challenges and by sharing practical ideas and knowledge. Our goal is to help build a better society by using this as an opportunity to learn, of course, but also to publicly share what we accomplish and give back to enterprise. We provided a glimpse at our initiatives at the June, 2010, UN-GC Leadership Summit and presented a progress report on our 2010 activities at the November GC-JN symposium. The subcommittee is a dynamic organization that invites observers from companies that are planning to participate in the future to attend subcommittee meetings to enliven the debate. Hirotaka Tanaka Trust-Based Management Office Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 23 Meeting Challenges with Innovative and Creative Solutions 2010 CSR Initiatives Epson seeks to build trusting relationships with all stakeholders and to grow and prosper with communities by practicing socially responsible “trust-based management.” Epson’s 2010 CSR initiatives were oriented around the five tenets of the Epson Management Philosophy. Commitment to Customer Satisfaction 25 30 Epson constantly strives to create customer value. Commitment to Environmental Conservation 31 50 Epson engages in various environmental initiatives. Individuality and Teamwork 51 56 Epson values its employees. Trusted by People Worldwide 57 64 Epson practices organizational governance. Prospering with the Community 65 72 Epson contributes to the communities in which it operates. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 24 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Creating Customer Value We will vigorously pursue each and every one of the ideals in our Quality Philosophy and Quality Policy as we endeavor to provide the best products and services to our customers. Customer Delight In an increasingly diverse society, Epson aims to listen to its customers at all times in order to deliver products and Quality Philosophy services that have the quality and features that customers demand while also being a joy to use. Keeping the customer in mind at all times, we make the quality of our products and services our highest Instead of dividing customer demands into things we can priority. From the quality assurance efforts of each and can’t do, we try to come up with ways to achieve the employee to the quality of our company as a whole, things our customers truly want and take on the chalwe devote ourselves to creating products and lenge of bringing them to fruition. services that please our customers and earn their trust. Epson continues to study the environments in which its products are used and develop products according to Quality Policy customer requirements. In the Indonesian market, we developed printers outfitted with large ink tanks for heavy 1. We will solve problems by directly observing all users. We also developed dust-resistant projectors that of our operations and processes. *1 work in harsh environments with lots of dust and sand. 2. We will quickly complete the Plan, Do, Check & Act (PDCA) cycle in all situations. These efforts not only help our customers but also pro3. We will thoroughly analyze any failures, and vide an opportunity for us to improve our technologies establish procedures based on that analysis, so and to build high quality into our products. that mistakes are never repeated. 4. We will proactively consider our customers’ Aiming for 100% Yield satisfaction so they will genuinely prefer purchasVariations in quality are inevitable, but only using inspecing Epson products and feel confident using tions to screen the products without addressing the them. *2 variations themselves is shortsighted. Epson pursues the 5. We will seize the opportunity presented by root causes of variations and goes to extraordinary customer comments and complaints to inform lengths to reduce them so it can deliver high quality our decisions when designing new products. products to all of its customers. 6. We will readily report even negative information. 7. We will foster a climate in which attention is paid E&G Electronics (Shenzhen) Ltd. (EGL), a manufacturer of to even the most commonplace events. ink ribbons for serial impact dot matrix printers, started a project with bold initiatives aimed at achieving inspectionless processes. These initiatives ended up reducing inspection costs by two-thirds compared to 2008. 1 We practice sangen shugi, a philosophy that emphasizes the importance of going to the actual site of a problem, observing Epson will continue to roll out similar projects worldwide. firsthand the actual situation, and making decisions based on the facts. 2 We practice wow CS, which focuses not only on basic product performance but on adding value that delights and impresses customers beyond their expectations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 25 Customer-Centered Product Design Turning Dreams into Products Delivering Software Quickly and Easily EB-1775W Mobile Projector Web Installer Epson posts the latest versions of its software for printers, scanners, and other products on its website so customers can use the products to their fullest potential. Web Installer automatically finds and installs the latest versions of the software needed to use the Epson products that are installed on the computer. The EB-1775W mobile projector is the world’s thinnest* 3LCD projector at 44 millimeters. In addition to its low The software was developed in response to the large profile, it offers easy setup and flexibility of placement. number of calls received by the call center from custom(*as of September 2010, according to Epson research) ers who did not know how to download and install software from the Web. The driver design team, determined “It’s a dream come true!” Rigorous market research to do something about the problem by the release of the indicated that customers want a mobile projector that is 2010 models, was able to complete Web Installer in just thin and light enough to fit in a business bag while also six months. being affordable, easy to use, and as bright as larger models. The team did not stop there, either. They handled every aspect of the release, including optimization of the interThe idea of creating a “dream projector” came from a face, posting the software on the Web, and providing meeting where members of the development team had software support for the update feature. This made it to try to sell a mobile projector to an imaginary company. possible to deliver a user-friendly system to customers After trying to set up the projector, adjust the image, give quickly and reliably. Every day, more and more users are a presentation, take questions, and put away the projecusing Web Installer to download software for their Epson tor, they realized that the size and usability of current products. projectors still needed work and finally understood why they needed to create a better option. The team is currently working on a service that automatically notifies users when an update is ready to prevent With a commitment to deliver this dream projector to the problems from occurring in the first place. customer no matter what, everyone involved in product development combined their ideas and efforts on an unThe job of a software developer is not done when the precedented level, worked with other divisions and outside software is released. We are always looking for ways to parts manufacturers, and ultimately achieved their goal. make our products easier for customers to use and strive to deliver those improvements quickly and reliably. In the end, the success of the development team came down to being able to cultivate a shared understanding of their objectives at an early stage. Sharing progress and issues on the “dream projector” IJP LP Planning & Design Department: (right) Kazunobu Nimura, Manager, (left) Kimihiro Kawano Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 26 A Quality Look and Feel Recognition of Epson Quality A product that makes loud noises every time it is used can be very disappointing. And how about a product that 2010 Good Design Award-Winning Products looks really cheap and poorly made? Many people have (Model numbers are for the Japan market) poor experiences with the products that surround us in modern life. Even if a product has compelling features and is easy to use, these shortcomings make it feel somewhat lackluster. Epson aims to please its customers by giving its products a pleasant feeling and a classy look that convey “sensory quality.” Here are just some of the Colorio printers EP-803A features that give our products an air of quality. EP-803AW Glossy black casing (piano black finish) Our products use a piano-black finish to create an elColorio printer egant look that complements the interior of any home. PX-203 We selected this color based on global color trends and user surveys. This finish has now become a major trend in a wide variety of products. It has also received accolades for having a smaller impact on the environment due Thermal receipt printer TM-T88V series to its paint-free nature. Scratchand fingerprint-resistant dot pattern Home theater The dot pattern added to the projectors lids of our printers improves EH-R4000 EH-R1000 the user experience by hiding scratches and fingerprints Offirio projector while also providing a good EB-1775W grip and a glossy, pleasing texture. Offirio projectors EB-450WT EP-460T Blinking status LED informs user of print status We gave the control panel blue LEDs that blink so users can see the status of the printer from afar when printing wirelessly. We also went through numerous prototypes to Document imager make sure the control panel has uniform brightness. ELPDC11 Going forward, we will continue to make improvements to the way our products look, feel, and sound, putting ourselves in the user’s shoes to find the type of sensory quality that customers enjoy the most. We’re confident that our ideas will exceed expectations. Checking the sensory quality of the finish (Imaging Products Design Center) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 27 Sales, Service, and Support Initiatives We run programs to convey the delight and enjoyment of printing by giving our customers hands-on experience with our products and by providing opportunities to enrich their lives. Epson New Photo Forum The Epson New Photo Forum is a photography event for enthusiasts aimed at supporting works created by our customers in a digital environment. The 2010 forum was the seventh annual incarnation of the event, which began in 2004. We demonstrated our latest inkjet printers, Epson Photo Team in Kobe: Setting up a home photo studio scanners, and other devices in exhibits and held instructional seminars on using our products. We held various events at the forum so visitors could experience the joy of creating photos themselves. Visitors Worldwide Service and Support could bring their own photo data and experience the Meeting delight of printing out on the latest Epson printers. We also had many creative works from our customers on display in a public photo gallery open to entries from the Global Exchange of Sales Ideas general public and a photo club gallery open to major Sales staff and heads of operations divisions from photography clubs. Epson Group companies around the world periodically congregate to exchange ideas and information. This is an opportunity for the divisions that plan and develop the products to interact with the sales departments that actually meet with customers and provide service and support so they can work together to improve customer satisfaction. Participants look at case studies where customer Photo club gallery at the Epson New Photo Forum feedback garnered from service and support activities was reflected in product improvements. These Epson Photo Team meetings play a vital role in ensuring that product Epson employees familiar with photo editing and printing development, service, and support stay closely in decided to form an inter-departmental photo team. Team tune with our customers worldwide. members share the joy of photo printing with communities across Japan. The team runs events all over Japan for people of all skill levels, from beginners who just purchased their first DSLR camera to experienced photographers who have been taking photos for years. The one-day events are packed with various activities, including seminars by professional photographers, local photo exhibitions, and still-life photo shoots. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 28 Collectively Creating Customer Value Solving Problems with Teamwork (E-Kaizen) Pay Day is Customer Satisfaction Day Epson carries out a series of individualand team-based In order to create products and services that exceed cusimprovement activities throughout the Group in its Etomer expectations, Epson believes that its employees Kaizen program. In these activities, employees come up must first get to know the customer and take customer with ideas to solve problems they encounter during the feedback and expectations to heart. course of their duties. This is why we have programs to quickly disseminate all There are currently around 1,800 teams worldwide customer feedback received during customer visits, at working on such activities. Recently, many of these activiour call centers, and in letters sent to Epson. ties have been focused on “100% yield.” One such activity had a theme of “improving process capability by One such program that has been running since 2006 is feeding back inspection results to upstream processes.” called “Pay Day is Customer Satisfaction Day.” Every Grounded in the quality philosophy of “delivering prodpayday, we post customer complaints and compliments ucts that please our customers,” this initiative attempts to on our company intranet site to remind employees that improve quality by addressing the root of the problem our paycheck comes from the customers. We then run a instead of depending on inspections to ensure quality. survey to find out how employees feel about the feedback received and how they plan on reflecting it in their The top teams compete at the annual Worldwide Team work. On the following payday, we share the results of Presentations. In 2010, 28 teams from eight different the survey along with new customer feedback. countries competed in the event. Tomomi Misawa, who is in charge of the program, says, Activities are reviewed from the following three perspec“This program gives everyone, myself included, a good tives and are also linked to professional development. opportunity to think about what CS means to them. When customers take the time to let us know about their ideas and • Does the activity actually improve customer value or suggestions, we shouldn’t let that go to waste. Sometimes it contribute to society? is difficult to decide which feedback should be given to • In performing the activity, did the employees acquire employees and how to frame it, but I see this program as a a logical perspective and a scientific methodology great opportunity to delight even more customers with more and did they frame the issues on their own? useful products and services from Epson.” • Was the improvement process carried out with sufficient dialog between management and other relevant parties, and were ambitious objectives efficiently achieved? The president presents all teams with a certificate of commendation and the President’s Award trophy to the team with the most impressive activity. Tomomi Misawa CS/Quality Assurance & Environment Department Worldwide Team Presentations Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 29 Global Standards for Rapid Response to Product Incidents Customer Security, Safety, and Satisfaction If a safety incident occurs, a preliminary report is immediEpson has established regulations governing quality ately issued using our group-wide Quality Crisis Manageassurance and product safety management to help ment (QCM) system, which quickly delivers the informaensure that we offer the same quality to customers in tion to relevant personnel, including the chief executive every country and every region around the world. for serious incidents. We then analyze the cause, develop countermeasures, announce the incident to the public, Our product safety and environmental compliance reprovide market support, and furnish outside organizaquirements are set forth in the Epson Quality Standard tions with the reports and notices required by product (EQS). This comprehensive set of unified standards is safety laws and regulations. implemented across the Epson Group. EQS specifies independent controls that we implement to meet or z Epson Product Incident Response Process exceed legal and regulatory requirements in each country. The QCM system directly Product incident occurs delivers news and reports Inquiry on product incidents that Product Safety Policy occur anywhere in the Sales companies and world to corporate headWe work hard to ensure the safety of all our products market support departments quarters, operations divisions, and the chief because we understand the need for customers to trust Entry into QCM system executive if warranted. QCM system the safety of the products they buy. Our Product Safety Delivery Delivery Delivery Policy reflects this recognition and expresses our comDivision/Affiliate mitment to customer satisfaction—a core tenet of EpChief executive quality assurance department Corporate HQ Sales company son's Management Philosophy. Report Cause analysis Quality Assurance Service & Support assessment Legal Affairs Legal Affairs and approval Countermeasure planning Product Safety Initiatives Public Relations Public Relations Reporting decision Epson makes every effort to ensure its products are safe. Other related depts. Other related depts. We use analytic techniques learned and honed over the Issue reports, share information, respond years to analyze safety incidents reported by customers Reports & notices Appropriate release of information & market support and determine the root cause. The lessons learned are Outside organizations Customers shared throughout the Epson Group to prevent recurrences of similar incidents. We have purpose-built equipment and instruments in our 2010 Important Notices in Japan laboratories to measure various substances, including those thought to cause sick house syndrome. Using these facilities, we test our products against our strict, independent standards to make Epson proactively announces product recalls and sure that our products other safety and security issues in the Japanese are safe and secure. market on the following website: Additional measures Important Notices (in Japanese) include product safety http://www.epson.jp/info/ training for all employAnalysis using an X-ray CT machine ees, building safety into our products by eliminating hazards at the planning and design stage, and making sure the products are safe even if misused. Measuring chemical substances Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 30 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Environmental Management Platform Epson's commitment to sound environmental practices can be traced back to the company's founding, when maintaining the cleanliness of nearby Lake Suwa was an iron-clad policy. In June 2008, Epson established Environmental Vision 2050 , a document that sets forth what it will take as a company to halt the relentless advance of global environmental degradation and build a sustainable society. Reductions of CO2 emissions and conservation of biodiversity are the main pillars of the Vision, which is based on the fundamental premise that the carrying capacity of the Earth should be divided evenly among all people on the planet. Environmental Vision 2050 Recognizing that the Earth's carrying capacity is limited and believing that everyone must share responsibility for reducing environmental impacts equally, Epson is aiming to reduce CO2 emissions by 90% across the lifecycle of all products and services by the year 2050. At the same time, as a member of the ecosystem, Epson will continue to work towards restoring and protecting biodiversity together with local communities. Detailed outline of Environmental Vision 2050 http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/vision/vision2050_index.html Putting Environmental Policy into Practice To reach the goals set forth in Environmental Vision 2050, we had to set certain milestones and take action to fill gaps between where we are and where we want to be. We established SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy as the first of these milestones. This policy provided direction for environmental action, one of the challenges identified in the SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision. Environmental action policies thus became integrated with our business activities. SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy Basic Policy (SE15 Environmental Statement) Provide customer value by using our compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies to reduce our environmental impacts across all areas of operations, from our products and services to our sales and manufacturing activities. 2015 Environmental Goals • Halving of life-cycle Achieve customer satisfaction by aiming to create new products and services whose environmental impacts environmental impacts across their life-cycles are reduced by 50%. • Expansion of recyclable Expand the resource reuse and recycling loop by delivering new recyclable products products and services and services. • Environmental applications Help society mitigate its environmental impacts by pursuing advances in compact, energyof advanced technologies saving, high-precision technologies and applying these technologies in various fields. • Legal & regulatory Respond quickly and without fail to new environmental regulations and social movements compliance around the world. • Fostering of an Try new socially and economically sustainable practices through environmental actions environmental community centered on products and services. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 31 Achieving Environmental Vision 2050 We will also take a new approach to the mitigation of A backcasting approach was taken when creating the environmental impacts, and we will achieve the 2050 Environmental Vision 2050. After developing a vision of vision via our business activities. Examining future busihow Epson should be in the future, we identified actions nesses through the prism of the “Environmental Vision we need to take to arrive there. Mitigation of environmen2050” reveals clues about how businesses and the tal impacts at our production plants will provide a foundacompany should be. Actions and ideas that enhance tion from which to accelerate toward mitigation of envicustomer value and the product experience without ronmental impacts through our products and services. relying as much on material goods should increase in importance. We continue to discuss the direction we want to lead Epson as we head far into the 2050 future. z 2015 Environmental Goals 2050 SE15 2040 Environmental Eco Protection Community Eco Environmental Technology Education 2030 Reforestation & Community Environmental Environmental Engagement Customers Communication 2020 Vision 2050 New Perspective 2015 Products 2010 Production 1998 z Achievement chievement of “Environmental Vision 2050” Environmental Contribution to global environmental Vision 2050 sustainability g * t in cas B ack SE15 New approaches to reducing Initiatives as a core environmental impacts part of business Action07 Action2010 A corporate responsibility Linking ecology Reducing the environmental impact approach to addressing and economy of products and services wide-ranging environmental issues Reducing the environmental impact of production sites 1998 2006 2008 2010 2015 2050 *A planning technique in which a desired outcome or goal is envisioned and planned before the scenario for achieving the outcome or goal is devised Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 32 A History of Environmental Action We establish and regularly update a General EnvironmenEpson, founded in the rich natural surroundings of Cental Policy that presents concrete targets for our environtral Japan, has always been committed to operating in a mental programs. The environmental actions taken at way that minimizes the company's environmental footEpson Group sites have successfully addressed a wide print. This commitment is grounded in the company's range of environmental problems, but one of the things Management Philosophy with the phrase commitment we also tried to do was make a direct connection beto….environmental conservation. tween our environmental activities and our business activities. In April 2010, to meet certain objectives of our In the 1980s depletion of the ozone layer by chlorofluoroSE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision, we established the carbons (CFCs) became a major international concern. In SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy, which contains a August 1988, Epson became the world's first corporation statement that clarifies our 2015 goal as “providing to declare its intent to become a CFC-free enterprise. We customer value by using our compact, energy-saving, followed up by launching a group-wide effort to eliminate high-precision technologies to reduce our environmental CFCs, without resorting to the use of alternatives such as impacts across all areas of operations, from our products HCFCs. At the time, we were using CFCs to clean printed and services to our sales and manufacturing activities.” circuit boards, display devices, plastic lenses, watches, We are building on existing initiatives and accelerating and a variety of other precision parts. Furthermore, our strategic efforts across our businesses to mitigate the CFCs consumption was increasing at a rate of 20%-30% environmental impacts of Epson products and services. per year. The fact was, our businesses were dependent We are making our products smaller, lighter and more on CFCs. Nevertheless, in October 1992, a combination recyclable to reduce the environmental impacts that of technical improvements and creative thinking culmicustomers feel and to deliver real economic value. nated in the elimination of CFCs from all Epson operations one year and five months ahead of the March 1994 target date we had set. Environmental Philosophy (Established October 1994 & revised June 1999) Our efforts did not stop once we eliminated CFCs. We also continued to work toward eliminating chlorinated Epson will integrate organic solvents. We believe that it is better to collaborate environmental considerations than compete when it comes to dealing with global-scale into its corporate activities problems. That’s why we share the technology and soluand actively strive to meet tions we develop in Japan with our global affiliates and high conservation standards business partners. It is also why a willingness to disclose in fulfilling its responsibilities technology and know-how that can help communities and as a good corporate citizen. other companies further their environmental programs has, in fact, become a hallmark of the Epson way. Major Activities The following activities will be pursued by the entire Environmental Approach Epson Group in keeping with our Environmental Philosophy: Recognizing that our business activities impact the environment, we carry out programs around the world to 1. Creating and providing earth-friendly products address problems of a global scale, applying the same 2. Transforming all processes to reduce the burden standards and using the same targets in every country on the environment and region. Furthermore, we approach these environ3. Recovering and recycling end-of-life products mental programs with the same willingness to collaborate 4. Sharing environmental information and contributing rather than compete that we demonstrated during the to regional and international conservation efforts CFCs elimination campaign. Our basic approach to 5. Continually improving the environmental environmental affairs is made explicit in our Environmenmanagement system tal Philosophy and in a statement of our major activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 33 Environmental Management Conducting business under environmentally considered management Environmental Management System Environmental Education Business units within the Epson Group establish their We want our employees to remain mindful of the environown environmental action plans based on the SE15 ment while on the job. We feel it is important for them to Mid-Term Environmental Policy, and drive initiatives consider how their conduct, both at work and at home, independently. Once or twice a year we conduct internal affects the environment, and we want to empower them evaluations to check performance against plans, and we to contribute to environmental solutions. Toward that end, take corrective action against nonconformances. Epson provides environmental education and promotes correct understanding of ecological practices. We operate our environmental management system in compliance with the international ISO 14001 standard, zz2010 Environmental Education (in Japan) and we implement a planning and control cycle to effect Training Trainees continuous improvement. All of our major business sites ISO14001 environmental auditor training 66 (Cumulative: 1,932) in Japan and our manufacturing sites abroad are ISO 14001 certified. Training Start Date*1 Trainees*2 Basic Environmental Training Apr. 2002 526 (Cumulative: 16,991) ISO14001 Certification List (Co-existing with Nature) http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/reports/iso14001.html Global Environmental Tech. Dec. 2003 511 (Cumulative: 11,094) Training (Environmental Regs.) Basic Environmental Training II Dec. 2009 15,103 Environmental Risk Management (2010 Version) 1 e-Learning start date Pollution from business activities could lead to negative 2 The cumulative figures in parentheses are the total number of trainees since the training began, until March 2011 financial and other impacts for residents of the surrounding area, as well as for the rest of the region or country. Epson Kids' ISO 14000 Program follows Group-wide regulations and standards for pollution Since 2002 Epson has partnered with the International control and ensures that all members are well acquainted Art & Technology Cooperation Organization (ArTech) in with the principles and laws of environmental risk manageKids' ISO 14000, an environmental education support ment. Each promotion unit uses ISO 14001 to identify and program for children that was developed by ArTech. assess the risk of failing to meet standards, or of experiChildren who participate in the program lead the introencing environmental complaints or incidents in an ongoduction of eco practices at home, raising environmental ing effort to identify and continuously mitigate those risks. awareness within their own families. zzPromotion System for Environmental Activities President Environmental Director Environmental Managers’ Meeting Group-Wide Projects and Subcommittees General Manager of Environmental education for children and their families Global Environmental Global Environmental Policy Policy Department Divisions Japanese Subsidiaries Overseas Subsidiaries Division COO Subsidiary President Subsidiary President Business GM of Environment GM of Environment Units Consolidated Consolidated Subsidiaries in Japan Subsidiaries Overseas Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 34 Environmental Accounting Quantitatively assessing the cost and effect of conservation initiatives to enhance environmental management The Environmental Accounting Approach product development accounted for 75.6% of total enviEpson analyzes the costs of environmental conservation ronmental R&D. This spending went primarily to improving versus the benefits to come up with data to use as an the energy-saving performance of our product families indicator for managing environmental actions. during use and to the development of eco-considerate products that use alternatives to substances of concern. • We collect and analyze data using internal guidelines created based on the Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Accounting Guideline (issued 2005). We saved a total of ¥1,410 million in 2010, mainly by • The scope of accounting covers Seiko Epson and 36 of our saving energy and reducing wastes. We saved ¥420 affiliates (16 in Japan and 20 overseas). • Included in the scope of accounting are Epson Group companies million in energy expenses by improving the efficiency that collect environmental accounting data, are ISO 14001 certified, with which facilities and equipment operate. We saved an and are more than 50% owned by Seiko Epson Corporation. additional ¥250 million by reducing waste emissions and salvaging valuable wastes. These actions, together with 2010 Results reductions in water usage, the effects of recycling, and Investment in environmental conservation was ¥490 educating employees on ways to save, enabled Epson to million, of which ¥250 million (51%) was related to global steadily increase its economic benefits. warming prevention and ¥230 million (47%) went to pollution control. We invested in new energy-saving zzEnvironmental R&D Expenses factory infrastructure and production systems. We also Eco-considerate product R&D: 75.6% focused spending on pollution control measures, such Energy-saving product R&D: 39.5% as measures to prevent chemical leaks. Substance substitution: 9.3% 3R design: 6.5% ¥3,030 On the other hand, environmental conservation expenses million Other eco-considerate product R&D: 20.4% Energy-saving process R&D: 15.2% came to ¥6,010 million. Environmental R&D accounted for Low-GHG process development: 5.1% ¥3,030 million, or half, of total environmental conservation Low-GHG process development: 4.1% expenses. As shown by the pie chart, eco-considerate zz2010 Environmental Conservation Costs and Effects (Unit: mil. yen) Environmental Environmental conservation effects and other Savings Description conservation costs*2 quantitative effects Investment Expense Description Value Net*3 Item Unit Value Creating and providing eco-products Energy conserved in the community 10,000 0 660 11,550 / Recovering and recycling products through energy-saving products kWh Environmental R&D 0 3,030 Energy savings, GHG emission CO2 reduction (energy saved + Prevention of global warming 250 240 420 -180 t-CO2 16,661 reductions GHG reduction) General Environmental Policy Reducing eco-burden substances 0 130 Reductions in substances 0 130 Substance reduction t 25 Waste emissions reductions & waste Waste processing / recycling 0 810 250 560 Waste volume reduction t 1,002 salvaging Effective use of water 0 130 Water reductions and recycling 190 -60 Water reduction/recycling volume 1,000 m3 1,848 Sharing environmental data, contributing Publishing environmental reports on our website, 0 110 to regional/international conservation greening and cleanup activities in local communities Compliance, greening, beautification 230 320 Legal/regulatory violations: 5 Soil and groundwater cleanup, etc. 150 Support for soil and groundwater cleanup, etc. Continually improving environmental Environmental basic, internal environmental auditor, and 390 Savings through internal training 550 -160 management environmental specialist training Total 490 6,010 1,410 Environmental conservation costs to sales ratio (%)*1 0.6% 1 Calculation of per unit of sales uses Epson Group’s consolidated sales. 2 Figures have been rounded off, so the sums of the figures and the totals may not match. 3 Net environmental conservation costs are derived by subtracting economic effects from total environmental conservation costs. Negative figures represent profit generated as a result of measures taken. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 35 Providing Environmental Know-how Helping society with know-how to address environmental problems from a global perspective rather than an enterprise perspective Collaboration Before Competition Shinshu Energy Patrol Team in Taiwan Believing that environmental problems are better adThe catalyst for the Energy Patrol Program was a pamdressed through collaboration than competition, Epson phlet distributed to local enterprises containing energypublicly shares its environmental know-how and best saving tips and technologies developed by Epson. Reacpractices. tion to the pamphlet was positive, and Epson began receiving requests from companies to assess their energy use and recommend ways to save. Epson responded by Teaching Recycling Through Disassembly forming the Suwa Regional Energy Patrol Team in Iiyama Kita Koko, a Ministry of Education-designated CY2000. The name was changed to the Shinshu Energy Super Science High School in Nagano prefecture, Patrol Team in CY2005 and the activities were expanded offered an experimental course in PC disassembly as to encompass all of Nagano to share the lessons learned. part of its enhanced math and science curriculum. Epson sent an employee to the school to serve as an instructor. Seeing the benefits of this program, Epson Taiwan TechBy disassembling and sorting the components and matenology & Trading Ltd. (ETT), an affiliate with a variety of rials, students learned about the material resources that environmental programs, concluded that it could signifigo into a PC and the importance of recycling them. cantly contribute to society by introducing the patrol program into Taiwan. Personnel from ETT came to Japan several times to learn the ins and outs of the program. ETT then reached out to various enterprises and groups in Taiwan and, with support from Seiko Epson, launched the Taiwan Energy Patrol Team, in December 2010. PC disassembly course Public Speaking Engagements Epson responded to nearly a dozen requests during 2010 from communities, groups, schools and other organizations to talk about its approach to environmental conserThe Taiwan Energy Patrol Team on patrol vation and its environmental programs and best practices. Coco Wang, a central figure in the launch of the patrol team, enthusiastically says, I Key Engagements think there is tremendous value in • The Global Environmental Forum at introducing the best practices of the Japanese Society of Civil Engineers the Shinshu Energy Patrol Pro• Nagoya University Graduate School of gram to the rest of the globe. I Environmental Studies want ETT to continue to drive the • Suwa Red Cross Hospital Taiwan Energy Patrol Program • Tokyo Keizai University through cooperation with other Coco Wang, Div. Manager companies and organizations.” Brand & Corp. Div., ETT Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 36 Biodiversity Cognizant of how our business activities impact biodiversity, Epson is pursuing biodiversity conservation through business Biodiversity Initiatives Epson and Biodiversity 2010 was an eventful year for biodiversity issues. First, Our lives depend on biodiversity. Likewise, our businessthe tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP es both benefit from and affect biodiversity in myriad 10) to the Convention on Biological Diversity was held in ways. Neither our businesses nor our lives would be Nagoya, in October 2010. But 2010 was also a year of sustainable without healthy biodiversity. huge disasters that have worrisome ecological implications, including the April 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill and zzEpson and Biodiversity the March 2011 nuclear power plant accident in Japan. Epson These disasters sparked renewed debate over the impact of crucial energy resources on biodiversity and served as Business Employee a reminder that we have to be more aware of the social Activities Lifestyles and business activities that depend on these forms of Direct and indirect effects energy. Underground Ecosystem Services Resources At COP 10, parties adopted the Nagoya Protocol and a strategic plan on biological diversity called the Aichi Impact of extracting Biodiversity Target. Corporate initiatives are among the 20 ambitious resources and processing them into raw materials targets. Our Environmental Vision 2050 states that “as a member of the ecosystem, Epson will continue to work towards restoring and protecting biodiversity together with local communities.” Our approach to biodiversity JBIB Participation hinges on two initiatives: conserving biodiversity throughout our business activities, and raising employee awareEpson has been an active participant since May 2008 in ness of biodiversity. Table 1 summarizes five factors that the research and development program of a consortium adversely impact biodiversity, how Epson contributes to called the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB). those factors, and what actions we are taking to mitigate We are working with the JBIB to explicitly define the the degree to which we contribute to them. The first thing relationship between business activities and biodiversity. we have to do is continue to move steadily forward on the Through public speaking engagements, we have preactions we have been taking to mitigate the environmensented Epson's approach and found that it resonates tal impacts of our business activities. with many. In 2010 Epson representatives lectured and presented at spots around Japan, including Tokyo, Kyoto, Nagoya, and Nagano. zzTable 1: Environmental Measures and Biodiversity Factor Relationship to Epson Theme Main Initiatives Energy-saving product designs Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions Prevention of global warming Production & transport measures Land alterations accompanying Land use underground resource mining Reduced-resource products & recycling Resource recycling Reduced resource inputs Introduced along with imports of raw Non-native species Resource saving Waste recycling materials, parts, etc. Overconsumption Consumption of timber resources Release of chemicals into the environment Reduced inclusion in products & use during Pollution Substance management due to insufficient control manufacturing of hazardous substances Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 37 Reforestation Program in the Philippines Loggerhead Sea Turtle Protection Project Epson engages the communities in which it operates Kamogawa Sea World in Japan has joined forces with the with initiatives tailored to local needs, such as reforestagovernment in a project to study and protect endangered tion and greening programs. Epson Precision (Philiploggerhead turtles. After an extensive exploration effort, pines) Inc. (EPPI), for example, launched a project to plant Epson began sponsoring this project in CY2010 as a way and care for a forest on Mount Makiling in 2004. In 2010, of using our technology in ecosystem conservation. 135 employee volunteers participated in a tree-planting program that calls for the planting of 1.5 hectares over There is much that researchers do not know about loggerthree years by 2012. head turtles, such as how the temperature of the sand in which eggs are buried affects hatching. To find out more, A reforestation project aimed at teens was also launched Epson built a measurement system using a sensor module with the participation of 61 students from a local high based on its original wireless technology. What sets this school and two teachers. The aim is to give students technology apart from ordinary wireless technology is the who have been participating in a computer game where ability to capture signals from devices buried in the ground, they grow and manage virtual forests and farms an sand, or underwater. This system was used to take data in opportunity to experience an actual reforestation project. the summer of 2010, and it enabled researchers to determine the temperature of the nest and the date and time the eggs hatched without digging them up. Epson will continue to support this program in CY2011. Makiling Reforestation Project (EPPI) The Jinguji 100-Year Forest Project Sensor installation on an artificial beach Hoping to increase the number of employees who can talking about biodiversity based on personal experience, Epson became a sponsor, in 2008, of the Jinguji High Expectations for Epson 100-Year Forest Project, a Suwa-based volunteer forest management project. In 2010, Epson volunteers joined Epson collaborated with Kamogawa Sea World in a members of the local community to maintain the forest, project to study and protect the loggerhead turtle. learn about nature, and enjoy forest recreation. Family Temperature sensors allowed us to continually monitor participation the temperature inside the and ongoing buried nests, while hatchinvolvement ing sensors enabled us to are emphadetect the movement of sized for these hatchlings in the sand. events. We have high hopes that the technical support provided by Epson will go a long way toward ensurPlanting a seedling in a broad-leaved forest Yoshimichi Saito ing the future of the Manager, Aquarium Exhibits loggerhead turtle. Kamogawa Sea World Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 38 Development & Design (Think) Materials Procurement (Choose) We look at the total life cycle of our products and incorporate eco-considerate product elements at every stage, from planning to design and procurement Eco-Consideration from Cradle to Grave Eco-Inventions We look at the total life cycle of our products to identify For well over a decade Epson has been providing incenexpanded opportunities to mitigate environmental imtives for eco-inventions; that is, inventions that have a pacts, not only within the confines of Epson's planning, marked effect on the mitigation of environmental impacts. design, and manufacturing processes but in cooperation The aim of the incentives program is to contribute to with customers and business partners. society by becoming the industry leader in the development of technology to reduce environmental impacts. Deliver Use Transport products Minimize user In CY2010 we continued to apply for and accumulate efficiently burden intellectual property relating to eco-considerate designs, Create manufacturing processes, and so forth based on our Create useful products with Recycle basic product development policy. a minimum of & Reuse materials Recycle zzCumulative Patent Applications for Eco-Inventions and energy end-of-life products (Application index) *As a percentage of normalized 2007 filings Prevent as a 400 380 unnecessary resource Other emissions 350 Manufacturing 300 290 process Choose Think 250 Energy-saving Use environmentally Design products with design 200 194 considered materials thought toward Resource saving the entire life cycle 150 100 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 (CY) Basic Product Development Policies Product Eco Performance Data A product’s environmental impacts across its life cycle are largely determined at the planning and design-engiThe International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has neering stages. Epson seeks to reduce these impacts established three types of environmental labels to indicate a with eco-considerate product designs that save energy, product's eco performance. Epson provides products that conserve resources, and eliminate harmful substances. comply with eco-label requirements in countries and regions around the world to give our customers a choice. Basic Policy Actions The power consumed during use accounts for a large The Epson Ecology Label (Type II) Energyportion of a product's total environmental impact across its saving life cycle. With this in mind, we set energy-saving In addition to publishing ecology profiles, Epson began design performance goals for each product and work to ensure steady progress. using eco labels in December 2009 to straightforwardly communicate to customers the environmental features We set goals for recyclable rates (the ratio of total product Resource weight calculated as recyclable based on a product’s and performance of its products and services. The labels design drawings). We also consider ways to reduce the cost saving of disassembly and sorting and ways to reduce impacts by are displayed on communication tools such as brochures making products smaller and lighter. and individual product boxes to highlight the environmental Epson standards specify substances that are prohibited performance and features of our products and services. from inclusion in products and substances whose inclusion Elimination must be controlled. Information on these substances is of harmful gathered in a database to help ensure safety in all Eco Features (See p. 45 for concrete examples) substances processes, from design and procurement to mass • Volume reduced by 30% vs. EB-X6 released in 2008 production. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 39 zzEnvironmental Label Compliance Inkjet Page Country/ SIDM POS Ink/Toner PCs (incl. Type Eco label printers printers Scanners Paper Projectors Region printers printers cartridges monitors) (incl. MFPs) (laser/LED) Germany Blue Angel l China Chinese environmental label l l Taiwan Green Mark l l l l l (Toner l Type I cartridges) South Korea Korea Eco-Label l l l Singapore Green Label l l Japan Eco Mark l l l l l l Europe Eco Declaration l l l l l l Type II Japan PC Green Label l Worldwide Epson Ecology Label l l l l l l Type III Japan Eco Leaf l l Japan, U.S., International Energy Star EU Program*1 l l l l l l Other China Energy saving regulations l l l l Japan FSC certification l Type I label: Indicates that the product has met the criteria set by a certified third-party organization Type II label: A “self-declaration” label that indicates a company volunteers environmental information about its products Type III label: Indicates that the environmental effects of a product throughout its life cycle—from raw material procurement through use, disposal, and recycling—are analyzed using LCA and that the results of such analyses are published as quantitative data. The accuracy and reliability of the data must be verified before being made public. 1 The International Energy Star Program is also being implemented by Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan. require suppliers to provide us with a declaration that the International ENERGY STAR Program products they deliver to us do not contain or use banned In February, Epson became the first printer manufacturer to substances and evidence that levels of certain controlled acquire third-party certification for an inkjet printer after the substances do not exceed prescribed limits. International ENERGY STAR Program began requiring third-party certification from January 1, 2011. A Global Approach to Harmful Substances Shoko Takabayashi, a member of Epson's Legal Affairs Epson is staying on top of emerging legislative and Department who was involved in executing an agreement regulatory requirements with the aim of building and shipwith the certifying body, ping products to a single global standard that satisfies says, I was fortunate to compliance requirements worldwide. Epson actively be able to help conlooks to replace or stop using substances about which clude the agreement by there are concerns, even if not legally required. For exambridging the cultural ple, on January 1, 2012, we will discontinue the use of divide between Japan certain environmental estrogens that adversely affect the and Epson America, (Left) Shoko Takabayashi, Legal Affairs environment and human health. Seiko Epson Inc. (EAI). (Right) Mark Heustis, Lead Test Technician Quality Assurance, EAI REACH Compliance Green Purchasing Epson will maintain compliance as follows with the EuroWhen it comes to procuring production materials, Epson pean REACH Regulation on chemicals and their safe use: gives top priority to those with a low environmental impact. Epson has been applying the same standard for the • Register in a central database as required of enterprocurement of production materials since 2004, regardprises that manufacture or import more than one less of from where in the world they are procured, and has ton of a chemical substance per year. maintained a green purchasing rate of 100% since then. • Provide consumers with information on substances of very high concern (SVHC) that are present This standard covers the latest legal and regulatory in articles in an amount exceeding 0.1 wt%, and moves and is regularly updated to ensure that we concomply with the requirement to report use exceedtinue to upgrade our green product purchasing. We also ing one ton per year. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 40 Manufacturing (Create) Logistics (Deliver) Mitigating environmental impacts during manufacturing and delivery Prevention of Global Warming product quality. This line enabled PEB to halve the facAround the world Epson is reducing substances that tory's energy use primarily because workers can now contribute to global warming. Our efforts revolve around wear aprons instead of hot bunny suits, so there is less programs to (1) reduce CO2 emissions by conserving need for air conditioning, there is no need to keep the energy, and (2) reduce emissions of greenhouse gases entire room clean with power-intensive HEPA filter sys(GHG) other than CO2. On the most basic level, we are tems, and LED lighting can be used. The line also offers reducing CO2 emissions by turning off lights when they the incidental benefit of boosting assembly quality beare not needed and by adjusting thermostat settings cause line personnel are freed from the confinement and according to the season. We cut additional emissions by discomfort of bunny suits. increasing the energy efficiency of our plant facilities and production equipment, innovating our production processes, and introducing new energy sources. To reduce emissions of GHG other than CO2, we are taking a twopronged approach. We break down the molecules before releasing these gases while also finding ways to use them in smaller amounts. In 2010 we reached our domestic and worldwide targets for reducing GHG. The emissions trend is shown in Figure 1. Scanner manufacturing process (inspection) Halving Energy Use in Manufacturing Introducing Green Energy We had always taken it for granted that scanners had to be manufactured in a cleanroom. Then one day, someOne of the ways Epson is trying to reduce its greenhouse one asked why. This simple question launched an effort gas emissions is by purchasing green energy. In fact, we to take scanner manufacturing out of the cleanroom. have been purchasing wind power from Japan Natural Energy Company Ltd. since 2001. COPY Indonesian affiliate P.T. Epson Batam (PEB) came up with Cumulative purchases to date total a new scanner assembly line that provides a localized 17,370,000 kilowatt hours (kWh). clean environment in front of the line workers, where their Once again, in 2010 we contracted hands extend over a workbench, without sacrificing 1,925,000 kWh worth of green power from Noshiro Wind Power Plant. This zzFigure 1: Greenhouse Gas Emissions represents about 39% of the power (Per unit of sales as % of FY1990 level) (Emissions: 10,000 t-CO2) used by Seiko Epson headquarters. Green Power Certificate 120 110.3 111.2 107.9 106.1 Per unit of sales 102.7 • Excludes March 2011 data from Epson Toyocom's 100 96.9 97.4 97.0 95.3 Fukushima plant. 88.6 90.7 • 1990 GHG from sources other than energy use are 100 91 80.7 calculated using corresponding emissions in 1995. 89 80 90 74.9 70.8 • In Japan we used an average value published by the Federation of Electric Power Companies as a conversion GHG (overseas) factor to calculate equivalent CO 2 emissions from energy 60 GHG (Japan) 64 consumed. Outside Japan we used national emissions 43.4 58 56 factors provided by the Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ 50 49 50 49 49 Emissions from Association (JEMA). 40 48 47 45 energy use • To calculate CO 2 emissions from fuels both in Japan and (overseas) abroad, we used the CO 2 conversion factors published 20 jointly by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment and Emissions from Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Version 2.4 of a energy use (Japan) GHG emissions calculation and reporting manual. 0 • To calculate the CO 2 equivalent of emissions of GHG other 1990 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) than CO 2, we used conversion factors published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2001. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 41 Zero Emissions Energy Management Awards Epson instituted a zero emissions program to promote In February 2011, employees of Seiko Epson, Epson the effective use of resources and to reduce resource Imaging Devices, and Epson Logistics were recognized inputs and waste. with awards for energy management excellence by the Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Energy Saving The zero emissions program consists of a recycling Committee / The Energy Conservation Center, Japan. program and a resource conservation program. In the Award Recipients recycling program we look to improve at the emission stage, with the goal of recycling 100% of all waste mateExcellent Energy Conservation Manager Award 8 rial (excluding personal wastes) generated from our Excellent Energy Conservation Engineer Award 4 business activities. By the end of 2003, all Epson sites Excellent Energy Conservation Technician Award 5 and companies in Japan and all Epson manufacturing companies outside Japan had reached this recycling Common Sense Environmental Programs goal. Sites that have recently come under the Epson umbrella are also steadily reaching or approaching this Tohoku Epson conducted extensive tests to reduce the goal. Activities are now shifting to the second area of amount of ethanol it uses for cleaning purposes. It ended action, resource conservation. Here the aim is to miniup eliminating some cleaning processes altogether mize resource use by improving production processes. without sacrificing quality. The company is also steadily We are looking to reduce resource inputs by keeping an reducing the amount of energy it uses by, for example, eye out for opportunities to reuse a factory's waste systematically shutting down production systems and on-site as an ingredient in the manufacturing process. improving basic facilities and infrastructure. In addition, Tohoku Epson, acting on the adage of trash if mixed, zzWaste Emissions Trend treasure if sorted, separates waste plastics into 26 types (t) of salvageable valuable material. 50,638 50,290 Recycled (Japan) 50,000 48,693 Recycled (Overseas) 45,449 Waste (Japan) 42,525 40,934 Waste (Overseas) Meanwhile, an Eco-Challenge Point Rally that employ40,000 35,368 ees can play at home is fostering greater environmental 32,535 32,432 30,000 awareness and becoming ingrained in their daily work. 20,000 Commenting on the genesis of 10,000 these activities, Miki Saito of the Facilities Engineering Group 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) says, Enjoyment is the secret to NOTE: Excludes March 2011 data from Epson Toyocom's Fukushima plant. sustaining environmental programs. You have to be able to Miki Saito see results from your actions Facilities Engineering Group and feel good about having Tohoku Epson Corporation taken them. I look forward to helping to reduce environzzZero Emissions Activities at Epson mental impacts, cut costs, and increase corporate value. Recycling Resource Conservation Definition of “recycling” Reduction Recycling 100% of waste materials Closed-loop of inputs recycling Maximum of 50 g of burnable waste Closed-loop per person per day Input Shift Waste Input recycling resources Factory Non Factory resources Non closed-loop Definition of resource conservation recycling closed-loop recycling Reduction of resource inputs Recycled in-house Recycled in-house Product Product Reduction of wastes by using Recycled externally Recycled externally recycled resources Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 42 Substance Management Water Recycling Epson recognizes that all chemical substances involve at Epson is mitigating environmental impacts and maintaining least some risk. Accordingly, we proactively aim to prolegal and regulatory compliance by managing the quantity hibit use, reduce use and emissions, and change to safer of water we use and the quality of water we discharge. substances.” Since 2005 Epson has used E-Chem, a proprietary chemical data management system, to cenWe are proactively addressing water concerns in our trally track information on chemical substances used at manufacturing processes. For example, we are taking Epson sites around the world. An amendment to Japaactions to prevent deterioration in factory water quality, nese law added and changed some of the chemicals increase the recycling rate of factory wastewater, and meet subject to PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) stricter water quality controls. Chinese affiliate Tianjin Epson control. We are tracking, controlling, and reducing the Co., Ltd. (TEL) and U.K. affiliate Epson Telford Ltd. (ETL) use of these PRTR substances as well as volatile organic have introduced ink waste fluid processing systems with compounds (VOCs). sedimentation, microbial purification, and filtering processes that recycle water for use in toilets and cooling systems. We continue to carrying out a variety of measures to Dewatered sludge is recycled for use in cement production. reduce releases into the environment. For example, we are identifying and adopting greener alternatives to About 1,900,000 m3 (17.8%) of the 10,700,000 m3 of water certain chemicals, minimizing amounts used, and introEpson used in 2010 was recycled by methods including ducing combustion abatement systems. In 2010 Epson those described above. (Detailed data is provided on p. 49.) business units began tracking their emissions against z Ink Waste Fluid Treatment Process at TEL 2006 emissions and succeeded in reducing their emissions beyond the targets. In addition, we are building trust relationships by making our substance data available to the public and by creating opportunities for dialog with members of the local community. Sedimentation Microbial tank purification Water following z PRTR Substance Handling & Emission Trend Waste fluid tank & treatment Emissions (t) Amount handled (t) ink water 30 Amount handled 1,500 25 1,440 1,003 1,045 1,139 1,250 Internal Audits 20 Amount handled 1,000 803 976 15 14.4 12.3 12.3 (Previous standard) Additional sub750 In 2010 we audited 35 sites (21 in Japan and 14 overstances overseas 10 6.8 Additional substances in Japan 500 seas) on the basis of the Epson Group auditing standard. 5 4.6 Emissions overseas 250 Emissions in Japan We confirmed that all sites have completed corrective 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) actions for nonconformances that were found and are • Target substances changed in conjunction with amendments to the PRTR enforcement order from FY2010. properly tracking and controlling pollution and wastes. • Fluorine compounds in wastewater are not included in water body emissions per the latest PRTR guidelines in the electrical equipment and electronics industry. (Data from 2009 and earlier was recalculated accordingly). z VOC Handling & Emission Trend Violations, complaints, and accidents Emissions (t) Amount handled (t) Amount In 2010 discharged wastewater exceeded regulatory 500 handled 4,662 5,000 4,808 398 4,249 limits in five instances (including two where oil limits were 400 387 4,000 350 2,966 exceeded and one where the water temperature limit was 300 280 3,000 254 exceeded). We received one complaint involving vibra200 1,968 Emissions 2,000 overseas tion. All incidents were reported to the local government 100 1,000 Emissions in Japan and are being addressed. 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Exceeded regulatory limits: 5 Complaints: 1 Accidents: 0 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 43 Waste Quality Control frequency of departures and arrivals, and much more. Wastes pose potential hazards. We have implemented a program to strengthen the quality control of wastes so Epson maintains flexibility and always looks for the most that they are comprehensively managed. As part of the efficient transport means, depending on the logistics program, we ensure that information on hazard checks situation at any given time. As a result of our efforts, we and the results of analyses are properly communicated. managed to reduce total CO2 emissions from domestic Global Environmental Data transport to 9,000 tons, a level 9.4% lower than in 2009 http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/reports/data.html per unit of sales. Sample Changes Soil and Groundwater Remediation • Switched from long-haul truck to sea transport for We are pumping and treating groundwater contaminated industrial wastes by chlorinated organic • Consolidated and decentralized warehouses solvents at several sites in • Worked with customers to reduce delivery frequency Japan, including at our Head • Optimized vehicle size Office. In addition, we have • Consolidated shipments with other companies barriers in place to prevent further contamination. Groundwater sampling Overseas Initiatives Epson is shifting from air to sea transport and is consolizzSite Groundwater Data and Remediation Methods Groundwater trichloroethylene concentration trend / annual average dating and eliminating logistics centers to increase trans(normal limit is 0.03 or less) (Unit: mg/l) port efficiency. For example, Epson America, Inc. (EAI) Site Mar. 2009 Mar. 2010 Mar. 2011 Countermeasures has been participating in the U.S. Environmental ProtecHead Barrier, pump and treat, Office 88 36 28 monitoring tion Agency's (EPA) SmartWay® Transport program since Shiojiri 2.8 1.5 0.75 Barrier, pump and treat, October 2009. The primary purpose of this program is to monitoring Barrier, pump and treat, increase freight transport energy efficiency and reduce Fujimi 0.26 0.16 0.14 monitoring greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. EAI is partSuwaBarrier, pump and treat, 0.13 0.14 0.14 minami monitoring nering with others to attain reduction targets set by the Matsushima 0.09 0.13 0.13 Barrier, monitoring EPA, by using intermodal ground transport (combinations of truck and rail freight), optimized pickup and delivery scheduling, high load efficiency, and anti-idling policies. Reducing transport CO2 emissions Epson is reducing CO2 emissions by increasing the In 2010 CO2 emissions increased 19% year-over-year, efficiency with which goods and wastes are transported. partly because of a temporary spike in air transport. In addition to shifting to greener modes of transportation However, Epson will continue to strive to deliver products and relocating logistics centers, we are increasing truck and services to customers using low-impact transport. loading efficiencies, using innovative stack configurations EAI Initiatives and packaging, reducing the number of trucks and the http://www.epson.com/cgi-bin/Store/Landing/Environment.jsp zzCO2 Emissions from Distribution in Japan zzCO2 Emissions from Distribution (Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) Per unit of sales (% of FY2006) Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) Per unit of sales (% of FY2006) 16 15.0 160 250 160 14 13.5 140 204.6 199.1 200 Japan 140 12 Per unit 11.4 120 175.4 Rail 166.9 141.5 of sales 10.1 158.5 10 9.2 100 Sea 150 120 100 8 91.4 80 Per unit Int’l (Air) 83.7 Air of sales 117.2 80.3 6 72.8 60 100 100 Ground 100 97.8 4 40 Int’l (Sea) 50 90.1 80 2 20 0 0 0 60 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) NOTE: Excludes March 2011 data from Epson Toyocom's Fukushima plant. NOTE: Excludes March 2011 data from Epson Toyocom's Fukushima plant. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 44 Environmentally Considerate Products (Use) Delivering products that enrich lives while minimizing customers' environmental footprint Compact, Energy-Saving, High-Precision Technologies Reduce Environmental Impact In our information-related equipment business and each of our other businesses, we are always looking to take advantage of our technologies for producing small, precision products that save energy and resources and for delivering products that have a low environmental impact. Here, we present the eco features of some representative products sold in 2010. Note: Energy consumption figures hereafter are based on measurements taken in Japan. Product model numbers applicable only in Japan. z EP-803A Inkjet Printer z GS-6000 Large-Format Printer Eco Features Eco Features • Around 34% smaller than the PM-A890 from 2005 • Uses eco-solvent GS ink, a low-odor ink that does not • Consumes approximately 7.5% less total power per contain carcinogenic nickel compounds, to improve day than the EP-802A from 2009*1 the printing environment z VP-F2000 Serial Impact Dot Matrix Printer z EB-1775W mobile projector Eco Features Eco Features • Low-power design that uses just 2.7W in sleep mode • Around 28% smaller than the EB-1735W from 2008 • A ribbon pack with a replaceable ink ribbon • Sliding lens cover cuts energy consumption by 34%*2 z LP-S8100 Page Printer z Endeavor ST150E desktop personal computer Eco Features Eco Features • Helps save energy in the office with a TEC value of 1.27 • Approximately 53% fewer CO2 emissions over its life kWh/week*3 , among the best of its class in Japan cycle than the Endeavor AT980E from 2010*4 • Around 40% smaller than the LP-S7000 from 2006 • Consumes only 16.1 W of power during ordinary use 1 Figures calculated under Epson’s test conditions. Calculated based on five A4-size color copies per day, with power on for 8 hours/day and off for 16 hours/day. Power consumption may vary according to actual usage conditions. 2 Normal mode (322 W) compared to Eco mode (212 W). Lamp output is reduced to save energy when the cover is closed. 3 Values are of TEC (typical electricity consumption) based on measurement methods prescribed by the International ENERGY STAR Program. Power consumption mayl vary according to actual usage conditions. 4 Calculations assume a four-year usage period based on Eco Leaf environmental label assessment results (excluding a monitor). Power consumption figures may vary depending on the actual usage conditions and options. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 45 Design and Development http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/lifecycle/think/case_design.html z Comparison of Total Daily Energy Consumption for Inkjet Printers (Wh/day) 70 CC-550L A3 models A4 models PM-A850 All-in-one photo printers 50 PM-3000C PM-770C 40 PM-A870 PM-A920 EP-802A PM-A940 EP-803A 30 * PM-3500C PX-G5300 PX-G5300 PX-G5300 PX-G5300 20 PX-G900 PM-G730 EP-801A * PM-950C PM-A890 10 PM-G4500 EP-302 EP-302 PX-G5100 PM-G850 PM-G860 EP-301 0 1998 2001 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Epson’s evaluation conditions: Calculated assuming five A4-size color copies or prints per day, with the power on for eight hours and off for 16 hours per day. Power consumption will vary according to actual usage conditions. *Awarded the 2001 Energy Conservation Grand Prize by the Director-General of the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy. z Operating Energy Consumption Per 100 Lumens for 3LCD Projectors (W/100 lm) 100 ELP-3000 Introduction of ultra-high apeture polysilicon liquid crystal panels 80 Introduction of E-TORL lamps 40 ELP-700 20 ELP-715 ELP-735 EMP-745 EMP-1715 EB-1735W EB-1735W EB-1775W 0 1994 1999 2000 2003 2004 2006 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Improved Eco Performance During Use Potentially Greener Uses The TM-T88V thermal receipt printer uses up to 30% less At the Eco-Products 2010 exhibition Epson proposed a paper than its predecessor, the TM-88IV (released in new use for high-resolution projectors that realize high2006), without requiring changes to customers' programs. resolution images on a big screen. A projector can be used to project panoramic 3-D photos of an actual space Kazuyuki Yokoyama, who led the development effort, taken with a digital camera and then processed using says, This was a hugely satisfying project. At first, we virtualization technology. The realism of the experience proposed reducing print size, but to meet customers' might enable users to reduce exhibit space or the numneeds, we instead added new ber of items physically on display. It could even mean that functions, including one that saves an exhibit could be experienced without leaving the paper without requiring changes to confines of an office, the print data and another that uses lightening the load on the margins at the edges of retransport systems and ceipts, thereby reducing the envileading to reduced Kazuyuki Yokoyama ronmental impact of the printer.” BS Planning & Design Dept. environmental impacts. An Epson booth with virtual exhibits Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 46 Collection and Recycling (Recycle & Reuse) Taking responsibility for recycling end-of-life Epson products Product Collection and Recycling thanks to the cooperation of municipal governments, the Building a recycling-oriented society requires businesses, boxes can be found at city halls and other government government and consumers to cooperate in processing buildings across the country. The collected cartridges are used products. Epson monitors local and international recycled to eliminate resource waste and contribute to legal and regulatory trends, keeps an eye on consumer the creation of an environmentally sound materials cycle. needs, and is continuing to build a system for collecting and recycling Epson products at the end of their useful International Roll-Out lives (Fig. 1). Epson is preparing for a second-half roll-out of the Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project overseas. Working jointly with the other companies, we will collect ink and toner Initiatives in Japan cartridges at major libraries in Singapore. Epson collects and recycles end-of-life personal computers as required by Japanese law. Since 1999 we have Richard Yeo of Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd. (ESP) says, been voluntarily collecting and recycling used information After seeing the success of the Homecoming Project in equipment from businesses. Japan, we decided to roll it out to Singapore in order to raise awareness of the importance of ink and toner In 2010 we collected 78.6 tons of used equipment, and cartridge recycling. We want to build an efficient, nationfrom that recycled 61 tons of materials. wide collection network and make it an important step for environmental conservation. Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project This project is a joint effort by six printer manufacturers to collect used ink cartridges in Japan. Consumer cooperation has grown since the project was launched in 2008, and the number of cartridges collected has Richard Yeo steadily increased. In the beginning, Environmental & Quality Management Specialist collection boxes were provided at post ESP offices around the nation, but now, Ccollection box z Epson's Toner and Ink Cartridge Collection System (Fig. 1) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 47 Initiatives Around the World European Cartridge Collection Program Since 2003, when the EU WEEE (Waste Electrical and In 2008 Epson Europe B.V. (EEB) began expanding Electronic Equipment) Directive was enacted, legislation across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) a requiring manufacturers to collect and recycle the goods consumables collection program that it had launched in they sell has been gaining momentum in countries and France, Germany, and Italy in 2000. This program proregions around the world. vides consumers with an opportunity to recycle cartridges via the mail and collection boxes. To comply with these requirements, Epson has put in place a global system to collect and recycle Epson In January 2008 Epson Express Centres, independent goods. Epson currently collects and recycles not only shops offering Epson products for sales as well as techfinished products but also consumables in 35 countries nical and repair services, also began collecting cartridgand regions. es. There are now 210 such centres in the U.K. and several other countries in Europe. The collected cartridgzzCollection Trends for Finished Products by Region es are recycled at a processing center. (metric tons) 15,000 15,000 Europe 13,813 EEB's Christine Clabots says, We Americas 12,200 12,540 made some changes in our program Asia 10,480 in 2010 to further enhance customer China 10,000 Japan 9,400 service and cost performance. Today, 7,030 this collection program operates in 24 6,310 5,700 5,820 countries, and we hope to expand it 5,000 to the Baltic countries going forward. Christine Clabots Departmental LCA Assistant 0 LCA Department, EEB 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) • Sum of amount actually collected and amount expected to be collected • Collected either voluntarily or as mandated by local law (see bottom-right table) zzRegional Recycling System Finished Product CompliVoluntary Consumables zzCollection of Ink & Toner Cartridges ance Programs Programs (metric tons) U.S. (by state) U.S. Sweden 5,000 Europe 4,668 Canada (by province) Canada United Kingdom Americas 4,150 4,260 27 EU member nations Columbia Norway Asia 4,070 4,000 3,900 Norway Belgium Switzerland China 3,510 3,330 Switzerland Czech Republic Turkey Japan 3,000 Japan (PCs only) Denmark China 2,500 South Korea Finland Hong Kong Taiwan France Japan 2,000 1,510 Austria South Korea 1,370 Voluntary Finished Product Germany Taiwan 1,000 Programs Greece Philippines China Hungary Singapore 0 Hong Kong Ireland Australia 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Japan (business only) Italy South Africa • Amount actually collected Philippines Luxemburg Indonesia Netherlands Malaysia Poland Singapore Portugal Thailand Romania India Slovakia Australia Spain Chile Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 48 2010 Results Epson material flow and SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy results Material flow The figure here summarizes the material and energy product LCA data, and then are analyzed. The results are inputs into our business activities and the environmental used in various actions designed to reduce environmenimpacts, in the form of wastes and greenhouse gases tal impact by improving product performance and busioutput into the air. Source material inputs are estimated ness environmental efficiency. and calculated from actual measurements and from OUTPUT INPUT Atmospheric Energy emissions Electric power: CO2: 200,000 t 590,000 MWh INPUT OUTPUT Atmospheric Energy emissions Fuel: CO2: 250,000 t 3,900,000 GJ Logistics Use INPUT OUTPUT Products collected 14,000 t CollecAtmospheric emissions Manution & CO 2 710,000 t facturing RecyclSO x 360 t ing OUTPUT NO x 230 t Reused/recycled: 12,000 t Wastewater 8,000,000 m3 Landfill disposal: 2,000 t Wastes Materials Amount recycled 31,000 t Procurement Development INPUT Landfill disposal 1,100 t & Design Products shipped 140,000 t Recycled water 1,900,000 m3 Raw materials Water Metals 25,000 t Tap water 4,900,000 m3 Plastics 74,000 t Industrial water 4,400,000 m3 Electronics 5,000 t Groundwater 1,400,000 m3 Paper 29,000 t Other 24,000 t Energy Electric power 990,000 MWh Chemicals 68,000 t Fuel 1,400,000 GJ Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 49 2010 Results of Actions Based on SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy Epson introduced the SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy in 2010. In line with the policy, which is tightly bound to Epson's business strategies, we are reducing the environmental impacts of our products and services. In 2010 each business unit planned and drove its own actions to achieve the five goals laid out in the plan. This results in actions that were more tightly intertwined with their respective businesses in each product and service area. A variety of actions were also carried out in manufacturing, enabling the Epson Group as a whole to achieve its reduction targets. The 2015 Vision 2010 Results Halving of life-cycle environmental We made significant strides in terms of making products smaller, lighter, and more energy efficient. impacts For example, we redesigned the optical engine and cooling system used in the EB-1775W mobile Achieve customer satisfaction by aiming to create projector to make it approximately 28% smaller than its predecessor, the EB-1735W, released in new products and services whose environmental 2008. (See Photo 1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 45 impacts across their life-cycles are reduced by 50%. In manufacturing, we reached our Group-wide 2010 reduction targets. • CO2 : 26% lower than in 2006 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 41 • Emissions: 24% lower than in 2006 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 42 • Water: 39% lower than in 2006 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 43 • PRTR substances (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register): 14% lower than in 2006 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 43 • Volatile organic compounds (VOC): 35% lower than in 2006 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 43 Expansion of recyclable products Launched sales of the EC-01, a new-concept inkjet printer that does not require ink cartridges. The and services printer can be refilled with ink and reused up to three times. (Photo 2) Expand the resource reuse and recycling loop by delivering new recyclable products and services. Expanded the used ink cartridge collection network in Japan via the Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 47 Environmental applications of advanced technologies Launched the SurePress L-4033A, a commercial digital inkjet label press that does not require the Help society mitigate its environmental impacts by pursuing advances in compact, energy-saving, film or chemicals that analog label presses do. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 13-16 high-precision technologies and applying these technologies in various fields. Legal & regulatory compliance Developed and evaluated technologies to comply in advance with product substance content Respond quickly and without fail to new environregulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 40 mental regulations and social movements around the world. Strengthened pollution and waste auditing internationally to mitigate environmental risks. . . p. 43 Fostering of an environmental community Contributed to energy conservation in Asia via the Taiwan Energy Patrol Team (Photo 3). . . . p. 36 Try new socially and economically sustainable practices through environmental actions centered on products and services. Used our sensing technology to help conserve biodiversity by working with Kamogawa Sea World on a loggerhead sea turtle protection project (Photo 4). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 38 Ran reforestation projects, educational projects, and other environmental programs that engage communities worldwide. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 34, 36, 38 Photo 1. The EB-1775W, the world's Photo 2. The EC-01 inkjet printer Photo 3. Taiwan Energy Patrol Team Photo 4. Loggerhead sea turtle hatchlings on thinnest mobile 3LCD projector with high-capacity ink pack members on-site for energy assessment an artificial beach inside Kamogawa Sea World Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 50 Individuality and Teamwork Human Development at Epson We respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, safe, healthy and pleasant work environment. A New Personnel System for Management Epson develops and trains its human resources in line Epson’s ideal corporate image is one in which it continuwith a human resources development policy established ously creates customer value that exceeds customer in 1996. The policy states that Epson will “…support expectations and continues to be an indispensable employees who have aspirations for self-actualization, to company for society. To create and maximize customer connect all the companies in the Epson Group with value, we must fully utilize our strengths, business founpeople, and to nurture employees so that both corporate dations, and core technologies to continuously create and individual objectives are met.” products that delight customers and become a community of robust businesses. This will require adopting a Supporting HR Development with Off-JT formation that allows us to maximize our abilities as an Epson uses human development to support the achieveorganization and as a team so that each and every ment of the SE15 vision in line with its Human Resources employee is fulfilling their expected role. Development Policy. This allows each and every employee to understand their role and what is expected of them Epson is moving forward with the implementation of a as a member of the Epson team, and to grow as they new personnel system for management in April 2012. The tackle the issues they face in their job. We run training new system is designed to achieve the optimum formation programs designed to improve the quality of team comto create customer value, to develop human resources, munication and to boost problem-solving skills so that and to ensure fair and impartial evaluations and benefits. every employee can fulfill their expected role. In our development of human resources, we took another look at the type of person needed to fulfill a role. Getting z Basic Policy on Off-JT the most out of teamwork requires more than just the skills required for the job; it requires actions that have a • All employees: Fulfill your required role in the team, positive effect on those around us. We clarified the need and use self-study to make up for any shortcomings for such actions and for the values that Epson prizes. in your competencies and skills. • Managers: Convey team expectations to all memEpson uses various techniques to develop employees that bers and strive to create an environment conducive are capable of fulfilling their roles, but we also want employto leaning in all situations. ees to achieve personal growth as they create customer value and execute our business strategy. In 2010, we established a framework for the new system and held briefings to explain the purpose of the system to management. z Training System (Japan) Mgr. Job/LvlSpecOnSelfMgm’t Group-Wide Global Career Dev. Specific ialist Site Imp. HR Development and Training Director F0 Global Leaders Approach to HR Development COO COO Human Skills F1 Technical Skills Regarding our employees as assets on loan from society GM GM 50s Self-Improvement Support Overseas Transfers On-Site Practical OJT Conceptual Skills and as the driving force behind the realization of our Specialist Job Training SM F2 SM 40s management philosophy, we maintain an organization that Shuji Compliance Training F3 encourages autonomy and personal growth, and enables Shunin Senior 30s Staff people to make the most of their unique competencies. CC-Level Level Human development is the basis for product development. New 20s New Hire Hire Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 51 Training for New Employees OJT as the Basis of HR Development After joining the company, new employees spend one Group training is only one part of the training program. whole year learning about the Epson approach to work. Epson’s human resource development is grounded in However, there is only so much they can learn during this on-the-job training (OJT). After placement in a workplace, period, so Epson looks for people with the basic skills every new employee is assigned a development leader required to become a productive member of society and who works with the manager to create a one-year develthe company. We use interviews to check whether a opment plan. When necessary, OJT is augmented with a person will fit in with the corporate culture and whether combination of special training, on-hands manufacturing they can agree to the Epson values that have been practice, sales training, and other kinds of training. Develfostered over the years. We also focus on whether he or opment leaders are selected from second and third year she has the three basic skills expected of adults in our employees so they can improve themselves in the course society: the ability to move forward, the ability to think of guiding the younger employees. Epson considers matters through, and the ability to work in a team; and human resource development to be one of the key duties whether or not he or she can apply those skills after of workplace managers and development leaders, and joining the company. places emphasis on practical training in the workplace that lets employees accomplish their jobs quickly, corIn the group training after hiring, employees learn about rectly, and with ease. the company’s systems, financial figures (how to read financial statements), personnel systems, the Epson z Main Online Learning Courses in 2010 (Japan) Code of Conduct, and other knowledge needed to work at the company along with the values on which Epson is Training*2 Start Date Trainees*1 based. The purpose of this training is to impart a solid Introduction to Information Security (2010) 3/2010 19,697 understanding of Epson’s core values, to shape their Epson Code of Conduct Part 1 10/2010 16,377 Procurement Basics (Subcontract Act) 10/2010 12,478 awareness and conduct as members of society, and to Security Trade Control Training (FY2011 Basic Training) 11/2010 12,277 teach the basics of business. We also teach new employBasic Environmental Training II (2010 Edition) 12/2010 14,934 ees practical business manners such as how to exEpson Code of Conduct Part 2 2/2011 11,086 change business cards, how to answer the phone, and Introduction to Information Security (2011) 3/2011 4,658 how to greet customers so they can be productive imme1 The number of persons completing the course by March 31, 2011. 2 Compliance training diately after joining their workplace. z Training in 2010 by Employee Level (Japan) Employees then move on to two weeks of practical training in the art and science of manufacturing, where People Percent Training Who Trained Trained they learn about the manufacturing mentality at the core New Employee Orientation of Epson’s values and under the slogan of “making things New Hires 279 100% (Group Training) means making people.” Here they study the Epson C-Level Employee Training New C level personnel 322 98.8% approach to work and develop the mental, technical, and Senior Staff Training New senior staff 251 99.2% Section Manager Training New section managers 78 92.8% physical qualities required to function in society. z Workforce Composition Male/Female Ratio Management* Ratio Management Diversity Female 18% Management 14% Female 1% Male 82% Non-management 86% Male 99% Workforce composition data for Seiko Epson employees as of March 31, 2011 * Section manager and higher Watch disassembly and reassembly Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 52 Learning by Doing Employing Persons with Disabilities Ultra-precision machining and mechatronics skills, legaEpson takes a number of steps to ensure that persons with cies of watchmaking, are part of Epson's DNA. In Nodisabilities have the same opportunities as other employvember 2002, Epson established its “Monozukuri-Juku” ees, such as providing sign language interpretation for manufacturing school to make sure this DNA is passed training and promotion interviews. We also have two spedown to future generations. This practical training procial subsidiaries, Epson Mizube Corporation and Epson gram includes many different kinds of training, including Swan, Ltd., to provide employment opportunities for perhands-on manufacturing training for new employees, sons with disabilities while catering to their special needs. efficiency training on the manufacturing floor, production control training, mechatronics training, basic part fabricaIn addition to these initiatives, Epson works with the tion skills training, key process technology training, and community to encourage employment of people with facility improvement training. disabilities and is an active supporter of events such as the Special Olympics. A small number of young employees are selected for an intensive training program where they study to become Epson Mizube and Epson Swan strive to create a good skilled technicians. At Japan’s 48th annual Technical working environment for everyone with barrier-free archiSkills Olympics in 2010, employees in the program won a tecture, extra support staff, and many other measures. silver medal and three “fighting spirit” awards. Epson also Employees are also encouraged to better themselves by has an “Advanced Technology Dojo” where ten new pursuing qualifications. Our employees with Epson’s employees selected from recent technical university Level 1 Soldering qualification are good enough to win a graduates train for two years to become key research silver medal at the National Abilympics. and development personnel. Through these kinds of programs, we aim to develop technicians who have the mental, physical, technical, and intellectual qualities needed for manufacturing, who can approach manufacturing from a broad point of view, and who can see things through to the end. Epson Mizube employees Soldering wires to a board with Level 1 Soldering Yoichi Nakagomi, one of the 2010 graduates who became an advanced technology trainee, says, “I am z Types of Disabilities (Japan) thrilled to be able to learn a lot about a wide range of Other fields and about being a production engineer. I am also 4 (2%) grateful for the opportunity I have been given and will Developmental 46 (20%) work hard so I can contribute to the company with my Limb Other physical Total 86 manufacturing skills in the future.” We have high expecta7 231 tions for him as a future leader of Epson the manufacturCardiovascular 25 Physical 181 (78%) ing company. Kidney 14 Vision Hearing 15 34 z Ratio of Employees with Disabilities (Japan) (%) 2.4 2.2 2.01 1.99 1.94 1.95 2.00 2.0 1.8 Legally mandated ratio 1.8% 1.6 1.4 1.2 Yoichi Nakagomi studies device control 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 53 Labor-Management Cooperation Equal Gender Opportunity Initiatives Epson is a union shop whose employee union represenEpson was an early advocate of equal employment tatives work cooperatively with management. Joint opportunity for men and women. We abolished gendercommittees are formed to discuss and finalize mutual based remuneration in 1983, and 95% of our female resolutions to issues on a variety of topics, such as work employees (98% in fiscal 2010) return to work after taking systems, family support, and benefits and wages. maternity or childcare leave. In fact, women stay with Epson longer than men, on average (22.4 years for women versus 18.4years for men). Monitoring and Controlling Working Hours z Parental Leave Trends Epson remains fully compliant with labor laws. One of the ways we ensure compliance is by following a manual Individuals Taking Childcare Leave Individuals Fiscal Taking designed to prevent excess overtime. We have also deYear Total*1 Women % of women Men*3 Caregiver taking leave*2 Leave ployed time management initiatives and monitoring systems 2010 82 64 100% 18 (15) 2 across the organization. We are committed to maintaining a 2009 74 53 100% 21 (20) 0 well-balanced working environment and to building aware2008 73 62 98% 11 (10) 4 ness of the importance of regulating working hours. 2007 77 70 100% 7 (6) 3 1 Includes individuals who took well-being leave 2 Number of individuals granted childcare leave / eligible* individuals. Discrimination and Unfair Labor Practices * Individuals who have had a child and are eligible for childcare leave 3 Numbers in parentheses indicate employees who took well-being leave. Epson is dedicated to the eradication of discrimination and unfair practices around the world. This stance is reflected in Work-Life Balance Initiatives our participation in the United Nations Global Compact since 2004. In 2005 we documented policies that outline Epson's Epson, with one eye trained on the well-being and develstrong convictions in areas including respect for human opment of children, provides an environment that allows rights, elimination of harassment and discrimination, respect employees to balance their careers with their personal for local culture and customs, prohibition of child and forced lives so that they feel comfortable staying with the comlabor, and maintenance of positive labor relations. pany. As a result, Seiko Epson was certified for two years in a row by the Nagano Labor Bureau as a company that Epson has a number of services, including a harassment is implementing policies that benefit the next generation. hotline that handled 20 inquiries last year in line with privacy protection laws, a compliance helpline, and other In 2010, Epson implemented a number of actions from counseling services. We also strive to prevent fraud and the action plan that was formulated in 2009. We studied other forms of legal misconduct through regular reporting initiatives to enable people to regain skills before returnto the Trust-Based Management Council and by posting ing to work, updated our web page on child-rearing, and reminders on our company intranet. instituted a fixed eight-hour workday for people who cannot work overtime. We also ran an on-site day care z Main Employee Welfare and Benefits Systems (Japan) trial to help employees achieve an even better work-life Category Description of System balance. Childcare leave, shorter work hours, parental leave, home care Childcare service Caregiving Caregiver leave, shorter work hours, leave of absence We plan on taking a number of other actions by the end Retirement benefits (defined contribution pension plan, corporate of March 2012, such as instituting a Retirement defined benefit pension plan), asset-building incentives, etc. Personal injury/illness leave, in-house therapy, payment to defray second mandatory eight-hour Wellness costs of injury, illness and child-rearing, medical subsidies workday each week and letting Subsidies for passing national exams, work-related Training correspondence courses, self-study, etc. employees work remotely through Housing Company housing, home ownership savings, home financing, etc. telecommuting and satellite offices. Commuting Commuting expenses (commuter passes, gasoline costs, tolls, etc.) Epson intends to roll out these and “Kurumin” certification is granted to companies who Insurance Group insurance policies, corporate group insurance other actions that help secure a support employees with Other Employee cafeteria, subsidies for workplace activities, etc. healthy work-life balance. children Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 54 Individuality and Teamwork Occupational Safety and Health Occupational safety and health are the bedrock of our business Basic Occupational Health and Safety Policy Eliminating Accidents Overseas Worldwide Hazard Elimination Programs All Epson manufacturing sites around the globe have Believing that healthy, dynamic employees and a safe, introduced NESP activities as the core component of clean, and secure environment form the bedrock of a their efforts to eliminate industrial equipment accidents strong company, and spurred by the president’s declaraand occupational injury accidents. tion that safety, security, and health are the lifeblood of the company, Epson introduced an occupational safety Epson Telford Ltd. ( ETL ) of the U.K. provides its managand health management program called “NESP” (for ers and supervisors with internal training via an Institution “New Epson Safety & Health Program”) in fiscal 2000. of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) certified safety management course. Says one course-taker, Michael NESP activities are based on an occupational safety and Brooks (shown on in the back-right of the photo), The health management system (OSHMS) that conforms to course gave me a better understanding of the imporInternational Labour Organization (ILO) guidelines. Opertance and role of health and safety management within ated under the three pillars of safety, health and fire/ organizations. As a manager, I have to lead by example. disaster prevention, NESP has been rolled out throughout the worldwide Epson organization. z The Role of NESP ILO-OSH 2001 Guideline Guidelines on occupational safety and health management systems established in 2001 by the International Labour Organization (ILO) OSHMS (JISHA) OSHMS Occupational safety and Occupational Safety and Certificate granted at end of safety manager course (U.K.) Standards health management system Health Management System standards established by Japan Industrial Safety and Epson Toyocom Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (ETMY) raises Health Association employee awareness of safety by holding a Health and Safety Fair at which visitors can experience simulated NESP Safety Group sites & disasters. Said one fair-goer, Ahmad Danial Kumar bin program Overseas affiliates companies in Japan Abdullah, This kind of activity is valuable as a way to remind people of the importance of health and safety. z Occupational Injury Accident Frequency (Japan) 1.2 Manufacturing industry average 1.0 0.8 0.6 Electrical equipment manufacturing industry average 0.4 Seiko Epson Corporation 0.2 0 Health and safety fair (Malaysia) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Occupational injury accident frequency: the number of injury accidents per 1,000,000 work hours, where an injury accident is defined as an incident that causes a worker to miss one or more days of work. Occupational injury Number of injury accidents Epson Group companies also undergo third-party safety accident frequency 1,000,000 Total working hours assessments and have received OSHMS certification. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 55 Third-Party OSHMS Certification Maintaining Mental and Physical Wellbeing z Domestic Production Sites (Sites) Healthy Epson 21 Revised Production Sites by Region JISHA OSHMS certifications acquired Introduced in 2001, Healthy Epson 21 is a midto Hokkaido/Tohoku 4 4 long-term plan designed to help prevent occupational Shinshu 10 10 illness and promote employee health and wellbeing by Kanto 1 1 Western Japan 2 2 involving all employees in the creation of a healthful working environment. z Overseas Production Sites (Sites) However, employees had a hard time understanding the Overseas Production Sites OSHMS certifications acquired vision and focal points of the plan. So, to redress this Europe 1 1 Asia 19 5 problem, we revised the plan in 2010 to provide further North America 4 0 clarification, presenting concrete examples of actions South America 1 0 individuals can take and actions the company can take in three areas: maintaining health when faced with a heavy workload, lifestyle-related illnesses, and mental wellbeFire and Disaster Prevention ing. Epson will work to this new plan in 2011. Preserving Safety, Security, and Trust Epson’s independent fire brigades help to prevent disasNew Mental Health Program ters, protect ourselves, our property, and our jobs, and After extensive exploration since fiscal 2009, Epson maintain the trust of communities in which we operate. established, in May 2010, a new employee mental health Every August 31st, on “Epson Disaster Prevention Day,” all program that emphasizes prevention. Epson Group companies in Japan conduct fire and disaster drills. As part of these drills, we test our emerSince establishing a mental health policy in 2006, Epson gency communication systems, which we have in place has increased employee awareness and knowledge of to confirm employee safety and determine the extent of mental health issues as a result of actions taken over the damage in the event of a disaster. past three years. We will continue to expand the program and reduce the number of employees on long-term mental health leave by focusing on prevention. We have also set up seven subcommittees whose mission is to help foster a dynamic workplace climate that is conducive to the growth of rich personal relationships. Fire brigade competition (Japan) Fire extinguisher practice (Malaysia) Healthy Epson 21 (leaflet) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 56 Trusted Throughout the World Organizational Governance Epson is committed to sustaining trust-based management. We have established a system of compliance to ensure the transparency and soundness of management in the eyes of our stakeholders. Corporate Governance Design of Internal Control System Our basic approach to corporate governance is encapWe consider Epson’s Management Philosophy to be our sulated in our commitment to sustaining trust-based most important business concept, and to realize the management. Along with ongoing efforts to increase mission stated in the Management Philosophy we estabcorporate value, we have initiated a number of practices lished Principles of Corporate Behavior—rules for proper designed to reinforce management checks and balances business conduct that are shared worldwide across the and to assure corporate ethics compliance. In so doing, Group. Departments within Epson pursue improvements we seek to ensure the transparency and soundness of to internal controls based on the Principles of Corporate management in the eyes of our customers, shareholders, Behavior, and these improvements are then reported to employees and other stakeholders. the Trust-Based Management Council, which is attended by all directors and statutory auditors. By doing this, Epson has a board of directors and a board of auditors. Epson is taking action to steadily improve the level of Our ten-member board of directors meets once a month internal control for the entire Group. and convenes extraordinary meetings as needed. The board of directors makes decisions regarding basic The Principles of Corporate Behavior is the embodiment management policies, key business operations, periodof the values that Epson holds dear. It has been transend closing, disclosure timeframes, and other important lated into 14 languages and is shared as a code of conissues. duct so that Epson can remain a trusted company throughout the world. Epson also has outside statutory auditors who offer frank Principles of Corporate Behavior opinions to the board of directors based on a wealth of http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/ experience and keen insight, contributing to the transparency and objectivity of decisions made by the directors. z Epson's System of Corporate Governance General Shareholders' Meeting Elect/ Report Elect/Dismiss Submit/Report Dismiss Elect/Dismiss Report Propose/Report Cooperate Independent Nomination Committee Board of Directors Public Accountant Audit Compensation Committee Elect/Dismiss/ Submit/Report Oversee Audit Propose/Report Board of Corporate Strategy Council Statutory SEC President Auditors Report Trust-Based Management Council Crisis Management Meeting Executive Officers and Cooperate Audit Office Business Presidents of Affiliated Companies (Internal) Corp. Mgmt. Meeting Audit Operations Business Units and Affiliates Audit Various Strategy Councils Audit Staff Office Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 57 Risk Management office for the crisis management committee, which conAs part of its risk management, Epson has established a sists of high-level managers such as the head of the crisis management program that provides a crisis mantrust-based management department, and was comagement system to handle major risks that could have a posed of corporate departments with specialized skills material impact on the management of the Group. The needed in the response such as human resources, genprogram also spells out a swift initial response to be led eral affairs, public relations, production planning, safety, by the president in the event of a devastating earthquake and environment. After gathering and analyzing informaor other major disaster. tion on the damage in each of the affected regions and business sites, the task force studied and decided the best plan of action and quickly moved to implement it. Basic Approach Epson works to prevent and manage risks that would In the first stage of the response, we dedicated all rehave a major impact on management of the Group in sources to verifying and ensuring the safety of employees order to maintain its trust-based management. and their families. We then built an organization aimed at We have built a company-wide crisis management sustaining and recovering operations at the damaged response system to deal with our changing business sites and began working with the related operations structure and operating environment. This system is divisions and Group companies. designed to prevent crises and to minimize damage should one materialize. Two months after the disaster, the damaged sites shifted from the initial response into recovery. By this point, issues that still needed work were clear as was the Action Guidelines system for following up on them, so on May 25 we termiWhen a crisis occurs, nated the Central Disaster Task Force and launched a 1. leverage the collective strength of management in recovery and support organization at the head office. The the response; and recovery and support organization, with the president as 2. overcome internal theories and respond with an its top official, set up administrative offices in the producawareness of corporate social responsibility. tion planning and trust-based management departments and created teams of the relevant corporate departments To prevent a crisis, that are addressing the remaining issues. 1. flexibly revise the response system to preempt any changes; and Compliance Management 2. have all departments be responsible for maintaining a state of constant readiness. In December 2006, Epson faced allegations of involvement in a LCD price-fixing cartel from antitrust authorities in the United States. Epson reached a settlement in Earthquake and Tsunami August 2009 in which it agreed to pay a fine. The earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan in March 2011 damaged several Epson business sites. Using this incident as a learning experience, Epson has These include Epson Toyocom Corporation’s Fukushima taken a number of steps throughout the Group to prevent Plant near the epicenter, Epson Atmix Corporation located a recurrence. First, we established Group-wide regulaon the Pacific coast in Hachinohe City of Aomori Prefections and standards on compliance with antitrust laws ture, and Tohoku Epson Corporation and Akita Epson and strengthened the organizations involved. We also Corporation on the Sea of Japan side of the country. have ongoing training sessions aimed at executive management, operations divisions, and Group companies to Immediately after the disaster occurred, Epson launched promote understanding of antitrust laws. the Central Disaster Task Force, headed by the president, at its head office in accordance with the crisis manageGoing forward, we will roll out similar sessions at overment program. The task force served as the administrative seas companies in addition to those in Japan. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 58 J-SOX Compliance Security at Epson Our long-standing commitment to CSR is reflected in our Epson’s Basic Information Security Policy, established efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations based on the company’s Principles of Corporate Behavand maintain the trust of the community. We believe that ior, describes our approach to information security and compliance with J-SOX includes not only legal complithe requirements that we must satisfy. The policy calls for ance but also the development of infrastructure to mitieach and every member of Epson to recognize the gate risks and strengthen our corporate foundations. importance of information security, exercise effective governance, and build information security into the Although the J-SOX Act (Financial Instruments and corporate culture so that Epson maintains its trustworthy Exchange Act) is a Japanese law, the global reach of reputation in information security. Epson’s business activities means that we apply the same approach overseas. We have overcome language Information Security Governance and Management and cultural barriers to vigorously engage in activities to In 2010, Epson continued augmenting information securistrengthen our corporate foundations as a Group. ty-related systems and providing related training. Selfchecks on the soundness of information security were Epson uses an autonomous distributed implementation conducted at 14 business sites and 11 were audited system in which each organization unit (Head Office, internally. We also conducted group audits, which evaluoperations division, subsidiary, or affiliate) takes responsiate and give advice on the design and operation of bility for building, operating, assessing, reporting on, and controls, at two business sites to ensure that their risk improving (PDCA) its internal controls. Organization units management for information security was functioning are evaluated by an evaluator selected from within their effectively. Senior information security managers held five ranks. We have been using this system of evaluation meetings, where they worked to deploy initiatives across since the first year of J-SOX to encourage workplacethe organization and track the progress of those efforts. driven compliance. Information security regulations and standards underIn the three years since J-SOX came into effect, J-SOX went their first major revision since 2008 to reflect changactivities have started to become part of the workplace es in the internal and external environment. culture and we have had the following successes with our internal control activities. z Information Security Organization Head President 1. We rebuilt our global system of internal control. Office 2. We increased awareness of internal control at the Audit Office operational department level by using an autonomous Group CISO*1 distributed implementation system. Group Supervising Dept. Group IT System Supervising Dept. These accomplishments enabled us to ensure a certain level of reliability in our consolidated financial reporting for Group Information Security Council fiscal 2010. Business Business Unit Chief Executive Unit CISO*1 Promotion Officer Admin. Office Departments A J-SOX evaluation Trainer program for overseas employees 1 Chief Information Security Officer Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 59 July is Information Security Enhancement Month. Under the slogan of “Protecting information is not the responsi• At the Epson Osaka Building, we performed a risk bility of others,” Epson conducted a number of activities assessment on physical security and installed a to heighten employee awareness of information security, new security system that uses an ID card with an including group readings of our information security & embedded microchip (G3-ID card). personal data protection guidelines and warnings to • At the Epson Imaging Devices Corporation employees about the risk of virus infection via USB Toyoshina Plant (currently Epson’s Toyoshina memory devices. Epson also gathers examples of near Plant) and Akita Epson Corporation, we issued misses in information security and incorporates that new G3-ID cards and installed a security system information into future initiatives. to use them. • At Epson Atmix Corporation, we strengthened the Training efforts included an online training program taken gates and the perimeter fence to prevent entry by by some 20,000 managers and general employees, as unauthorized persons, established a new security well as the continuation of training aimed at managers. booth, and stepped up inspections of entry authorization. IT System Security Initiatives • At Epson’s Chitose, Suwa-Minami, Matsumoto, Epson has begun looking into building a new office Hino, Matsushima, and Sakata Plants and at Epplatform that will provide a consistent and secure user son Toyocom Corporation’s Ina Plant, we strengthexperience on PCs and IT systems in the office. We also ened security further by expanding the use of the built a framework to support document management and G3-ID card-based security system. began pilot operations in some divisions. • In addition to these enhancements to security hardware and systems, we also strengthened opEpson Sales Japan Corporation acquired ISMS (informaerational controls by prohibiting visitors from entertion security management system) for the first time while ing buildings and moving around on their own. our certified data centers, Business System Operations Division and Epson Toyocom Systems renewed their certifications. Personal Data Protection Initiatives Epson also continued its efforts in the protection of personal data, conducting internal audits in eight departments. In addition, our three PrivacyMark-certified sales companies in Japan renewed their certifications. New security booth at Epson Atmix Corporation Physical Security In 2007 Epson launched a Group-wide project to improve the level of physical security. This involved various actions Protection of Intellectual Property aimed at boosting physical security in order to protect people and corporate assets. After achieving the level of One way that Epson practices trust-based management security required of global corporations at its main busiis by fully respecting the rights of third parties in the ness sites and reaching certain milestones, Epson deconduct of business. At the same time, to protect its cided to draw the four-year project to a close in 2010 and legitimate rights, Epson takes legal action against the continue the actions as a part of normal operations in unauthorized use of patent, trademark, and other ownergeneral affairs departments. ship rights. In 2010, we conducted the following activities to strengthen physical security at all Group companies in Japan. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 60 International Trade Control Framework and external fraud and prevents unauthorized use of Epson is a global company with manufacturing and sales goods and customer data. sites in various countries and regions. We also have business partners located throughout the world. With The key points both in security trade control and in such wide-ranging trade operations, it is important to import and export control are have systems in place that can smoothly handle the 1. building a control system that includes a general “create, produce and deliver” business value chain. control department; 2. systematic training and awareness-building; Various trade control conventions and regimes have been 3. internal audits. built to maintain peace and security in the international z Legally Mandated Trade Control community and to ensure smooth delivery of goods and services. Based on these accords, Japan established the Foreign Exchange Act Customs Act Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act for security Security trade control (METI) Import/export control (MOF) Organization: Organization: trade controls and the Customs Act for import and 1. Export control 1. Import/export control Establish general control dept. Establish general control dept. export control. As a member of the international commuClarify roles & responsibilities Clarify roles & responsibilities nity, Epson implements trade controls to comply with Procedures: 2. Determining controlled goods Linked Procedures: 2. Matching goods & documents 3. Transaction screening 3. Securing goods these laws and regulations and to ensure smooth trade. 4. Shipping control 4. Security Maintenance: Maintenance: z International Export Control Conventions & Regimes 5. Audit 5. Audit 6. Training 6. Training 7. Material control 7. Matrial control 8. Subsidiary guidance Nuclear Biological/chemical 8. Subsidiary guidance 9. Accident handling Conventions 9. Accident handling 10. Contractor supervision Regulate NPT BWC CWC Assurance by CP* Assurance by CP* nuclear, Nuclear Biological Chemical biological, and * Compliance Program NonWeapons Weapons chemical Proliferation Convention Convention weapons Treaty 190 signatories 163 188 signatories signatories Epson Initiatives International Missle Conventional export control Epson takes a comprehensive approach to security trade regimes NSG AG MTCR WA control and has received a General Bulk Export License Trade control Nuclear Australia Group Missle Wassenaar for dual-use Suppliers Technology Arrangement from Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry. goods Group Control Regime We have also been certified as an authorized exporter by 46 countries 40 countries 34 countries 40 countries Japan Customs under the Authorized Economic Operator program. We pursue similar initiatives overseas. Epson The key points in security trade control are Portland Inc. (EPI), Epson America, Inc. (EAI), and Epson 1. determining whether the goods or technologies are El Paso, Inc. (EEI) have been certified as partner compasubject to export controls; nies in the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism 2. screening transactions to determine whether the (C-TPAT) program and are given preferential treatment in export destination or the end user are subject to customs inspections when declaring imported goods. export controls; 3. in the shipping stage, confirming that the previous After September 11, 2001, the international community two steps are complete, that any necessary export made a decision to work together to stop the proliferation permits have been obtained, and that the goods of weapons of mass destruction and prevent consumer match the shipping documents. devices and technologies from being used in weapons. Advanced economies along with ASEAN countries, The key points in import and export control are South Korea, and other countries began drafting and 1. verifying that the goods match the shipping documents; enacting laws on the control of strategic goods. In light of 2. ensuring that the goods remain secure in storage and the spread of such international regulations, Epson will in transit so that no goods are removed, switched, or share trade control guidelines and techniques developed used to hide illegal items; in Japan with the rest of the Group to ensure that prod3. building a security environment that deters internal ucts are delivered to our customers without impediment. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 61 In-House Customs Clearance were contracted out. We have expanded the use of Epson’s trade management department has been perin-house customs clearance within the Group and Epson forming in-house customs clearance since 2010 based on Toyocom Corporation also completely shifted to in-house our Authorized Exporter certification. After receiving an clearance in 2010. outstanding evaluation from customs on our level of compliance and security, we were able to shift customs Futami Sato, the leader of in-house customs clearance in clearance duties from a contractor to in-house operations. the trade management department, says, “I have to be careful so no mistakes are made in the customs declaraSpecific points of control in trade management are tions. I have to handle a lot of declarations in a short time divided amongst various departments in the business due to tight export schedules, but the importance of the value chain. Customs clearance, the final step in the work keeps me motivated.” export process, serves as an independent check function over the value chain by checking whether the goods being exported are subject to export controls and verifying that the goods match the items in the declaration. Any errors found in a declaration are promptly corrected and communicated to the relevant departments to prevent future occurrences. Futami Sato handles in-house customs clearance Currently, all general goods are processed in-house. In 2010, the number of errors found and corrections made C-TPAT Verification by U.S. Customs in the clearance stage dropped to less than one third of Epson America, Inc. (EAI), one of our affiliates in the U.S., the number two years prior. Our current level of quality is a certified C-TPAT partner company. After certification, and risk management is higher than when the operations security controls at partner companies are periodically validated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. EAI and P.T. z Corrections During Customs Clearance Indonesia Epson Industry (IEI), an Epson manufacturing site in Asia, working with the trade management depart100 100 ment, went through the validation process in April 2011. 80 57 60 40 28 20 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) * As a percentage of normalized 2008 filings C-TPAT Verification z Business Value Chain and In-House Customs Clearance Business value chain Order Customer Export Shipping Sale screening Shipping receiving applicability request arrangements recording Globe*1 (Web Globe) 1 Epson’s export and shipping system for performing export procedures Exit control In-house clearance 2 A system that lets Japan Customs, import/export-related governmental NACCS*2 (Customs) agencies, and private industries Seiko Epson Corp. perform import/export-related Trade Management Dept. processing online Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 62 Trusted Throughout the World Sustainable Procurement Moving ahead with suppliers based on the principles of fairness, coexistence and co-prosperity Approach to Sustainable Procurement Co-creating with Our Business Partners z Procurement System Epson is committed to practicing sustainable procurement. We develop mutually beneficial trusting relationManagement Philosophy ships with our business partners around the world based on the concepts of fairness, coexistence, and co-prosPrinciples of Corporate Behavior perity. We also believe that part of our responsibility is not only to deliver quality products but also to make sure that Epson Code of Conduct the manufacturing process for our products and services maintains a suitable level of human rights, labor stanBasic Procurement Policy dards, and environmental preservation. This underscores 1. We will build good partnerships with suppliers, the importance of working with our suppliers on CSR based on mutual trust and the principles of fairness, coexistence and co-prosperity. activities. 2. Exercising high ethical standards and a social conscience, we will conduct our procurement activities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws These partnerships are the roots that allow Epson to and regulations, both national and international, grow in harmony with the local and international commuin every region where we operate. 3. We will strive to reduce our environmental impacts nities. This is why we select our suppliers from compathrough our procurement activities and will always nies that excel in terms of technology, quality, price, seek stable and reasonable quality, price, and delivery, stability, and social engagement. delivery from suppliers. Procurement Procurement Policy and Guidelines Code of Conduct We have established formal procurement guidelines that Procurement spell out fundamental Epson principles for our business Guidelines partners around the world. Our procurement guidelines cover requirements regarding compliance with laws, Epson Supplier Epson Group Procurement Code of Conduct Management Regulation social norms and ethics in areas such as child and forced labor, respect for human rights, environment preservation, and health and safety. Epson Group procurement standards Stakeholders are taking an increasing interest in how we take overall responsibility for human rights, labor stanDivision & Group Evaluation dards, and environmental preservation in our supply company standards standard chain. Epson established the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct in conformance with the Electric Industry Code Request for Business Supplier of Conduct (EICC) under the belief that suppliers involved compliance relationship evaluation with Epson products and services need to maintain an equivalent standard of conduct. Selfassessment Suppliers Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 63 Sustainable Procurement Initiatives Compliance Management Initiatives As part of its sustainable procurement initiatives, Epson Unethical actions or violation of laws or company regulaconducts periodic supplier evaluations every year to tions in procurement activities would result in the loss of assess the quality and delivery management systems at trust built up over the years and cause serious damage suppliers and to check the kinds of CSR activities taking to the entire company. place. In 2010, we asked 1,200 companies to conduct self-checks and performed on-site checks at nearly 100 Compliance management is a core part of Epson’s of them. business activities. We perform continuous in-house training and internal audits based on company regulaWe also conduct detailed CSR evaluations as necessary tions to ensure that our procurement activities comply and practice CSR activities in the supply chain. Between with laws, regulations, and social norms worldwide and 2008 and 2010, our main business units asked 374 that they respect fair and open competition. suppliers to conduct self-assessments and received responses from 362 of them (a response rate of 97%). Training to Ensure Fair Business Dealings We then performed on-site audits at 130 of the suppliers Epson defines every October as Trust-Based Managethat responded and requested improvements for any ment Month. As part of this event, every employee parnonconformances that were found. The training program ticipated in two online training programs to ensure a we put together to teach eligible employees how to minimum level of procurement knowledge. In addition, perform the evaluation has been completed by a total of our company regulations require all procurement staff 317 people. and decision-makers involved in negotiating prices with suppliers to take procurement and compliance managez Supplier Evaluation Framework ment training. So far, nearly 14,500 employees have been certified. New supplier evaluation We believe that these kinds of training programs teach Procurement Guidelines employees the importance of self-driven compliance • Approach to procurement & management and foster a workplace culture of self-disciSupplier basic stance Epson Epson Supplier Code of Conduct Compliance requests • Requests to supplier pline. This, in turn, leads to procurement activities that earn trust from stakeholders. Periodic supplier evaluation: Do yearly Evaluation & Detailed CSR evaluation improvement (covers speciﬁc disciplines) z Procurement Staff Certification Training requests (Participants) 14,582 15,000 13,924 13,125 z Periodic Supplier Evaluation 12,429 11,012 10,000 Evaluation items 5,000 1. Management in general: Stability of management 2. Labor & ethics: Labor management & corporate ethics initiatives 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 3. Health & safety: Health & safety initiatives 4. Environmental performance: Efforts to mitigate environmental impacts 5. Quality: Efforts to improve quality 6. Cost: Efforts to reduce prices 7. Delivery: Efforts to meet deadlines Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 64 Prospering with the Community Corporate Citizenship Proactive engagement with communities as a good corporate citizen Approach to Corporate Citizenship FY2010 Activity Highlights “Epson is a progressive company, trusted throughout the In 2010, among our five priority areas of engagement, we world.” The Epson Management Philosophy underpins were particularly active in education for young people. the Philosophy and Policy for Philanthropy and Giving Epson’s corporate citizenship expenditures totaled nearly that we established in 2004. The Philosophy states that 650 million yen. Epson and its employees are committed to harmonious coexistence with local communities through a wide range As a good corporate citizen, Epson will continue to seek of local community-based activities in all the countries of harmonious coexistence with society and strive to build a the world in which we operate. better world through a wide range of supporting programs that engage local communities. Epson is changing the direction of its corporate citizenship activities from a “virtue” to a “strategy.” In other words, we are updating our corporate citizenship activities according to the times by making contributions using the, technologies, knowledge, and human resources that support our businesses in addition to financial and monetary support. Philosophy for Philanthropy and Giving Education for young people (Established March 2004) Epson Green Next-Generation Environmental Protection Education (China) As a good corporate citizen, the Epson Group seeks harmonious z Corporate Citizenship Expenditures coexistence with local communities. Five Areas of Priority In addition, our employees strive to build • Education for young people • Culture and the arts a better society through • Community activity participation and support a wide range of supporting programs • Environmental conservation • Social welfare as members of local communities. Other 9% Policy for Philanthropy Education Disaster relief and Giving 19% for young Total*1 people 1. Pursue volunteer activities in priority areas (consolidated) 30% according to the needs of the region ¥650 million Social welfare 2. Encourage and support participation in 6% social activities Culture and Environmental 3. Promote distinctive volunteer activities conservation the arts 9% Community 13% 4. Emphasize community engagement events 14% 1 Includes the monetary equivalent of human and material assistance. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 65 Earthquake Assistance Education for Young People Educational Support Project (Chile) Epson has engaged in various forms of support to Epson Chile, S.A. (ECSA) offers various kinds of educahelp the recovery of people affected by the earthquake and tsunami that struck on March 11, 2011. tional support to a school located in La Ensenada, a small rural town in the Los Lagos Region of southern • Relief Money Chile. This support allowed the school to meet certain Epson donated 100 million yen to the Japanese requirements established by the government and thus Red Cross Society to help with rebuilding. receive government aid. A scholarship program was also Helping through Our Business created to help the best stu• Support for Photo Restoration Project dents continue their education Epson believes it can provide emotional supat a high-level school. The port by helping people get back photos that school, which has grown to 180 were damaged in the disaster. We are providing students, is recognized as the printers, scanners, computers, ink, and paper only public school in the region to a project aimed at restoring mudor waterwhere students have the opporEsucuela Rural Epson Ensenada, damaged photographs to their original state. tunity to use IT equipment. an Epson-supported school The project is run by the Japan The school has also opened its doors to any parents who Society for Sowant to finish their studies or learn new skills and occucial Service and pations. In recognition of our efforts, the school added includes students Epson to its name and the local community feels very from various Japaclose to the company. nese universities. A student volunteer helps restore photos • Helping Print Disaster Area Maps According to Barbara Ibarra, Epson donated large-format printers to disasthe ECSA customer satisfaction ter volunteer centers through Japan’s National specialist, “ECSA launched the Research Institute for Earth Science and Dieducational support program in saster Prevention. Maps and satellite photos of 1985 after we saw the state of local areas are printed to share information on the school when we were damage and to help plan recovery efforts. searching for a place to hold a • Donating Epson Products to Shelters distributor meeting. This supBarbara Ibarra Working with local governments in the affected port program is meaningful Customer Satisfaction, ECSA areas, Epson donated sets of Epson products because it helps children succeed in the future.” and laptop computers to emergency shelters in those regions. Each set includes a projector, Guest Lecturer at SE Gakuen (Japan) a computer with a TV tuner, and a projector SE Gakuen is an information science college established screen. These donations will help the people by Epson in 1989 to provide a place for high school affected by the disaster gather information, graduates to learn the skills needed by regional busiwatch movies, and more. nesses. In November 2010, an employee with disabilities • Discount Repairs for Epson Products from Epson Mizube Epson is providing free labor and discounted Corporation taught a parts for repairs of products that were damclass on universal deaged by the earthquake or tsunami. sign (UD) at the school. This gave students the Epson also organized an employee fundraising drive opportunity to develop a and will continue to provide support for the affected deeper understanding of areas according to the needs on the ground. UD and acquire useful knowledge for the future. Special lesson on universal design Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 66 Community Events Epson Scholarship Foundations (Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea) Snow Removal Volunteers for the Elderly (Japan) Epson’s foundations aim to promote education, technolEvery year, Akita Epson Corporation employees form a ogy, and culture, to engage in environmental activities, and team of snow removal volunteers who help elderly people to contribute to the development of local communities. living alone remove the snow on and around their houses. In 1990, we established a foundation in Hong Kong that This past winter marked the eighth year of the activity. provides scholarships to students and carries out activities Yuzawa City, where Akita Epson is located, has a lot of such as disaster relief. It also aims to protect the environsnowfall even for Akita Prefecture and removing the snow ment by working with environmental groups and by holdis physically demanding work. The twelve employees ing environmentally-themed photography exhibitions. who volunteered in January 2011 talked about the sense of achievement and satisfaction they felt when they Then in 1997, we established a foundation in Japan to finished. The record promote human resource development, education, and snowfall in 2011 had science in Asia and to help foster development and the elderly eagerly positive relations between Japan and the rest of Asia. The awaiting the team’s foundation also provides scholarships to students from mobilization. This team Asian countries of snow removal volunand helps fund teers is just one way educational, that Akita Epson aims Volunteers battle the heavy snowfall technological, and to earn the trust of the community. cultural exchange programs. Local Cleanup Activities (Worldwide) South Korean scholarship award ceremony Epson offices around the world help keep communities Two years later in 1999, Epson established a foundation in clean with local cleanup activities. These activities also South Korea that offers support for youth research and serve to foster a corporate culture where employees actively exchange programs in South Korea and overseas, funds participate in local events as members of the community. scholarships for junior and senior high school students, and provides computers and other equipment for learning. Culture and the Arts Saito Kinen Orchestra (Japan) Epson has helped sponsor the Saito Kinen Orchestra since 1989 as part of our patronage of music and the arts in Japan. We are also a special corporate sponsor of the Saito Kinen Festival Matsumoto, held annually in Road Warrior cleanup activities (U.S.) Matsumoto City since 1992. In 2009, the festival began holding concerts by up-and-coming performers for students from elementary and special needs schools in Nagano. These concerts offer the students a rare and valuable opportunity to experience a live orchestra and to develop an interest in Saito Kinen Festival Matsumoto classical music. Mangrove Ecological Reserve cleanup (China) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 67 Environmental Conservation Social Welfare Donations for Cartridges (Europe, Japan) Employee Volunteer Program (Taiwan) Epson runs various programs throughout the world in Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) employwhich donations are given to environmental and chariees formed a volunteer club in 2009. The club engages in table organizations based on the volume of ink and toner activities such as taking special needs children and their cartridges that are returned. families to science museums and providing sales support for used goods shops that employ people with disabiliIn Europe, Epson France S.A. (EFS), Epson Iberica, S.A. ties. In 2010, a total of 174 employees participated in the (EIB), and Epson (U.K.) Ltd. (EUL) run programs in which program. Working and learning together was a good one euro in France and Spain and one pound in the U.K. experience for everyone. is donated to the local chapter of the Red Cross for each toner cartridge that is returned. ETT also added a day of paid volunteer leave in 2010 so employees can now In Japan, six printer manufacturers launched the “Ink take two days off to Cartridge Homecoming Project” in April 2008 together participate in volunteer with post offices across Japan. For every ink cartridge activities. ETT uses its collected since April 2010, we donate three yen to the internal web site to let United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). We also employees know about give donations to the Nature Conservation Society of volunteer activities. Visit to science museum with special needs Japan and to the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and children Cultural Advancement (OISCA) through our used cartridge collection service. Charity Marathons and Walks (Worldwide) Epson participates in charity marathons and walks Tree-Planting Activities (Worldwide) across the globe as a way to contribute to society Epson employees around the world are contributing to through employee engagement. the prevention of global warming and the preservation of biodiversity through tree-planting activities in various • In October 2010, Epson Portland Inc. (EPI) particiregions worldwide. pated in Race for the Cure, an event designed to promote awareness of breast cancer. • In the same month, Philippines Epson Optical (PEO) joined in Run for the Pasig River. This event serves to protect the rivers of Manila from pollution. • Epson Group companies in Japan agreed to make matching contributions to social causes for employees who participate in the Lake Suwa Walk and Carbon Trading Model Forest Project (China) Reforestation on Mt. Palay (Philippines) Suwako Marathon. Region Main Activities • Carbon Trading Model Forest Project China • Tree-planting at Shenzhen Zhongshan Park Hospice Fundraising (U.K.) • Tree-planting at Mt. Longmen in Fuzhou Every month, employees at Epson Telford Ltd. (ETL) pool Philippines • Mt. Makiling Reforestation Project (details on p. 38) their loose change and donate it to hospice. Based on a • Reforestation activity on Mt. Palay desire to be socially engaged in some way, over 130 Indonesia • Tree-planting activity on Kalimantan employees contribute to the fund, which goes to Severn Portugal • Gardunha Verde Project Hospice, an independent charity in the U.K. Japan • Jinguji 100-Year Forest Project (details on p. 38) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 68 Prospering with the Community Communication Deepening trusted relationships through constructive communication Approach to Communication organizations from the viewpoint that professional develCommunication serves as a vital bridge to our various opment is indispensable to improving the productivity of stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, invesan organization. The program, in its 48th year in 2010, tors, governments, communities, NGOs and NPOs, covers various topics over the course of six months and media outlets, suppliers, students, and employees. With has a curriculum that includes practical skills. The nearly its global business presence, Epson established a Global 2,000 people who have completed the course were able Communications Standard in 1998 to bridge cultural to form bonds that will serve as valuable assets in the differences and to deliver communication activities that future. are trusted throughout the world. As a progressive company that upholds the ethical standards of the internaMembers had long been asking to tour other companies tional community, Epson’s communication programs go and increase inter-company dialog. In 2010, we provided beyond legal compliance to ensure the timely delivery of an opportunity to learn about our collection and recycling information on our activities and initiatives, even if it is of a of ink cartridges as an example of an environmental negative nature. We actively communicate with our initiative. Epson will continue to support association stakeholders both directly and through the mass media. efforts to provide opportunities for the 620 member companies to learn about the way other companies conduct their business. Shareholders and Investors At Epson, we treat the General Shareholders’ Meeting as an excellent opportunity to directly communicate with our shareholders. At the 68th annual meeting in 2010, President Minoru Usui delivered a progress report on the first year of our SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision and detailed our initiatives for the second year. Every year shareholders bring a range of Manager training course at Kanbayashi Plant (recycling site) opinions and questions to the General Communities Shareholders’ Meeting, which Mr. Usui and the Epson organizes events to engage in dialog with the local other directors openly residents of the communities in which we operate. We address. 68th Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting strive to build a positive relationship of trust with the community by cultivating a deeper understanding of our environmental initiatives and risk management system. External Organizations As a member of the Nagano Employers’ Association, During 2010, we held Epson is actively involved in the association’s activities. such events at ten of As part of our involvement, we cooperate with the manour business sites in ager training course offered by the association. The Japan. manager training course is a basic education and training program designed to rethink the role of individuals and Dialog with local residents Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 69 NGOs and NPOs Suppliers Epson Deutschland GmbH (EDG) has been a member of Epson considers its suppliers to be important business Initiative Pro Recycling Paper, a non-governmental orgapartners. We strive to build trust by solving problems and nization in Germany, for the past 3 years. In February sharing objectives through meetings and dialog. Our 2011, the annual general meeting was held at EDG. divisions and overseas manufacturing sites periodically hold procurement policy meetings to explain our busiAn alliance was formed by 23 companies from different ness plans and procurement policies and to ask for industry sectors to promote the acceptance of recycled cooperation in bringing them to fruition. paper. The initiative closely cooperates with key institutions like the Federal Environment Agency and consumer Students and environmental protection organizations, and also serves as a contact point and the driving force behind Epson’s Monozukuri-Juku (Manufacturing School) faciliactions. During the eight years since its formation, the tates communication by holding watch assembly workInitiative managed to put the topic of recycled paper back shops and work-study programs for local elementary and on the media’s radar and raise its public profile. junior high school students, and by providing practical courses on manufacturing for senior high school students and teachers. One of the high school students who took the course commented on the concentration required to keep the file level when filing a surface. He was impressed by how easily the instructor could tell which part was not level and said that he wanted to Members of Initiative Pro Recycling Paper attain that level of proficiency in someMedia thing. Every year, Epson invites members of the media from High school students get hands-on experience around the world to its Head Office and business sites in Other Stakeholders Japan. In November 2010, we invited over 30 journalists from Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, The Arts Thailand, Vietnam, and Taiwan for a press tour where Epson holds various digital imaging contests to support President Usui talked about his experiences as the project the creative efforts of photographers and users across leader for the Micro Piezo technology that became one of the globe. Epson’s core technologies, and how 20 years ago it led to Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. (EAL) holds the commercial launch of the first inkjet printer. the Epson International Pano Awards. http://www.thepanoawards.com/ The visiting journalists were able to deepen their underEpson Europe B.V. (EEB) holds the Epson Red Sea standing of how competition. Micro Piezo has http://www.eilatredsea.com/ become the founIn Japan, Seiko Epson Corporation organized the dation of our wide Color Imaging Exhibition 2010. Prize-winning art range of products, from the contests held in India, Indonesia, China, Malaysia, and Taiwan were exhibited in Japan to our business introduce the diversity of the various countries and regions. This year’s exhibition was cancelled due domains, and our to the March 11 earthquake, so the prize-winning latest technologies. Journalists listen to President Usui works have been posted on our global website. http://global.epson.com/SR/community/citizenship/exhibition.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 70 External Websites that group management should take, and other imporIn April 2011, Epson finished updating almost all of its tant information. external websites worldwide based on a new global design template. The template is designed to enhance The website is an important tool to ensure that employthe user experience and make it easier for users to find ees worldwide carry out business activities in a way that the information they are looking for. fosters trust, that they understand and act In rolling out the redesign, we analyzed the needs and upon the decisions browsing habits of our made by the head customers and posioffice, and that they tioned the menus and abide by company content according to regulations and stanthe preferences of dards. English version of WorkPlace customers in each region. Here are some Dialog Between the President and Management of the improvements The president has been holding roundtable discussions that were made: Globally unified design with managers at the business sites of Epson Group companies in Japan to have an open dialog on the • We established rules on basic design and logos Management Philosophy. The discussions began with to ensure a consistent brand image and better usgeneral managers in 2009 and covered the SE15 Longability. Range Corporate Vision. • We improved accessibility with globally unified images and icons. In 2010, they were expanded to include section manag• We designed the menu structure to incorporate ers in order to deepen their understanding of the Manregional characteristics and respond to customer agement Philosophy so they can hold similar discussions needs. with the members of their workplaces to ensure that all Epson employees share the same values and work as a team to create customer value. Manufacturing Museum This museum is dedicated to teaching visitors about Epson’s roots and how it grew into the company it is today. Notable products from the time of the company’s founding are on display, including several world firsts. Over 11,000 customers have visited the museum since its opening Roundtable discussion in May 2004. Labor Union Manufacturing Museum Labor-management conferences are held every month to Employees facilitate communication between managers and employInternal Website ees in Japan. Informal meetings are also held on the In November 2009, Epson launched an English version of business and workplace level to provide a venue for its WorkPlace website to encourage bidirectional combidirectional communication and to deepen mutual munication between employees worldwide and boost understanding. productivity. Starting in April 2010, we began using the site to share the thoughts of management, the direction Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 71 Communication in India With GDP growth between eight and nine percent for the last several years, India is undergoing a dramatic transformation and is on its way to becoming an economic powerhouse. Within this environment, Epson is engaging in active communication with the Indian market to clarify and satisfy customer needs. Incorporating Indian Culture Sales Channel Communication Epson India Pvt. Ltd. (EPIL), now located in Bangalore, EPIL is strengthening programs for its sales channels to has been an Epson sales site for nearly 20 years, prodeepen their understanding of the features and quality gressively developing its presence during that time. Sales of Epson’s many product families. EPIL builds a relationhave been steadily increasing due to efforts in the sales ship of trust with channels and the reliability of the products themselves, its sales channels but we realized that better direct customer communicaby holding regular tions was needed to increase visibility of the Epson brand. training sessions and through close At the beginning of 2010, Epson decided to utilize the communication. knowledge and experience of its staff on the ground to Sales channel program training develop a comprehensive strategy to expand our business in the increasingly-competitive Indian market Communication with Retailers and to increase our brand recognition so that customIn line with the goals of Epson’s communication proers would start asking for Epson by name. Based on gram, EPIL strives to increase recognition of the Epson these policies, EPIL brand by providing support for multi-brand retailers. focused its mid-range EPIL then certifies the best retailers as Epson Certified plan on a communicaChannel Partners and strengthens collaboration with tion program aimed at them through even closer communication. finding the voice of the customer. In 2010, EPIL marked its 20th anniversary with impresEPIL Bangalore Office sive sales growth of 25% year-over-year and will continue to enhance the Epson brand in the Indian market Brand Communication by pinpointing customer needs, running active promoIn 2010, the first year of the program, EPIL ran an tions, and rolling out various communication measures. advertising campaign in busy locations to strengthen the Epson brand. With the catchphrase of “See BeMr. Sukumar from EPIL says, “With ambitious plans in yond the Usual,” the campaign was designed to implace, a continued clear focus on the needs of customprove brand recognition and to hear the voice of the ers in various segments is of course important, but it customer directly. will be the careful execution of these As part of the campaign, EPIL demonstrated products multi-level commuon a mobile stage nication activities and was able to get that will grow the unfiltered opinions Epson brand in from potential cusIndia to 2015 and (Left) T. Sukumar, Finance & Admin & HR Dept tomers. Those ideas beyond.” Deputy Country Manager, EPIL (Right) N. Samba Moorthy, Sales & Marketing are now being used Dept Senior General Manager, EPIL to improve our future products. Mobile demonstration stage Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 72 Worldwide Recognition (Major Accolades) Epson makes a wider social contribution by engaging in steady business activities, making information available to the public, and sharing technology and know-how with non-Epson parties. These efforts consistently receive worldwide recognition. Product and Service Awards Conferred by Recipient Date TIPA Awards 2010: Best Expert Photo Printer, Best Pro Epson Stylus Pro 3880, Epson EHTechnical Image Press Association Apr. 2010 Photo Projector, Best Photo Scanner TW5500, Epson Perfection V600 Photo Best Proofing Printer of the Year 2010 European Digital Press Association Epson Stylus Pro WT7900 Apr. 2010 No. 1 in 2010 After-Sales Satisfaction Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. Epson Direct Corporation Jul. 2010 Epson Stylus Pro 3880 EISA Awards: European Printer 2010–2011 European Imaging and Sound Association Aug. 2010 (PX-5002 in Japan) Fourth Kids Design Award (Social Kids Support) Kids Design Association Epson Printown Aug. 2010 Won 6 awards for EH-R4000, EP-803A, iF Product Design Award iF Industrie Forum Design e.V. Mar. 2011 and others Environmental Awards ASEAN Energy Awards 2010 (photo 1) ASEAN Centre for Energy Philippines Epson Optical Inc. July 2010 2010 DevNet Award Japan DevNet Association Epson Group Oct. 2010 China Green Gold Award (photo 2) Sohu.com Inc. (Chinese search engine) Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Nov. 2010 EcoHiTech Award 2010 Consorzio Ecoqual'it Epson Italia S.p.A. Dec. 2010 Named as “Water-Saving Company” Shenzhen Water Conservation Office Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Dec. 2010 Environmental Performance Award Philippine Economic Zone Authority Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. Mar. 2011 Health and Safety Awards Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Award for Health Japan Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Tohoku Epson Corporation Jul. 2010 and Safety in the Workplace Workplace Safety & Health Performance Silver Award Singapore Workplace Safety and Health Council Singapore Epson Industrial Pte. Ltd. Jul. 2010 2010 (photo 3) Outstanding Employer Award Philippine Economic Zone Authority Philippines Epson Optical Inc. Mar. 2011 General CSR Awards and Recognition (including SRI) Included in Dow Jones Sustainability Index Dow Jones & Company (U.S.) Epson Group Nov. 2010 China Outstanding Corporate Citizen Award 21st Century Network (China) Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Dec. 2010 Certified as Silver Class by SAM, a sustainability SAM (Switzerland) Epson Group Feb. 2011 investing group Included in FTSE4GoodGlobal Index FTSE Group (U.K.) Epson Group Mar. 2011 Included in Morningstar Socially Responsible Morningstar, Inc. (Japan) Epson Group Apr. 2011 Investment Index Included in Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence Forum Ethibel (Belgium) Epson Group May 2011 (April 2011) FTSE4GoodGlobal Index http://www.ftse.com/ftse4good/index.jsp Camera Journal Press Club Award In May 2011, Epson’s PX-5V inkjet printer won the Camera GP2011 Editors Award. This was the first time a printer had won the award since it was established in 1990. The judges praised the PX-5V for its excellent image quality, rich color reproduction, and great usabilPhoto 2 ity. Photo 1 Photo 3 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 73 Thank you for reading Epson Sustainability Report 2011 Epson considers the Sustainability Report to be an important means of communicating with you, our stakeholders. In an effort to further improve our reporting and CSR activities, we ask that you take a few minutes to fill out a survey at website. We appreciate your cooperation. Sustainability Report 2011 Survey https://cform.epson.jp/form5/pub/e042/sr2011_e Listening to Our Readers We would like to thank all the people who responded to last year’s survey. The results, compiled from responses provided by 337 people, are summarized below. NOTE: The survey for general stakeholders was different from the one given to employees.  General Stakeholders Poor 3.6% Excellent Poor 7.2% Excellent Poor 10.7% Excellent 39.3% 35.7% 53.6% Ease of Readability Content Understanding Good Good Good 57.1% 57.1% 35.7%  Employees Poor 1.3% Excellent Poor 0.9% Excellent Poor 1.3% Excellent Fair 8.1% 7.3% Fair 9.9% 9.4% Fair 8.5% 10.6% Overall Ease of Content Composition Understanding Average Good Average Good Average Good 40.2% 43.1% 41.2% 38.6% 39.6% 40.0% Top Comments Main Improvements in Sustainability Report 2011 • Include more employees in the report. • We included as many employees as possible in the • Include more global information. report. • Include more information on water conservation. • We reported on a lot of activities outside of Japan, • Take universal design into consideration. including in the special features. • I could tell that a lot of work went into the Chinese • We described specific water recycling (p. 43) and version with region-specific articles. material flow (p. 49) initiatives and talked about the results of such initiatives. • Photo sizes, graphs, and colors were adjusted in consideration of colorblindness and monochrome printing. CSR Initiatives Japanese website English website Chinese website http://www.epson.jp/csr/ http://global.epson.com/SR/ http://www.epson.com.cn/ Epson Group Sustainability Report 2011 74 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano-ken Japan 392-8502 tel: +81-266-52-3131 http://global.epson.com
