CSR REPORT Head office: 165 Tatoiou str., 145 64 ATHENS, GREECE Tel: (0030210) 6251971 Ÿ Fax: (0030210) 6251977 Ÿ E-mail: info@coco-mat.com Factory: Industrial Area of Xanthi, 67 100 Xanthi, GREECE Tel: (003025410) 77360 Ÿ Fax: (003025410) 77361Ÿ E-mail: Xan-factory@coco-mat.com Shops Greece: Kifissia, Halandri, Faliro, Kolonaki, Patissia, Stadiou, Alimos, Maroussi, Freatida, Terpsithea, Peristeri, Voula, Pallini, Argos, Agrinio, Chania, Heraklion, Kalamaria, Diagonios, Pylea, Ioannina, Kalamata, Korinthos, Corfu, Larissa, Xanthi, Patra, Rodos, Alexandroupoli, Orestiada, Mitilini, Katerini, Chalkida, Karditsa, Volos, Kozani, Komotini, Lamia, Pyrgos, Sparti, Tripoli, Trikala Europe: Limasol, Nicosia, Madrid, Barcelona, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Arnhem, Antwerpen, Hamburg, Geneva China: Hangzhou, Souzhou, Derlook, Ningbo, Ayd, Meten, Harbin, Shenyang Saudi Arabia: Jeddah U.S.A.: N. York, Boston Canada: Toronto Eugenia Lianou Total Quality and Human Resources Manager Paul Efmorfidis Chief Executive Officer 165 Tatoiou Av. Kifissia, Athens, Greece Tel: +30 210 6251971 pmhome@coco-mat.com [Date 27/05/11] H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that COCO-MAT supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this letter we formally express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence, and our commitment to henceforth incorporate the Global Compact and its principles to our business strategy, organizational culture and day-today operations of our company. We are also keen to engage, to the extent possible, and subject to our company’s capacities, in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, and we undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. It is our understanding that the Global Compact reflects shared values and principles between the United Nations and such companies as COCO-MAT. As a company that actively supports and operates under the principles of public accountability, transparency, and corporate governance, we commit to report on progress within a year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter in accordance with the Global Compact COP policy. We are proud to express our commitment to the Global Compact in its efforts to protect human rights, to support labour, to foster sustainable development, to respect the environment, and to promote anticorruption. Sincerely yours, Paul Efmorfidis COMPANY PROFILE COCO-MAT was established in Athens in 1989, and was originally involved in the production of bed mattresses made of natural raw materials. Since then it has expanded, and in 1992, the company’s headquarters relocated to the industrial region of Xanthi. Nowadays, an increased range of products is manufactured in privately owned factories of 26.000 m2 in 123.000 m2 of land. COCO-MAT currently employs 218 people. Since its first steps, the company has developed a policy focused on quality, and has taken part in the European Foundation of Quality Management Excellence Model since 1997. The vision of the founders of COCO-MAT is to remain at the top position worldwide in the manufacture of natural products, and to achieve a working culture of sustainability, embracing all types of human activity giving equal chances to everybody irrespective of their nationality, colour, religion, or physical disability. COCO-MAT has acquired a dynamic profile with excellent prospects in a very competitive field. This has been achieved through the use of highly specialised, technically advanced equipment, proficiently and continuously trained personnel and first-rate associates. In addition COCO-MAT has implemented contemporary management methods, and made use of results from recent research on the needs of its European customers. The company has implemented the Systems of Quality Management and Environmental Management, whose design and function are based on the requirements of the models of ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 14001 respectively. COCO-MAT’s policy is based on sustainable development and is focused on four main areas: 1. NATURAL QUALITY PRODUCT 2. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 3. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 4. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION The raw materials used for COCO-MAT products are 100% natural, therefore the manufacturing of products and the products are friendly to human being and the environment. As an indication, some of the raw materials that constitute the manufacturing basis of COCO-MAT products are: coco fibre (the fibres covering the coconut fruit which after suitable processing together with natural rubber, produce elastic coco fibres); natural rubber (the juice from the HEVEA tree becomes a foamy layer of natural rubber); wool and cotton (coming from the region of Thrace and considered to be of best quality due to the unique climate conditions and soil composition); seaweed (used to provide extra iodine to customers with asthma and breathing problems), horsehair, silk, linen, solid wood, levanter, cactus and down. COCO-MAT places great emphasis on the protection of the environment, a commitment that is evident in the use of ecological materials and the avoidance of chemical materials. This includes the packaging of products mattresses are transported in cotton cases. New technologies are also a focal point for the company. Their contribution to the formation and realisation of policy and strategy is important and relates to the company’s resolution that it would use technology to reduce harmful effects to the environment, to improve work conditions and reduce waste of energy and of raw materials. The number of outlets has increased drastically over the past few years and there are now 42 COCO-MAT retail outlets in Greece, 10 in Europe, 2 in the US, 1 in Canada, 1 in Saudi Arabia and 8 in China. For these investments COCO-MAT was able to use its own capital and not rely on loans. The tremendous growth and expansion of COCO-MAT, in combination with its high quality products, has now resulted in the name of “COCO-MAT” being familiar in most European consumer markets. COCO-MAT is one of the 500 nominated companies of Europe’s fastest-growing, entrepreneurial and jobcreating companies, according to Europe’s 500 Listing. Furthermore, it is one of the 10 fastest growing companies in Greece. The cultural variation and multilingual pattern of its work force are quite evident, as most of the employees do not speak the Greek language fluently, being refugees from exEastern Block countries such as Russia (54% of the personnel). It is also important to point out that COCO-MAT implements a recruitment and employment policy that provides equal opportunities to people with “special skills” (the usual term used is “disabled people”). COCO-MAT’s presence in society is also evident in other ways; it participates in the local community providing sponsorships for athletic teams, associations and cultural events, funding environmental activities, information campaigns and supporting people in need (flood victims, old age pensioners, rehabilitation centres for drug addicts, prisoners, refugees etc.). To promote and support its culture of sustainability, COCO-MAT has established partnerships with individuals, social teams, external organisations and professional bodies in Greece and abroad. Examples are COCO-MAT’s partnerships with various Universities in Greece and abroad, EFQM, Cambridge University, UNESCO, WWF, United Nations, CSR Eurochambres in Brussels. During the 22 years of its operation, COCO-MAT has won significant awards and top distinctions, showing extremely positive results on issues of quality, personnel management, protection of the environment, methods of production and its social contribution. Such awards and distinctions make COCO-MAT proud of its achievements and giving strength to continue its efforts towards excellence. COCO-MAT fact sheet Year of foundation 1989 Place of Athens, Greece foundation Headquarters Central Store, Tatoiou 165, 145 64 Kifissia (Athens) Factories Industrial Area Xanthi, 671 00 Xanthi Management team Pavlos (Paul) Efmorfidis, President and Founder Michalis (Mike) Efmoridis, Managing Director Mirjam Wiggers, Co-Founder and Art Director Nikitas Markopoulos, Co-Founder and Head of Product Development Kostas Maltezos, General Manager Number of 220 in Greece and Europe employees Shops in Greece 10 shops in the wider Athens region 3 shops in Thessaloniki Rest of Greece: Argos, Agrinio, Chania (Crete), Corfu, Heraklion (Crete), Ioannina, Kalamata, Korinthos, Larissa, Patras, Rhodes, Xanthi Shop-in-shops in Alexandroupoli, Athens (city centre), Halkida, Karditsa, Katerini, Komotini, Kozani, Greece Lamia, Mytilini, Orestiada, Pyrgos, Trikala, Tripolis, Sparta, Volos Shops in Europe Netherlands: Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Arnhem | Belgium: Antwerp | Spain: Madrid, Barcelona | Cyprus: Nicosia, Limassol | Germany: Hamburg | USA: New York (ABC Home & Carpet) Shops in Saudi Arabia: Jeddah (opening 2010) development Canada: Toronto (opening 2010) Shops in China 2 in Hangzhou, Harbin, 2 in Suzhou Company Turnover Company history & expansion 1989 Athens, Greece Foundation of COCO-MAT 1990 Athens, Greece COCO-MAT opens its first store in Athens 1992 Xanthi, Greece Relocation of the company’s headquarters to the Industrial Area of Xanthi 1996 Corfu, Greece Opening of 4th store in Greece 1997 Madrid, Spain Opening of first store outside of Greece 1997 Kalamata, Greece Opening of the 10th COCO-MAT store in Greece 1999 Limassol, Cyprus Opening 1st store in Cyprus 2003 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Opening of first store in the Netherlands 2003 Hangzhou, China Acquisition of production facility in China and opening of first store in China 2004 Rotterdam & Arnhem, The Opening of stores in Rotterdam and Arnhem in the Netherlands Netherlands 2005 Suzhou, China Opening of 2nd store in China 2005 Athens, Greece Opening of central COCO-MAT store in Kifissia, which also houses the central offices of COCO-MAT 2003 Athens, Greece Opening of the 20th COCO-MAT store in Greece 2008 Antwerp, Belgium Opening of first store in Belgium 2008 Ningbo, China COCO-MAT now operates 3 stores and 1 shop-in-shop in China 2009 Athens, Greece COCO-MAT celebrates its 20th birthday 2009 Hamburg, Germany COCO-MAT operates 7 stores in China and is opening the 1st store in the German market 2010 Barcelona, Spain | New York, USA We enter the 2nd decade of this century with two | Toronto, Canada | Jeddah, Saudi international shop openings first in Barcelona (Spain) and Arabia New York (USA), while another two are in planning (Toronto, Canada, and Jeddah, Saudi Arabia). Awards and prizes 1994 Brussels, Belgium European leader, establishing and promoting the Eco-label 1995 Athens, Greece 1st Award, “Sustainability, Eco-friendly product Award”, Ministry of Development, 1996 Brussels, Belgium Award, Quality Reservation Initiative, ADAPT, 1996 Essen, Germany ISO 9001 certificate 1997 Athens, Greece 1st Award, “Eco Award for products and producing methods”, Hellenic Commercial and Industrial Chamber, 1997 New York, USA Award, “Research & Use of Natural, Pioneer Raw Materials”, Henry Ford European Conservation Awards 1998 Cambridge, United Kingdom First Prize, “Business & the Environment Program from Industry”, Cambridge University Research 1998 Brussels, Belgium Prize, “SAFE”, Public Health & Safety in Working Areas and Installations 1999 Brussels, Belgium Amongst Top 8 companies in TQM, EFQM* 2000 Istanbul, Turkey Finalist of TQM, EFQM’s quality contest for the International prize “Environment and Peace” 2001 Brussels, Belgium Finalist in TQM, EFQM* 2002 Brussels, Belgium 2nd Prize in TQM, EFQM* 2003 Brussels, Belgium Award in TQM, EFQM ‘No. 1 company in Europe’* 2006 Athens, Greece 1st Prize, Human Resource prize, KPMG 2007 Athens, Greece 1st Prize, Entrepreneurial Excellence Award of the Ministry of Development 2009 Prague, Czech Republic European Corporate Responsibility Award of the E-I Consulting Group 2010 Athens, Greece Corporate Social Responsibility Award for HR/Equal Opportunities by the Greek Advertisers’ Association Corporate Superbrand Award 2010 European Business Award for Environmentally-Friendly Products (*) TQM, Total Quality Management / EFQM, European Foundation of Quality Management COMPANY’s POLICY Vision and Values The values and prospects which govern the company, are not the exclusive responsibility of the leadership; at the beginning of each year, leaders of the company, heads of the departments and employees come together to present their attitudes and express their own views for the purposes and the targets of the company. It is amazing that there is 99% participation in this process. The mission, vision and values of the company are in complete accordance with every employees’ attitude as it is the result of the combination of everyone’s ideas (leadership + employees). Through this process the company manages to empower employees participation and communicate its targets. The vision and the values of the company are postered in visible places at the factory, the central offices and the shops. That decision, was very important for the employees because they learnt about company’s values. Moreover, this fact made confirmed their feeling that they are part of a big family. Figure 7.6: EMPLOYEES' SATISFACTION OF THE COMPANY'S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY 1% 2% VERY SATISFIED SATISFIED DISSATISFIED 97% Leadership COCO-MAT’s leaders act as role models for the company’s values by demonstrating their commitment to the company’s quality culture. For example, they attend all training seminars, drive the same car as employees, are non-smokers (and provide a monetary reward for the efforts of personnel to quit smoking) are blood donors (the 10th of November has been established as the Blood Donation Day for the company) and take exercise (basketball, football, winter swimming, skiing with employees etc). Coco-mat’s leadership participates actively in the procedure of improvements by watching all the stages of implementation and by proceeding in corrective actions when is judged necessary. The head of TQM department gathers all the information about the process of the improvement actions and is in permanent touch with the leadership. After the implementation of an improvement action, the head of TQM department studies all relative information, evaluates the effectiveness of those actions and inform the leadership about the results. COCO-MAT’s management, in an effort to understand and meet the needs and expectations of employees, customers, partners and external stakeholders follows a job model based on relevant research, and on the personal contacts made at the annual in-house conferences and seminars (at which the participants are customers, professors and specialists) as well as through direct personal contacts of managers. These partnerships refer to new technologies, training in new methods of production, storage and distribution of products, production and supply of raw materials, environmental protection, research programmes, training and occupation programmes for people with “special skills”, etc. Within this policy, come the employees’ training programmes, the purchase of equipment of advanced technology, the leaders’ participation in national and international conferences and communication of newly gained knowledge. Furthermore, the company’s policy is to communicate “best practices” outside the organisation through its co-operation with social and educational institutions and the exchange of knowledge and experiences on a theoretical and practical basis. Furthermore, it is COCO-MAT’s prime concern to allocate its resources to activities that create a sense of social awareness. Its sensitivity to social issues is demonstrated by its relationship with social groups and services, such as psychiatric institutions, people with “special skills”, athletic clubs, educational institutions, associations of Greeks repatriated from ex-Soviet Union countries, ecological organisations, rehabilitation centres of drug addicts. Figure 7.6: EMPLOYEES' SATISFACTION OF THE 1% LEADERSHIP'S EFFECTIVENESS 2% VERY SATISFIED SATISFIED DISSATISFIED 97% During the yearly self-assessment all the issues relating to people’s management are examined systematically. The head of the TQM department, in collaboration with the Head of H.R.O., plans the necessary actions for improvement, which are then passed to the general manager for conformation. COCO-MAT’s leaders review and improve the effectiveness of their leadership during the regular monthly meetings of the B.O.D. The performance of the departments as well as the suggestions from the heads and the personnel of the departments is considered and decisions on appropriate improvement actions are taken. The effectiveness of the leadership is evaluated during the six monthly review meetings of the board of directors. Employees’ selection Twice yearly, January and June, the each head of department, always in agreement with the strategic decisions of the board of directors, records his or her department’s employment needs and compiles and then submits a relevant report to the head of the human resources office (H.R.O). The head of H.R.O., in turn, reviews the report and submits it to the general manager for approval. There are different reports for the factory (Xanthi), the central office (Athens) and the stores. The recruitment process, which is supervised by the H.R.O., includes: 1. Advertisements of positions in the daily press. 2. Resume collection and evaluation by the H.R.O. 3. Interview of the candidate by the Head of the H.R.O. 4. One month training of the candidate by the Head of the relevant department in order for candidate to be introduced to the company’s culture. COCO-MAT, acknowledges variation in human character and does not apply concrete and bold criteria in recruiting new employees. Characteristics, such as behaviour, personality, professionalism, career orientation, commitment, loyalty and ecological sensitivity are considered as the most crucial criteria for selection, in combination with candidate’s background, specific knowledge, professional training and working experience. The company’s management policy provides equal opportunities for all employees. It is worth noting that COCO-MAT has achieved an exceptional and honoring novelty: more than 50% of its employees are refugees from the ex Soviet Union and Turkey, a fact that demonstrates the company’s interest in special social groups. This interest is also expressed by the recruitment of “special skilled” people, people from families with many children and people who face racial, religious and ethnic discrimination. In our company we have 13 nationalities and 9 religions. Training Continuous training and further education of COCO-MAT’s people is considered by the company as vital both in achieving its competitive advantage and in sustaining the top professional value of its people. Training needs and plans are identified through the following procedure: A. Training needs are identified twice a year, during the months of January and June, where the departments can record the training they feel they require, and submit the relevant reports to the H.R.O. B. The head of department may also submit additional reports for further education or training, such as in cases of new products being introduced or the recruitment of new employees. C. Suggestions regarding the most convenient place, methods and time of training are also submitted. D. The specifications of the training programmes are identified by the head of the H.R.O. in association with the head of department who submits them to the general manager for obtaining approval of the necessary funding. The head of the Human Resources Office keeps a file containing personnel training charts for each department and a Personnel Training Record. The head of the Human Resources Office makes different educational plans for each department according to its needs. He also tries to find innovative training programs. So, in collaboration with the creative team of the company, they created a CD-ROM including all the appropriate information. This method had a great success and it reinforced the employees’ interest. COCO-MAT encourages its employees to learn the English language, providing extra salary to do so, because of the great expansion of the company in European countries and China in order to achieve its long-term targets. The effectiveness of the training scheme, at employee level, is evaluated through written exams and through the review of performance indices. At the same time, the heads of the departments are evaluating every employee according to the monthly department results, the application of good practices, the number of mistakes, his speed etc. So, if an employee is not as efficient as expected in a specific domain, the head of his department gives a written report to the General Manager explaining the problem. The General Manager examines the whole situation and if it is needed, gives the authorisation for financing the employee’s training: for example a feeble knowledge on computer use can be improved by watching relevant seminars. So, the first Sunday of each month, employees who want to improve their knowledge on computers may attend lessons funded by the company. Moreover, in case of new technologies, all the involved employees have to be trained accordingly (for example a new machine that its use needs special training). It is obvious that employees are the biggest investment for COCO-MAT. That is why COCO-MAT does not hire employees for limited time, but looks for permanent positions. Through continuous training and education all the employees are ready to correspond to the future demands of a very competitive field. Employees consider COCO-MAT as a learning institution because of the continuous passion for learning in the company. During the reviewing meetings, the leadership evaluates the effectiveness of the training procedure according to information given from the head of each department. This information is based on the improvement of the employee after finishing the training program and on the evaluation of his trainers that is given in written to the head of the department. The company organises seminars that are attended by the head of each department (H.O.D.), outlet managers, and company personnel. In addition, every head of department organises two-hour lectures every month, to update personnel in the department on new requirements and developments. The certification of improvements is controlled and documented on the company’s electronic database. EMPLOYEES WHO ARE VERY SATISFIED OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 COCO-MAT has adopted an internal training flow that is presented below: COCO-MAT’s EDUCATION PLAN Training of the B.O.D. Training of managers through organisations and by the B.O.D. and universities’ conferences external trainers Internal seminars for training and information for H.O.D. Training of Managers and the H.O.D. in new technologies that can be applied in the particular field (by external trainers) Training of employees by the H.O.D. Review and assessment of training effectiveness Consideration of any improvements in the structure of the training plan Employees’ assessment Employees’ assessment has three stages: 1. The head of the department or the store examines the semi-annual targets. 2. The leadership takes into account the individual and department targets. Employees’ assessment is done by the head of each department, the leadership and the annual vote for the “Employee of the Year”. Moreover, each year the company organises a surprise-party in honour of the best employee. Every semester, during the reviewing meetings of the B.O.D., the leadership discusses issues concerning company’s development. Furthermore, they discuss about the new positions and who is the most appropriate to cover them, who has to be promoted etc. All employees are informed about these processes so that they have an important incentive in order to be more effective and propose innovative ideas. In other words COCO-MAT’s employees do not just view their occupation as means of securing an income, but also as an opportunity for personal achievement and fulfillment. EMPLOYEES' SATISFACTION REGARDING CAREER DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 COCO-MAT has consistently recognised employees’ contribution to the company. Accordingly, the company has established procedures regarding the appraisal of personnel performance and satisfaction of personal aspirations and career development opportunities. Performance appraisal is based on the degree to which the targets have been achieved. The targets may be individual and/or team targets. Moreover, every employee is given the opportunity to achieve his or her professional aspirations. The criteria for employees’ career development are based on their general performance in the company, measured by personal performance indicators, teamwork, initiation of development projects and level of knowledge. As a new position is created, the head of the particular department seeks the employee profile that satisfies the relevant prerequisites and recommends him to the head of the H.R.O. With regard to the managerial positions, the head of the H.R.O. assesses the candidates and recommends them to the general manager. More specifically, during the first ten days of each year, the heads of the departments make a report to the leadership for the new positions created in their department. At the same time they indicate the employee who could be more sufficient for each position. Afterwards, the leadership makes the final evaluation based on the opinion of the heads of the departments, the results of each department, the performance indicators of each employee, the opinion of his colleagues (inside and outside the department) and the number and quality of his ideas-suggestions. Proposal of the Head B.O.D.’ s Department’s Performance Colleagues’ Number / of the Department Proposal results Indicators attitude realisation of innovative ideas PROMOTION Communication policy The communication policy is clear and specific and is classified as internal – between the H.O.D. and the employees and external between the head of department and external partners and institutions. The internal communication flow is as follows: Commands Conveyance: B.O.D. à G.M. à TQM.D. à H.O.D. à EMPLOYEES The reverse commands conveyance is considered as imperative in order for every interested party to be informed. Complaints and ideas Conveyance: EMPLOYEES à H.O.D. à TQM.D. à G.M. à B.O.D. Direct communication between the employees and the Management is COCO-MAT’s basic philosophy. It is significant that the H.O.D. is addressed by his first name or nickname and not by his surname or title. COCO-MAT’s leadership has close relationships with all employees and is in permanent contact with them. This is obtained through the institution of the “Morning coffee”, the departments’ meetings, the company’s conferences, the internal seminars. Moreover, the company adapted the institution of “morning coffee” in order to be more accessible and to meet better employees’ expectations. It is a very important innovative idea, which has been implemented in COCO-MAT since September 2001. Every morning, after starting their duty, all employees, instead of working, gather in the workspace for 15-20 minutes, to meet one another and discuss football or any other social topic, the problems of the previous day and plan the timetable for the next day. This institution satisfied all the employees and contributes not only to solving operating problems but also in ameliorating communication problems between managers and employees. Besides that, the company decided to replace the institution of “employee’s 30΄”, that was implemented till then, (according to this institution the General Manager met every employee for 30 minutes each year) with a private dinner; once a year every employee is invited to dinner at a restaurant, with a company leader of their choice, in order to discuss his or her personal or professional problems. In winter, the company also organises Sunday skiing excursions to reinforce the relationship with employees. In this way leadership manages to communicate its vision, values, policy and targets to all employees. Apart from direct communication there is also indirect communication through the specific questionnaires referring to the person’s perception in terms of satisfaction with their job. The questionnaires are answered every six months by the employees and are collected by the statistics office for analysis. Employees can keep their anonymity, something that allows free expression of their views, though a 99% add their name to the questionnaires. This fact indicates the good relationship between employees and leadership. In every questionnaire there are a number of special questions for the assessment of the questionnaire’s importance. The results are given to the head of TQM, who has to make a report based on the problems and the weak points mentioned. This report is given to the members of the board of directors 10 days before each review meeting, so that they have time needed to prepare their suggestions. Thanks to this paper many important improvement actions have been promoted (organisation of educational events, modification of the workspace, construction of a football field and participation in cultural events). Moreover, employees are encouraged to participate in decision making processes concerning human resource policies. Other measures that are intended to integrate company’s employees into a very friendly working environment, include: Sunday excursions in the company’s buses, the ability of personnel to receive an interest-free loan from the company of more than 3.000 Euros, special working terms for “special skilled” people (specific number of hours or days a week, depending on their needs and abilities), special awards and organisation of events to honour employees with significant contribution to the company. COMMUNICATION PLAN MORNING DINNER SUNDAY MONTHLY FORM COFFEE TRIPS MEETINGS DP-021 Teamwork COCO-MAT reinforces teamwork and collaboration. During the monthly meetings of the departments, the heads of the departments have the possibility to examine potential problems and malfunctions and take appropriate measures to resolve them. When a problem comes up in a department, the head of department mobilizes a team of 3 persons to solve it. This team is called Instant Problem Solving Team (IPST) and consists of employees of the department who have knowledge of the problem. The IPST is in permanent cooperation with the head of department and the head of TQM Department. When the possible causes of the problem are located, the IPST is searching for solutions. The IPST operates as following: Form an IPST Locate the problem Find the reasons Check indicators Analise relative input The IPST Accept / reject solution logic Propose solutions Measure the Check if it is effectiveness realizable Implement improvements COCO-MAT’s employees follow a specific job description that is defined and updated periodically by the head of department. The head of department, based on proposals coming from employees, updates the job descriptions annually, if required. All the job descriptions are kept on file and are studied by the head of the H.R.O. in association with the heads of departments in order update and improve them if necessary. Having received and studied the job description, every employee becomes familiar with his basic responsibilities as well as with the procedures for the execution of his duties, within the framework of the Quality Management System. Consequently, it becomes easier for the employee to present his personal targets and contribute to the formulation of targets of his department. Departmental targets and suggestions for their achievement are recorded by the head of department, and are then forwarded to the H.R.O., in order to be reviewed and ensure their compliance with the company’s overall principles and expectations. The H.R.O., taking into consideration all the aforementioned, may proceed with appropriate modifications, and requests the general manager’s approval to do so. Departments are empowered to implement their improvement plans, so as to achieve the agreed targets. M AN-HOURS LOS T 0 ,76 % MAN-HOURS ALLOCATION TOTAL MAN-HOURS 17,62% MAN-HOURS L OST MAN-HOURS LOST DUE TO SICKNESS 99 ,24 % MAN-HOURS LOST DUE TO PREGNANCY AND MATERNITY ALLOWANCE 82,38% Employees’ involvement All employees are encouraged to take action and initiate projects. Employees involvement in the decision making process is a focal point for the smooth operation of the company. Through their extensive participation in the decision making process, the employees can express their views and problems, take initiatives and suggest any solutions regarding the improvement of the quality of the company’s products and services, the improvement of the production procedures and the working conditions. The head of TQM has special forms, where every employee can write down his or her proposals and ideas. The procedure for the collection and assessment of innovative ideas involves three stages: 1) Collection of employees’ ideas by the H.O.D. 2) Grouping and assessment of ideas by the Head of the H.R.O. 3) Presentation of ideas by the Head of the H.R.O. to the B.O.D. and decision making during its regular meetings. Employee career development is directly connected with the company’s development. In this way, the employees’ participation in the improvement procedures draws its motivation from their own prospects of development. According to the company’s policy, all employees are encouraged to express their views and problems, take initiatives and suggest any solution. Coco-mat’s leadership awards those initiatives morally (promotion through the company’s newsletter, election of the employee of the year). At the same time, the company finances, (when is judged necessary by the heads of departments) educational programs so that the employees will be ready to respond to the new challenges. CUS TO M ER S URV EY 2010 b y f r ie n d s 3% o ld c u s t o m e r s 1% 3% 6% 28% a d v e r t is e m e n t in t e r n e t h o te l 59% liv e s c lo s e t o a s to r e After a proposal has been judged necessary and realizable, the employee who made it takes part actively at the whole process of implementation by adding his own ideas. This is because we believe that this person knows more than anyone else what has to be done in order to obtain the best results. Employees’ extensive participation and involvement in the formulation of practical and realistic targets and plans is not only welcomed but also indispensable. Therefore, twice a year, in a departmental meeting following the regular meeting of the board of directors and the heads of departments, personnel can put forward any suggestions regarding the targets for the following six months. Every employee sets his or her own targets in order to modulate the targets of his or her department. Employees’ attitudes are very important as they have full knowledge of every day problems and know all the weak points. Then, the heads of the departments have a meeting once a month in order to discuss new ideas, problems or malfunctions etc. The suggestions are recorded by the heads of departments in a relevant form and communicated to the TQM department, which in turn, assesses whether the targets are realistic and finally submits it to the general manager for approval. The heads of departments are empowered to implement the targets. Schematically, the process is as following: COLLECTING MONTHLY MEETINGS OF MONITORING THE HEADS OF PROBLEMS EMPLOYEES’ IDEAS THE DEPARTMENTS SET NEW IDEAS IMPLEMENTING EVALUATION OF NEW IDEAS THE NEW IDEAS BY THE B.O.D. TRANSFORM POLICY AND MEASURE THE STRATEGY EFFECTIVENESS Motivation The company’s effort for motivating its employees is consistent with the formation of a common vision, by everyone for everyone, for the creation of development prospects, perfect working conditions and reduction of the hours of work. Continuous training and further education are encouraged along with the cultivation of a positive view on the part of the employees for the social aspect of their work. Hire employees from sensitive social Provide all groups. necessary facilities to these people. Communicate COCO-MAT’s directly with all employees. Act as a family. HUMAN RESOURCES Feel proud of your POLICY achievements. Promote your philosophy. WISDOM Employees receive a number of benefits such as continuous training, recognition and reward of personal achievements (in the form of salary bonuses, promotions and gifts) and recreational activities including Sunday excursions, football games etc. COCO-MAT supports its personnel by providing flexible hours of work and special leaves of absence for pursuing personal interests and activities (horse riding, football games, Sunday excursions, playing music etc). COCO-MAT pays attention to the health of its employees through the assistance of a pathologist who periodically measures the blood pressure and heartbeats of the workforce. Figs, nuts, fruits of the season and freshly squeezed orange juice are offered to COCO-MAT employees every morning. Employees are accommodated (buying at special prices or by interest-free installment plans) in order to use the products manufactured by them, and hence improve a vital part of their lives, that of sleep. Colleagues with physical handicaps, such as people with “special skills”, are encouraged to actively participate in the customer service procedure. AVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES SAT ISFACTION PER DEPARTMENT Despite the variations noted in each department, the related figure shows 100% SECRETARIAL OF. TQM DEP. STAT ISTICS OF. that the average employee satisfaction 95% R&D O F. H.R . O F. per department is above 97%. MAR KETIN G DEP. 90% PRODUC TION MAN. SUPPLIES DEP. The Statistics Office gives to the Head of LOG ISTI CS DEP. 85% ACCOUN TAN T DEP. SALES MAN. TQM Department all the information 80% concerning employees’ satisfaction. EMPL O YEES' SAT ISF ACT IO N REG ARDING HEAL T H AND SAF ET Y CO NDIT IO NS 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY COCO-MAT believes that Mother Nature’s products cannot be improved and based on this belief, the use of natural materials has become one of its indisputable values. With this, it leads by example, not only the competition, but also by creating close relationships with its customers who trust a company which puts its words and values into actions. The exclusive use of natural raw materials for the manufacturing of the company’s products aims at being able to provide a high-quality product to its customers and consists of COCO-MAT’s competitive advantage. Customer satisfaction is the guide and motivation in one for COCOMAT. For this reason, products and services are designed based on the needs and expectations of the customers. Sustainability and the protection of the environment are part of COCO-MAT’s policy and belief system and putting this philosophy into practice every day by respecting the customer and the environment is a pillar of COCO-MAT’s philosophy. Moreover, COCO-MAT started a campaign for the suppression of use of plastic under the name “2004 without plastic”. COCO-MAT operates in the industrial area of Xanthi, in the wider region of Thrace, which is designed to become one of the most developed industrial areas of Greece. COCO-MAT’s premises are located in the industrial park of the Industrial Development Bank of Greece. The infrastructure of the area allows the company to manufacture its products without any adverse noise pollution. The machinery is certified with the sign C.E. and as far as the level of noise is concerned, its contribution to the general noise is less than the limit imposed by E.U. legislation. The operation of COCO-MAT’s factory has the minimum possible harmful impact on the environment. The liquid waste of the factory is only that generated by the people and by ordinary cleaning. In addition, all the packaging materials that are used by the company are recyclable and are collected by the company upon delivery of its products to the customers, for returning to the factory for recycling. It should be pointed out that the percentage of rubber foam purity that is manufactured at the company’s premises, reaches a level of 96% for which COCO-MAT can be proud as it has a worldwide record. COCO-MAT places great emphasis on the protection of the environment, a commitment that is evident in the use of ecological materials and the avoidance of chemical materials. This includes the packaging of products mattresses are transported in cotton cases. COCO-MAT’s leaders’ marked sensitivity to environmental issues and their efforts to protect the environment is demonstrated by their participation in relevant events, conferences, sponsorship of ecological organisations, the organisation of plantations, cleaning of rivers and beaches, visits to hospitals and nursing homes and so on. RECYCLING RESIDUES 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 Below you can find some examples of our actions taken in 2010: Summer party at our head offices in Athens, Greece Party for employees’ children COCO-MAT employees at the Athens Classical Marathon Painting courses for children with muscular dystrophy in collaboration with MDA Hellas Employees’ soccer mini-championship COCO-MAT employees’ blood donation Charity fashion show at COCO-MAT Barcelona, Spain Employees planting trees Painting exhibition at COCO-MAT Madrid, Spain Elementary school students painting Bike Deliveries at New York City, USA Children’s party CONCLUSION Employee satisfaction is key to the company’s operations Social contribution is a duty, not a burdensome chore Here is the invitation for our upcoming big event: The history of COCO-MAT will be written in 2049 when the company retires. Now, it is only 20 years young, very enthousiastic, powerfull in ideas and expansion. What do you want us to do till and after 2049 with COCO-MAT? Drop us a line: ethicalvalue@coco-mat.com
