Contents – COP 2 • P. 00 Commitment • P. 01 Contents • P. 02 Sustainability • P. 03 Code of Conduct for Suppliers • P. 04 Anti-Corruption´s target • P. 05 Directors’ report • P. 06 Graphical life cycle diagram • P. 07 Environmental policy and goals. • P. 08 Targets and action plan • P. 09 Action plan continued • P. 10 Emission / Climate impact Appendices • P. 11 Pop-up definitions The booklet of the working environment section (approved dec. 2008 and valid to dec. 2011) and the booklet of the environmental section (aproved march 2010 and valid to march 2013) of the hl-repro both approved by Green Network together with our workplace evaluations (WPE´s) from our “Manual” is mainstreamed in our existing methods and language. It contents descriptions of practical actions, goals and policies hl-repro has taken, to implement the Global Compact principles issue areas ”human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption.” P. 01/ COP 2 Sustainability hl-repro´s 10 sustainability Principles hl-repro a/s has specified its social commitment and its contribution to sustainable development in 10 corporate sustainability principles. Human Rights: Principle 1 & 2 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. hl-repro will support and respect Human Righs in Company Policy and Culture and avoid complicity in human righs. hl-repro will secure health and safety in the workplace by means of cleaner technologies. We will strive to ensure that our operations are consistent with the legal principles applicable in the country of operation. 2. The well being of employees. hl-repro will make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. hl repro a/s will endeavour to secure the well being of employees and the company will engage in open dialogue with human rights organizations. Labour Standards: Principle 3 & 4 & 5 & 6 3. Fair wages and collective bargaining. hl-repro will uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. hl repro will make an effort to promote wages in front of the value chain to which the company belongs. The wages policy should enables the company to attrack and retain qualified emplyees. 4. Good relations to the local community. hl-repro will secure good relations to the local community in social and business related activities. By membership to Green Network (ecologically motivated organisation in DK ) we will be a good example to the community. 5. Abolition of child labour. hl-repro will endeavour discrimination and secure equal opportunities and effective abolilition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. hl-repro recognises the rights of its employees to be a member of a trade union, the rights to organise and collective bargaining. Environment: Principle 7 & 8 & 9 7. Environmental challenges. hl-repro will support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Investing in sustainable operations will improving invironmental performance, which means less financial risk, an important consideration for insurers. Research and development related to more invironmental friendly products can have significant longterm benefits. 8. Environmental responsibility. hl-repro will undertake initiatives to promote greater enviromental responsibility by redifine company vision, policies and strategies. hl-repro will work with suppliers to improve environmental performance, extending responsibility up the product chain and down the supply chain and having Code of Conduct for suppliers. 9. Environmentally technologies. hl repro will encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Development of technologies will help the company to reduce the use of raw material, will help the compagny with innovation and helps increase the overall competitiveness of the company, and in a long-term economic and environmental benefits. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10. 10. hl-repro will work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. P 02 / COP 2 We take responsibility. Code of Conduct for suppliers Introduction hl-repro a/s mission is to maintain a high technical proper environmental protection, and expand the markettransfer technical knowledge and by their own efforts and partly in collaboration with our customers and suppliers. hl-repro’s goal continues to be influenced end within the packaging market, and that could appear as general contractor from concept to finished print. hl-repro want an ethically, socially and environmentally on responsibility as an integral part of our business strategy. Code of Conduct has been compiled to ensure responsible conduct from all our suppliers in lineance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Environment hl-repro’s environmental policy is to obey the law, to produce environmentally sound and under the safetyand health sound conditions and produce with the least possible consumption of resources and requirements on continuous improvement. We will work with our partners i.e. customers, suppliers, authorities and also interesting to obtain the optimal environmental products and services. We expect our suppliers that can demostrate invironmental requirements and explain the internal invironmental conditions. The suppliers must actively work to reduce emissions to land, air and water and its efficient use of resources. Ethics All forms of corruption, bribery, money laundering and illegal competition is strictly prohibited. Work and social conditions The supplier must support and respect proclaimed human rights and treating his employees with respect, equally and fairly. Employees shall have the right to freedom of association and right to collective negotiations. Working time should follow national laws and agreements, overtime may not be required continuously. Salary, benefits and overtime pay must at least follow national laws and agreements. Levy is prohibited as a disciplinary measure. Forced labor or work connected with any form of punishment is not allowed. No employee may be forced to hand over valuables or identifikationspapers to his employer. Child labor is not accepted. All children must be protected from economic exploitation and at work, which can be considered as dangerous. (15/14 years of article 2.4 of ILO konventionen138). There will not be accepted discrimination, intimidation, oppression or harassment of any kind. Health and Safety The Supplier must at least comply with local laws and regulations concerning safety. Accidents and injuries must be prevented. Compliance Suppliers must comply with this Code of Conduct. Respect is important for trade with hl-repro a/s. UNs 10 Principles hl-repro a/s In June 2010 subscribed to UNS Global Compact's 10 principles dealing with human rights, union rights, environmental responsibility and prohibition of corruption and bribery. P 3 / COP 2 Anti-Corruption`s target Action plan hl-repro a/s will not condone any violation of the law, dishonesty or unethical business dealing by any employee, including any payment for, or other participation in any illegal act such as bribery, fraud, theft or money-laundering. W e will not tolerate the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. We have made a corporate commitment to eliminating corruption through international standards UN Convention Against Corruption. hl-repro has joint the UN Global Compact, and will continously support the initiative and its principles. There are no outstanding claims with the authorities. ______________________________________ CEO – Board of directors Mr. Niels B. Hansson ______________________________________ Board of directors Mr. Lars B. Hansson P 4 / COP 2 Director´s report In September 2009, Koma Graphic Vejle was acquired. hl repro a/s is the majority shareholder in the new company. The Long-term goal is, that all activities are concentrated in Hedensted. The transfer of parts of printing production is done in late 2009. All activities contributed hedged from the start, but will only appear later in a separate environmental review of Koma Graphic with 2011 as referance year. UN’s 10 principles, as shown in h-repro a/s, will be transferred and integrated into Koma Graphic's environmental policy. REACH registration are also carried out continuously in year 2010 for Koma Graphic EU system for chemical detection. To hl-repro a/s is a workingscreening produced and the statement is approved. Certification in Green Network was the second of December 2008 and the approval was valid for three years. New workingscreening is in preparation for certification in December 2011. Environmental Report is produced every year, even the certification is valid for three years and expire March 2013. To members of Green Network described our HR John larsen our commitment to UN’s Global Compact, which could be interesting for the participation of several company members of Green Network . Working Group are created for all staff and the outcome of meetings is integrated in the W.P.E. which for the 16 time is held in February 2011. From 1. of October is SIO security organizations changed to AMO health and safety organization. Elections and legislative changes is made in October 2010 and March 2011. Group meetings is held with all employees about environmental and development goals for the coming years and the importance of connecting to UN’s 10 principles and recommendations for everyone to live the principles. hl-repro is an approved level 1 screened business by Labour Inspectorate and Environment Agency. The stated environmental objectives are integrated where possible. Anti-Corruption’s target is embedded as the last UN principle. There are no outstanding claims with the authorities. ______________________________________ CEO – Board of directors Mr. Niels B. Hansson ______________________________________ Board of directors Mr. Lars B. Hansson P 5 / COP 2 Graphical life cycle diagram hl-repro a/s share in a graphical flowchart lifecycles ( blue ) Print Form Distribution Raw Materials Print Form Consumption Image Carrier Printing Packing for Print Form Manufacturing & Disposal Making of Packaging Design Pre-Press Substrates (paper, film, metal, cardboard...) Inks (water-based, solvent-based, UV-curing) Printing Presses & Consumables (Anilox rolls) History A Vejle Compagny Koma Graphic war purchased in late 2009. With the acquisition is the graphical Life cycle diagram extended with activities as shown. Inks (water-based, solvent-based, UV-curing) Distribution Print Form Distribution Consumption Raw Materials Print Form Packing Packing Consumption Image Carrier Printing Packing & Disposal &ofDisposal for Print Form Manufacturing Packaging Making of Packaging Printing Presses & Consumables (Anilox rolls) Distribution Packing Consumption & Disposal Design Pre-Press of Packaging Substrates (paper, film, metal, cardboard...) Inks Inks (water-based,solvent-based, (water-based, solvent-based, UV-curing) UV-curing) Printing Presses & Consumables (Anilox rolls) P 6 / COP 2 Environmental policy and goals hl-repro’s environmental policy is to comply with legislation, carry out environmentally responsible production under conditions compatible with health and safety and to produce with the least possible consumption of resources, with a requirement for continuous improvements, and live the principles in the United Nations Global Compact. This means that we will: • Integrate our environmental policy and management fully in the business as an important element of all management functions. • Develop the company’s environmental policies and results, having regard to technical and scientific developments. • Educate, train and motivate our employees to carry out their activities in an environmentally responsible manner. Every year the management will hold meetings with all employees in their various groups. • Cooperate with our partners. In other words, customers, suppliers, authorities and other stakeholders in order to achieve environmentally optimal products and services. • Expect from our suppliers that they can document environmental requirements and clarify their internal environmental conditions. We also expect our suppliers and their representatives to behave honourably and credibly. In other words, close working with us, both ethically and morally. Environmental and energy considerations will normally mean, that we prefer products approved under one of the official” environmental/energy labelling schemes. Main suppliers have confirmed to the company that they comply with environmental legislation and the conditions agreed in their environmental approvals and have forwarded the relevant documentation. • Develop and provide products and services without unnecessary harmful impact on the environment, which are safe to use, efficient in terms of use of energy and natural resources and which can be recycled or safely disposed of. • Carry on our business with an efficient use of energy and materials, minimisation of harmful environmental impacts and waste production and safe and responsible disposal of residual waste. • Evaluate work processes so as to reduce physical, chemical and mental stresses to the maximum extent. • Make the necessary information available to employees and the general public for understanding the environmental effect of hl-repro’s activities and United Nations principles. • Produce an annual report of the results and targets of our environmental and health and safety work. P. 7 / COP 2 Targets and action plan Environmental targets It is our goal to maintain our proportionate electricity and gas consumption as a minimum – and as a target to reduce it by 5% to the next report. These measures are not currently measurable due to new acquisitions, and implementation in our existing buildings. • To reduce CO2 emissions from the heating plant by a minimum of 33% by the next report in spring 2013. • To increase collection for recycling and reduce the quantity of waste for incineration and also applies to enterprise acquisitions. • To introduce reusable packaging and recovery wherever possible. • To return reusable packaging. • To reduce fixer and developer consumption. • To hold annual meetings for all employees on policies and attitudes etc. Action plan • Electricity: Energy optimisation will have top priority. That is why a micro cogeneration energy system was installed in order to maximise our current energy system. According to technicians, the plant can be better optimised as a result of new legislation and the plants are being investigated for changes. The micro cogeneration system has been installed at Reprovej 4. The plant should be able to cover 18% of current electricity consumption and approx. 85% of heating consumption. We are are currently concidering new and larger unit for both plants for better and cleaner energy use. A supply contract for electricity has been signed for the coming years. • Heating: The installed micro cogeneration unit at Reprovej 4 cover approx. 85% of current heating consumption in the factory. In May 2011 the engine was changed from 12 to a new 15 kWh. We can see no other opportunities for further savings than to install a micro cogeneration unit at Reprovej 2. A project with a 20 kWh micro cogeneration unit is under cosideration. • Water: Water consumption has been minimised. Due to a new department, the developer unit cannot yet be phased out. No waste water is discharged from the developer unit. • Waste disposal: The basis is the Local Authority waste regulations and the beginnings of standardisation under the Packaging Directive. The company is registered for internet control of quantities. Waste disposal is continuously evaluated for possible fraction classifications, recycling opportunities and returns. P 8 / COP 2 Action plan continued • Recycling: With respect to both waste for incineration and recycling we have not been able to meet the desired targets. We have maintained our environmental targets. We have close contact with the waste disposal companies about future opportunities. • Fixer & developer: Developer and fixer consumption has been greatly reduced. We had problems with quality in connection with reuse of chemicals and had to abandon this. Fixer is in 2010 reduced with 20%. Developer is increased by 15% due to increasing order volume in this sector.. Phasing out is not possible as new initiatives – Dry offset & Post-Print – require a minimal film production. It has not been possible to connect the recycling unit to the fixer. After the fire of 2003, only 1 unit has been re-established. • W.P.E. checklist: The W.P.E. checklist has been revised – used for first time in Feb. 05. On the checklist the completer must confirm having read the manual and which edition. Employees’ transport in kilometers is also covered by the evaluation for estimating CO2 load. • Employees: In march 2011 we have an annual talk with employees on the company’s policies, attitudes and results and at the same time hear their opinions on the company’s policies and day-to-day management. All relevant requests for education or training will be met. The persons responsible for implementation are: John Larsen Environment Solveig Løkke – Environment Worker Frank Rask Jendresen – Environment Koma Grafisk ApS All employees and management. The time horizon is continuous until the next report. P 9 / COP 2 Emission / Climate impact Presentation The most important greenhouse gas is CO2. In addition SO2 and NOX is included in inventories, and are the greenhouse emissions we have included since 2002. Other greenhouse emissions from Kyoto-protocol is not included. ( CH4 N2O HFCs SF6 og PFC and in addition ozone and CFCs gasemissions ) The emission factors is used in the calculations of fossil fuels, electricity and heat. During study is potential calculations made for purchased materials and waste. Environmental priorities ·Avoid generation of waste ·Recycling ·Recyclable raw materials ·Combustion ·Repository Plan for the minimization The reason for investment in micro-energy was a much more efficient use of energy into electricity and heat and a significant CO2 reduction. This will be grounds for future investment. Better use of energy and less emissions. An action plan is made, where the point is: how do we get the greatest reduction of emissions of CO2. One example could be thermography of buildings or alternative energy sources. There will be establishes from the 2010 targets for CO2 reductions. The acquisition of Koma Grafisk okt. 2009 has meant a increased consumption and consequent is greater CO2 emissions. 900.000 800.000 700.000 600.000 500.000 CO2 Emission in kg /year 400.000 300.000 200.000 100.000 0 2002 2004 2006 2009 2010 2011 2012 CO2 emissions include electricity, gas, internal and external transport. The reduction from year 2002 to 2009 is 21,7% or 175.411 kg. ( 807.931kg. > 631.980kg.). P 10 / COP 2 The goal for 2012 is reduction to 500.000 kg. Pop-up definitions Adapted supervision: A supervision procedure, adapted by the labour inspection and the environment inspection since1999. Each company is ranked after its own effords to improve its working environment and according to its actual standard of working environment. This ability grouping is the labour inspections own tool for pointing out its prioritys. AMO: Working environment organization. Replaced the safety organization oct. 2010. APV / W.P.E.: (Workplace evaluations) the mandatory jobsite evaluation. Code of Conduct: The principles of UN´s Global Compact. COP: Communication on Progress. The COP policy is a reflection of this trend towards greater accountability and transparency. A COP is a disclosure to stakeholders (e.g. investors, consumers, civil society, governments, etc.) on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and in supporting broad UN development goals ( as expressed in the second objective of the Global Compact). Customised Inspection: An inspection method used by the Danish Working Environment Authority since 1999. The company is classified by level according to its own efforts to improve the working environment and to the standard of the company’s working environment. The level classification is used by the DWEA as a prioritising tool for its own interventions. Environmental report: A brief review of the company’s environmental affairs which is publicly available. Global Compact: UN initiative for corporate social considerations. Green Network: Environmental cooperation between private businesses, the municipalities of Horsens, Vejle, Fredericia and Middelfart and Vejle County. Green Network cooperation aims to promote cleaner technology and environmental management in the region by offering municipalities and counties free advice and guidance on ideas, experiences, and methods. The address of the Green Network secretariat is: Lysholt alle 10, 7100 Vejle, phone +45 7025 4070, www.greennetwork.dk Micro heat/power: CHP-Station (Combined heat/power station) a natural-gas driven generator produces both heat and power. REACH: Short for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Chemicals the newest EU chemical legislation of 2007. P 11 / COP 2 Pop Up Definitions
