Responsibility for Our Future MAN Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Engineering the Future – since 1758. MAN SE 2010 Highlights & Lowlights Highlights Lowlights 01 Jan. MAN launches worldwide compliance program. 12 Feb. MAN donates two trucks worth 100,000 euros to the SOS Children’s Village in Santo, Haiti in the wake of the earthquake. 24 Mar. Searches take place at former MAN subsidiary Ferrostaal for the second time owing to suspected corruption. 04 May MAN helps supply the world’s largest civil floating hospital Africa Mercy with four new auxiliary gensets, cutting the ship’s CO2 emissions by 20 percent. 25 May The first MAN hybrid city bus which emits up to 30 percent less CO2 enters into service in Munich. 02 Jun. MAN Latin America launches dual-fuel truck that can run on pure biodiesel and thus emits up to 90 percent less CO2. 07 Jun. MAN wins prestigious EFMD Excellence in Practice Award 2010 for executive development. 02 Sep. At the SMM international shipbuilding fair in Hamburg MAN Diesel & Turbo showcases innovations that cut emissions. 09 Sep. MAN again fails to make the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. 13 Sep. At the International Commercial Vehicles Motor Show (IAA) MAN presents the Concept S study, with aerodynamics that cut CO2 emissions by up to 25 percent. 15 Sep. MAN publishes its corporate responsibility strategy. Our Responsibility MAN’s CR Strategy Engineering the Future – since 1758. MAN SE 16/17 Sep. International investors and analysts meet up at the Capital Market Day in Brazil to hear about MAN’s capital market-related issues. 15 Oct. CRF Institute names MAN Truck & Bus a top employer in Germany. 05 Nov. MAN makes the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index of German companies. 06 Dec. MAN joins the United Nations Global Compact. Contents Contents 1 02 Foreword 04 About the Company: Engineering the Future – since 1758. 08 Priority Issue: Investing in the Future Dialog: Sustainability Drives Value Markets of the Future: Products for Tomorrow’s World Our Investments: Driven by Innovation The Capital Markets: New Requirements 18 Our CR Strategy: Acting Responsibly CR Strategy: Living Up To Our Responsibilities as a Company Dimensions of the CR Strategy and Fields of Action Core Principles: Stakeholder Dialog and Materiality CR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future Our Projects: Living Up To Our Responsibilities Worldwide 30 Performance Report: CR Figures About this Report – Corporate Governance – Integration – Economy – Environment – Employees – Corporate Citizenship 48 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index 51 Independent Assurance Report 53 Credits The photos were taken at MAN’s daycare center in Munich. They mark the start of each new section of the report. We’d like to thank the MAN lion cubs, as the children are known, their parents, the daycare center team and the center’s management for the two fun photo shoots. Special thanks go to Arda, Begüm, Felix, Korbinian, Leah, Noah, Patrick, Rona and Sophia who are featured in the pictures. Foreword 2 Dr.-Ing. Georg Pachta-Reyhofen Chief Executive Officer MAN SE and MAN Truck & Bus Frank H. Lutz Chief Financial Officer MAN SE Jörg Schwitalla Chief Human Resources Officer MAN SE Antonio Roberto Cortes President MAN Latin America “In this report we provide transparent and honest information about what we plan to do.” Management Board of MAN SE Foreword 3 tainable energy generation. This report sets out the relevant Dear Stakeholders, approaches, such as the Concept S study that we presented at the International Commercial Vehicles Motor Show (IAA), which 2010 was a very good year for the MAN Group—in more ways enables a marked reduction in fuel consumption, or our hybrid than one: We grew our business, drove forward our internationbuses that are already in service in many cities. “Consistently alization, and anchored our corporate responsibility (CR) in a Efficient” is a successful principle in the areas of marine engines binding strategy. Our declared aim is to act as a driver of and energy generation too, as illustrated by the Green Ship of future-proof structures and a new way of thinking. With that in the Future. The foundation for such successes is provided by mind, we are now seeking to step up our involvement in stakeour employees—across all divisions and sites. That they can be holder dialog. We are aiming to take our Company and its busiproud of their company and its products is something we conness forward together with our customers, business partners, sider important and this is also a driving factor in our CR stratand suppliers; to involve our employees; to be quick to identify egy. Wherever we work, we aim to be an attractive employer, so new requirements on the part of government and non-governthat we can retain and motivate our employees and attract qualimental organizations; and to add value for society. fied young talents. One important stakeholder group comprises investors, analysts Transparent communication and rating agencies, who evaluate our strategy and sustainability In our CR Roadmap we have set ourselves clear objectives that performance. Consequently, the priority issue section of this we are consistently pursuing. But we are well aware that we will Corporate Responsibility Report centers on our strategy for the only achieve our objectives if we earn the trust and support of future and on dialog with analysts and investors. It takes up where our employees, customers, business partners, suppliers, and our CR Strategy Report left off and presents some initial sucinvestors. That is why in this report we provide transparent and cesses—among them our inclusion in the German Carbon Dishonest information about what we are doing and what we plan closure Leadership Index and the decision by oekom research to to do. This report is the first in which MAN has comprehensively award us “Prime” investment status. These success stories tell applied the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative, even us that we are on the right road, even if there is still a long way if we are not yet in a position to supply the required data in every to go—not least in terms of supply chain management, voluntary area. Parts of the report and selected performance indicators have employee engagement, and our climate strategy. We are curbeen checked by the auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. The rently drawing up the relevant concepts and initial results will be report not only underpins our commitment to the ten principles published in our 2011 CR Report. of the UN Global Compact, to which we became a signatory in December 2010. It also presents our first Communication on Investing in the future Progress. We have kept our promise to work on innovations. Because we know that our future depends on whether and how we can realWe have extensive plans for the future and would appreciate ize environmentally-compatible transportation solutions and susyour feedback or critical comments along the way. The Management Board of MAN SE Dr.-Ing. Georg Pachta-Reyhofen Frank H. Lutz Jörg Schwitalla Antonio Roberto Cortes About the Company 4 Engineering the Future – since 1758. The MAN Group is one of Europe’s leading industrial players in the of raw material or capital. Looking to the future, the indispensafield of transport-related engineering. ble factors for the MAN Group include technical progress and profitable growth, while ecological and social developments pose As a supplier of trucks, buses, diesel engines, turbomachinery, the main challenges. Our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy is and special gear units, MAN has more than 30 production sites designed to respond to these challenges. in 13 countries. The Group’s activities are focused on Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and Asia. MAN takes up the requirements of the future and translates them into concrete fields of action. Megatrends such as climate The MAN divisions hold leading positions in their markets. With change, demographic development, globalization and urbaniza47,669 employees, the MAN Group posted revenue of around tion all give rise to their own special demands. Through our 14.7 billion euros in 2010 and an operating profit of 1,035 million products and services we aim to continue making a decisive euros. MAN SE is based in Munich and listed in the Dax (equity contribution to meeting these demands in the field of transportindex). related engineering. A marked capacity for innovation, adaptability and far-sighted Corporate structure thinking has ensured MAN’s success for over 250 years. For us MAN’s activities are concentrated on two high-growth business that is both a benchmark and an obligation. Even in turbulent areas: Commercial Vehicles with MAN Truck & Bus and MAN Latin times, MAN has invariably found forward-looking ways of harAmerica, and Power Engineering with MAN Diesel & Turbo and nessing innovation in response to new challenges. As a result, Renk. MAN holds investments in the Chinese truck manufacturer true to our slogan “Engineering the Future – since 1758.” we Sinotruk and the Swedish truckmaker Scania. A full list of sharehave invariably emerged stronger from crises such as shortages holdings appears in our 2010 Annual Report (page 185 et seq.). MAN SE Business areas Commercial Vehicles Power Engineering Divisions MAN MAN MAN Truck & Bus* Latin America Diesel & Turbo Renk (76%) Revenue 2010 Revenue 2010 Revenue 2010 €7.4 bn €3.1 bn €3.8 bn Revenue 2010 €0.4 bn Headcount 2010** Headcount 2010** Headcount 2010** 31,284 1,736 12,455 Headcount 2010** 1,882 Equity-method Sinotruk (25% + 1 share), Scania (17.4%***) investments * MAN Nutzfahrzeuge until December 28, 2010 ** Number of employees (including subcontracted employees) *** Voting rights About the Company 5 Engineering the Future – since 1758. The Lion’s City hybrid bus uses up to 30 percent less fuel, cutting CO2 emissions by as much as 26 tons a year. Business areas For MAN, any future-oriented product policy must be based on sustainable transport and climate solutions that comply with economic, ecological and social needs. Consequently, the Company concentrates strictly on its core business. Commercial Vehicles: Munich-based MAN Truck & Bus is one of Europe’s leading manufacturers of commercial vehicles. Its products range from trucks with a total weight of 7.5 to 44 tons for all applications, special-purpose vehicles with a gross train weight of up to 250 tons, through buses and coaches, to combustion ignition and spark-ignited engines for onand off-highway uses. For commercial vehicle customers MAN Finance International GmbH offers financing solutions such as leasing. MAN Truck & Bus also has its own international sales and service netStrategic management of the MAN Group lies with the Managework. ment Board of MAN SE. The Board is tasked with driving forward the overall strategy of the Group. The Industrial Governance System is the MAN Group’s management concept. It regulates AS OF JULY 2010 the distribution of tasks and responsibilities between the MAN Group’s headquarters and its divisions, striking a balance Shareholder structure between central strategic management and decentralized operby country of domicile* ating responsibility. Further information on the Internet: 15% 42% MAN Truck & Bus: www.mantruckandbus.com German institutional Foreign institutional MAN Latin America: www.man-la.com shareholders shareholders MAN Diesel & Turbo: www.mandieselturbo.com Renk: www.renk.biz Shareholder structure The MAN Group conducts an annual survey of its shareholder structure. In the most recent survey in summer 2010, MAN identified over 85 percent of the owners of its common and preferred shares. The findings show that foreign investors hold about 42 percent of the share capital. These investors are predominantly based in the United Kingdom and the United States. 14% Shareholders MAN enables its shareholders to participate in the Company’s not subject to disclosure 29% success by distributing an appropriate share of its profits, bearregulations Volkswagen AG ing in mind the economic environment. The dividend for 2010 is therefore higher than that for 2009. The amount distributed is not * Basis: 140,974,350 common shares and 6,065,650 preferred shares Source: IPREO fixed; MAN generally aims for 30 to 60 percent of net income. About the Company 6 Engineering the Future – since 1758. Alexander Mærsk was the first vessel to be equipped with eco-friendly technology by MAN Diesel & Turbo. MAN Truck & Bus holds a 49 percent stake in Munich-based Rheinmetall MAN Military Vehicles GmbH, which was founded on May 1, 2010. The remaining 51 percent are held by Rheinmetall AG. The newly founded company unites Rheinmetall’s technological know-how in the military field with MAN’s automotive expertise in commercial vehicle manufacture. Through the acquisition of MAN Latin America in 2009, MAN assumed a leading position in the commercial vehicle market in one of the high-growth BRIC regions. With its plant in Resende, MAN Latin America is Brazil’s largest truck producer and in 2010 was the country’s market leader in trucks with a gross vehicle weight of over five tons for the eighth year in succession. For the second time MAN Latin America was also market leader in MAN holds a 76 percent majority stake in Renk AG, a globally trucks of over 3.5 tons. The vehicles are sold primarily in Latin recognized producer of high quality special gears, propulsion America and Africa. The company has an extensive sales and components, and testing systems. The product range includes service network in Brazil and neighboring countries. vehicle transmissions, special and standard gears, as well as slide bearings. In 2009, MAN took the logical next step in its international growth strategy, becoming a strategic investor in Sinotruk Ltd., Hong Vision and strategy Kong, China by acquiring a 25 percent stake plus one share of The MAN Group’s vision: “The best people, customer orientation Sinotruk’s capital. MAN contributes its technological know-how as well as superior technology and services will make us number to the partnership, while Sinotruk contributes the production one in commercial vehicles and power engineering.” is pursued facilities in China and its local expertise. Under the agreement, through MAN’s corporate strategy which comprises five goals: MAN will license its TGA truck, engine, chassis, and axle technologies as a basis for the production of a new truck series. Concentration on Commercial Vehicles and Power Engineering Power Engineering: On March 26, 2010 MAN Diesel SE and MAN focuses on market segments with sustainable, global MAN Turbo AG merged to form a single company. Augsburggrowth opportunities in the fields of commercial vehicles and based MAN Diesel & Turbo SE is the world’s leading provider of power engineering. large-bore diesel engines for marine and power-plant applications and one of the three leading manufacturers of turbomachinery. Profitable international growth MAN operates on all five continents and relies on a comprehenThe company has a strong market position in both the developsive internationalization strategy as the prerequisite for sustainment of two-stroke diesel engines and the production of fourable, profitable growth. stroke diesel engines. While the two-stroke engines are produced by licensees, MAN Diesel & Turbo builds most of its Technology leadership four-stroke engines itself in Germany and France. From gensets is a strategic success factor for MAN. We recognize future to two-stroke engines for container ships, from power units to requirements early on and transform these into new, pioneering turnkey diesel power plants, from single compressors and tursolutions. bines to complete machine trains for various industrial applications—MAN Diesel & Turbo has a suitable product solution for every application. And the MAN PrimeServ brand provides aftersales service for customers around the world. About the Company 7 Engineering the Future – since 1758. Customer orientation future challenges. Consequently, MAN engages in careful analyAt MAN we place customer requirements and expectations at sis of the key megatrends and the requirements of the individual the center of our corporate strategy. Top quality is the benchmarkets. Our employees play a lead role in the future of MAN: mark for our products, as well as for the services that accomtheir commitment, their knowledge, and their skills form the pany them throughout their entire life cycle. foundation for the enhanced solutions and new technologies that will ensure the Company’s future success. MAN is shaped by Sustainable value creation four Corporate Values. It aims to be: MAN is committed to sustainable corporate management that takes into consideration the economic, environmental and social Reliable—we fulfill expectations and keep our promises. demands placed on the Company. Innovative—we create new solutions by applying fresh, creative These strategic goals point to the markets of the future that MAN and competent thinking. is accessing through internationalization and innovation. New technologies for hybrid buses, wind turbines and solar energy plants Dynamic—we identify potential and take a flexible, solutionprovide sustainable solutions for people and the environment. oriented approach. Aims and values Open—we work closely together across the Group, exchanging Our declared aim is to make a top-class contribution to the field new ideas and information. This openness is a key prerequisite of transport-related engineering with our products and provide for dynamic action. our customers with innovative solutions for existing tasks and MAN production sites Number of employees (not including subcontracted employees) MAN Truck & Bus MAN Latin America MAN Diesel & Turbo Renk Austria Brazil China France Steyr (2,207) Resende (1,601) Changzhou (212) Saint-Ouen-l’Aumône (46) Vienna (664) Mexico Shanghai (214) Germany Germany Querétaro (95) Czech Republic Augsburg (947) Munich (6,779) Velká Bíteš (169) Hanover (300) Nuremberg (3,601) Denmark Rheine (408) Plauen (410) Copenhagen (1,173) Switzerland Salzgitter (2,312) Frederikshavn (477) Winterthur (90) India France Pithampur (600) Saint-Nazaire (674) Poland Germany Kraków (368) Augsburg (3,379) Pozna ń and Starachowice Berlin (513) (2,587) Deggendorf (387) South Africa Hamburg (590) Olifantsfontein and Pinetown Oberhausen (1,873) (725) India Turkey Aurangabad (232) Ankara (1,360) Switzerland Zurich (829) September 30, 2010 Priority Issue 8 Investing in the Future 9 At MAN’s daycare center the MAN lion cubs go shopping with play money. MAN, by contrast, invests real money in pioneering transportation solutions, growth markets, and innovations. Dialog 10 Sustainability Drives Value When people invest in a company, they want to know how future-proof it is. Initiatives such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) demonstrate the growing importance of sustainability in the capital markets. But what really counts? What do investors look for specifically? Frank H. Lutz, Chief Financial Officer of MAN SE (left), and Caspar von Blomberg, Managing Director of CDP Europe (right), provide some answers. C. von Blomberg: When the CDP was retention and social engagement. Befounded by investors in 2000, we set out cause investors increasingly ask us what to learn more about how companies deal we do to live up to our responsibilities. with the challenges of climate change and the low carbon economy. Since then, C. von Blomberg: It is true that, technologieach year the CDP has rated companies cally speaking, you are well-positioned— according to the transparency of their cliespecially because you have consistently mate strategy. We also score their climate adapted your products to comply with the performance. increasingly strict regulatory framework set out for example in emissions stanF. H. Lutz: You gave us a very good rating, dards. However, MAN could also ramp at least for transparency. And to this day, up its position as a provider of efficient, the diesel engine invented at MAN remains climate-friendly technology solutions. This the most efficient internal combustion could help to get you off the defensive— engine. But of course we still generate CO2 you wouldn’t have to see yourself as repin our core business areas of transportaresenting a ‘problem industry’. tion and energy. Our CR strategy aims to address the topic of climate change alongF. H. Lutz: This is something we’re working side other key aspects such as employee on already. At the last IAA we presented a Dialog 11 Sustainability Drives Value study for a new truck tractor unit that tive to two groups of investors: people could run on 25 percent less fuel. Today who factor sustainability aspects into their you can find our hybrid buses on the investment decisions; and pension funds, streets of several European cities. And which are interested in low-risk, long-term we offer good efficiency solutions in the investments. So it is important for large marine engine and power generation corporations to be listed in the key sussectors. But while it’s true that customer tainability indexes. interest in such products is growing, they also have to be willing to pay for them. F. H. Lutz: That’s why it is our declared aim to get back into the Dow Jones SustainC. von Blomberg: It is important to formuability Indexes and strengthen our suslate long-term goals. Where, how and to tainability positioning in the investor relawhat extent a company can still cut its tions sector. In Brazil, our most important own emissions; how it plans to work with growth market, we have found that suppliers and customers to apply reducinvestors attach great significance to the tion strategies that encompass its access topic. They value the fact that we offer to raw materials, as well as the producproven solutions, because with effect from tion, logistics and product use phases. In January 1, 2012, the European Euro V look at the price tag and in this respect my opinion, we still need to see technoemissions standard will be introduced total cost of ownership is becoming a parlogical advances in the transportation in Brazil. ticularly important factor. In other words, sector—the volume of traffic is going to when customers make a purchase they keep growing, and regulations are going C. von Blomberg: This goes to show that consider the costs incurred over the entire to become more and more stringent. in many areas, we are already moving product life cycle. toward a common regulatory framework— F.H. Lutz: Of course we have to bundle even without an international climate C. von Blomberg: This means the customer our innovations and initiatives into an treaty in place. That’s why I am confident will assume the role of regulator in the integrated climate protection strategy— that climate protection is on the right future, just like investors, the media and which is something we are busy doing road. While government regulation will NGOs. As an investor initiative that is recright now. And the next step is to comremain important because corporations ognized today by 3,500 corporations municate that strategy to investors. need long-term security for their very around the world, the CDP is a good Despite—or maybe even because of—the large investments in the energy and transexample of how a standard can be born crisis, their most frequently asked quesportation sectors, in the future many out of necessity. I believe it is always bettion in the past year was whether we requirements will also be shaped by marter when the market sets the rules— invest sufficiently in technologies of the ket forces. because it is faster and impacts at interfuture. And this is an area where we have national level. never slackened our efforts. F. H. Lutz: Yes, both legislators and international agreements are clearly influencing F.H. Lutz: And speaking of value drivers, C. von Blomberg: Investors want to see developments in this field. And we ourwe should mention the importance of resources going into R&D and innovation. selves are subject to the same scrutiny as sustainability to recruitment. To remain Since this is linked to a clear focus on we apply to our suppliers; customers attractive to talented candidates, being climate-compatible drive technologies at want to know to what extent we are coma responsible employer is today more MAN, the Company is especially attracplying with CR guidelines. But they also important than ever. 12 Markets of the Future Products for Tomorrow’s World The MAN Concept S needs up to 25 percent less fuel than a comparable, conventionally designed Contributing to sustainable global development is integral to MAN’s corporate strategy. 40-ton semitrailer tractor. Consequently, our core business is consistently aligned with environmental protection concerns and sustainable resource use. Challenges countries like Brazil and China, energy The growth strategy of the MAN Group is consumption will continue to soar. These based on the analysis of long-term chaltrends will trigger a sharp rise in energy lenges, enabling us to identify opportuniand oil prices. In a survey entitled “Keepties and risks. Five trends will shape the ing traffic flowing” that was commissioned future market requirements in our sector: by MAN and conducted with the help of Increased freight volumes The Economist, 40 percent of the conHigher transportation and energy sulted CEOs and logistics managers said costs they saw transport energy costs as posTighter emissions legislation ing the biggest risk for their companies. Further easing of urban congestion Greater demand for safety The world will not only need more energy, but more renewable energy. The Internatics managers expect that emissions legIncreased energy consumption will be a tional Energy Agency predicts that counislation will become stricter over the next mainstay of industrial growth, prosperity tries will invest a total of 5.7 trillion US five years. and mobility. The International Energy dollars in the renewable energy sector Agency predicts that world energy conbetween now and 2035.The transformaInnovation is key sumption will rise by 2.2 percent annually. tion in the energy sector will also be At MAN, our strategy for the future is Freight traffic in Europe alone will increase driven by efforts to protect the climate clear: to grow our business based on by 50 percent by 2030 according to the and the resultant targets for CO2 emisclean and efficient technologies, to test TRANSvisions report. And in emerging sions. 86 percent of the consulted logisnew solutions and to contribute to sustainable development. The Company’s research activities have been focused on Emission standards these goals ever since the 1970s, resulting in a steady flow of new products and innovative approaches. Our most far2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 reaching vision for the future is the ConEuro IV Euro V Euro VI cept S truck, which MAN presented at the EU 27 New types: New types: 10/1/2008 New types: 12/31/2012 10/1/2005 FR: 10/1/2009 FR: 12/31/2013 International Commercial Vehicles Motor Show (IAA) in Hanover in September Euro III Euro IV Euro V Brazil New types: 1/1/2009 New types & FR: 1/1/2012 2010. Aerodynamic truck design has the FR: 1/1/2006 potential to set new standards in fuel effiEuro IV ciency. The MAN Concept S uses up to Euro Russia Euro III New types: 1/1/2010 Euro V 25 percent less fuel than a comparable, II FR: 1/1/2012 conventionally designed 40-ton semitrailer Euro III Euro tractor. At present, this visionary concept India1 Euro II Valid for date of production: 4/1/2010 IV is still only at the idea stage, because regEuro V ulatory requirements in conjunction with China2 Euro III Euro IV New types: 1/1/2012 FR: 1/1/2011 FR: 1/1/2013 customer demands for maximized transport capacity strictly limit the scope for Source: ESH new truck designs. In future however, ¹ Delhi and 10 large cities: 2007 = Euro III; as of 04/01/2010 = Euro IV (applicable for production date); 2016 = Euro V more and more importance will be placed ² Euro IV in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong: FR 01/01/2010 due to requirements by local environmental agencies FR = First-time registration on climate protection in this market. And Markets of the Future 13 Products for Tomorrow’s World Russia China India then Concept S Brazil could quickly be transformed from an idea into an innovation which— in conjunction with alternative, fuel-efficient technologies— steam turbine for what is currently the transportation efficiency will focus on would revolutionize the world’s largest CSP plant in Abu Dhabi. improved drive technology and the use transportation sector and generate new MAN’s VTA (Variable Turbine Area) turof alternative fuels such as hydrogen and sales opportunities. Already, a range of bocharger technology meanwhile is biodiesel, backed up by our commitment new solutions for saving energy and harfocused on the special requirements of to intelligent networking of vehicles and nessing eco-friendly energy sources are the marine sector. It takes into account traffic management systems. a reality at MAN, in both the Commercial the fact that large-bore marine diesel Vehicles and the Power Engineering busiengines run at varying loads, as opposed Focus on growth markets ness areas. to the steady loads in power stations. All over the world, efficient, environmenVTA technology can enable the quantity tally compatible technologies are now a Alternative energy concepts of charge air to be adjusted under full basic requirement for success in the marIn both business areas, MAN has been electronic control so that it corresponds ketplace, and nowhere more so than in a pioneer in the use of natural gas and perfectly to the injected quantity of fuel. fast-growing economies like Brazil, Rusbiofuels right from the start. In the Power This reduces fuel consumption by up to sia, India, and China (the BRIC countries). Engineering business area for example, a 2.5 percent while at the same time cutting These dynamic markets, with an average plant built by MAN in the town of Fritzens hydrocarbon, carbon monoxide and carannual growth rate of five percent, are at (Austria) uses old cooking fat to generate bon black emissions. the heart of MAN’s growth strategy. power for around 3,000 households. And Already, one in every two heavy-duty at MAN’s wind-diesel power plant on the Future-oriented transportation solutions trucks built by MAN Truck & Bus and Caribbean island of Bonaire, the diesel For a long time, development in the MAN Latin America is sold in one of the engines only spring to life in a dead calm commercial vehicle sector was driven by BRIC markets. or in gale force winds. In the future, it increasingly strict pollutant emissions is planned to run the engines on fuel standards. As a result, while truck polluWe will continue to profit from this internaproduced from algae, making the vision tant and noise emissions have fallen by tionalization: for example in 2010, a new of CO2-neutral power for the whole island more than 80 percent over the past twenty MAN production line with an annual a reality. years, fuel consumption and CO2 emiscapacity of 5,000 heavy-duty trucks went sions have decreased by only 15 percent. into operation in Resende, Brazil. We Additional improvements in the efficiency Now, attention is increasingly focusing on already supply more commercial vehicles of large-bore diesel engines can be fuel consumption and alternative drive to Russia than any other Western manuachieved by using waste heat from the technologies. facturer. In India, our joint venture with engine to power a steam turbine. This Force Motors Ltd. is building heavy-duty principle, known as the Diesel Combined MAN’s hybrid bus is one example in which trucks for the booming home market and Cycle, can increase the amount of elecour researchers have realized an innovafor export to Asia and Africa. And in China, tricity generated by up to ten percent, tive concept that captures braking energy the world’s largest and fastest-growing with no increase in fuel consumption. and uses it not only to drive the vehicle commercial vehicle market, MAN is partSpecially optimized steam turbines are but also to power electrical functions. nering with Sinotruk Ltd. to launch a new used in Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) The energy is stored in ultracaps, as they truck brand. plants. MAN has already supplied such are known, which have a faster charging turbines for a number of large solar projspeed than batteries, and are more effiects, including a 125-megawatt (MW) cient. MAN’s future work to improve 14 Our Investments Driven by Innovation IN SITES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Investments* 2006 464 million euros Innovation—and investment—in environmental protection is an opportunity to participate 2007 in new growth markets, while also reducing the business risks posed by rising energy and raw materials prices. 490 million euros 2008 Focus on research and development ucts. On the contrary, investment has An important aim and driver of our research been maintained at a consistently high 750 million euros work and ongoing technological developlevel. In 2010 around 626 million euros, or 2009 ment at MAN is to reduce the CO2 emisaround 4.3 percent of revenue, was spent sions of our products. We are also already on research and development. 75 percent 399 million euros developing solutions to meet the Euro VI of this spending was internally funded, 2010 emissions standard due to come into effect 25 percent were external funds. in Europe in 2014, as well as the tighter 396 million euros emissions standards for ships scheduled MAN is currently investing a total of 600 * 2006–2009 excluding purchase of Scania shares for 2016. It is estimated by the European million euros in a four-year program aimed 2009 excluding purchase of MAN Latin America and Sinotruk Automobile Manufacturers Association that at improving the transportation efficiency Comparable values for all years excluding discontinued achieving Euro VI compliance alone will of commercial vehicles. The development operations cost the European commercial vehicle work is focused on further reducing the industry between six and eight billion euros. fuel consumption and pollutant emissions of trucks and buses. Projects being purspent a total of 35 million euros. The cenEven in economically tough times, the sued under the “Consistently Efficient” ter’s 16 new engine test beds will allow us MAN Group has not scaled back its motto include: to transfer even more testing from the spending on the development of innovaDevelopment and use of high-effiroad to the laboratory, which means we tive and environmentally compatible prodciency Euro V and Euro VI engines will use less diesel fuel. Efficiency and Market launch of systems to recupersustainable resource use are also demonate heat and energy strated in the technical infrastructure of Further development work on buses this building, where energy is recovered FUNDING INNOVATIONS and trucks with hybrid drive not only from heat sources but also from Work to reduce vehicle weight, manrefrigeration systems. Even the braking R&D expenditures age energy and optimize vehicle energy generated on the engine test beds dynamics and control is captured and fed back into the building’s Development of innovative simulation electric grid. Investment spending by MAN 2006 techniques in the year under review totaled 396 mil393 million euros lion euros. The largest single item of MAN has received a 300 million euro credit almost 100 million euros was spent on the 2007 line from the European Investment Bank new production line at the Resende site in 433 million euros (EIB) to help fund this work. This credit line Brazil, which will create 800 new jobs. is part of an EIB financing program for the 2008 European transportation sector. Investing in growth 493 million euros Freight and traffic volumes will continue to Investing in sites and environmental increase. According to the Shell Goods 2009 protection Vehicle Study 2010, by 2030 freight trans504 million euros All investment by MAN in new or existing port volumes will increase by up to plants is always at the same time an 70 percent in Germany and by 50 percent 2010 investment in environmental protection. in Europe as a whole. Thanks to its inten626 million euros One example is the new development sive investment in new solutions, MAN is center for commercial vehicle and induswell prepared for such developments. trial engines in Nuremberg, on which we Much of this investment went into further Our Investments 15 Driven by Innovation development of hybrid technology, which Dr. Frank Appel, is now on the brink of commercialization Chief Executive Officer, in the MAN Lion’s City Bus. Munich’s local Deutsche Post AG public transport authority has been operating the first MAN Lion’s City hybrid bus since May 2010. Further buses of this type “As the largest logistics company in the world, are also operating in Barcelona, Paris, and Vienna. They consume up to 30 perwe are committed to improving our CO2 efficiency cent less fuel than diesel-only versions, which equates to a reduction in CO2 by 10% by 2012 and by 30% by 2020 through emissions of 26 tons over an average of 60,000 kilometers on the road per year. our GoGreen environmental protection program. To As a result, MAN expects increased sales to local authorities that are committed to achieve that ambitious target, we need to improve climate protection. efficiencies in our road transportation fleet. Driving Today, urban traffic is subject to increasing regulation in the form of emissions the greening of the fleet requires a strong partnerlimits, CO2 taxation and local driving restrictions. MAN is therefore currently ship with vehicle manufactures and policymakers. working on parallel hybrid technology for distribution trucks, with the aim of boostThe challenges are considerable, so we need to ing efficiency. In the case of long-distance transportation, we believe drivetrain work hand in hand to manage the change. MAN’s improvements and measures to reduce aerodynamic drag, as demonstrated with commitment to sustainable technology makes it MAN’s Concept S truck study, which was unveiled at the International Commercial a vital ally in achieving a less-polluting vehicle fleet Vehicles Motor Show (IAA) 2010, offer the greatest potential for improving efficiency. at Deutsche Post DHL.” Shipping traffic, too, has more than doubled over the last 20 years. Growth rates 15 partners, including shipping compaciency. At present, in many European Union in this sector are expected to continue nies, their suppliers and several Danish countries trucks are limited to a maximum to increase, accompanied by a tightening universities. The project received the Suslength of 16.5 meters for tractor-semiof regulations on pollutant and CO2 emistainable Shipping organization’s Internatrailer combinations and 18.75 meters for sions. In order to test new solutions such tional Environmental Award for the most truck-trailer combinations. Since we are as exhaust gas recirculation, and with a environmentally friendly transportation iniconvinced of the need for further improveview to improving engine efficiency, in tiative. ments in transportation efficiency, we are 2008 MAN and the Danish shipping urging the relevant political bodies to concompanies A.P. Møller-Mærsk Group, Investing in climate protection sider legalizing long trucks. Odense Steel Shipyard and Aalborg One example of MAN’s commitment to Industries launched the Green Ship of solutions with explicit climate benefits is Further information on the Internet www.transport-efficiency.com the Future initiative. This project aims to our participation in the German Federal www.mantruckandbus.com reduce CO2 emissions by 30 percent Ministry of Transportation long truck field www.mandieselturbo-greentechnology.com and oxides of nitrogen and sulfur by trial. Long trucks have the potential to sig90 percent. The project now has nificantly improve road transportation effi16 The Capital Markets New Requirements Presentation of the CR strategy at the Capital Market Day in Brazil The way in which a company responds to its responsibility for sustainable development worldwide and for society is becoming an increasingly important factor for all those looking to make long-term investments in that company. Transparency is the benchmark Sustainability as an investment factor process that combines innovation, susShareholders, investors and analysts Through transparent and comprehensive tainability and values—an approach that, expect companies to communicate a clear sustainability reporting, MAN will in future particularly in emerging growth markets strategy with quantifiable goals and transbe catering more extensively to the needs like Brazil, China, and India, is becoming parent reporting. Only when this is the of sustainability-oriented investors. This increasingly important and facilitates marcase can they actively monitor and assess comes in response to the further increase ket access. the development of their investment in the during the financial and economic crisis in long term. MAN has responded to this the number of investors who pay attention Public reputation requirement with its corporate and CR to social and ecological aspects when With the brand-building and innovation strategy. Concrete goals in terms of envipurchasing shares or corporate bonds. “We are your MAN” campaign launched in ronmental and climate protection, innovaInstitutional investors, such as foundathe summer of 2010, the Company position and supplier management, industrial tions and pension funds which have large tioned itself in the public awareness as an health and safety, and the promotion of volumes of assets under management, innovation driver. The campaign proved diversity enable progress to be charted are increasingly signing up to the United very effective, both in the public domain and permit a reliable appraisal of future Nations Principles for Responsible Investand among MAN’s customers: 16 percent prospects. This may well have been a ment (UNPRI). Alternatively, they refer to of the public in Germany could recall seecontributory factor in investors’ positive the findings of sustainability ratings in ing the TV ads and billboards that underevaluation and appreciation of the Comorder to take account of sustainability crilined the benefits our products deliver for pany: in fiscal 2010, with a total yield of teria in their investment decisions. The society. This result is also significant for around 64 percent, MAN was the fourth Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is one investors, because a company’s reputabest performer in the Dax index. example of how investors are having a tion is becoming an increasingly important growing impact on corporate policies: metric in predicting future yields. Founded by investment companies in Investor Dialog 2010 2000, every year the CDP initiative sends Sustainability ratings MAN Factbook: February and businesses a detailed questionnaire on Companies’ sustainability ratings provide November 2010 their climate protection strategy. an independent assessment of their susAnnual Report 2009: March 1, 2010 tainability performance. The Dow Jones Roadshows & January to Conferences: November 2010 Capital Market Day sets the ball rolling Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) form a widely Annual General Meeting April 1, 2010 In the future, MAN will increasingly be recognized benchmark, and MAN has set for fiscal 2009 spotlighting sustainability aspects in its itself the goal of returning to the DJSI CR Strategy Report: September 15, 2010 Capital Market Day: September 16 and relations with investors and analysts. The rankings. 17, 2010 first step in this direction came at the IAA Analysts/Investors September 24, 2010 Capital Market Day which took place on Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Meeting: Meetings & September 16–17, 2010 in Resende and According to the assessment performed Conference Calls: Ongoing Rio de Janeiro (Brazil). The event was by Zurich-based Sustainable Asset ManReplies to Ongoing mainly aimed at analysts, investors and agement (SAM) for the Dow Jones Susquestionnaires: fund managers to whom the Management tainability Indexes, MAN’s performance MAN Website: Ongoing Board duly presented the Company’s new in 2010 was unchanged from previous CR strategy. The focus was on the alignyears. With a rating of 48 points out of a ment of activities with a value-added possible 100, MAN’s score was slightly The Capital Markets 17 New Requirements above average, but significantly lower Silke Glitza-Stamberger, than the industry best of 72 points. While Head of Investor Relations, MAN scored top marks for risk manageMAN SE ment, eco-efficiency in production and HR development, other fields such as health management, occupational safety and climate strategy were still rated below average. Corporate Responsibility Rating: In its 2010 Corporate Responsibility Rating, oekom research of Munich awarded MAN a score that was one-and-a-half “Areas like sustainability and compliance are grades better than its previous rating. An overall grade of C+ meant that MAN becoming more and more important in investment was granted the investment status “prime” for the first time. The oekom decisions. Over the last few years we have already research Corporate Responsibility Rating evaluates both environmental and social seen investors from North America and the Middle factors. MAN received especially high marks for its reduction of energy and fuel East in particular take the lead in this respect. consumption, its development activities in the field of alternative fuels as well as Using our CR strategy as a basis, we are aiming to its safe handling of products. The rating agency sees room for improvement in use our activities in these areas to reinforce our product life cycle assessment and the avoidance of hazardous substances. position vis-à-vis the capital markets.” Carbon Disclosure Project: The Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), which was launched by the Carbon Disclosure Project, uses a questionnaire to evaluate companies’ transparency regarding data relevant to climate protection. Reaching MAN sustainability ratings 65 out of 100 points, MAN scored significantly higher than the industrial sector Rating agency Index Rating Carbon Disclosure Project Carbon Disclosure Leadership 65 points out of 100 average (44 points) and has been listed in (CDP) Index (CDLI) Listed for the first time in 2010 the CDLI. Of the 122 German companies oekom research Prime C+ that participated in the survey, 30 qualified Sustainable Asset Management Dow Jones Sustainability 48 points out of 100 for CDLI inclusion. (SAM) Indexes (DJSI) Not listed Sustainalytics 10th place out of 80 Based in Frankfurt, Sustainalytics performs a sustainability analysis that rates the environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance of companies. Of the 80 corporations assessed in 2010, MAN was ranked a solid number ten. Our CR Strategy 18 Acting Responsibly 19 Many roads lead to sustainable development. The MAN lion cubs at the MAN daycare center plan their own routes to the future. 20 CR Strategy: Living Up To Our Responsibilities as a Company As a leader in the field of transport-related engineering, MAN Commitment to values takes its responsibility to the environment, to its employees, and Our Management Board presented the CR strategy to around to society seriously. Our corporate responsibility strategy is an 450 executives from around the world at the annual MAN Manageexpression of this commitment and makes the Company more ment Summit in November 2010. All of these managers then also visible—for young potentials, for investors, in our social received the revised MAN Group Code of Conduct, which was environment and at our various sites. distributed to all employees by the end of 2010. The revised Code provides background information, examples and concrete Setting a course for the future assistance and is available in eleven languages on the Internet In addition to its focus on the Commercial Vehicles and Power and in printed form. It is intended as a tool for daily work, outlinEngineering business areas, the MAN strategy includes the ing standards for behavior that are binding for every employee. expansion of our Compliance function and the visible implemenLast year, the MAN Executive Board also worked with the Intertation of corporate responsibility in the form of a CR strategy. This national Metalworkers’ Federation to develop a Joint Declaration builds on MAN’s recognition over recent years that consistent on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the MAN Group. and focused activity requires clear and transparent goals. In This framework agreement will be applied around the world and 2010 we defined and published a CR strategy that strategically lay further groundwork for the Company’s responsible business bundled our existing activities and took them forward. This was practices. On December 6, 2010, MAN joined the United Nations very well received both internally and externally. Global Compact, expressing its commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles for responsible and sustainable corporate Corporate responsibility as an element of corporate practices worldwide. strategy Corporate responsibility is part of the corporate and leadership Corporate governance and compliance culture at MAN and supports our strategic goals of profitable The global and Group-wide MAN compliance program, which international growth, customer orientation and sustainable value was launched and implemented in 2010 under the supervision of creation. Finalized in 2010, the CR strategy is now being graduthe Chief Compliance Officer, is aimed at combatting corruption ally rolled out across the Company and the business areas. as well as preventing violations in the areas of antitrust law and data protection (‘prevent’), identifying breaches early (‘detect’) and reacting quickly, effectively and consistently (‘respond’). With these goals in mind, last year the Compliance function implemented various measures. They included a Group-wide Integration of the CR strategy into MAN’s corporate strategy risk assessment exercise and compliance awareness training for managers and employees at all our sites. New policies on hanMAN’s vision: dling gifts and invitations as well as on donations and sponsoring The best people, customer orientation as well as superior technology together with a policy on engaging business partners and the and services will make us number one in Commercial Vehicles and Code of Conduct provide employees with concrete instructions. Power Engineering. A new helpdesk makes it possible for employees to obtain information on compliance-related issues. The implementation of our Corporate strategy CR strategy compliance program prompted Transparency International, an organization dedicated to the fight against corruption, to welConcentration on commercial vehicles and power engineering come MAN as a corporate member in September 2010. Profitable international growth Supplier management Technology leadership MAN also sets high standards for its suppliers in terms of enviCustomer focus ronmental protection, employee rights and corruption prevention. Sustainable value creation These are defined in our new purchasing policy, which applies throughout the Group. In keeping with the responsibilities that accrue to a company with an annual purchasing volume of approximately 8.1 billion euros, our purchasing and procurement CR Strategy: 21 Living Up To Our Responsibilities as a Company Jörg Schwitalla, Chief Human Resources Officer, MAN SE MAN’s employer branding campaign policy lays down the following principles: prohibition of forced or child labor, compliance with internationally recognized human “We want our employees to be proud of and employee rights, compliance with environmental protection laws, use of eco-friendly technologies and processes as prevenour Company. Living values are firmly tative environmental measures, as well as adherence to anticorruption regulations in particular. anchored in our corporate and leaderEnvironmental and occupational safety management ship culture. And our responsibility to All MAN sites around the world are called on to demonstrate eco-friendly conduct and provide a safe working environment. the environment and society stems Environmental management is part of the MAN Group’s integrated management system, which also includes occupational from these values. We develop techsafety, fire safety, hazard abatement, quality management and information security. We assess the use of hazardous subnologies for the future and we drive stances in the workplace and work-related risks to employees, and conduct regular internal safety, environmental and health forward both future-proof structures audits. The effectiveness of the management system at all production sites is regularly monitored by means of internal audits and new ways of thinking; among our and external certification. Our goal is to have all facilities certified to the ISO 9000 (quality), ISO 14001 (environmental protection) customers, our employees, and our and OHSAS 18001 (health and occupational safety) standards by 2015. As early as 1991, MAN began introducing quality and other stakeholders.” environmental management systems. These were gradually rolled out at 22 production sites. Since 2008, MAN Truck & Bus has been evaluating environmental performance using its own capability maturity model, which assesses the status quo and defines goals and actions for all sites. Already applied to energy Resende, Brazil, MAN Latin America sponsors the Formare project, management, in the future this model will be applied to occupain which 14–17 year-olds from impoverished families participate in tional safety management as well. a one-year training program that qualifies them as assembly line technicians. A training center was also established there in 2009 Human resources management for new hires with university degrees. At MAN’s headquarters in The aim of HR management is to make certain that the ComMunich, the Campus Initiative enables students from Munich Techpany has the professionals it needs to succeed in the future. nical University to participate in research projects, for example, MAN’s corporate and leadership culture is shaped by the Comwhile still attending university. In 2010 MAN launched an employer pany’s commitment to values and outstanding engineering perbranding project aimed at continuing its recruitment of top talents formance, which are made possible by its vocational training and increasing diversity within the Company. We have positioned and continuous professional development programs. These are ourselves as an attractive employer that appeals to young men offered at all MAN sites. In Germany, over 700 young people and women. The success of this initiative is reflected in the numentered professional life in September 2010 by embarking on ber of visitors to our career website, which has increased by more an apprenticeship in one of over 30 different technical fields. In than 50 percent since it was launched. Dimensions of the CR Strategy 22 and Fields of Action The main hallmark of MAN’s CR strategy is its integrated MAN’s CR Roadmap approach. Our goal is to enable sustainable value creation by The CR Roadmap adopted in 2010 outlines MAN’s long-term ensuring that corporate responsibility is brought to bear on all objectives extending to 2015. corporate strategies and business processes. To this end, we have developed concrete programs based on the CR strategy’s fields of action and the CR Roadmap. Integration: We at MAN believe that an integrated approach is the key to success when it comes to fully living up to our responIntegration sibility within the Company and in our business environment on a daily basis. Economy: MAN’s success is founded on sustainable value creation. This is documented by our history and will continue to guide us in the future. Operating in all key regions and product segments in our industry worldwide ensures MAN’s lasting success and creates added value for all our stakeholders. Environment: Climate change and urbanization are core drivers Economy of the MAN range of products and services. By developing solutions that offer greater resource efficiency and safety, we enable the realization of sustainable transportation concepts and futureproof energy supplies. People: At MAN we take our responsibility to all our employees worldwide seriously. Together, demographic trends and our internationalization are driving the activities that position us as an attractive employer worldwide, capable of recruiting and retaining the best minds. Environment Organization and coordination of corporate responsibility At MAN the Chief Human Resources Officer is ultimately responsible for CR. Reporting directly to him is the CR Manager, a position which was created at the beginning of 2010 in the interests of strategic development and coordination, and as a central point of contact. The CR Manager is supported by the CR Excellence Team, which is made up of experts from Corporate Human Resources, Investor Relations, Corporate Communications, Environmental Management, MAN Truck & Bus, MAN Diesel & Turbo People and MAN Latin America. The responsibilities of the CR Excellence Team include reporting as well as monitoring and supervising the implementation of the strategy. The MAN Management Board serves as a steering committee for the most important CR decisions. MAN’s CR structure is described in detail in the CR strategy report (see page 21). Dimensions of the CR Strategy 23 and Fields of Action Corporate Citizenship Corporate Governance By December 31, 2015 Objectives Integration of CR into business strategies, operational business and We are best-in-class in terms of our CR strategy and its implemeninternal processes tation within the MAN Group. Integration of CR into basic and advanced training as well as management CR has changed the employee mind-set and is an integral part of development our corporate and leadership culture. Further development of CR organization with CR managers in divisions Our image and reputation have improved. Integration of CR report and annual report with assurance by external In terms of CR reporting and stakeholder dialog we serve as an auditor example. Implementation and monitoring of a systematic stakeholder dialog Identification and monitoring of non-quantifiable risks CR is integrated into risk management. Implementation of supplier CR assessment program 100% of suppliers have been assessed. Systematic data management and monitoring of key performance We are sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. indicators Implementation of climate strategy Our different stakeholder groups perceive us as a resourceefficient company. Enlargement of our resource-efficient product and service portfolio CR is a driver for innovations towards resource efficiency. ISO 14001 certification for all European sites and all sites in BRIC countries 100% of our sites are certified to ISO 14001. Monitoring of employee satisfaction and implementation of employee Our employee satisfaction index has been measured and improvesurvey results worldwide ments have been implemented. Implementation of diversity management Measures for supporting diversity management and flexibility for families are in place. Preparation and roll-out of OHSAS 18001 certification 100% of our sites are certified to OHSAS 18001. Strengthening of employee volunteering Enlargement of cooperation with SOS Children’s Village International in BRIC countries 24 Core Principles: Stakeholder Dialog and Materiality MAN’s CR strategy addresses the challenges of the future and the Handling external expectations expectations of the interest groups that are impacted by the ComMAN faces a wide range of requirements from different stakepany’s actions: customers and employees, suppliers and other holder groups. Trust and acceptance can be built by taking these business partners, analysts and investors, science and government, into account. That is why our stakeholders and their expectamunicipalities and non-governmental organizations. tions play an important role in our Guiding Principles. All MAN divisions have a responsibility to consider these diverse needs, to integrate them into business processes and to mediate where conflicts of interest arise. Our CR Excellence Team is tasked with FROM THE VIEWPOINT OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS CR coordination as well as with identifying new challenges. To this end, we aim to hold regular discussions with stakeholders; Challenges for MAN for instance, we are currently engaged in intensive dialog with customers, analysts, and investors. The unveiling of the new CR strategy in 2010 put a spotlight on MAN’s corporate responsibilResource conservation ity, both at the International Commercial Vehicles Motor Show 75% (IAA) in Hanover, Germany, and at the Capital Market Day in Brazil. Climate change 69% International stakeholder survey In fall 2010, MAN used an international web-based survey to Globalization analyze the extent to which our CR strategy met stakeholder 48% expectations and to gather additional ideas for future corporate strategy. Of the approximately 400 selected stakeholders, 40 Urbanization & megacities percent participated in the survey. The most answers came from 42% Germany (23 percent), Brazil (18 percent) and China (17 percent). The largest participating group was employees (40 perDiversity & equal opportunities cent), followed by suppliers (19 percent) and business partners 27% (13 percent). Additional participants included customers, analysts and investors, and representatives of government, the sciHealth ences and the media. 26% Challenges for MAN Population growth When asked to name the biggest challenges faced by MAN, the 24% different stakeholder groups were largely of one mind: resource conservation (75 percent) and climate change (69 percent) are Demographic change the topics they would most like to see us address. 23% Evaluation of our CR strategy Human rights The majority of stakeholders saw our CR strategy as a good 21% approach to addressing issues related to sustainable business practices. Only four percent of those surveyed were of the opinAccess to water ion that the strategy is not conducive to achieving this purpose. 19% Despite the positive feedback, the results of the stakeholder survey also show that the implementation of the CR strategy will Poverty require further effort and more concrete measures. 16% Biodiversity 13% Core Principles: Stakeholder 25 Dialog and Materiality OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ ASSESSMENT OF HOW MAN DEALS WITH SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES Appropriateness of CR strategy In the dimension “Integration” 31% 67% 2% In the dimension “Economy” 30% Materiality analysis 65% The results of the stakeholder survey were a significant factor in 5% identifying which CR topics are of particular importance to MAN. In the dimension “Environment” For the Company’s internal workshops, the spectrum of topics 43% was defined based on the criteria of the Global Reporting Initia54% tive and supplemented by a number of industry-specific sustain3% ability issues. The Fields of action diagram below shows areas in In the dimension “People” which stakeholders have particularly high expectations and 40% which MAN considers especially important to our future business 57% success. 3% Overall This materiality analysis provides solid guidance for our CR man40% agement, helping to keep our strategy in line with the most 60% important challenges and opportunities and to reliably integrate important aspects of CR into our business processes. The validity of our CR strategy was reconfirmed by the high degree of Applies in every respect in some respects not at all overlap between areas that stakeholders weighted highly and those in which we had already set ambitious targets. THE FINDINGS OF OUR MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Fields of action Stakeholder expectations Compliance & corporate governance Product safety* high Occupational health SO2 emissions** & safety Production-related environmental Product-related environprotection mental protection Vocational training and CPD Human rights Supply chain Attractive employer medium Stakeholder dialog Diversity & Customer information equal opportunities Dialog with policymakers low Donations & sponsoring low medium high * Refers to MAN Truck & Bus ** Refers to MAN Diesel & Turbo Business relevance for MAN 26 CR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future A program for continuous improvement The overview set out below is designed to show our stakeholdMAN has laid down how and when which objectives are to be ers how far we have progressed with our CR program and which implemented in its CR Roadmap. For each year, programs are steps we have planned for 2011. The program for 2011 which has derived from the Roadmap, broken down into measures and been approved by the Executive Board of MAN represents a assigned deadlines. core basis for the development of our activities going forward. Objectives Deadline Status in 2010 Measures in 2011 Integration Integration of CR into business 2015 CR strategy and CR Roadmap approved by Anchoring CR strategy in strategies of corpostrategies, business operations Executive Board rate divisions and internal processes CR strategy communicated and discussed Developing strategic programs in corporate with top managers divisions Roadshow to communicate CR strategy in Evaluating CR strategy with various stakekey departments of corporate divisions holder groups CR strategy report published CR website updated Integration of CR in vocational 2015 380 sales staff from MAN Truck & Bus Developing a concept for integrating CR into training, continuous professional attended CR training vocational training development (CPD), and MAN stand personnel for IAA in Hanover Continuing discussion of CR content in intermanagement development briefed on CR national management development programs Discussion of CR strategy and CR Roadmap with the Chief HR Officer included in key top management programs Further development of CR 2015 Central CR manager position created Continuing to hold regular CR Excellence Team structure by CR managers in meetings on implementation of CR strategy CR Excellence Team established the divisions Involving additional managers and experts Regular CR Excellence Team meetings held Integration of CR report and 2015 Collection of data for 2010 CR report began Publishing 2010 CR report including attaining annual report with auditor’s GRI B+ application level and assurance Audit for assurance of 2010 CR report perassurance formed by auditor Significantly improving the reporting process with further quantifiable goals Implementation and monitoring 2015 Group Works Council briefed Communicating results of stakeholder survey of systematic stakeholder dialog internally and externally Started disseminating information for employees on Group intranet Communicating CR issues to employees, especially in corporate divisions around the Stakeholder expectations assessed using world questionnaire in CR strategy report and international online survey Holding 1st Stakeholder Forum CR strategy discussed at Capital Market Day in Brazil CR strategy communicated at IAA in Hanover and integrated into trade-show questionnaire Economy Identification and monitoring of 2015 Defining interfaces between CR and risk non-quantifiable risks management Introduction of supplier evalua2015 CR integrated into Group purchasing and Developing concept for evaluating CR performtion system procurement policy ance of key suppliers Systematic acquisition of CR 2015 Evaluation by Sustainable Asset Return to the Dow Jones sustainability data and monitoring of performManagement 2010 analysed and Indexes ance indicators improvements for 2011 identified CR Roadmap: 27 A Blueprint for the Future Objectives Deadline Status in 2010 Measures in 2011 Environment Implementation of climate 2015 CR strategy with environmental and occupaRevising environment and occupational safety strategy tional safety officers at MAN Truck & Bus policy European facilities discussed Kicked off climate strategy with CR ExcelDeveloping and adopting climate strategy for lence Team the MAN Group Expansion of the portfolio of 2015 Decision to take part in Germany-wide field Defining resource-efficient product and service resource-efficient products and testing of long trucks portfolio services All European sites and all sites in 2015 MAN Truck & Bus site in Kraków, Poland, Achieving ISO 14001 certification at the St. BRIC countries to be certified to earned ISO 14001 certification Nazaire, Deggendorf, Augsburg (Renk), and ISO 14001 Rheine production sites People Measurement of employee satis2015 MAN SE and MAN Truck & Bus recognized as Carrying out a Group-wide employee faction and worldwide deploytop German employers in 2010 survey ment of findings of employee MAN Latin America recognized as Great Place survey to Work Introduction of a diversity 2015 Measures for ensuring compliance with Developing a concept for promoting diversity management program the German Corporate Governance Code discussed OHSAS 18001 certification for all 2015 Preparing selected production sites for sites OHSAS 18001 certification Strengthening employee volun2015 Talks with German UNESCO Commission Developing a concept for employee teering and SOS Children’s Villages held volunteering with SOS Children’s Villages Corporate Governance Commitment of MAN Group to 2011 International Framework Agreement for Signing and implementing the International international regulations basic human and employee rights negotiFramework Agreement for basic human and ated employee rights Joined UN Global Compact and reported on implementation of the principles of the Global Compact Principles of Global Compact integrated into Group purchasing and procurement policy Implementation of compliance 2011 Compliance organization set up Introducing a code of conduct for suppliers program Compliance risk assessment conducted Introducing a Group-wide whistleblower portal Compliance helpdesk launched Introducing online compliance training Business partner approval tool revised Introducing additional compliance policies Compliance awareness training rolled out Conducting an employee survey on the topic worldwide of compliance New Code of Conduct communicated Introducing compliance champions and an early warning system Corporate Citizenship Expansion of cooperation with 2015 Strategy workshop held with SOS Children’s Stepping up internal communication SOS Children’s Villages InternaVillages Launching employee volunteering program tional to the BRIC countries Supporting first graduates of SOS Vocational Training College Kality, Ethiopia Defining a beacon project in BRIC country Our Projects 28 Living Up To Our Responsibilities Worldwide Training people, developing regions and contributing to environmentally compatible progress. Adding value for society is important to MAN and one of the By these exemplary projects we also want to inspire the objectives of our CR strategy. Wherever we work, we aim to exchange of experience for issues of social engagement be a reliable partner and create benefits. among employees and our international sites. Networking different perspectives As an international corporate player we consider ourselves Innovations arise out of exchanges with society and its under an obligation to contribute to sustainable developrequirements. The precondition here is a willingness to ment worldwide, through concrete local projects wherever learn from and with one another. While we have a long trawe are needed or in demand on account of our expertise. dition of social engagement, the same does not apply to Many of the projects that our divisions, our subsidiaries or the international exchange of experience. This was kicked our production sites have initiated or support are directly off through our CR strategy and the CR Excellence Team. related to our core business. Others have arisen to meet a We are now out to expand that exchange in the future and need, where fast and practical help was required. The outtrigger a more intensive networking process on social come is a kaleidoscope of activities across the globe, only issues and potential solutions in the world of MAN. a few of which are portrayed here by way of example Employee volunteering Setting an example Some of the projects described here would never have This selection illustrates the diversity of the projects in happened without the commitment of individual employwhich we strive to contribute to sustainable development ees. Enthusiasm and passion are defining characteristics and communicate ideas—because we explicitly support of our employees, which is why they show such impressive and foster voluntary social engagement even if it is not commitment outside their direct area of responsibility as associated with business opportunities. We are convinced well—be it within the Company, in their community or in that in the long term we will reap the benefits of these society at large. In the future we are aiming to foster such activities in terms of trust and acceptance, the motivation engagement even more strongly, because employees who of our employees, and inspiration for innovations. assume responsibility and live up to it, are the best possible ambassadors of our Company. Our Projects > Our Projects 29 Living Up To Our Responsibilities Worldwide Project 03: MAN lion cubs serve as inspiration Project 06: Energy from the Spanish sun In Munich, MAN Truck & Bus helps employees to strike a balance Andalusia in Southern Spain enjoys around 3,000 hours of sunbetween family and career by offering a daycare program for their shine per year. At the Andasol 3 solar power plant, this solar children. The MAN lion cubs, as the children are known, are energy is captured by 312 rows of collectors with parabolic mircared for in a daycare center directly adjacent to the MAN Truck rors that concentrate the sun’s rays. These heat absorber tubes & Bus facilities, shortening commuting times for their parents. filled with synthetic oil to temperatures of over 400 degrees CelGuided by the center’s special educational concept, professional sius. The hot oil is then pumped in a closed loop to a heat Germanand English-speaking childcare workers encourage the exchanger in the central power plant, where an MAN steam turchildren’s natural curiosity, eagerness to experiment and joy in bine drives the generator. Part of the thermal energy is stored in learning. The daycare center has flexible opening hours and space giant tanks containing molten salt, from where it can be called up for 86 children aged six months to six years. Taking their cue several hours later to power the turbine. Each year, Andasol 3 from the Munich program, MAN Diesel & Turbo in Augsburg laid can be relied upon to supply up to 200,000 people with solar the cornerstone in July 2010 for a daycare facility that will offer power. The high-performance turbine for the power plant was 42 crèche places and 34 preschool places when it opens in the built by MAN Diesel & Turbo in Oberhausen, Germany. summer of 2011. A total of 2 million euros has been invested. Project 07: Running on Brazilian biodiesel Project 04: Eco-friendly construction for plant in China In 2010, MAN Latin America also began supplying customers In a large-scale project in Changzhou, MAN Diesel & Turbo had with trucks that can be operated on 100 percent biodiesel an opportunity to build new facilities on a greenfield site. The (B100) fuel. This is made possible by new dual-fuel technology challenge was creating a new production plant that is not only which gives the customer the flexibility to run the truck on energy efficient, but also provides employees with a healthy and biodiesel or conventional diesel fuel—stored in two separate comfortable working environment despite the region’s very hot tanks—in line with fuel prices and availability. This way, operasummers and cold winters. It was met with energy management tions continue to run smoothly even in places where biodiesel is measures that allow the heating, ventilation and air conditioning not available. Running on biodiesel only, the dual-fuel trucks help (HVAC) systems to operate at optimal efficiency. Effective insulacut CO2 emissions by up to 90 percent. MAN Latin America is tion helps to keep temperatures pleasant in the offices and reduces pioneering the use of biodiesel in Brazil. the energy consumption of the HVAC systems by 25,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) each month. Modern, lighter-weight cranes and Project 08: CO2-neutral in the Caribbean equipment save an additional 45,800 kWh per month compared to conventional equipment. The world’s largest wind-diesel power plant is located on the Caribbean island of Bonaire. Twelve wind turbines, each 55 Project 05: Yabonga means thank you in South Africa meters high, supply 15,000 inhabitants and the island’s many tourists with eco-friendly power. But even on the windswept In the South African township of Mfuleni, 40 kilometers from Northern coast of Bonaire periods of calm can bring the wind Cape Town, 70,000 people live in extreme poverty. Many of them turbines to a standstill. Moreover, during storms the turbines shut are HIV positive. An organization called Yabonga—Zulu for thank down automatically to prevent damage to the rotors. At times you—was founded to offer them support. With the help of MAN like these and during peak demand, the engines at the diesel Diesel & Turbo South Africa, Yabonga opened its first youth cenpower plant start up in next to no time, ensuring reliable power ter in 2009. The drop-in center serves around 50 young people supplies for the island around the clock. At present the engines who come here after school for a hot meal, psychosocial assisstill run on conventional diesel fuel. In the future it is planned to tance, and help with their homework. The center was set up use locally produced biodiesel obtained from seaweed, sustainclose to the community hospital to provide ready access to medably providing Bonaire with CO2-neutral electricity and cutting ical care for the young people, many of whom are HIV positive. emissions by around 70,000 tons of CO2 a year. Yabonga’s goal is to give them hope for the future. To date MAN has invested 55,000 euros in the project. Our Projects Creating Local Benefits Project 03 Germany: Daycare MAN Truck & Bus helps employees at its Munich site to strike a balance between family and career by offering a daycare program for their children. Project 06 Spain: Andasol 3 Andalusia in Southern Spain enjoys around 3,000 hours of sunshine per year. At the Andasol 3 solar power plant, this solar energy is captured. An MAN steam turbine drives the generator there. Project 08 Project 07 Caribbean: Wind-diesel power plant Brazil: Biodiesel truck The world’s largest wind-diesel power In 2010, MAN Latin America also began plant is being built on the Caribbean supplying customers with trucks that island of Bonaire. The wind turbines can be operated on 100 percent supply 15,000 inhabitants. When biodiesel (B100) fuel. This is made there’s no wind, MAN diesel engines possible by new dual-fuel technology. cut in. Project 01: Training for young people in Ethiopia Providing the students with tools and objects on which to practice as well as regular teaching in technical skills lets The SOS Vocational Training College Kality is located in them obtain additional qualifications in the commercial vehithe outskirts of Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. It is a cles field. This significantly increases their chances of finding sign of hope in one of the poorest countries in the world. employment and improving their quality of life. With the supHere, young people from the SOS Children’s Villages have port of MAN Truck & Bus an additional college building has the opportunity to receive vocational training as automobile been erected. MAN has contributed 200,000 euros to this mechanics, general mechanics and woodworkers. project annually since 2008. Project 04 China: Building project in Changzhou In a large-scale project in Changzhou, MAN Diesel & Turbo had an opportunity to build new facilities on a greenfield site. The new production plant provides employees with a healthy and comfortable working environment. Project 02 India: Cooperation with university It is essential for MAN to recruit qualified personnel locally. This prompted MAN Diesel & Turbo to cooperate with university institutes in the region of Aurangabad, India. Project 01 Ethiopia: Training for young people The SOS Vocational Training College Project 05 Kality is located in the outskirts of South Africa: HIV/AIDS Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. Here, young people can train as autoIn the South African township of Mfumobile mechanics. leni, 40 kilometers from Cape Town, 70,000 people live in extreme poverty. Many of them are HIV positive. MAN Diesel & Turbo helped Yabonga open its first youth center here. Project 02: Engineering expertise for India In return, MAN employees have the option of attending continuing education courses at these institutes and earning certifiIt is essential for MAN to recruit qualified personnel locally— cates. This cooperation has already reaped its first rewards— and this has prompted MAN Diesel & Turbo to cooperate with two Indian students who participated in the exchange were five technical university institutes in the region of Aurangabad, hired by MAN after graduating. This project allows MAN to India. As part of this partnership, 15 advanced students have create forward-looking educational opportunities and at the been given the opportunity to acquire hands-on job experience same time support economic development in the region. in MAN production facilities while still working on their degrees. Performance Report 30 CR Figures 31 The lion cubs at the MAN daycare center show real determination. To get results, it takes patience and inspiring goals—no matter if you’re big or small. 32 About this Report We have divided our 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report into Independent Assurance Report three sections to better respond to the various needs and expecWe have had substantial parts of our report verified by the audittation of our stakeholders: the Investing in the Future priority ing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). Their audit included all issue, our CR strategy, and the Performance Report. As a company information and charts for 2010 marked with a , as well as the listed in the Dax 30, we reach out to investors and analysts through following chapters: our report. At the same time we address our employees, and cusCR Strategy: Living Up To Our Responsibilities as a Company tomers, policymakers, local authorities and NGOs, as well as the (pages 20 and 21) people who live in the regions where we operate. Dimensions of Our CR Strategy and Fields of Action (pages 22 and 23) How this report was drawn up Core Principles: Stakeholder Dialog and Materiality This CR Report provides all our stakeholders with a detailed and (pages 24 and 25) comparable overview of our performance in the area of sustainCR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future ability/corporate responsibility. In preparing this report we adhered (pages 26 and 27) to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) published in 2006 and have met the requirements of the secondThe independent assurance report for these selected indicators highest reporting level (B+). Wherever possible, we provide indiand sections appears on pages 51 and 52. cators for the past three years. Editor’s note Thus, this report complements our Annual Report for 2010 and This report is published in German, English, Portuguese, and at the same time represents our Communication of Progress for French. The closing date for contributions was January 31, the UN Global Compact. It was drawn up in conjunction with the 2011. In future we will publish these reports annually. The next CR Excellence Team, which comprises the persons responsible report will appear in early 2012. In the interests of readability, for all areas with a bearing on CR. This report has been we have not used the full legal names of MAN SE and the subapproved by the Executive Board of MAN SE. groups. Reporting period and boundary Additional information The 2010 reporting period is identical to the 2010 fiscal year, This printed report is supplemented by additional information on which ran from January 1 through December 31, 2010. The our website at www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR/. Cross-references in information in this report relates to all divisions of the MAN the report facilitate direct access to the relevant information. On Group. We have collated data from 27 production sites of our CR website we report continuously on current developments MAN Truck & Bus, MAN Latin America, MAN Diesel & Turbo, concerning our corporate responsibility. and Renk. Together they represent approximately 80% of the revenue of MAN SE. Financial data is presented in euros, with foreign currencies translated at annual averages for 2010. Compared to 2009, the consolidated figures for 2010 in the Environment section also include the Changzhou (China) and Velká Bíteš (Czech Republic) sites, but the Pilsting (Germany) site is no longer included. We report indirect emissions in line with the emission factors of the International Energy Agency and direct emissions in line with the emission factors of the German Federal Environment Agency. Performance Report 33 About this Report | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance When MAN AG changed its legal form to a Societas Europaea (SE) Remuneration of the Executive Board in 2009, we retained our two-tier management structure comprisThe remuneration of Executive Board members comprises fixed ing an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. The 16-strong salary payments and non-cash benefits, pension and other benSupervisory Board is made up of an equal number of shareholder efit contributions, and performance-related components. The representatives and employee representatives. The Chairman of variable performance-related components comprise components the Supervisory Board holds no other position within the MAN linked to business performance and long-term incentive compoGroup. nents that entail an element of risk. Against the backdrop of sustainability considerations, part of the remuneration is contingent Management and monitoring upon the future success of the Company. In its management and reporting activities, MAN SE complies with the recommendations of the German Corporate GoverValues, goals, and guidelines nance Code with only one exception and has issued the approMAN has four defining corporate values. It aims to be reliable, priate Declaration of Conformity. MAN SE departed temporarily innovative, dynamic, and open. Our vision for the coming years from the Code in respect of the number of Supervisory Board is: “The best people, customer orientation as well as superior positions held by Dr.-Ing. Ekkehard D. Schulz. The Code undertechnology and services will make us number one in commercial lines the obligation of the Executive and Supervisory Boards to vehicles and power engineering.” From this we derive our stratesafeguard the continued existence of the Company and ensure gic goals which are complemented by the CR strategy newly its sustained value creation, in line with the principles of the defined in 2010. In the year under review we also updated our social market economy. In other words, the Executive Board Code of Conduct for the targeted prevention of corruption and must pursue the future-oriented management of the Company, distributed it to all employees. The Code of Conduct is available while the Supervisory Board monitors the activities of the Execuin eleven languages. Additional new central compliance policies tive Board and advises it. At MAN this is ensured through at least on dealing with gifts, invitations, donations, sponsoring, and relafour Supervisory Board meetings per year. At these meetings tions with business partners apply across the Group. important decisions are discussed with the Executive Board, which is under obligation to keep the Supervisory Board regularly In December 2010 MAN became informed and can convene Supervisory Board meetings ad hoc a signatory to the United Nations to discuss important issues. Our subsidiary Renk AG has also Global Compact, making a comissued a Declaration of Conformity with the German Corporate mitment to comply with and foster Governance Code. To document the absence of conflicts of ten principles in its business interest among members of the Executive and Supervisory processes. These fall under the Boards, their memberships in other governing bodies are listed headings of human rights, labor in the MAN Annual Report 2010 (page 189 et seq.). standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. This report repreTasks and responsibilities sents our first Communication of The distribution of tasks and responsibilities at the MAN Group Progress for the Global Compact. is regulated by our Industrial Governance System: The strategic management of the Group lies with the Management Board of This commitment is underpinned by the Joint Declaration on MAN SE in which all divisions are represented. Operational manSocial and Corporate Responsibility in the MAN Group, which agement is the responsibility of the respective subgroups. In this, the Executive Board of MAN negotiated with the International MAN strikes a balance between central strategic management Metalworkers’ Federation in 2010 as an international framework and decentralized operating responsibility, complemented by a agreement. modern leadership culture. This is founded on shared values, a corporate culture that has evolved over time, and a commitment to corporate responsibility. Implementation is the responsibility of the Chief Human Resources Officer; decision-making authority rests with the Management Board. As a result, CR topics regularly appear on the agenda of MAN SE Executive Board meetings. 34 Compliance program Selected compliance measures MAN does not tolerate illegal or irregular conduct and encourages its employees—as well as its customers, suppliers and Helpdesk 1,107 questions were asked and processed other business partners—to use the required sources of informaTraining 4,397 employees (9%) attended 166 compliance tion and advice in order to avoid breaching rules and regulations. awareness training sessions worldwide Not least as a result of the investigations following the allegations of corruption, the Supervisory Board and Executive Board of MAN have driven forward the enhancement of the compliance Along with preventing compliance violations (Prevent) and system, to definitively prevent any recurrence of such incidents. detecting misconduct (Detect) the third pillar of the MAN compliA new Compliance function managed by the Chief Compliance ance program is a rapid and rigorous response (Respond). IndiOfficer has been set up and an extensive and global integrity and vidual compliance violations are examined on a case-by-case compliance program put in place. The focus here is on combatbasis either centrally by employees from the Case Management ing corruption as well as on the areas of antitrust law and data department or at local level by the responsible specialist function protection. of the relevant subgroup. At what level the case is examined depends on the extent of the potential financial losses and possiIn order to prevent conflicts of interest, the Chief Compliance ble risks. Imposing internal sanctions in the event of compliance Officer reports to the Executive Board as well as to the Audit violations is the responsibility of the Disciplinary Sanction ComCommittee of the Supervisory Board. The adoption of Groupmittee. The findings of investigations of misconduct are used by wide compliance measures takes place at the monthly meetings the Compliance function to continuously improve our compliance of the Compliance Steering Committee (the Compliance Board program or introduce selective compliance measures. The Comfrom 2011) comprising the Executive Board and the heads of the pany is now set up in such a way that such incidents can be other functions. avoided. In 2010 numerous compliance measures were introduced. Violations and investigations Examples included conducting a Group-wide compliance risk No fines or sanctions were imposed on the MAN Group in Gerassessment to identify Group-specific risks; the Group-wide many in the reporting period on account of the violation of legal implementation of compliance awareness training sessions; and provisions. Our reporting of fines for environmental incidents the issuing of new policies that apply across the Group (on hancovers sites that together account for approximately 80% of dling gifts and invitations, on donations and sponsoring measrevenue. No violations were reported in the reporting period. ures, and on engaging business partners). The Code of Conduct, which was updated last year, sets out binding guidelines for situations in which employees must pay particular attention to responsible behavior and gives examples that illustrate how to deal with conflict situations. Employees can contact the Compliance Helpdesk established at the beginning of 2010 at any time with questions relating to compliance. An innovative web-based application supports the new process for verifying the integrity of business partners. This process, which applies across the Group, is designed to minimize the risk that business partners use the remuneration paid by MAN for the purposes of corruption. Performance Report 35 Corporate Governance | Integration Integration In July 2010 the Executive Board of MAN SE finalized the MAN Diesel & Turbo has created a HSE-Q handbook which Company’s CR strategy, which took immediate effect. It adopts an combines health, safety, environmental and quality aspects in integrated approach, anchoring corporate responsibility in our a single reference work to guide employees in their daily work. management systems and our dialog with stakeholders. The division has ISO 9001 certification, and some sites have already been certified to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. All MAN Principles of Corporate Responsibility MAN Truck & Bus production sites have ISO 14001 certified As we anchor corporate responsibility in all areas and at all levels environmental management systems. In addition, the production of MAN, we are guided by the following principles: facilities in Munich, Nuremberg, Salzgitter (Germany), Vienna and Steyr (Austria) all comply with EMAS (the EU Eco-Management Reliable, innovative, dynamic and open and Audit Scheme) standards and regularly publish site-specific Our four Corporate Values are the pillars of our corporate environmental statements. responsibility activities. They guide our CR strategy and programs and shape our communications with all of our stakeholders. Percentage of employees covered by management systems Employee awareness Management system Distribution 2008 2009 2010 ISO 9000/9001 Number of 25 27 27 Our employees live corporate responsibility in their day-to-day sites work and act as CR ambassadors. Employee 72% 84% 82% coverage Product responsibility ISO 14001 Number of 19 21 22 sites Given the nature of our product and service portfolio we have a Employee 67% 79% 77% special responsibility towards the environment. Environmental coverage care and safety form integral parts of our CR strategy and EMAS Number of 5 5 5 sites programs. Employee 34% 36% 36% coverage Stakeholder dialog OHSAS 18001 Number of 3 3 5 sites Intensive dialog with all of our stakeholder groups ensures that Employee 9% 8% 7% we understand their expectations and enables the continuous coverage development of our CR strategy and programs. Quality, environmental and occupational safety management Emergency management The MAN Group has set up an integrated management system A policy on hazard response and crisis management has been in which includes environmental protection, occupational safety, fire place at MAN since January 1, 2010, with the goal of having safety, hazard abatement, quality management and information plans ready for handling dangers and crisis situations and comsecurity. Our aim is to have all sites certified to the ISO 9001, municating consistently at such times. All MAN Truck & Bus sites ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001 standards by 2015. The effectivehave hazard and emergency response plans in place. Larger ness of our management system is verified on-site by regular facilities such as those in Munich, Nuremberg and Steyr have external and internal audits. The latter are also carried out at our their own fire brigades, which are also trained to handle environnon-certified production facilities. At the end of the year under mental incidents. review, 22 sites had ISO 14001 or EMAS certification. In addition, the MAN Diesel & Turbo Deggendorf and Renk Augsburg sites Supplier management carried out internal audits without ISO/EMAS. MAN’s vocational MAN also expects its suppliers to follow responsible business training and continuing professional development programs also practices. On November 1, 2010, the Executive Board signed include aspects of environmental protection and safety. off on the Conduct and Procedure for Purchasing and Order Processes Group Policy. These are based on our CR strategy, the MAN Code of Conduct, International Labor Organization 36 (ILO) standards and the ten principles of the UN Global ComMAN is a member of numerous associations that support dialog pact. In the future, compliance with such central regulations will and communication between business, government and society. be monitored using a supplier assessment system. However, we Our most important memberships are: have not yet developed a definitive system and process and Association of Employers’ Associations for the Metal and therefore cannot report any figures at this time. Electrical Industry Bavarian Business Association Stakeholder dialog and memberships DEKRA The starting point for our systematic stakeholder dialog was the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association questionnaire included in our CR Strategy Report in September Federation of German Industry 2010. The process was continued and globalized using a webGerman Association Materials Management, Purchasing and based international stakeholder survey, in which around 400 indiLogistics viduals were invited to participate. At 40%, the participation rate German Association of Business, Transportation and Logistics was more than satisfactory. German Association of the Automotive Industry German Engineering Federation In 2010 our stakeholders were provided with targeted informaGerman Transportation Forum tion on various topics using a variety of media. The table below International Chamber of Commerce Germany gives an overview of our stakeholder communications in the year Transparency International Deutschland e.V. under review. Stakeholder Communication 2010 Target group Media Topics Customers and business IAA 2010, incl. trade-fair questionnaire Concept S, alternative partners SMM 2010 (shipbuilding industry trade fair) drive technologies, CR strategy “We are your MAN” brand campaign MAN Forum—the MAN Group Magazine Customer Relationship Management Employees HR Summit, Compliance Summit, MAN Summit CR strategy and Group Works Council meeting, works meetings CR Roadmap, UN Global Compact, Employee newsletters, MAN intranet, MAN TV, manager Code of Conduct newsletter, MAN Forum—the MAN Group Magazine “We are your MAN” brand campaign Regular presentations in departments Suppliers Group-wide purchasing policy CR strategy and “We are your MAN” brand campaign CR Roadmap, Code of Conduct Analysts and investors Annual General Meeting, Capital Market Day, IAA Analyst CR strategy and /Investor Meeting, roadshows CR Roadmap, MAN Factbook CR performance Politics Personal encounters CR strategy, Memberships in associations environmental protection, competitive behavior MAN Politics Newsletter Media “We are your MAN” brand campaign CR strategy and MAN Forum—the MAN Group Magazine CR Roadmap, UN Global Compact Press releases, press newsletter Interviews General public “We are your MAN” brand campaign CR strategy and Sponsorships CR Roadmap environmental protection, Press releases CR initiatives Performance Report 37 Integration | Economy Economy MAN has emerged stronger from the financial and economic Capital expenditures by business area in 2010 crisis, aiming for and achieving significant growth in the BRIC € million countries in particular. MAN Group 396 2,303 Business performance At €14.7 billion, revenue for MAN SE in 2010 returned to levels previously achieved in 2008, prior to the economic crisis. 21% of Others/ 5 283 Commercial this figure was generated by MAN Latin America and 26% by Consolidation 1,913 229 Vehicles MAN Diesel & Turbo, but MAN Truck & Bus continues to account for the highest proportion of revenue at 51%. At €1,035 million, Power Engineering 108 operating profit more than doubled over the previous year. Divi161 dends totaling €37 million were paid out to shareholders in 2010, equivalent to €0.25 per share. Net interest expense during the 2009 values colored silver year under review amounted to €–158 million. Detailed information on the Group’s business performance can be found in MAN’s 2010 Annual Report (page 54 et seq.). Nuremberg sites. Capital expenditures by MAN Latin America were driven by the Euro V emissions standard, the technical inteBusiness performance in 2010 gration of products and components with MAN Truck & Bus, and € million investment in the expansion of our production facility in Resende. 2009 2010 Order intake 9,860 15,072 We invested €108 million in the Power Engineering business area, of which: Germany 2,388 3,489 as against €161 million in the previous year. MAN Diesel & Turbo of which: Other countries 7,472 11,583 Revenue 12,026 14,675 made replacement and maintenance investments and invested of which: Germany 2,751 3,058 in enhancing the efficiency of its production sites, as well as its of which: Other countries 9,275 11,617 after-sales network. Renk invested primarily in test systems for Operating profit 504 1,035 wind-power gear units at the Rheine site (Germany). Capital expenditures Taxes and subsidies € million In 2010 the MAN Group’s tax expenses amounted to some €311 2009 2010 Property, plant and equipment, and 283 235 million, primarily in those regions where we add value; we have investment property avoided taking extensive steps to optimize our tax liabilities. DurIntangible assets 83 156 ing the year under review we were granted public subsidies by, Investments 1,937 5 among others, the European Investment Bank (EIB) in LuxemTotal 2,303 396 bourg, which extended a €300 million credit line in support of of which: acquisition of MAN Latin 1,333 America less cash and cash equivalents research in the commercial vehicles field. of which: acquisition of Sinotruk 567 1 of which: Scania share purchase 4 Capital expenditures of which: other capital expenditures 399 395 MAN invested a total of €283 million in the Commercial Vehicles of which: Germany 280 264 of which: Other countries 119 131 business area in 2010, compared to €229 million in the previous Depreciation, amortization and 360 368 year. MAN Truck & Bus made some necessary replacement and impairment* maintenance investments, and also invested in enhancing proCapital expenditure ratio in %** 111 107 ductivity and quality, as well as exploiting new opportunities for ** Excluding earnings effects of purchase price allocations (2010: €99 million, 2009: €62 million) and in the previous year excluding write-downs on investments of €382 million. growth and developing new products to comply with Euro VI. ** Excluding the acquisitions of MAN Latin America, Sinotruk and Scania shares. The main focus of this investment activity was on our Munich and 38 Research and development legislation and customer needs to plan our products for the In 2010 MAN invested some €626 million—equivalent to approxifuture. The product development process at MAN Truck & Bus mately 4% of revenue—in research and development. The breaks down into five stages: investment focused in particular on improving the efficiency of 1. Analysis of future scenarios and technological trends our solutions, and on the use of renewable fuels in large-bore 2. World markets forecasts diesel engines, as well as on alternative drive technologies for 3. Identification of future business segments buses and trucks. 4. Harmonization with portfolio strategy 5. Identification of customer needs Research and development € million Customer focus 2009 2010 MAN makes comprehensive product details and user guides availR&D expenditures 504 626 able to customers as a matter of course. They show the safest, of which: Commercial Vehicles 237 328 most environmentally acceptable ways to operate MAN products. of which: Power Engineering 267 313 of which: Consolidation – 15 We take customer complaints very seriously and use them as R&D expenditures of the manufacturing 4.2 4.3 important indicators of ways in which we could improve our divisions (% of revenue) products and services: MAN Truck & Bus set up an integrated Internally funded R&D 382 469 complaint management system in 2008, with the aim of processR&D employees (annual average) 3,791 3,944 ing all complaints as smoothly and speedily as possible. But in any case, we act as partners to our customers throughout each prodClimate-related risks and opportunities uct’s lifecycle: MAN Diesel & Turbo, for example, provides a worldWhile indirect, the impact of climate change on the MAN Group’s wide after-sales service under the MAN PrimeServ brand. MAN activities is significant, not least due to the resulting regulatory Support offers fleet operators a mobile tracking and vehicle manchanges and energy price movements. At present, our Groupagement tool in the form of TeleMatics, as well as comprehensive wide risk management strategy does not make provision for fleet management support. MAN Truck & Bus is also involved in these longer-term risks, which will be subsumed into our climate a research project exploring smart traffic assistance technology, strategy, due to be finalized in 2011. One of the goals of this which could eventually enable vehicles to make more efficient use strategy is to extend our risk management concept to include of infrastructure, make driving easier and enhance road safety. sustainability considerations. On the other hand, the direct effects of climate change on our operations are limited. The MAN Group Customer satisfaction does not, for example, own any production sites in areas threatCustomers are our most important stakeholders, because they ened by flooding. Assuming that our European climate policy is drive our business success. In order to maintain close contact applied systematically over the next few years, and that the BRIC with our customers and stay sensitive to their needs, we conduct countries implement similar strategies, MAN is likely to benefit regular surveys across all our business areas to find out how satfrom new opportunities for growth. isfied customers really are with our products and services. MAN Truck & Bus, for example, has been tracking customer loyalty Product responsibility and customer satisfaction relating to sales and servicing since Most MAN products have a very long service life, during which 2006. We also address specific customer requirements in our they see intensive use. Consequently, viewed over the entire product studies. Thus for the seventh year in a row, MAN Latin product lifecycle, the greatest proportion of each product’s enviAmerica led the field for customer satisfaction in the light and ronmental impact is produced during this working phase, as a heavy truck market segments. result of energy consumption, emissions, use of lubricants, maintenance and servicing, and so on. One of the primary imperaProduct marketing tives for our development engineers is to reduce this impact as We base all our business activities, advertising and product much as possible by taking a forward-looking attitude to product marketing on a philosophy of total compliance with legislation. development. Key product development criteria include quality In Germany, we follow the recommendations of the German and safety, as well as efficiency and marketability. We use analyAdvertising Council, and ensure that any information we provide ses of future energy prices, raw materials availability, relevant to customers complies with all relevant legal requirements. Performance Report 39 Economy | Environment Environment As is clear from the 22% growth in revenue, production output In its efforts to reduce energy consumption at the production at the MAN Group rose substantially in 2010. This was reflected stage, MAN focuses particularly on compressed air systems and in increased resources consumption. As a result, the effect of the production shop heating and lighting systems. In 2008 an energy efficiency measures implemented under our environmental manmanagement system was adopted at the production sites of MAN agement system is not directly apparent in the figures for this Truck & Bus. Following an energy efficiency review at all sites, period. Nevertheless, the environmental management system is improvement measures were derived and initiated in 2010. In the making an important contribution to reducing our operating costs MAN Diesel & Turbo division an expert network, formed in 2009, and achieving acceptance for our activities among communities meets regularly to look at ways of improving energy management. close to our sites. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Energy consumption Gigajoules Total energy consumption at MAN rose by 15% over the previous Year 2010 2,795,188 year’s level, to 5.3 million gigajoules. Direct energy consumption, 2009 2,529,694 i.e. consumption of primary energy sources such as fuel oil, nat2008 2,613,573 ural gas and diesel, increased by 21%. Indirect energy consumpElectricity District heat tion, comprising consumption of electricity and heat, including process heat, rose by 10%. Increased testing at the Nuremberg Development Center and at the Steyr (Austria) and Poznań (Poland) Energy efficiency at the service-life stage sites caused our diesel consumption to rise by 29% compared In the Commercial Vehicles business area, up to 90% or more of with the previous year. Natural gas consumption by the MAN the products’ total life cycle energy consumption and CO2 emisGroup increased by 31%, and gasoline consumption by 172%. sions occur during the service life of the vehicles. MAN is thereThis was due to doubled production in Latin America. fore carrying out intensive research into ways of reducing fuel consumption and emissions in this phase of the life cycle. In this Energy consumption context, the hybrid technology which entered production in 2010 Gigajoules can bring savings of up to 30% for both buses and delivery Year trucks. MAN systematically integrates environmental considera2010 5,338,382 tions into the product development process using the Total Cost 2009 4,627,082 of Ownership approach, which highlights costs and energy con2008 6,476,549 Direct energy Indirect energy sumption for the entire product life cycle. Efficient and eco-friendly innovations Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Gigajoules Model Market launch Environmental benefit 2008 2009 2010 Commercial Vehicles Fuel oil 529,369 420,002 337,825 TGX Efficient Line IAA 2010 2–3 liters less diesel/100 km Natural gas 2,777,904 1,276,352 1,666,644 EEV Enhanced EnvironIAA 2008 Meets and exceeds Diesel 533,414 348,977 449,227 mentally Friendly Vehicles Euro V standard Gasoline 2,437 2,095 5,697 Lion’s City Hybrid Bus 2010 30% reduction in LPG 7,616 7,502 5,864 fuel consumption Acetylene 6,433 1,233 1,206 Power Engineering Hydrogen 695 38 6 VTA turbocharger 2008 500 ton reduction in Methanol 971 2,253 2,925 technology annual fuel consumption Heavy fuel oil 1,245 0 11,280 Exhaust gas scrubber 2009 90% reduction in Lubricating oil 2,893 38,936 62,520 SOX emissions Diesel Combined Cycle 2010 28,000 ton reduction in annual fuel consumption 40 Our customers too can contribute to efficient resource use, by Pollutant emissions and noise correct operation of our products. We therefore inform them The rise in sulfur dioxide emissions from our production sites about the influence of factors like rolling resistance and drag on over recent years is mainly attributable to the MAN Latin America the fuel consumption and emissions of their vehicle. Our MAN sites now included in the figures. Refrigerants containing chlorine Support ProfiDrive courses provide training to help professional that represent a hazard to the ozone layer and are still used in drivers adopt a fuel-saving driving style. Around 1,500 drivers take some old equipment and a few sites are currently being phased part in these courses every year, after which they are able to cut out. Small amounts of this chlorodifluoromethane (R22) are used their fuel consumption by approximately 5%, and so cut costs. in closed loop systems in the air-conditioning equipment at these sites. In the course of normal operations, no emissions occur. MAN Diesel & Turbo provides training for both customers and By-products within the production process can, however, show employees in correct, fuel-efficient operation of large-bore diesel traces of other ozone-depleting substances. We monitor our engines. Last year, 13 MAN PrimeServ Academies offered 16 difconsumption of solvents (Volatile Organic Compounds, VOC) at ferent courses and training programs worldwide. all sites. These substances are used for surface cleaning and coating. VOC consumption in 2010 increased more slowly than Greenhouse gas emissions production output, rising 24% from 1,050 to 1,304 tons. At this The increase in energy consumption also led to an increase in point our environmental management was effective: solvent conCO2 emissions at our production sites. By the end of 2010 the tent in paints, preservatives, and cleaning agents was reduced. combined heat and power plants at the Nuremberg and Munich sites, which are subject to the European Emissions Trading SysSO2 emissions tem (ETS) had used 17,686 out of their total of 24,004 allocated Tons annual permits under the second phase of the ETS. No permits Year 2010 210 were sold. In late 2010, MAN formed a Climate Expert Team, 2009 133 with a view to developing a Group-wide climate strategy. 2008 34 Direct emissions Tons of CO2 equivalent NOX emissions Year Tons 2010 158,184 Year 2009 132,281 2010 633 2008 235,521 2009 440 2008 1,357 Indirect emissions Tons of CO2 equivalent CO emissions Year Tons 2010 296,600 Year 2009 291,357 2010 92 2008 243,062 2009 80 Indirect emissions from electricity consumption 2008 103 Indirect emissions from district heating Particulate emissions Emissions per €1 million revenue Tons Tons Year Year 2010 91 2010 31 2009 81 2009 35 2008 34 2008 32 Direct emissions Indirect emissions Performance Report 41 Environment Noise pollution is a potential problem for neighboring communiWaste and recycling ties mainly at sites where, for historical reasons, production MAN products have a very long life expectancy. By the same buildings are situated in immediate proximity to residential areas, token, it is a long time before they need to be disposed of or as is the case for example at the Munich, Nuremberg, and Steyr recycled. When that time comes, however, the end-of-life product sites. These problems have been solved by organizational measconstitutes an important source of raw materials, since for the ures and construction work, such as the erection of noise barriers. most part the constituent materials are readily recyclable. In the In Munich, an existing noise barrier was extended by approxiinterests of resource conservation, the MAN Group attaches great mately 15 meters in 2010 following demolition of a warehouse. importance to the use of recycled metals in its foundries. A large We immediately investigate any new complaints about noise, proportion of these recycled metals are externally sourced. At the track down the source and take steps to prevent any further same time, we also return up to 2,400 tons of swarf and scrap a peaks in noise levels. year from our own production lines to the production cycle. Raw materials consumption Waste by type of treatment Economical use of raw materials and consumables is a GroupTons wide objective at MAN. The principal raw materials used in the 2008 2009 2010 Total 185,852* 84,346 104,070 production process are steel, copper, aluminum, and various Total non-hazardous 64,623 29,115 45,457 plastics. Increased production output caused the cost of materiof which: recycled 49,937 24,254 40,403 als to rise last year from €6,336 million to €8,095 million. MAN is of which: disposed of 14,687 4,861 5,054 aware that rising prices and supply shortages in the commodities Total hazardous 30,895 12,300 12,188 market pose a potential risk. To reduce copper consumption, we of which: recycled 26,944 8,047 9,103 are increasingly replacing copper with fiber optic cables in data of which: disposed of 3,951 4,253 3,085 Metal scrap 78,076 42,931 46,425 and electrical wiring in our trucks. We are also increasingly subRecycling 154,957 75,232 95,931 stituting stainless steel for copper intercooler piping in marine Recycling ratio in % 83 89 92 engines. * The deviation in 2008 in total volume of waste of 12,258 tons resulted from different calculation bases. Cost of materials million Year In 2010, the total volume of waste generated at MAN was 2010 8,095 104,070 tons, of which 92% was recycled—a three percentage2009 6,336 Cost of raw materials, consumables and supplies, and of purchased merchandise point increase on the previous year. 69% of waste was generCost of purchased services ated by MAN Truck & Bus. Most of it was non-hazardous waste for recycling. Increased use of packaging material by MAN Truck & Bus in Germany, and construction work in Nuremberg, led to a Cost of materials by business area 56% increase in the total volume of non-hazardous waste. At all % of revenue plants, hazardous waste for disposal and hazardous waste for Year recycling was dealt with in accordance with waste legislation. 60 The relevant waste management certificates were obtained. 2010 44 55 57 Water and wastewater 2009 46 The water used at our production sites mainly comprises process 53 Commercial Vehicles Power Engineering MAN Group water for washing and cooling purposes, and drinking water for sanitary purposes. Due to increased production output in the year under review, total water consumption rose by 41%, to 5,810,202 cubic meters. We extracted 56% more water from wells than in the previous year. By contrast, consumption of drinking water fell by 16%. The volume of wastewater grew 11% 42 Water consumption In 2010, MAN drew up a Group-wide travel policy for its employCubic meters ees regarding travel by air, hire car and train. Journeys should Year only be undertaken when unavoidable, and only after first con2010 5,810,202 sidering alternatives such as videoor telephone conferencing. 2009 4,130,438 Wherever economically feasible, the most environmentally 2008 4,083,747 Drinking water Well water friendly form of transport should always be used. The policy comes into force in 2011. Groundwater and surface water extraction Conservation and biodiversity Cubic meters The production sites owned by MAN cover a total area of around Year eight square kilometers. No operational areas at these sites are 2010 14,374,516 located in protected natural areas, water catchment areas or 2009 9,492,189 areas of high biodiversity. Last year MAN Truck & Bus underwent 2008 8,761,652 Surface water Well water a biodiversity check as devised by the European Business and Biodiversity Campaign (EBBC). In addition to a recommendation that further assessments be carried out, the biodiversity check Wastewater also recommended a catalog of individual measures, which Cubic meters we are now implementing. Year 2010 1,136,208 Environmental protection investment and expenditures 2009 1,019,161 During the year under review, we invested €6.09 million in environ2008 770,031 mental protection, to ensure that production facilities conform to the highest standards of environmental technology and resource throughout the Group. Cooling water is largely kept in close cycles. efficiency and with a view to systematically integrating environSome sites use groundwater for this, which is drained away again mental considerations into the development of our products. after use. At other sites, surface water from nearby streams is used. The Ankara (Turkey), Munich (Germany), Nuremberg (GerEnvironmental investment many), Starachowice (Poland), and Steyr (Austria) plants operate million Year their own treatment plants for contaminated wastewater from 2010 6.09 painting operations. The Group also operates many other types 2009 2.68 of wastewater treatment facility, such as neutralization systems, 2008 3.84 osmosis systems and separators, all of which are monitored. The in-house and external monitoring mechanisms ensure reliable compliance with wastewater standards. Environmental incidents A minor incident occurred at MAN Truck & Bus while a tank was Transport and logistics being filled with diesel fuel. However, at no time was there any In the MAN Truck & Bus division, which has been measuring the risk of long-term environmental consequences. carbon footprint of its products since 2008, logistics is responsible for around 2% of product life cycle CO2 emissions. Road transport by truck accounts for the largest share (85%) of this. To reduce CO2 emissions within our own transport chain, we supply our regional freight forwarders via freight hubs, which consolidate shipments, optimize vehicle capacity utilization and avoid vehicles having to make empty runs. As a commercial vehicle manufacturer, we expect our service providers to use state-of-the-art trucks that conform to the latest emissions standards. Performance Report 43 Environment | Employees Employees Employees are the foundation upon which the success of our Employee satisfaction company is built. In addition to our active commitment to equal In the year under review, MAN SE and MAN Truck & Bus were opportunity and non-discrimination policies, our professional recognized as top employers by the CRF Institute. MAN Latin development program, fair compensation and career opportuniAmerica was named a Great Place to Work. In 2011 we plan to ties help MAN to reach the highest standards of productivity, conduct a Group-wide survey of our employees to measure their creativity and efficiency. job satisfaction; we will then plan follow-up measures. Employee structure The MAN Executive Academy feedback instruments contribute On December 31, 2010, the MAN Group employed 47,669 peoto an open culture of constructive feedback as part of our corple. Our workforce in Germany grew by 2%, while in other counporate and leadership culture. Feedback tools such as 360° tries it decreased by 3%; our total headcount therefore remained reviews ensure a high standard of leadership. Not only does the fairly constant compared with 2009. Women make up 12% of Company profit, but each participating manager does as well. our total workforce. The number of employees with fixed-term contracts increased by 2%. In the year under review, the Group Remuneration spent €2,187 million on salaries and wages and €462 million on Remuneration at MAN is based on a fair reflection of market social security contributions, pensions, and other benefits. rates and performance. Participation in Company profits on the part of employees, managers and the Executive Board is Employee structure (Group-wide, including Renk) founded on the same principles across the Group. Equal treatment of women and men is assured. A system for ranking man2008 2009 2010 agement positions has been in place since 2007. It factors in Total 51,321 47,743 47,669 employee competencies, contribution to value creation and Germany 28,753 26,768 27,354 management and budget responsibilities. Around the world, Other countries 22,568 20,975 20,315 Women 6,024 5,662 5,943 employee remuneration packages are made up of comparable Subcontracted employees 2,197 1,643 1,976 elements, with provisions for country-specific differences (e.g. Part-time employees 801 764 709 in pensions). At our German sites, salaries and wages are govEmployees on fixed-term 3,403 2,002 2,035 erned by collective bargaining agreements. contracts Diversity and equal opportunity Guidelines for management hiring were introduced in November Age of employees, 2010 (Group-wide, including Renk, 2010. Diversity and the placement of qualified women in particuexcluding subcontracted employees) < 30 31–40 41–50 51–60 > 60 lar are to be given special consideration. With the aim of further Total 9,040 13,183 13,351 8,913 1,206 increasing the proportion of women in management positions, we offer mentoring and coaching programs for women, compile a pool of female candidates, and agree with executive search Employee turnover (Group-wide, including Renk, firms on a specific percentage of female candidates when filling excluding subcontracted employees) management positions. Despite these measures, the percentage 2008 2009 2010 of women in management positions remains low, a clear sign New hires 6,737 2,692 3,906 that more must be done to address this issue. There are no Persons leaving 4,980 6,361 4,510 women on the Executive Board of the MAN Group; one woman Employee turnover in % 10.6 14.0 9.9 sits on the MAN SE Supervisory Board. Women in management positions (Group-wide, excluding Renk, excluding subcontracted employees) 2008 2009 2010 Group-wide Number 54 41 63 (levels 1–3) Percentage 5.0 5.0 6.1 44 Balancing work and family Vocational training and continuous professional development In September 2009 we opened a daycare center at the MAN With a view to our future success, for many years we have Truck & Bus Munich site, which can care for up to 86 children. In been training more young people than we need. In 2010 we 2010 the cornerstone was laid for a similar facility for MAN Diesel (excluding Renk) offered permanent jobs to almost 50% & Turbo employees in Augsburg; the on-site daycare center will of our vocational trainees in Germany. That compares to 36% in open in summer 2011 and provide care for 76 children. In Latin the previous year. Our employees are regularly given the opporAmerica, we offer employees six-months’ maternity leave. tunity to attend continuing education and professional development courses. Flexible working hours We have introduced a Group-wide model of flexitime accounts to Vocational training increase the flexibility of our employees. Flexitime allows employ(excluding Renk) ees to work more or fewer hours per day as their current work2008 2009 2010 Total Number of employees 47,218 44,232 43,784 load demands, and to be compensated for overtime with time Number of vocational trainees 2,800 2,730 2,740 off. At MAN, permanent employees may also request to work Percentage of total 5.9 6.2 6.3 from home. The number of telecommuters remains low at presGermany Number of employees 25,840 24,247 24,391 ent; the number of employees on sabbatical has increased. Number of vocational trainees 2,008 1,951 1,962 Percentage of total 7.8 8.1 8.0 Telecommuting and sabbaticals in Germany (excluding Renk) 2008 2009 2010 MAN Latin America has launched a scholarship program to supTelecommuters Number 5 5 5 port outstanding employees in their professional development, Employees on sabbatical Number 0 5 37 MBA and PhD programs. 85 employees took advantage of these scholarships in 2010. MAN Latin America also offers post-graduFlexitime accounts of employees ate management courses for its employees at a continuous edu(excluding Renk) cation center. In 2009, 34 employees participated, rising to 40 in Number of Employees Percentage 2010. Short-time work led to a high continuing education rate of employees with flexitime accounts 58 hours per employee at MAN Truck & Bus in 2009. When 2008 Germany 25,840 25,096 97 employees returned to working regular hours in 2010, the numTotal 47,218 31,781 67 ber of continuing education hours per capita declined, but 2009 Germany 24,247 23,746 98 remained significantly higher than 2008 levels. Total 44,232 29,880 68 2010 Germany 24,391 23,749 97 Total 43,879 31,720 72 Continuing education hours per employee (excluding headquarters and Renk) 2008 2009 2010 MAN Truck & Bus (Germany only) 20 58 38 MAN Diesel & Turbo 12 15 13 MAN Latin America 40 54 Short-time work We took advantage of the short-time work model at different sites as needed. Depending on capacity take-up at the various facilities, we were able to use flexitime accounts and crosscompensation to offset decreased production. In 2010 we were able to ramp up production in many plants and discontinue short-time work. Performance Report 45 Employees Participating employees in MAN Truck & Bus continuing Employee rights education courses during short-time work The MAN Code of Conduct guides our daily behavior and activiSubject matter 2008 2009 2010 ties. We respect human rights, do not tolerate discrimination and Leadership/soft skills 1,487 889 974 are committed to transparency. No cases of discrimination were IT 3,047 1,820 2,577 reported in the year under review. MAN recognizes the rights of Management and organization 1,238 452 3,418 Health/labor law 1,251 740 1,179 workers to form and participate in unions and to conduct collecLanguage training 643 758 904 tive bargaining. Technical/quality 998 8,707 5,783 Total 8,664 13,366 14,835 Employees with collective-bargaining agreements (excluding Renk) Number of Number covered by Peremployees collective-bargaining centage Occupational health and safety agreements Although the MAN Truck & Bus workplace injury rate has 2008 Germany 25,840 25,840 100 decreased steadily over the last five years, there was a fatal Total 47,218 42,640 90 accident in the Ankara (Turkey) facility in 2010, which we deeply 2009 Germany 24,247 24,247 100 Total 44,232 39,315 89 regret. The entire site was subject to a new hazard assessment 2010 Germany 24,391 24,391 100 and the results of the analysis were passed on to all relevant Total 43,879 39,151 89 sites. Across the MAN Group, the number of workplace injuries that resulted in the employee missing work for more than three days increased by 12% compared with the previous year. FollowSocial security ing the economic crisis of 2009, the economy was back in Retirement provision that goes beyond the statutory pension growth in 2010 and as production increased, so did the number systems is usually essential for MAN Group employees to ensure of workplace injuries. MAN does not have a Group-wide health the standard of living to which they are accustomed when they management program at present. The health services of each retire. The MAN Group therefore contributes to its employees’ plant have individual responsibility for health measures. At our retirement provision by granting pension commitments and simiGerman facilities we have launched a campaign to encourage lar benefits that are structured to country-specific and market employees to get in shape. It focuses on preventive health measrequirements. ures, exercise and nutrition. Works agreements on health and safety are in place at various sites, as are workplace safety comOnce their active working life finishes, employees in Germany mittees. receive benefits provided by a modern and attractive occupational pension system that constitute a key element of MAN’s Lost-time injuries (including Renk, excluding headquarters) remuneration policy. These benefits offer a reliable additional income on retirement and also protect them against the risk of 2008 2009 2010 permanent disability or death during their active employment. Lost-time injuries resulting in more 1,201 781 871 Employees receive employer contributions that are tied to than three days of missed work (number) their remuneration and can make additional provision through deferred compensation—which is employer-subsidized for staff subject to collective bargaining agreements. Comprehensive High potentials provisions for disability and old age do not exist in many other We launched our international “Personalities wanted” campaign regions, spotlighting the need for internationally active compato position ourselves as an attractive employer. Our Campus nies to set minimum standards that apply to their employees Initiative gives talented young people the chance to get to know around the globe. MAN has not yet defined such minimum MAN while still attending university. MAN offers students at standards and is aware of the need for action. As a step in this Munich Technical University the opportunity to participate in direction, for employees at sites outside Germany we currently projects, a lecture series and a scholarship program. We have contribute to third-party pension plans, retirement investment installed a potential assessment system to identify employees funds, or defined-benefit pension plans. with leadership potential at an early stage. 46 Corporate Citizenship At MAN, we see ourselves as part of society. Business success MAN employee carried out an on-site evaluation of the project. not only ensures our Company’s future, but also creates benefits His positive assessment led to an extension of the project until for the regions in which we operate. Our goal is to be a good cor2012, with a budget totaling €200,000. Within the framework of porate citizen in all sites and regions around the world. Wherever our partnership with SOS Children’s Villages, last year we also MAN creates value, we want the people of that region to profit donated two trucks for use in areas affected by the earthquake as well. in Haiti. Responsibility for society Regional responsibility MAN is involved in the well-being of the community in many The companies of the MAN Group are closely integrated in ways. Some of our numerous, often long-term activities are centheir regions and make an important contribution to economic trally managed, whereas others are initiated locally. We are still and social development there. As an employer, MAN not only developing an overarching strategy to provide guidance and creates skilled, fairly paid jobs for local employees and managers; define areas of focus. However, today most of our activities are suppliers and service providers also benefit from our presence already closely related to our core business areas. This includes in the region. MAN has been present in China since 1983, for the relief fund that we maintain through MAN Trucker’s World, example, and has numerous license agreements with local our international drivers’ club. Membership fees and donations suppliers. In recent years we have steadily expanded our local are channeled to provide immediate financial assistance to proproduction capacity. The most recent example was the 2008 fessional truck drivers or their direct families following accidents, opening of the new MAN Diesel & Turbo plant in Changzhou, if legally mandated benefits prove inadequate. Since it was where 200 employees manufacture turbo compressors. Today founded in 2006, the Trucker’s World—Drivers helping Drivers MAN employs a workforce of 438 in China. program has paid out almost €80,000 in assistance. In all our sites around the world, we fill the majority of manageTrailer Odontológico is an excellent example of the many comment positions with local people. Accordingly, the number of munity projects run by MAN Latin America. Truck drivers are proGerman expatriate managers across the Group totals just 195. vided with free dental services in a converted truck that travels along the Presidente Dutra Highway between São Paolo and Rio Donations and sponsoring de Janeiro in Brazil. More than 6,000 truckers have taken advanAs a good corporate citizen, MAN donates to charitable institutage of this offer since 2008. In addition, since 2009 we have tions and sponsors community projects. In donating and sponprovided support for a samba school in Latin America that caters soring, all employees must comply with Group-wide guidelines to persons with disabilities. It aims to bring together disabled that define procedures and permissible fields of activity. For and non-disabled dancers to enjoy samba. We also sponsor donations, these include education, the sciences, the arts and a wheelchair-basketball project. MAN Latin America supports community charities; sponsorship may also include business and Federal Capital, a Brazilian team. sports. Activities that could damage our reputation are not acceptable, nor is support for political parties or their affiliated MAN has a long-term global partnership with SOS Children’s organizations. MAN discloses all expenditures for donations and Villages, a non-governmental development assistance organizasponsoring in a yearly report. In 2010 our cash and non-cash tion. As part of this cooperation, in 2008 we began funding the donations totaled approximately €854,000. expansion of the SOS Vocational Training College (VTC), an accredited technical college in Kality, Ethiopia. MAN experts are providing ongoing technical training for the college’s instructors, adding to the long-term benefits of our involvement. After our partnership with VTC ended as planned at the end of 2010, an Performance Report 47 Corporate Citizenship 2010 Cash and non-cash donations by area Political dialog in € When the government and society debate current issues that affect our core business areas, we contribute our expertise, ideas and project proposals on environmental protection, energy, transport and foreign trade. To this end, we maintain an ongoing Other 189,446 276,314 Education dialog with the responsible ministries at federal state, national and EU levels, as well as with elected representatives and opinion leaders from the government and the opposition. We also Science 10,044 367,253 Welfare Culture 11,085 represent our interests through our memberships in various organizations. The MAN guidelines for lobbying are defined in the MAN Code of Conduct and apply Group-wide. This Code explicitly outlines our commitment to nonpartisanship and to making our positions In 2010 MAN spent around €2.2 million on sponsorship. Our transparent to our stakeholders at all times. In 2010 MAN spent focus was on educational partnerships, usually long-term. As around €80,000 on direct lobbying activities. To promote transpart of the MAN Campus Initiative, which was founded in 2008, parency, we advocate a mandatory registry of all lobbyists. MAN over the past two years MAN provided scholarships totaling has been listed in the EU lobby register since February 2009. €165,600 to 140 students at Munich Technical University. An additional €45,000 went into a mentoring program for underOur positions graduate and graduate students at the University. MAN has a At MAN it is our objective to work actively with others to find scholarship foundation that focused on promoting diversity in solutions to sustainability problems. In Germany we are a partner 2010. In Latin America we have sponsored theater visits for disin nationwide field trials, initiated by the Federal Ministry of Transadvantaged children and teenagers since 2008. This project was port, that aim to improve transport efficiency. The long truck projfunded with €500,000 in the year under review. ect was launched in the expectation that the authorization of longer vehicles could significantly cut the CO2 emissions pro2010 Sponsorship by area duced by the freight transport sector and reduce the amount of in € traffic on the roads. The field trial tested trucks that are up to 6.5 meters longer than is currently permitted. This means that two long trucks can transport the same amount of cargo as three conventional trucks—without needing more fuel. In addition, MAN is a political advocate of electromobility, focusing on Education 1,285,000 301,000 Sports heavy commercial vehicles. Heavy hybrid trucks will be essential to urban logistic concepts in the near future, and hybrid buses will soon be playing an important part in the mass transit sector. 587,810 Culture Our involvement here derives from our conviction that transportaOther 9,680 tion must be made as efficient and environmentally compatible as possible. There is no direct correlation to an increase in business for MAN as a truck manufacturer. UN Global Compact 48 Communication on Progress In December 2010 MAN became a signatory to the United achieve. In this context, our activities are always based on the Nations Global Compact. We thereby made an express commitMAN Code of Conduct, our purchasing and procurement policy, ment to the ten principles of the Compact in the areas of human and our integrated management system. Moreover, our activities rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. The following are aligned with the Guiding Principles of the MAN Group, our table represents our first Communication on Progress and proCR strategy and the International Framework Agreement for vides an overview of the measures we have implemented to date basic human and employee rights. and the results (performance) we have achieved or are aiming to Principle Implementation Page Achievements Page Principle 1 International Framework Agreement for basic 20 89% of employees worldwide are 45 Support for human rights human and employee rights negotiated covered by collective bargaining Global Compact Principles embedded in the MAN agreements Principle 2 purchasing and procurement policy 20 Exclusion of human rights abuses Principle 3 Ensuring freedom of association Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced labor Principle 5 Abolition of child labor Principle 6 Measures to comply with the German Corporate 43 Proportion of women in manage43 Elimination of discrimination Governance Code in respect of diversity disment positions increased by 1.1 cussed percentage-points Code of Conduct updated and communicated 33 Principle 7 Establishment and verification of environmental 21 22 sites are certified to ISO 14001 35 Precautionary environmental management systems at the sites 82% of the workforce are protection covered by ISO 9000/9001 35 Principle 8 CR Excellence Team kicks off climate strategy 40 Transport efficiency of commer14 Initiatives to promote greater “Consistently Efficient” program 14 cial vehicles increased and environmental responsibility Research into alternative energy concepts 13 reduction of fuel consumption Principle 9 Presentation of the Concept S study 12 Lion’s City hybrid bus cuts fuel 39 Diffusion of environmentally friendly Market launch of the Lion’s City hybrid bus 15 consumption by up to 30% technologies Green Ship of the Future project 15 Green Ship of the Future 15 designed to cut CO2 emissions by 30% and emissions of oxides of nitrogen and sulfur by 90% Eco-efficient and eco-friendly 39 innovations Principle 10 Compliance Helpdesk established, compliance 34 The Helpdesk received 1,107 34 Measures to combat corruption risk assessment conducted,Business Partner questions and 4,397 employees Approval Tool developed, compliance awareness (9%) were trained worldwide in training started worldwide 166 compliance awareness training sessions GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 49 GRI Content Index This index shows where the relevant information can be found in on supplementary indicators. According to our own estimate, this the CR Report. All standard indicators are included. Non-consecreport complies with GRI-G3 application level B+. Further inforutive numbering is due to the fact that no information is provided mation can be found on the Internet at www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR/. Index according to Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines Page 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO and the supervisory board chairperson 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities p 12, pp 20 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the company 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services p5 2.3 Operational structure and major divisions pp 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number/names of countries with either major operations 4, 7 2.6 Nature of ownership 5 2.7 Markets served pp 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership 6 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Front cover, 17 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 32 3.2 Date of most recent previous report November 2009 3.3 Reporting cycle 32 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover 3.5 Processes for defining report content p 24, 32 3.6 Boundary of report 32 3.7 Statement on specific limitations concerning the report’s scope 32 3.8 Basis for the reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc. 4, 6 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 32 3.10 Explanation of any restatements of information 32 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 32 3.12 GRI index p 49 3.13 External verification of the report 32, pp 48 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure 5, 33 4.2 Independence of the supervisory board chairperson 33 4.3 No. of independent supervisory board members 33 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to highest governance body 16 4.5 Linkage between senior management compensation and sustainability goals 33 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided p 33 4.7 Expertise of highest governance body in terms of sustainability 22 4.8 Corporate mission, values, and Codes of Conduct 7, 20, 33 4.9 Board-level processes for overseeing sustainability performance 22, 33 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body`s performance on sustainability matters 33 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary principle 21, 35 4.12 External initiatives that the organization endorses 20, 33 50 Index according to Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines Page 4.13 Significant memberships in industry and business associations 36 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p 24, 36 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to engage p 24, 36 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement (type/frequency) p 24, 36 4.17 Response to key concerns raised by stakeholders p 24 5. Management approach and performance indicators Economics—Management approach p 6, pp 14, 22, 26, p 37 EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 37, 43, p 46 EC2 Financial implication of climate change pp 13, 38 EC3 Coverage of benefit pension plan obligations 43, 45 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 37 EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers 46 EC7 Local hiring for senior management positions 46 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit pp 29, p 46 Environment—Management approach p 14, p 21, 25, 27, 35, pp 39 EN1 Weight/volume of materials used 41 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 41 EN3 Direct energy consumption: primary sources used by company 39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption: primary sources used through energy purchased 39 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p 41 EN11 Land used in protected areas 42 EN12 Significant impacts of activities on protected areas 42 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 40 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 40, 42 EN19 Ozone-depleting substances by weight 40 EN20 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 40 EN21 Water discharge by quality and destination p 41 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 42 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services pp 12, p 38 EN27 Percentage of recycled products and their packaging materials n/a EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations 34 Labor practices and decent work—Management approach 7, p 20, 25, 27, pp 43 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and region 7, 43 LA2 Breakdown of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 43 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 43, 45 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes n/a LA7 Injuries, absentee rates and work-related fatalities by region 45 LA8 Prevention and risk-control programs regarding serious diseases 21, 45 LA10 Training hours per year per employee by employee category 44 LA13 Composition of senior management and breakdown of employees (gender/culture/age) p 43 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 43 Human rights—Management approach p 20, p 25, 33 HR1 Investment agreements with HR clauses or screening n/a HR2 Suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights p 20, 35 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 45 HR5 Operations with risks to freedom of association/collective bargaining at risk p 20, 33, 35 HR6 Operations with significant risk incidents of child labor p 20, 33, 35 HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor p 20, 33, 35 Society—Management approach 20, 25, p 27, 34, p 46 SO1 Policy to manage impacts on communities pp 28, p 46 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 34 SO3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 20, 34 SO4 Action taken in response to instances of corruption 34 SO5 Positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 47 SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 34 Product responsibility—Management approach 20, p 34, 38 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvements 38 PR3 Principles/measures related to product information/labeling 38 PR6 Programs for adherence of laws and voluntary codes 38 PR8 Complaints connected to customer data protection breaches 20, 34 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use of products and services 34 Independent GRI Content Index 51 Independent Assurance Report Assurance Report The audit performed by PwC relates exclusively to the German print version of the CR Report. The following text is a translation of the original German Independent Assurance Report. To MAN SE, Munich Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engageperformed as to whether any matters have come to our attention ment on selected data of the Corporate Responsibility Report that cause us to believe that the selected data for the financial 2010 (the “CR Report”) for the financial year 2010 of MAN SE, year 2010 of the CR Report have not been prepared, in all mateMunich. rial respects, in accordance with the abovementioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. The Management’s Responsibility selected data comprise the data and chapters for the financial The Managing Board of MAN SE is responsible for the preparayear 2010 marked with . We also have been engaged to make tion of the CR Report in accordance with the criteria stated in the recommendations for the further development of CR manageSustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7–17) of the Global ment and CR reporting based on the results of our assurance Reporting Initiative (GRI): engagement. Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, We conducted our work in accordance with the International Sustainability Context, Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This stanCompleteness, dard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan Balance, and perform the assurance engagement to express our concluClarity, sion with limited assurance. Accuracy, Timeliness, In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering Comparability and procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance Reliability. engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: This responsibility includes the selection and application of “German Commercial Code”)), and therefore less assurance appropriate methods to prepare the CR Report and the use of is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintainjudgement. ing systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the CR Report. 52 Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the Conclusion following procedures: Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come Inquiries of personnel in the central function responsible for to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected data the preparation of the CR Report regarding the process to for the financial year 2010 in the CR Report have not been preprepare the CR Report and the underlying internal control pared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of system; the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7–17) of the Inquiries of personnel in the corporate functions that are GRI. responsible for the topics CR strategy, Corporate Governance, Economy, Ecology and Employees; Emphasis of Matter—Recommendations Inspection and sample testing of the systems and process Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following documentation for collection, analysis and aggregation of recommendations for the further development of CR managesustainability data; ment and CR reporting: Site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collectFurther integration of the CR strategy in MAN Group; ing, analysing and aggregating the selected data: Enhancement of the CR management for the efficient steer• in the corporate headquarter, ing of the CR performance of MAN SE; • at the national sites Extension of standardized CR reporting processes and conMAN Truck & Bus AG, Nuremberg, trols to all reporting areas, especially on division and site MAN Truck & Bus AG, Munich, level. MAN Diesel & Turbo AG, Augsburg, MAN Diesel & Turbo AG, Oberhausen, Munich, March 31, 2011 • at the international sites MAN Truck & Bus Österreich AG, Steyr (Austria), PricewaterhouseCoopers MAN Diesel & Turbo France SAS, Saint Nazaire (France), Aktiengesellschaft MAN Diesel & Turbo Schweiz AG, Zürich (Switzerland). Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports of external service providers; Analytical Review of selected CR data; Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the Michael Werner ppa. Hendrik Fink MAN SE Annual Report 2010; Wirtschaftsprüfer Inspection of documents regarding the description and (German Public Auditor) approval of the CR strategy and CR programme as well as understanding the CR management structure and the stakeholder dialogue of MAN SE. Credits Independent Assurance Report 53 Credits Published by Concept, texts and layout MAN SE akzente Corporate Responsibility kommunikation und beratung gmbh Ungererstraße 69 80805 Munich, Germany Editorial deadline www.man.eu January 31, 2011 E-mail: CorporateResponsibility@man.eu Photo credits Project management and contact Front cover: Conny Stein Yvonne Benkert U2: MAN, Mercy Ships 2004 CR Management pp. 2, 10–11: Lothar Reichel Phone: +49. 89. 36098-226 pp. 5, 6, 12, 16: MAN E-mail: yvonne.benkert@man.eu pp. 8–9, 18–19, 30–31: Conny Stein p. 15: Deutsche Post AG MAN Group editorial team p. 29: kibiku gemeinnützige GmbH/ Inés Gutiérrez Barbara Obermaier, MAN Hubert Altschäffl Portraits: MAN, Mathias Woltmann Florian Feick Ben Kraaijenhagen Printed by Georg Stember Pinsker Druck und Medien GmbH Bungo Schamoni Pinskerstraße 1 84048 Mainburg This is a translation of the German original. Copyright In the event of any discrepancies between © 2011 MAN SE the German language version and any translation thereof, the German language Paper version will prevail. Arctic Volume White MAN SE Ungererstraße 69 80805 Munich, Germany Phone: +49. 89. 36098-0 Fax: +49. 89. 36098-250 www.man.eu
