United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010–2011 Contents Ernst & Young............................................................................. 4 Human rights.............................................................................. 5 Labour........................................................................................ 8 Environment............................................................................. 11 Anti-corruption ........................................................................ 14 The journey ahead.................................................................... 15 This communication on progress (COP) provides brief highlights of actions that Ernst & Young is taking on a global basis to address UNGC principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Throughout the report, examples of actions that address UNGC principles in specific countries will also be provided. For more details on our efforts in countries around the world and additional actions demonstrating how we act on the UNGC principles, please go to our website, www.ey.com 2 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010–2011 At Ernst & Young corporate responsibility is integral to our business. Public accountants such as Ernst & Young serve the public interest by definition. Our Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory Services bring transparency, reliability and independence to the marketplace. Since this obligation to the greater good is built into our business, corporate responsibility is not an afterthought – it is fundamental to all that we do. We understand that every day we have an impact on people, companies and communities, and we manage that impact to have positive results. Joining the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2009 was a natural step for us. The 10 principles it sets out are aligned to our values and our belief that global businesses such as ours play important roles in building a better world. Like all signatories to the UNGC, we strive to improve and are pleased to submit our first Communication on Progress. It underlines the commitment to UNGC principles across our organization, and, read together with our Global Review, our Global Transparency Report, our Global Code of Conduct and our Global Corporate Responsibility Brochure, paints a picture of an organization that is both a great place to work and that cares deeply about improving society as a whole. James S. Turley Chairman and CEO Ernst & Young Communication on Progress 2010—2011 3 Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 141,000 people in over 140 countries are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. Globally, we provide services and resources across four service lines – Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory – in 16 principal industry sectors. These sectors are aligned with our key target markets and represent our strongest opportunity for growth in our chosen markets. Our focus on industry enables us to build deep connections with the companies we serve through a real understanding of their issues, allowing us to build our knowledge in the areas that matter most to them. Our service lines provide the same services using the same methodologies worldwide. Our combined global revenues for the financial year ended 30 June 2010 were US$21.3 billion. At Ernst & Young, we have one strong global leadership team that sets one single global strategy and agenda. We have organized our legal entities into 29 similarly sized business units in terms of both people and revenues. These business units, almost all of which are purposely not single countries, are grouped into four geographic Areas: Americas; AsiaPacific; Europe, Middle East, India and Africa; and Japan. Each business unit’s leadership team works directly with their Area and global leaders to ensure flawless execution. Our Global Executive brings together the leadership of Ernst & Young functions, services and geographies. It is chaired by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and includes: ►► The Chief Operating Officer ►► Our four Area Managing Partners ►► Our global functional leaders – the Global Managing Partners of People, Markets, Quality & Risk Management and Operations & Finance ►► Our global Service Line Vice Chairs – Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory Services ►► Our Global Vice Chair — Public Policy ►► A representative from the emerging markets practices Visit our Global Review 2010 to learn more about our 2010 financial year performance, facts and figures about Ernst & Young, and a discussion of the three themes that differentiate Ernst & Young in the marketplace: globalization, people and entrepreneurship. The 2010 Global Review can be found at http://www.ey.com/GL/en/About-us/Global-review2010---Chairman-s-letter 4 United Nations Global Compact Human rights UNGC principles: Businesses should support and respect the Code of conduct protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We promote a culture of integrity among all Ernst & Young professionals. The Global Code of Conduct Our values define who we are and our Global Code of conduct provides a clear set of the standards and behaviors that provides a clear set of standards for our business conduct. guide the member firms’ actions and business conduct. Together with our commitment to corporate responsibility It is organized into five categories containing principles they guide our support and respect for human rights. that are to be followed by everyone within Ernst & Young to guide behavior across all areas of activity: working with Our values one another, working with clients and others, acting with professional integrity, maintaining our objectivity and Our values are the fundamental beliefs of our organization independence and respecting intellectual capital. and guide the actions and behaviors of each one of us. They influence the way we work and interact with each other, In the section on working with others, the Global Code of as well as the way we serve our clients and engage with all Conduct clearly states that: our wider communities. ►► No client or external relationship is more important than the ethics, integrity and reputation of Ernst & Young ►► We reject unethical or illegal business practices in all Our values – who we are circumstances ►► People who demonstrate integrity, ►► We avoid working with clients and others whose standards are incompatible with our Global Code of Conduct respect and teamwork. ►► We recognize our responsibility as an organization ►► People with energy, enthusiasm in playing an active and positive role in supporting a and the courage to lead. successful and sustainable society ►► People who build relationships based The Global Code of Conduct is overseen by the Global on doing the right thing. Executive or its delegates, who are responsible for evaluating potential breaches, deciding on appropriate sanctions or remediation and monitoring consistent application thereof. Through procedures to monitor compliance with policies and Our people are united by our shared values and an processes and through frequent communications, we strive unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by to create an environment that encourages all personnel to act helping our people, the companies we serve and our wider responsibly, including reporting misconduct without fear of communities achieve their potential. We have a number of retaliation. policies and instruments that enable our values. The Global Code of Conduct can be found at: Every year, we celebrate the way we live our values through http://www.ey.com/GL/EN/home/Global-Code-of-Conduct our Chairman’s Values Award. The only We also have EY/Ethics, a global ethics hotline, to provide Ernst & Young recognition program to bear the Chairman’s Ernst & Young people, clients and others outside of the title, the Chairman’s Values Award is considered one of the organization with a confidential means to report activity that highest honors at the firm. It recognizes and celebrates those may involve unethical or improper behavior that may be in Ernst & Young people around the world who best exemplify violation of professional standards or otherwise inconsistent our values. In 2010, our annual Chairman’s Values Award with the Global Code of Conduct. EY/Ethics is operated by attracted more than 2,600 nominations from across independent external organizations that provide confidential Ernst & Young. and, if so desired, anonymous, hotline reporting services for companies worldwide. Communication on Progress 2010—2011 5 Our global approach to corporate ►► In the UK and Ireland, our volunteers provide coaching responsibility and mentoring support to build the capabilities of community organizations that are focused on the 3Es. At Ernst & Young, we ask ourselves what we can do to make ►► In the Middle East, Ernst & Young is responding to the a difference n ― ot just for the companies we serve and for our own business and profession, but for our communities, for the Pakistan flood disaster through immediate and longergreater good of people everywhere and for the sustainability term relief efforts focused on the 3Es. of our planet. ►► Globally, Ernst & Young developed a toolkit to help NGOs As an organization that embraces corporate responsibility establish the right controls and build their confidence to (CR), we think carefully about how to invest in society meet challenges presented by natural disasters. today to make sure there will be a business context where www.ey.com/disasterresponse both we and society can thrive tomorrow and long into the ►► In the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and future. We focus on three issues that lay the foundation for across the US, Ernst & Young people volunteer their time a better world and reflect the strengths of our people and as mentors, tutors and board members of Big Brothers organization: entrepreneurship, environmental sustainability, Big Sisters (an NGO that helps children reach their and education. We call them the 3Es. Our emphasis on skillspotential through professionally supported, one-to-one based volunteering means we contribute our most valuable relationships with mentors). resource, our professionals, to help communities achieve It’s also important that we encourage the next generation of their potential. leaders to make a difference in their communities. One way Through skills-based volunteerism, our people participate we do this is through the “Your World, Your Vision” campus in activities that range from donating their accounting, competition. Winning teams receive $10,000 to implement finance and business advisory skills to develop high-potential programs that address at least one of the 3Es and make a real entrepreneurs in emerging markets, to coaching, mentoring difference in their communities. and teaching young and underserved students, to promoting One way our UK & Ireland practice enriches local communities environmental sustainability in our communities. is through its work with the Prince’s Trust. Ernst & Young Thanks to these experiences, our people have grown as is committed to raising at least £500,000 for the charity leaders, communicators, project managers and human by 2014, enabling at least 550 young people to secure beings. As volunteers, our people also build new relationships education, employment or training. Here are a few ways we in the larger community that allow us to offer key insights to partner with the Trust: the companies we serve. ►► Mentor young entrepreneurs Engaging the community ►► Coaching young, disadvantaged people into a job or Here are a few examples of how our people make a difference further education in communities around the world: ►► Helping young people develop their business skills ►► In the US and Canada, our volunteers have provided and CVs. more than 17,000 hours of free technical assistance to ►► Mentoring teams of students and fellow colleagues in entrepreneurs in emerging markets. business competitions – with all proceeds going to charity. ►► In Japan, our practice has led the way in delivering Around the globe, Ernst & Young teams with not-forinstruction on environmental sustainability to university profit organizations to drive our corporate responsibility students. efforts. Our relationships with highly respected NGOs give ►► In India our volunteers provide training and pro bono us opportunities to advance leading-edge research and process improvement services to more than 120 participate in collaborative problem solving. While our vocational training institutes with the capacity to train flagship relationships with global NGOs span Ernst & Young over 23,000 students each year. worldwide, we also work with focus organizations chosen by our individual practices. ►► In the Netherlands, our employees coach entrepreneurs who will be setting up businesses in Africa, Asia or Latin America. ►► In Australia, we developed a program to encourage disadvantaged students to continue with math and technology. The program is now offered to community groups by corporations across Australia. 6 United Nations Global Compact Broadening access to education Championing entrepreneurship As one of the world’s great global training organizations, Ernst & Young is well-known in the marketplace as a friend we help our people realize their full potential. And through to entrepreneurs. Our Strategic Growth Markets practice has educational programs and outreach, we are able to help helped many of the world’s most dynamic young companies young people in the communities around us realize their full grow into industry leaders. The Ernst & Young Entrepreneur potential as well. Some examples include: Of The Year® Award, which celebrates successful entrepreneurs in 50 countries, is the most prestigious ►► UK: Through the Education Partnerships Program, award of its kind. Google, IKEA and Starbucks are all former Ernst & Young is building long-term partnerships with Entrepreneur Of The Year winners. state schools in underprivileged areas across the UK. We take a “whole school” approach that supports Working with and supporting entrepreneurs has given us a administrators and teachers as well as students and profound understanding of the value of entrepreneurship. offers the kind of help each particular school needs most. Entrepreneurs create jobs and transform communities as well as industries. And entrepreneurs are extremely resourceful ►► Many of our offices around the world team with Junior in both good times and bad. A recent study by the Kauffman Achievement. In China, for example, we are one of the Foundation highlighted that more than half of the companies presenting sponsors of Junior Achievement’s multi-city on the 2009 Fortune 500 were founded during a recession or Volunteer Day. The university-based program enlists bear market. established business professionals, including volunteers from Ernst & Young, to help young people think We encourage our people to donate their skills to smaller strategically about their careers. ventures that otherwise could not access such sophisticated advice – but that still have the potential to contribute ►► US: Through our collaboration with the popular PBS series significantly to the economy of a household, a village or an Cyberchase, we are improving math literacy in children entire nation. ages 8 to 11 by showing them how much fun math can be. Ernst & Young’s innovative after-school program brings Our Americas Corporate Responsibility Fellows program the Cyberchase experience to life. The Ernst & Young/ lets high-performing Ernst & Young people donate their Cyberchase Travel Edition offers a set of web-based, time and skills to high-impact entrepreneurs in Central downloadable activities that make it easy for any parent and South America for short-term assignments. Corporate or teacher to get kids excited about math. To learn more Responsibility Fellows projects are designed to improve the about our work with Cyberchase, please visit effectiveness of the entrepreneurs’ key business processes http://www.ey.com/us/cyberchase and to use the unique skills of each of our professionals. To learn more about our Corporate Responsibility Fellows ►► India: Teach India is a nationwide campaign that brings Program, please visit http://www.ey.com/US/en/About-us/ together underprivileged children and volunteers Corporate-Responsibility/CR---Entrepreneurs-create-jobsfrom organizations like Ernst & Young willing to teach and-build-communities them. Through our involvement, we’ve helped close to 10,000 disadvantaged students gain access to a quality We collaborate with the Schwab Foundation for Social elementary school education. Entrepreneurship (an affiliate of the World Economic Forum) to present the Social Entrepreneur Of The Year award in ►► Australia: The Partners in Learning Program, sponsored five countries to business leaders who successfully apply by the Australian Business and Community Network, links practical, innovative and market-oriented approaches to business and educational professionals at similar levels benefit the marginalized and the poor. For more information together for informal mentoring. High school principals, about our involvement with social entrepreneurship, please for example, are paired with senior Ernst & Young visit http://www.ey.com/GL/en/About-us/Entrepreneurpartners, who share with them strategies for leadership, Of-The-Year/Entrepreneur-Of-The-Year---Socialsuccession planning and team support. Entrepreneurship---Entry-Criteria Communication on Progress 2010—2011 7 Labour Fostering inclusive growth UNGC Principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to The largely untapped economic potential of women around collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced the world is enormous, and developing it is an economic and and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child social imperative. We believe that economic empowerment, labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of especially of women, is not only good in itself, but also employment and occupation. leads to greater respect for human rights. We actively support women’s economic empowerment in several ways. We demonstrate our commitment to upholding UNGC Through our involvement in the Private Sector Leaders principles on labour through our approach to building the Forum in support of the World Bank Gender Action Plan, leading people culture in the profession. This includes our we are engaged in a multiyear initiative to create economic efforts to attract, include, engage and develop our people. opportunities for women. With our Entrepreneurial Winning Women program, which now operates in the US and Indonesia Driving a leading people culture and will soon launch in Australia and Brazil, we channel our resources and convening power to help women entrepreneurs Globalization and underlying demographic trends mean that achieve the full potential they envision for their companies. the competition to employ outstanding people is evolving The program identifies and celebrates high-potential female rapidly. Successful companies are adapting to this by building entrepreneurs and provides them with personalized one-oninternationally experienced leadership and equipping their one business insights and advice as well as insider access to people with the skills to lead in the diverse 21st-century strategic networks of established entrepreneurs, executives, workforce. advisors and investors. Unlike many programs, which are Our people tell us that our inclusive work culture, our global focused on helping women to start businesses, mindset and our focus on quality make Ernst & Young a great Ernst & Young’s Entrepreneurial Winning Women program place to work and build their careers. Our clients tell us that supports women with existing enterprises to scale up and in recent years we have improved the effectiveness of our become market leaders. We also participate in the US State teams, our relationship building and our provision of highDepartment’s Pathways to Prosperity Program, the La Pietra caliber people. Breakthrough Initiative Coalition and, Beth Brooke, our Global Vice Chair Public Policy, has been a US delegate to the We aspire to have a leading people culture everywhere United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. in the world. Creating a culture that attracts and retains outstanding people and helps them thrive leads to better Ultimately, we see corporate responsibility woven into service for our clients. We are investing in three key elements the fabric of everything we do. Our efforts to promote of our culture that enhance what is important to our clients transparency, entrepreneurship, access to education and and our people: environmental sustainability have made Ernst & Young a market leader – and allow us to make a real difference for our ►► Inclusiveness – Recruiting outstanding people is just the communities. start. Inclusiveness means making sure all our people’s voices are heard and valued. This not only helps attract Across the world, we have a network of corporate and retain the best people, but also helps get better responsibility leaders who manage the execution of CR efforts answers for our clients and our organization. at the local level. We also have a global director of corporate responsibility who leads the overall execution of the global CR ►► Development – Our approach to development involves strategy. offering the learning, experiences and coaching that all of our people need to enrich their careers and To learn more about our efforts in communities across the deliver the best results for clients, as well as offering world, visit: http://www.ey.com/GL/CR additional programs for current and future leaders of our organization. ►► Engagement – We want all our people to feel enthused by their work and their colleagues and to be comfortable in an organization that gives them the flexibility to achieve their professional and personal aspirations. We engage our people in countless ways, from selecting the right people to lead major change, to taking an interest in our people as individuals, to being sure to say thank you for a job well done. 8 United Nations Global Compact Diversity and inclusiveness (D&I) As just one example among many, our Canadian practice provides a good snapshot of our commitment to diversity and We are committed to working in diverse teams and are inclusiveness. For more information, please visit personally accountable to other team members for the http://www.ey.com/CA/en/About-us/Our-people/Our-peoplecontributions we make. We embrace multiculturalism and Inclusiveness diversity as strengths of our global organization. We respect one another and strive for an inclusive environment free from We also publish various studies promoting diversity and discrimination, intimidation and harassment. inclusiveness. A recent example, Driving innovation through diversity, highlights the role of diversity in improving business We believe that diversity fosters talent. performance. For the report, please visit http://www.ey.com/ The quality of service is enhanced when employees of different GL/en/Issues/Driving-growth/The-new-global-mindset-cultures, backgrounds and experiences work together and driving-innovation-through-diversity challenge each other to resolve business issues. A sustainable, inclusive culture will better enable Ernst & Young to deliver Developing potential high-quality service to our clients, create competitive advantage and drive market leadership. Our leadership and our A work culture that focuses on people has to have personal teams reflect diversity throughout the world. development at its heart. Our commitment to developing people helps build an engaging and positive workplace that’s Diversity and inclusiveness have become a part of the way we stimulating and rewarding. This way, we can build the skills operate. An inclusive mindset is a prerequisite for promotion and knowledge we need to develop and retain the talented and leadership. Our global people survey, which involves the people who will drive our future success and deliver a participation of our employees across the globe, indicates differentiated relationship and service for our clients. favourable overall high results in diversity and inclusiveness. Our global learning and development framework is called Ernst & Young has been recognized for its efforts in EYU. It was launched globally several years ago, and we maintaining a diverse culture with a number of awards, continue to integrate it throughout our business. EYU gives including FORTUNE’s “100 Best Companies to Work For” for our people broader experiences and empowers them to take 12 consecutive years, Hispanic Business magazine’s Diversity ownership of their careers. It is designed for all of our people Elite Top 60 for Hispanics, DiversityInc magazine’s Top 50 and can be tailored to both individual and business needs Companies for Diversity, BusinessWeek’s “Best Places to through learning, experience and coaching. Launch a Career” list and Universum USA’s ranking as the No. 1 employer for undergraduate business students. Learning We have a global diversity strategy, a D&I governance A global curriculum has been developed and implemented to structure and D&I metrics to ensure all our actions reflect our deliver consistent learning across our four Areas and service commitment to diversity and inclusiveness. lines. We are investing in improving the system to better balance virtual and classroom learning. Our diversity strategy and development efforts create initiatives and programs that support career development, We have re-engineered our milestone programs to combine workforce planning, communication and leadership networking and career development opportunities from accountability on behalf of our minority professionals. Much joining to retirement. We mark the critical junctures in our focus is placed on education, mentoring and networking, people’s careers with events and special coaching programs which not only exemplifies our support for diverse held around the world for interns, new employees, new professionals but also seeks to engage all of our people to managers and new partners. We are currently making our be catalysts and change agents for creating an inclusive and induction program more consistent around the world. In respectful work environment. Support for these efforts starts financial year 2010 more than 10,000 people attended at the most senior levels of Ernst & Young. “Welcome to EY” and in 2011, about 30,000 new joiners are expected to attend. We also have a long-standing commitment to supporting women professionals. We demonstrate this commitment Our global learning curriculum has two primary objectives: through flexible working, networking and mentoring first, to build general business skills and acumen, and second, programs, and also through involvement with such to constantly refresh and enhance technical skills across our organizations as Catalyst, the leading non-profit membership service lines to drive excellent client relationships and service. organization working globally with businesses and the professions to build inclusive workplaces and expand opportunities for women in business. Our Chairman and CEO, James S. Turley, has served on Catalyst’s board for several years and is the current Chairman of its Board of Directors. Communication on Progress 2010—2011 9 There are currently more than 16,000 courses on our Engaging our people learning and performance management system, EY Leads. Over the 2010 financial year, our people undertook more How people think, act and feel about their work – has long than 6 million hours of learning and completed more than been recognized as a powerful indicator and driver of 700,000 courses. EY Leads not only delivers learning, productivity, commercial success and employee retention. but also is used to validate that people have received the Its importance has been amplified by the downturn and its technical training they require from a regulatory perspective impact on motivation. across our global organization. We want our people to feel enthused by their work, their colleagues and our organization, and to be comfortable in Experience an organization that gives them the flexibility they need to We know that most enriching and career-enhancing achieve their professional and personal aspirations. experiences are gained on the job, and we recognize this We focus our efforts around engagement on three core as a formal part of our career development framework. We elements: conversation, choices and celebration. are committed to helping our people get the experiences they need, and our service lines plan assignments in ways that not only give our clients high-quality service, but also ►► Conversation This is about listening to our people and provide our people with the best experiences for their career engaging in open and authentic dialogue at all levels of development. our organization. Our Global People Survey is one of the ways in which we listen to our people. It helps us to Career mobility is an important part of this commitment. identify those areas where we are getting it right, and We encourage and support cross-border and cross-servicethose areas where we need to try harder – across all line placements through our Global Exchange Program and aspects of our business. The survey is conducted every Area-wide initiatives, such as our EMEIA Area’s New Horizons other year, and tens of thousands of our people worldwide program. Mobility helps people develop an inclusive mindset take part. and thrive in an increasingly global market while matching the needs of the companies we serve. ►► Choices – The need for flexibility in the modern workplace is becoming more pronounced, as a result of business We also encourage our people to use their professional skills cycles, or the multiple demands of work, family and to give back to their communities. Their communities not only community that 21st-century workers face. We have benefit from their insights and talents, but also our people always supported flexible working arrangements, and benefit in their careers and their lives – often enhancing their our long-term aim is to support and develop a flexible leadership, communication or project-management skills. workforce that is responsive to the needs of our clients and the needs of our organization while, at the same time, Coaching motivating our people by offering choices in how, when Coaching is about authentic conversations between people at and where they work. all levels throughout our organization – stretching from daily ►► Celebration – Celebration is about reward and recognition. informal on-the-job coaching to project feedback to periodic Our Chairman’s Values Award program is a very important formal performance reviews. We are improving our global example of how we recognize people who bring their tools and processes to provide robust and focused feedback energy and dedication to work to make a difference to and mentoring. We also have increased our investment their clients and the wider community. in formal coaching. For example, we have launched new partner-transition coaching programs and have communities of coaching champions who facilitate programs and give feedback to leadership on coaching. 10 United Nations Global Compact Environment Around the world, our people culture is UNGC Principles: Businesses should support a precautionary recognized by external organizations with approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage prestigious awards and accolades. the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly These include: technologies. ►► CAREERS & the disABLED magazine: Top 50 Awareness of climate change has moved steadily from Employers, 2010 Readers’ Choice, USA research and academia to government and policy circles and now to the boardroom. Business leaders around the world ►► DiversityInc: Top 50 Companies for Diversity, understand that they face the responsibility of measuring USA, 2010 and reducing their organization’s carbon footprint, energy use and material waste. Driven by increased government ►► Employer Branding Awards: Excellence in restrictions, market-based incentives, or customer demands, Training Award, India, 2009 no business can afford to stay on the sidelines. ►► Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace We believe that climate change is a business imperative. Our Agency (EOWA): EOWA Employer of Choice for Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) practice Women list, Australia, 2010 helps guide our clients through significant challenges related to climate change, whether it’s by transforming business ►► Fortune: 100 Best Companies to Work For, processes, changing purchasing patterns, recognizing 2011 incentives for greater responsibility, or responding to policy risk. Through our involvement in the World Business Council ►► Great Place to Work Institute: Best Workplaces for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the Global in Canada, 2010 Reporting Initiative (GRI), we are actively engaged in the climate change debate. For more information on our CCaSS ►► Great Place to Work Institute Mexico: Best practice, including the range of services we provide to Companies to Work for Women in Mexico, 2009 clients to address environmental challenges, and various ►► HR Alliance Awards: Best University Ernst & Young thought leadership pieces on today’s Recruitment Program in Germany, 2009 environmental challenges and their impact on business, visit http://www.ey.com/GL/en/Services/Specialty-Services/ ►► Progressive Employers of Canada List, 2010 Climate-Change-and-Sustainability-Services ►► Stonewall Top 100 Employers: The Workplace As a leading professional services organization, we have a Equality Index, UK, 2010 responsibility to consider changes in corporate reporting that properly reflect environmental, social and other impacts. ►► Universum Group: Third in World’s Most As part of this effort, we are a member of the International Attractive Employers – Global Top 50 Rankings, Integrated Reporting Committee, which works to create a 2010 globally accepted integrated reporting framework that brings together financial, environmental, social and governance ►► Working Mother: 100 Best Companies, USA, information in a clear, concise, consistent and comparable 2010 format. The committee aims to help with the development of more comprehensive and comprehensible information about organizations, prospective as well as retrospective, to meet the needs of a more sustainable global economy. At Ernst & Young, we believe we have a responsibility to our people, the companies we serve and our communities to reduce our impact on the environment. We are implementing measurable actions across all of our practices to reduce our waste, increase energy efficiency in our offices, reduce the impact of business travel and work in our communities to promote responsible treatment of the environment. Communication on Progress 2010—2011 11 A global commitment to make our Efforts to reduce our carbon footprint start in our offices. As operations greener a professional services organization, nearly all of our carbon output comes from two sources: energy consumption and Our Operations Executive Committee (OEC) — led by our business travel. Accordingly, across all of our practices, we Area CFOs and COOs — has committed to driving five global have taken various activities to promote recycling and reduce environmental initiatives: waste. Here are a few examples of actions we’re taking: 1. Measuring our own carbon footprint by collecting and ►► Investing in high-definition videoconferencing capabilities analyzing data on business travel and energy consumption to reduce business travel in our offices ►► Promoting more aggressive use of alternative 2. Setting operational goals and key performance indicators workspaces, cutting the need for occupied office space, that measurably reduce our environmental footprint and and taking steps to make our remaining workspace more promote sustainable business practices environmentally responsible 3. Putting in place an environmentally responsible travel ►► Implementing more energy-efficient cooling and heating policy systems 4. Establishing guidelines for waste management ►► Switching to double-sided printing as the default setting 5. Making our meetings more environmentally friendly for all printers, and using environmentally friendly materials in publications Efforts around the world to reduce our footprint ►► Providing our people with financial incentives to encourage carpooling, rail travel and bicycle usage Ernst & Young practices across the world have taken various steps to make us more environmentally friendly. Here are a ►► Replacing bottled water at events with water pitchers, few examples: or moving from branded bottled water to locally sourced mineral water in reusable bottles ►► In the US, we’ve set a goal of having at least 20% of our offices located in LEED-certified buildings by the end of ►► Replacing disposable cups with ceramic mugs 2013. ►► Expanding the number of locations where we place ►► Our UK practice sets annual environmental goals on recycling bins, and introducing battery recycling schemes energy consumption, waste reduction, recycling, business We also believe that lasting change comes when we adjust travel greenhouse gas emissions, paper consumption, and daily habits to be more environmentally responsible and people engagement on environmental issues. Each year extend that value into our communities. Examples of how our results against targets are published on their website. people engage in the community to make the world a greener ►► Our German, Spanish, and Swedish practices have place include: developed sustainability reports linked with GRI reporting ►► In the US and UK, thousands of employees participate standards. For information on Ernst & Young Germany, as environment champions, and getting involved in visit http://www.ey.com/DE/de/About-us/Corporatecommunity education efforts about the environment and Responsibility, and for Ernst & Young Spain, visit http:// leading sustainability initiatives in our offices. www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/Memoria_ RSC_08_09/$FILE/Memoria%20Respon%2008-09.pdf ►► In Germany, our professionals partner with a local NGO to build environmental awareness in schools across the ►► Our Belgian practice introduced electric cars to its fleet country. of business cars. ►► Our Indian practice co-led an eco-restoration project, ►► Our practices in Asia, Europe and the Americas host planting 5000 trees, together with a local nonan Environment Week to build internal and external governmental organization. environmental awareness. ►► In the US, we run a program with Earthwatch Institute that ►► Our practices in Central and Southern Europe (19 enables Ernst & Young volunteers to promote and support countries) recently surveyed all offices to assess economically and environmentally sustainable farming environmental performance and are acting on the results practices. to make their operations greener. ►► Several of our practices have supplier codes of conduct. We are leveraging the experience of these countries to develop a global supplier code of conduct. 12 United Nations Global Compact Reducing our footprint: a focus on the Americas Here’s a snapshot of some of our progress in the Americas (US, Canada, Central and South America and Israel) to make Ernst & Young more environmentally friendly: ►► Reduced our carbon footprint by 15%, or 33,200 metric tons of CO2, from FY2008 to 2009 ►► Reduced disposable cup consumption by 54% ►► Paper recycling programs have saved more than 26,000 trees annually. We’ve reduced paper purchases by 19% in two years (saving 70 million sheets of paper) and expanded recycling − today, 85% of our offices collect aluminium cans, 82% collect glass and 80% collect plastic. ►► Reduced the need for occupied office space by 351,000 square feet since 2004 (by promoting more aggressive use of office hoteling Communication on Progress 2010—2011 13 Anti-corruption UNGC Principle: Businesses should work against all forms of Another example of Ernst & Young’s commitment to anticorruption, including extortion and bribery. corruption is our work with Transparency International. Since 2006, Ernst & Young has been a sponsor of some of Our global approach strengthens our ability to establish and Transparency International’s most widely distributed studies, execute on global policies and practices that raise the bar including the Corruption Perceptions Index, the Bribe Payers for service quality. Our range of global tools and processes Index and the Global Corruption Barometer. Our most recent supports our people in evaluating, accepting and serving collaborative project is Transparency International’s 2010 the right clients with the right services. These tools include Corruption Perceptions index (CPI). This index ranks almost GTAC, our Global Tool for client Acceptance and Continuance, 200 countries by their perceived levels of corruption, as and SORT, our Service Offering Reference Tool, which allows determined by expert assessments and opinion surveys. For people to assess quickly which services can be delivered to our more information, visit http://www.transparency.org/ audit and non-audit clients. Lastly, in the United States, the Center for Audit Quality, Across the world, our member firms are complying with the under the chairmanship of our Chairman and CEO, requirement of the EU 8th Directive that statutory auditors of EU public interest entities publish an annual transparency James S. Turley, has over the past two years led a high-profile report. As strong advocates of transparency, we have anti-fraud initiative that has included events and publications extended this by publishing a global report that provides an designed to highlight this important issue. overview of our global governance and quality standards. You can read this report at www.ey.com/transparencyreport. As a responsible employer, we encourage our people to apply their workplace skills to create positive change in communities close to home and around the world. And as a global business leader, we join with organizations like the World Economic Forum and Transparency International to help find ways to address the social and economic challenges of our time. Collaborative relationships to fight corruption Ernst & Young is a signatory to the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). PACI’s mission is to develop multi-industry principles and practices that will result in a competitive level playing field, based on integrity, fairness and ethical conduct. It is a platform for companies to commit themselves to develop, implement and monitor their anti-corruption program through peer network meetings and provision of private sector-driven support tools. Ernst & Young is one of 145 companies that have committed to strengthening efforts to counter corruption and bribery through PACI. These companies have signed a statement supporting the PACI Principles for Countering Bribery. These principles call for a commitment to two fundamental actions: a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery, and the development of a practical and effective implementation program. For more information, please visit http://www.weforum.org/en/initiatives/paci/index.htm 14 United Nations Global Compact The journey ahead… This first communication on progress highlights our longstanding commitment to the UNGC principles. In our next COP, we will aim to focus on specific achievements and progress that build on the themes outlined in this report. For more information on any of the content in this report, please contact Deborah K. Holmes, Ernst & Young Global Director of Corporate Responsibility, at deborah.holmes@ey.com Communication on Progress 2010—2011 15 Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 141,000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients and our wider communities achieve their potential. Ernst & Young refers to the global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit www.ey.com. © 2011 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. DU0011 16 United Nations Global Compact
