www.creditagricole.rs Contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP History of the Crédit Agriocle Group Group organisation and structure The CASA model’s strengths and growth and innovation potential THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO CSR RESPECT in more detail Evergreen: a transforming and federating project CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA (CAS) CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA AND GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights Labour standards Environment Anti-corruption HUMAN RESOURCES Group Values guide HR Management Men and women are at the heart of Crédit Agricole Serbia Group values are carried out by CAS people Customer satisfaction driven actions Developing skills of employees and teams Internal Communications contributing to CSR RELATIONS WITH CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS Corporate View Agro View Retail View SBE View CAS PARTNER IN SOCIETY CAS Children’s partner Most important projects in 2010 featuring Good Fairy Dobrila Donations Employee Initiatives CAS and the ‘French Connection’ 2 www.creditagricole.rs Message from the CEO Main points of the message from the CEO • Banks should act in a socially useful, compliant and ethical manner. • In crisis it is challenging to stay focused and maintain the socially and environmentally responsible approach but it is even more important because we show true commitment to our employees and our clients. • In Crédit Agricole Serbia Sustainable Development and therefore CSR is a choice of development. • We support the UN Global Compact while respecting the 10 principles regarding human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption • We respect our obligations and we try to set an example by strictly complying with all the new regulations or recommendations • CAS is a community bank with the aim of its full integration into the local community as a trustworthy partner • The tradition of the Crédit Agricole Group has always leaned on solidarity and that is why even during the crisis periods we do have CSR budget for projects which support ﬁght against poverty and non-inclusive communities. • We wish to spread the spirit of mutualism not only within the company but in the local community as well. By focusing on children with special needs and socially vulnerable children our aim is to be the binding agent in the community and engage more companies and organisations to ﬁght poverty and non-inclusive attitudes. • CAS is sending a message to the community regarding children that we respect children’s rights in every aspect and we support diversity because that is the only way towards a more human and ethical society. The way we treat children, we treat ourselves. • This report sets out our approach to CSR and the main initiatives we undertook in 2010 in favour of a more sustainable development. François-Edouard Drion President of the Executive Board 3 www.creditagricole.rs ABOUT THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP About the Crédit Agricole Group Eastern Europe 10,960FTE Western Middle East Europe 329 FTE 64,566 FTE Africa 5,741 FTE Americas 2.475 FTE More than 86% of Credit Agricole S.A. Group emplyees are based in Europe. Outside France (46.8% of emplyees), the countries with the most employees are the following: Italy (11.6% of emplyeees); Poland (6.9% of emplyeees); Greece (5.8% of emplyeees). The group is France’s leading retail bank, with a market share of between 25% and 30%. It became a full-service bank only 25 years ago, and since then its organisational structure adjusted to changes in the banking environment. These range from the development of ﬁnancial products and markets to the introduction of prudential rules. Crédit Agricole is a decentralised banking group with cooperative status that reﬂects its mutualist values. Its structure fosters dialogue at all levels from two viewpoints: the quest for proﬁtability, which is a necessary condition for the bank’s development and longevity; and responding to the interests of customers and the regions in which they live. Appointed managers and elected representatives of Crédit Agricole cooperative stockholders (35% of its customers) work together in the bank’s control and supervision entities (boards of directors). The match between the two viewpoints leads to joint decisions that reﬂect consensus-building. Crédit Agricole S.A. (CASA), is part of the Group that acts as a central body that is responsible for banking oversight and a focus for the Group’s identity. Its key functions include the centralisation of the Group’s treasury. Furthermore, and since its listing in 2001, CASA is the heart of the Group’s development, both as a shareholder in the subsidiaries (the ‘plants’) producing the banking products and services that are sold in the branch network and as the entity responsible for implementing Group strategy. One major step in that strategy was the acquisition of the Crédit Lyonnais in 2003 and it has been followed by a series of acquisitions in Europe. As in any other listed company, CASA’s Board of Directors includes outside directors (ﬁve out of 21 directors at end-2010). 5 www.creditagricole.rs About the Crédit Agricole Group Their role is the same as directors elected in any company controlled by a majority shareholder, which is the case for Crédit Agriocle S.A. Regional Banks, i.e. the cooperative stockholders, own 55% of its capital. These directors express complementary points of view that blend with the dialogue between cooperative stockholders/customers and the bank’s management and on which the Crédit Agricole Group’s organisation is based. HISTORY OF THE CRÉDIT AGRIOCLE GROUP The Group emerged from a series of local initiatives by a variety of non-proﬁt organisations, both monarchist and republican/ secular, at the end of the 19th century. The ﬁrst Local Bank was established in Poligny, in the Jura region, in 1885, but the Group really took shape in 1894 when legislation authorised the creation of Local Banks to ‘organise’ the agricultural sector. The Regional Banks received legal recognition in 1899. The second phase in the Group’s development corresponds to the expansion of agricultural lending between 1900 and 1940. The government set up CNCA in 1920-1926 to channel resources to Crédit Agricole and thereby boost the supply of credit. The Group reorganised itself after the Second World War, and the creation of the FNCA in 1948 effectively organised a mutualist voice that made for a more balanced dialogue with the State. The third phase lasted from 1960 to 1990 and saw the extension of the Group’s business to all types of ﬁnancial activities, including insurance from 1985 onwards, as well as its launch into international markets. Crédit Agricole opened an ofﬁce in Chicago in 1979 and has since built up an international network. This shift towards universal banking was matched by the Group’s gradual transformation into an ordinary bank. It became liable to corporation tax in 1984, for example, and its monopoly on agricultural lending ended in 1990. The 1990s in France saw rationalisation that cut the number of Regional Banks from 91 to 46 ( there are now 39) and new equity stakes in other countries ( 15% of Banco Ambrosiano Veneto in 1989, 20% of Banco Espirito Santo in 1991, etc. ). The Group took advantage of the opportunities arising from restructuring in France, most notably the acquisition of almost all of the Suez group’s banking business ( Indosuez in 1996, Soﬁnco in 1997). The ﬂotation of CASA ( formerly CNCA ) at the end of 2001 marked the inauguration of a new Group organisational structure, which now has a listed component controlled by its mutualist arm. The period between 2000 and 2010 saw the acquisition of Crédit Lyonnais in 2003 and further investments in Europe. The Group took control of the Cariparma group in Italy ( in exchange for an exit from Intesa Sanpaolo), bought Emporiki in Greece in 2006, acquired 25% of Bankinter in Spain in 2008 and took over Lukas in Poland in 2004. As part of its response to its development challenges, the Group has sought to progress by business line, whether in asset management (Amundi, with a 25% partnership with Societe Generale), custody ( CACEIS, with BPCE holding 15%), broking ( Newedge in derivatives, with a 50%SG and CLSA/Cheuvreux stake, in discussion with China’s Citic ) or insurance ( the creation of Crédit Agricole Assurances). Lastly, the Group’s investment banking activities renamed CA-CIB – were reorganised after the ﬁnancial crisis. 6 www.creditagricole.rs About the Crédit Agricole Group GROUP ORGANISATION AND STRUCTURE Crédit Agriocle is a cooperative and decentralised banking group organised on three levels: local, regional and national. These levels correspond to the speciﬁc cooperative and banking business where cooperative stockholders and their elected representatives come together with the bank’s management. 6.2 million cooperative Fédération Nationale stockholders du Crédit Agricole 2.544 Local Banks 39 Regional Banks Public taken toghether, control Crédit Agricole S.A. incl. employees via SAS la Boétie and treasury stock 25% 56% 44% Crédit Agricole S.A. RETAIL BANKING SPECIALIST BUSINESS CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING Crédit Agricole Regional Specialized ﬁnancial services: Banks (25% of each CA Consumer FInance, Regional Bank) CA Leasing & Factoring CA CIB LCL Internal retail and Savings managment: commercial banking: CA Assurances, Amundi, Cariparma Group, Emporiki, CACEIS, CA Private Banking Crédit du Maroc, CA Egypt, Lukas Bank 7 www.creditagricole.rs About the Crédit Agricole Group THE CASA MODEL’S STRENGTHS AND GROWTH AND INNOVATION POTENTIAL Crédit Agriocle’s business model reﬂects its position as a bank, but like all cooperative banks, it has a singular view of the market economy. The cooperative model makes it easy to recognise customers’ needs: cooperative stockholders are involved customers. As cooperative stockholders they form a vital part of the Group’s customer base and they have a critical role in dialogue with the bank’s management at all levels on products, services and personnel. Generally speaking, the ﬁnancial crisis increased the already signiﬁcant distance between banks and their customers, with opinion polls emphasising a sharp deterioration in the image of the banking system as a whole as well as in respondents’ speciﬁc banks. Now that the authorities are trying to increase competition and transparency in banking relationships, cooperative status is an advantage. Mutualist values are territorial and inter-generational. As such they are a good ﬁt with the ethos of sustainable and responsible investment. Close ties with local regions are particularly important in making medium and long-term investment decisions. For Crédit Agricole this means working as a community bank while ﬁnding the balance between support and responsibility. This involvement makes paying attention to customers in difﬁculty a natural reﬂex. The long-term relationship created with cooperative stockholders and customers oblige the Group to plan for the long term and should allow it to remain in control of its development agenda. This has been somewhat overlooked in recent years, when the focus has been swift growth. 8 www.creditagricole.rs THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO CSR The Group’s approach to CSR Promoting a policy of corporate social responsibility is a permanent and fundamental goal of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Due to this fact, many initiatives were undertaken in 2010 as part of commitments made by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group when it signed the Human Rights Charter. The Group chose to encapsulate its actions in 2010 in the acronym RESPECT, which summarises the criteria deﬁned upon signature of the Charter: Recognition Equality Safety Participation Equity Consistency Territory The HR department of the Group is committed to creating the conditions to ensure that this RESPECT is expressed across the Group’s business lines and branches. To best fulﬁl its missions the Group’s HR department is organised in broad areas of activity: HR development, career and talent management, company policies, compensation and company beneﬁts, media, systems and oversight. RESPECT IN MORE DETAIL Recognition The Group aims to promote responsible management behaviour that respects individuals and is creating initiatives to enhance the skills of each person, with individualised employee management. To promote responsible management is a major day-to day challenge. The manager is a key player in the professional growth of employees. One objective of the Group is to improve the professionalism of managers and to enhance their role in the area of HR management. Equality Equality is a central concern of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group in 2010 a series of measures demonstrated the Group’s determination to see through actions that reﬂect its commitment in this area. In 2010, young people represented almost 40% of the Group’s recruitments on permanent contracts in France (more than 900 young people aged less than twenty-six). In addition, the Group received more than 2,000 interns and trainees on workstudy programs on average in 2010. It also took on more than 700 interns and 1000 international corporate volunteers (ICV) internationally. To this end, the Group’s recruitment services took a range of initiatives to encourage the widest variety of applications. 10 www.creditagricole.rs The Group’s approach to CSR EMPLOYEES IN FRANCE BY GENDER AND STATUS EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONALLY BY GENDER AND STATUS 30.1% 13.2% 23.9% 32.9% 16.8% 33.0% 9.2% 41.0% 2010 2010 28.8% 13.9% 22.6% 34.7% 15.2% 33.6% 8.2% 43.0% 2009 2009 Men executive Men non-executive Men executive Men non-executive Women executive Women non-executive Women executive Women non-executive AGE STRUCTURE 60 years old and over 55-59 years old 50-54 years old 45-49 years old 40-44 years old 35-39 years old 30-34 years old 25-29 years old <25 years old 8.000 6.000 4.000 2.000 0 2.000 4.000 6.000 Women/France Women/International Men/International Men/France The overall average age of Group employees is 41. The average age in France is 42 and in other countries 37. The proportion of employees under 30 years of age (19.2%) decreased by 1.6 percentage points between 2009 and 2010, while the proportion of those over 50 (23.3%) is stable. Safety The drop in the number of days of absence (-3.8%) was due both to a reduction in illness-related absence (-3%) and other causes of absence (-46%). Besides purely regulatory aspects, the Group has chosen to take speciﬁc measures with regard to the health and safety of employees in the workplace: identifying psychosocial risks, psychological support platforms, gesture and posture awareness and prevention trainings and workplace safety. Participation The Group encourages an active and constructive dialogue with its employees and their representatives. This participation can take various forms: measures allowing employees to express themselves directly, surveys, social barometers and development of a quality social dialogue. 11 www.creditagricole.rs The Group’s approach to CSR Equity Taking into account the speciﬁc characteristics of its business lines, legal entities and local legislation, the Group seeks to develop a compensation system that motivates employees and provides them with competitive compensation, when compared to market benchmarks. This compensation policy is aimed at rewarding performance, whether it be by an individual or group, in keeping with the values of fairness, humanity and merit on which the Group’s success has been built. Consistency Crédit Agricole S. A.’s ambition is to be recognised as a benchmark employer. This implies that the image conveyed by the men and women who make up the Group is consistent with this ambition and the Group’s values. In this regard, Crédit Agricole S. A Group encourages the involvement of its employees in external professional projects or extra-professional projects consistent with its values. Territory Historically, the Crédit Agricole S. A Group, true to its values of solidarity and proximity, has paid particular attention to initiatives that improve education and public health conditions, as well as access to culture in the territory where Group entities are based, both in France and internationally. Several such intitiatives have been implemented within the entities of the Crédit Agricole S. A. Group in the ﬁeld of education, art, culture and eco-citizen initiative. EVERGREEN: A TRANSFORMING AND FEDERATING PROJECT A ﬂagship project of the year 2010 – Evergreen – illustrates the spirit of RESPECT and its method. The purpose of the Evergreen project is to renew the practices of the Group: more exchanges, proximity, transversal approaches, transparency and collective creativity. A new technological environment and a new concept of work require changes: the world changes, and so do the ways of working together. At the gates of Paris, two steps from the Montrouge city centre, there is the Evergreen site where on its eight-hectare campus that includes 50% of green areas. The plan between 2010 and 2014 is to host more than 9.400 employees from the following entities: Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole Immobilier, Crédit Agricole Capital Investissement et Finance, Crédit Agricole Private Equity, CAL&F, Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole Cheuvreux. The objective of the Evergreen project is to consolidate team solidarity and cooperation. Team spirit and productivity will be enhanced by the new proximity of work spaces. In this unique architectural and environmental setting, Evergreen will leverage efﬁciency and modern approach. At the end of 2010 Crédit Agicole S.A. and Crédit Agricole Immobilier had already moved their operations to the new site. 12 www.creditagricole.rs CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA Crédit Agricole Serbia Crédit Agricole Serbia and Global Compact Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is deﬁned as Crédit Agricole Serbia’s (CAS) responsibility for the impact of its decisions and activities on society and the environment, through transparent and ethical behaviour that: • is consistent with sustainable development and the welfare of society, • takes into account stakeholders’ expectations • complies with current legislation and is consistent with international standards and practice, • is integrated into all of Crédit Agricole Serbia’s operations. As a member of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and at the same time as a subsidiary and therefore independent entity, Crédit Agricole Serbia truly supports all international conventions concerning the ten principles. By committing to Global Compact we transparently acknowledge, support and promote the United Nations values and policies of human rights protection. CAS goes a step further in promoting and supporting Children’s rights as part of the sustainable development policy of Crédit Agricole Bank in Serbia. Being part of a much stronger Group, CAS has adopted documents created at the Group level and based on them created some of their own. PRINCIPLES GOVERNING CSR EFFORTS WITHIN THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA Crédit Agricole Serbia supports the United Nations Global Compact. The principles set out in the Global Compact should be regarded as the basic principles on which the policies within the Bank are based, namely: 14 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Serbia Human rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. WITHIN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA, THIS MEANS: • actively considering human rights aspects in all business activities and avoiding engaging in activities that, in any way, disregard human rights; this is especially visible in CAS Surveys – Customer Satisfaction ones and Employee Engagement Survey • Human rights and especially children’s rights are especially supported and promoted via CSR projects: Magic Breakfast, Christmas Shoebox, Sweets Box and Christmas and Easter Bazaar. • Crédit Agricole employees, who play a decisive role in customer contacts, being required to meet stringent demands in terms of ethics and business morals Crédit Agricole also implements its own ethical rules that extend beyond applicable legislation and regulations. These are described in the Code of Conduct and various Rulebooks and Procedures regarding speciﬁc events • equality and diversity being of strategic importance IN THIS FIELD CAS PLANS TO DO THE FOLLOWING: • connect with other organisations to contribute to ﬁnding solution regarding socially vulnerable minority groups • reach out to the business sector and network in order to promote the idea of inclusive society for the children with special needs • compose a document clearly stating its views on equality and diversity • continue to educate employees about these issues using CA Info, internal magazine and also by continuously organising either charity or volunteering events for employees • continue investing in partnerships with NGO’s and strengthen connections with local communities in order to promote inclusive society and children’s rights. 15 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Serbia Labour standards • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, • the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, • the effective abolition of child labour, and • the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. WITHIN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA THIS MEANS: • establishing and maintaining working conditions within Crédit Agricole Serbia that are in compliance with the above mentioned principles of the Global Compact and with current legislation and regulations • complying with the existing policies within the Bank that cover this area and working on their improvement • actively considering labour standards, when engaging in business, and avoiding engagement in any business that disregard labour standards set out in the Global Compact • providing more than legislative obligation described in the Labour Law in the ﬁeld of number of vacation days which increase as certain number of years in service are fulﬁlled, providing meal allowances, transportation allowances, paid leaves regarding various situations described in the rule book and special ﬁnancial aids in socially or medically vulnerable situations when they occur to our employees • providing very detailed procedures regarding safety at work, emergency situations management and crisis health management together with appropriate trainings for dedicated staff members • procedures regarding the employees’ right to be informed and protected which include security trainings in the ﬁeld of data protection, and the information sharing through the intranet where all relevant electronic documents are stored. Also, employees are informed about the current news and events via bilingual (Serbian and English) e-mails to all employees and CA Info, which is the internal magazine containing relevant information for the current month. IN THIS FIELD CAS PLANS TO DO THE FOLLOWING: • continue providing relevant information to all employees • continue with the ﬁnancial aids to employees in socially or medically vulnerable situations • continue the existing trainings in the ﬁeld of the employees’ safety and protection • continue with the trainings which are aimed at employee’s skills improvement as well as knowledge sharing between sectors and departments. 16 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Serbia Environment • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. WITHIN THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA THIS MEANS: • actively promoting greater environmental responsibility in relation to Crédit Agricole Serbia’s business and conducting business in a manner that considers opportunities and risks from an environmental perspective, e.g. credits and investments this includes climate change and related risks, especially in the Agro business line • being aware of global environmental issues and Crédit Agricole Serbia’s opportunities to have both a direct and indirect impact. These initiatives resulted in the shrinking of the car pool, scheduling meetings via video-conferences or telephone conferences, encouraging travelling together to meetings using one car, encouraging using public transport, saving electricity and paper at the Bank level by encouraging rational spending and avoiding unnecessary printing of documents • taking environmental impact into account in the development and provision of products and services IN THIS FIELD CAS PLANS TO DO THE FOLLOWING: • establish a recycling project in two main ofﬁces in Novi Sad and Belgrade • continue using recycled IT equipment, toner cartridges • establish a new, motivating process of water and electricity reduction within the Bank • continue applying the procedures aimed at efﬁcient use of resources and reduction of CO2 emission 17 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Serbia Anti-corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. WITHIN THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA THIS MEANS: • working actively against corruption and bribery in accordance with the Group’s Ethics Policy, • working actively against money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing in accordance with the Group’s Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Policy • respecting and strictly monitoring the implementation of the Code of Conduct where detailed and unambiguous rules are set out regarding giving and receiving gifts, conﬂicts of interests, insiders with privileged information access etc. • respecting the rules regarding choosing suppliers by going through the process of a very detailed Tender Policy • respecting the rules of transparent and detailed budget records with all the supporting documentation verifying the origin of the goods and services • respecting and implementing the procedure for AML and FT and based on the Law of Serbia and FIDES II Rules of the CA Group, the actions and preventive measures against money laundering and terrorism ﬁnancing are at the highest standards In addition to these principles, the Group may ratify further and more detailed international agreements. IN THIS FIELD CAS PLANS TO DO THE FOLLOWING: • continue to receive recommendations and trainings from the Compliance Department • implement the new FIDES II rules of the CA Group regarding anti-corruption • continue to train and test the KYC ( Know Your Client) procedure, Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud regulations. 18 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Serbia TOWARDS A LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY Crédit Agricole Serbia promotes a performance oriented culture, transparent communications, a willingness to change and a high level of commitment from all employees. These are the core values embodied in Crédit Agricole Serbia’s implicit promise to society to minimize harm, maximize beneﬁt, build accountability and responsiveness, and to foster and stimulate ﬁnancial growth. Being an international player, Crédit Agricole Serbia recognizes that its actions have an impact on all stakeholders – customers, employees, suppliers, partners, non-governmental organizations, society, governments and regulators, investors and others, as well as on the global environment. With its history in local banking, Crédit Agricole Serbia has participated in efforts to develop communities for the beneﬁt of residents. This could also be described as actively promoting the ﬁnancial infrastructure necessary for growth. Crédit Agricole Serbia considers CSR a multi-faceted concept comprising different context-speciﬁc aspects of what is expected of a responsible global corporate citizen. Within Crédit Agricole Serbia, the concept of CSR is considered to embody several important issues, each of which is regulated separately. The overall ambition of being a positive force in society is achieved through the day-to-day actions of all employees in accordance with the core values of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. CSR issues are and shall be further integrated into the ongoing operations of the Crédit Agricole Serbia. The Board of Directors determines the overall principles of corporate governance within Crédit Agricole Serbia on an annual basis. 19 www.creditagricole.rs HUMAN RESOURCES Human Resources Group Values guide HR Management Within the Group, each entity is committed to the Group’s Identity and Values and to providing tangible proof speciﬁc to each entity GROUP VALUES • Men and women are at the heart of our project. • The Group relies on each employee’s sense of responsibility. • Our actions are driven by customer satisfaction and the search for long-term performance. • That is why the Group has made these commitments: › To focus on our geographies and the businesses they need; › To serve each customer helpfully and fairly, which means: ∙ listening ∙ acknowledging ∙ providing ethical advice › To ensure, through determined and innovative responses, that our customers and geographies can cope with the challenges of a changing economy and society, in France and abroad. For Crédit Agricole Serbia, the Group’s core values serve as binding agents for the employees that make up the Crédit Agricole Serbia ( CAS ) community, giving them a strong sense of shared identity In line with the Group values, but respecting diversity of each Crédit Agricole entity, CAS has created an Ambition 2013 called ‘Ambicija 2013’. Speciﬁc Mission Statement was devised and Strategic Priorities deﬁned until 2013. Men and women are at the heart of Crédit Agricole Serbia Number of employees in CAS has been optimised within three years. After a careful analyses of the number and location of branch ofﬁces and also after the job analyses per position it was concluded that optimisation was very successful and allowed for more productive and client-focused approach. Branch Network optimization started in 2008 and ﬁnished in December 2010. In 2009 the average work experience in the Bank was 9 years. The average for the women was 9.45 while it was 8.24 years for the men. In 2010 the average work experience was increased and it was 10. 41 years for women, and 9. 47 years for men. At the same time average work experience within the Bank was 10 years. 21 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 WORK EXPERIENCE (IN YEARS) Female Male Total Female Male Total <1 5 10 15 13 6 19 1-5 261 155 416 190 118 308 6-10 166 117 283 209 136 345 11-15 74 35 109 66 42 108 16-20 47 21 68 52 16 68 21-25 41 16 57 39 20 59 26-30 28 13 41 28 13 41 30+ 9 4 13 12 3 15 TOTAL 631 371 1002 609 354 963 AVERAGE 9.45 8.24 9 10.41 9.47 10 This result shows that the majority of employees entered the bank with little experience, and most employees are between 1 and 10 years of work experience (653 employees). 350 345 308 300 Employees per years of service at the Bank 31.12.2010 250 200 150 108 100 68 59 50 41 19 15 0 <1 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 30+ 22 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Years of Service According to Gender 31.12.2010 30+ 12 3 26-30 28 13 Female 21-25 39 20 Male 16-20 52 16 11-15 66 42 6-10 209 136 1-5 190 118 <1 13 6 -250 -200 -150 -100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 GENDER AND AGE STRUCTURE IN 2010 The majority of bank employees are women, and they represent almost two-thirds of all bank employees. Synthesis by Gender 37% Female Male 63% In 2009 the average age of employees was 34 and it was the same for both genders. The average age at the bank level was also 34. In 2010 the average age of employees was 35, and as in 2009 the average age was also the same for women and men. 23 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources AGE MAKEUP OF PERSONNEL 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 AGE IN YEARS Female Male Total Female Male Total Age < 29 195 76 271 150 54 204 30 < A < 39 287 225 512 309 230 539 40 < A < 49 100 53 153 96 51 147 50 < A < 59 48 15 63 53 18 71 60 < A 1 2 3 1 1 2 Total 631 371 1002 609 354 963 Average 34 34 34 35 35 35 Most employees in the Bank are between 30 and 39 while there are in total 459 women under the age of 39. This is the reason for the large number of maternity leaves. Women who are on maternity leaves are replaced by employees who concluded temporary labour-contracts in the duration until the new mothers return from maternity leaves. Age Makeup of Personnel According to Gender (31.12.2010) 60 < A 11 Male 50 < A < 59 53 18 Female 40 < A < 49 96 51 30 < A < 39 309 230 Age < 29 150 54 350 250 150 50 0 50 150 250 350 ALLOCATION TO BRANCH NETWORK VS. SUPPORTIVE AND MANAGERIAL FUNCTIONS 66% of all employees are allocated in front ofﬁces. Allocation to Jobs 34% Front Ofﬁce Back Ofﬁce 66% 24 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources EDUCATIONAL STRUCTURE BREAKDOWN The level of education of our employees is high, with 50% of population with university degrees while 2% are holders of postgraduate degrees. 18% are holders of college degrees (one level under university degree), and 29% of employees are holders of high-school degrees. Educational Level 1% 2% 29% Up to Secondary School High School Graduates College Graduates University Degree Graduates 50% Doctorate-Masters 18% If we break down this analysis per gender, most of our employees are holders of university degrees, with female majority (283 women and 196 men with university degrees). Level of Education According to Gender (31.12.2010) Doctorate-Masters 13 8 Male University Degree Graduates 283 196 Female College Graduates 124 45 High School Graduates 187 94 Up to Secondary School 2 11 300 200 100 0 100 200 300 COMPENSATION POLICY Total compensation for employees consists of ﬁxed and variable salary parts. Fixed salary represents agreed salary, and it is deﬁned through the employee’s contract. Variable salary depends on the results and individual performance of employees. Variable salary for management population might include the annual bonus and it is determined by position, job complexity and individual performance of each manager in this category. 25 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Special variable salary part has been designed for employees in branch network, and it was presented through Retail Commercial League (RCL). RCL for branch network was introduced for the ﬁrst time in 2010, and all employees in branch ofﬁces that reached their targeted goals, were eligible for this type of reward. Sales incentives were paid quarterly. In 2011 the plan is to further develop the existing scheme and introduce a new sales incentives program for different business lines. Group values are carried out by CAS people MISSION STATEMENT AMBICIJA 2013 • We are a community Bank, powered by the support of CA Group, with a comprehensive range of products to the beneﬁt of all sectors / parts of the Serbian economy in good governance. • We provide proximity, expertise, and quality of services to our customers. • We commit to develop strong, conﬁdent and sustainable relationships with our customers. STRATEGIC PRIORITIES IN ‘AMBICIJA 2013’ • To improve Client satisfaction and grow our portfolio with more afﬂuent clients • Better manage and mitigate risks • Optimize efﬁciency of delivery from support functions in favour of clients • To enhance drivers for employee engagement Customer satisfaction driven actions Strategic priorities in HR are aligned with the strategic projects that represent a framework for enhanced development of employees. Strategic priority: To enhance drivers for employee engagement consists of three separate projects: • Employee Engagement Survey • Development of Competencies • Talent Management EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY The Employee Engagement Survey we did for the ﬁrst time in April 2010 and due to this fact it was not a pure HR survey but a combination of diagnostic tools in several segments: • brand awareness • client satisfaction • strategic plan awareness • employee satisfaction 26 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETENCIES The second strategic project within the umbrella of HR priority ‘To enhance drivers for employee engagement’ is Development of Competencies. The project team in charge of developing the Competency Framework included managers from different business lines as well as HR. The team was led by the following goals: • How to reﬁne the current approach to competencies • How to ensure that the Framework meets the organisational needs • How to design a user-friendly guide which will help managers to develop and enhance their competencies, knowledge and skills • How to build a framework that actually works • How to avoid confusion • How to make it become an essential tool in people management The team goals were in line with the new organizational requirements: • strong corporate culture & standards • organizational effectiveness • employee effectiveness and efﬁciency • improved appraisal and reward system • more effective training needs analysis • more effective talent & career management • more effective recruitment system The key objective was a permanent development of competencies and to: • create competent managers as models of effective performance • create conditions for advancement and promotion • support achievement of long term goals (feeds into Strategy 2013) • establish clear links to what business is aiming to achieve • create competencies which support business transformation from transactional to customer-focused bank As a result of the project team efforts, a completely new Competency Framework was designed, including the revised competency dictionary with clear division to ten behavioural and seven functional competencies, precise explanations and deﬁnitions of 4-5 different levels within each competency. With these two documents, each manager has a clear and transparent guiding system when it comes to assessing competency levels for key positions in the Bank. Such a document became a tool which set clear standards for levels of performance for any required competency. It is primarily used within the annual evaluation as well as recruitment process. It is a user-friendly tool which helps line managers and employees to equally recognise the positive and negative signs of behaviour at work leading to different performance outcomes. 27 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources CAREER MANAGEMENT The results of the Employee Engagement Survey showed that only 44.3% of employees had a clear idea of their career path in Crédit Agricole which additionally justiﬁed the existence of another important strategic project Career/Talent Management. Career development methodology included: 1. Criteria for assessing high potentials and internal job market 2. Selected key positions and relevant succession planning 3. Processes and tools for the assessment 4. Individual development plans A pool of carefully selected managers (around 30 per annum) gets attentively designed individual development plans which incorporate training programmes, seminars, conferencies and in some cases international assignments within Crédit Agricole. Developing skills of employees and teams TRAINING AND BUSINESS EFFECTIVENESS Every organisation is facing several common challenges today: rapid pace of transformation in businesses, work organisations and labour markets. The picture of the organisation of three years ago is sometimes drastically different from the picture of the same organisation today. In order to stay engaged and follow the current trends in relevant segments, our organisation pays special attention to training and skills development within the Bank. Training is designed to provide employees with opportunities for learning and sharing knowledge within as well as outside their teams, so that they can achieve their career goals and prepare for future changes. It also provides a means to become better acquainted with the Group’s corporate culture, its environment and regulations governing banking activities. MANAGERIAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES 1. Management seminar (annual) 2. Teambuilding Programmes 3. Quarterly Meetings 4. Individual Management Trainings All these managerial training programmes are planned and budgeted each year for the key managers. Depending on the organisational structure and the relevance of the topics discussed there are approximately between 50 and 70 key managers engaged in some of these regular managerial training programmes. 28 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Each managerial gathering whether it is a general or regional one, ends with a teambuilding exercise which fosters the values and the mission of Crédit Agricole Serbia. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES There are two international training programmes organised within the Group: • International Perspective • Fides Academy International Perspective programme is part of Group’s international high-potential employee programme which forms a talent pool for management positions in the Group’s oversees entities. Fides Academy programme is designed to familiarise all Crédit Agricole managers from Compliance Division about the Group’s approach in all spheres of work as well as updating them about the latest changes in any of the ﬁelds. In addition, managers from different business lines have regular visits to Crédit Agricole, France to exchange best practice and share knowledge. LOCAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES The local training programmes are very important as means of an ongoing development within each business line. We pay special attention to developing a pool of internal trainers who can signiﬁcantly contribute to improvement of immediate and speciﬁc training needs. The ratio of internal vs external trainings has, therefore, reached 68% vs 32% in 2010. Type of Trainings 32% Internal Trainings External Trainings 68% The training approach combines practical interactive approach with testing approach afterwards to ensure the level of clarity in the delivery phase of each training. 29 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources TRAINING CENTRE IN STARA PAZOVA We developed our own Training Centre in Stara Pazova which can accommodate 50 participants at a time. INDUCTION AND ORIENTATION FOR EMPLOYEES Crédit Agricole Serbia designed full Induction programme per each business line to make sure that we provide effective integration of staff into or across the Bank for the beneﬁt of both parties. Our Induction programme is a combination of oneto-one discussions and formal group presentations, whereby employees adjust and acclimatise to their new jobs and working environment. The basic elements of our Induction Programme are orientation and socialisation, a clear outline of the job/role requirements, explanation of terms & conditions, legal requirements, the Bank’s history, its products & services and culture & values. These induction trainings are conducted either in the Training Centre in Stara Pazova or in the regional centres, depending on the position requirements and the location. Design of different business line’s induction programmes is position-oriented and focused on the immediate needs for a particular position. Therefore each division is involved in the design of the speciﬁc programmes as well as presentations. The team of inductors usually involve an HR manager, induction mentor, senior HR manager and training manager. ANNUAL PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (APA) AND ENHANCED PERFORMANCE LEVELS Annual Performance Appraisal ( APA) serves as a real-time feedback and measurement as well as diagnostic tool when it comes to measuring employee performance. The annual appraisal process assesses achievement by objectives (quantitative & qualitative), behavioural and functional competencies, professional skills and management skills. It also incorporates objective settings for the coming year as well as identiﬁcation of the individual training needs for each employee. The four assessed categories enable us not only to be concerned with the achievement of business objectives, but how these were achieved. Objectives for the coming year focus on ﬁnancial and managerial skills and are organised in the following way: • Budget fulﬁlment • Transversal objectives • Management efﬁciency (turnover of staff, increase of productivity, proper training, identiﬁcation, management of poor performance, team development / quality of teams) 30 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources TAILOR MADE RECRUITMENT FOR EACH BUSINESS LINE HR has been re-structured in 2009 and the real effects of the new structure took place in 2010. Before 2009 there was not a ﬂuid and ﬂexible structure for internal recruitment nor a proper data-base of internal transfers or promotions. The existing structure was somewhat outdated and needed improvement. Promoting from within was not really an established practice, but rather a random case. Also, the use of external recruitment agencies was liberal. All the work done in 2009 really started to show very good results in 2010. It was a year of transparency in this respect. OPEN COMPETITION OF THE NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT AGENCY ‘FIRST CHANCE’ 2010 The programme of the National Employment Agency called First Chance is designed to give practical and educational knowledge and an opportunity to work in well established companies to trainees, who have graduated from various universities in Serbia. The process is regulated through an open competition on a country level and the companies that are interested apply and request a certain number of volunteers who then have a three month probation period in the form of internship to prove the best ﬁt for applied positions. The best ones are chosen to work for one year on a temporary contract basis but with a possibility for permanent labour contract in case of satisfactory results. The National Employment Agency in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development cover the base salary of the chosen volunteers / apprentices for the duration of internship period which is 3 months/ 12 months. Crédit Agricole Serbia has applied for 12 volunteers and they are all apprentices in the Bank working on different positions for twelve months. After the expiry of that period, the Bank undertakes an obligation to retain the apprentices for an additional year and cover all the costs regarding their salaries. Giving a chance to educated, ambitious people to work in a Bank is a good practice Crédit Agricole wishes to continue in the future as well. HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL AIDS CAS is concerned about employee’s health and safety and this concern obviously goes beyond simply complying with legislative requirements. Every employee in Crédit Agricole Serbia is additionally insured against accident and illness while managers have a special beneﬁt to check their health status at the private clinic and treat themselves there for 12 months within the range of services that were agreed. 31 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources All 50 managers used the beneﬁt at their discretion using the range of services that were agreed upon including laboratory results, x-rays, ultrasounds, CT scans and other. In case of serious illness of the employee or employee’s child or spouse, one of the HR procedures deﬁnes the conditions under which an employee can get a social aid in certain amount which is not expected to be refunded to the Bank. Also, every employee who lost an immediate family member has the right to claim a certain amount of funeral costs which usually covers the whole bill. Solidarity funds are placed and budgeted within HR and they are there to cover especially vulnerable social situations which employees can ﬁnd themselves in. INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS CONTRIBUTING TO CSR Valuing employees, their contribution and efforts during the year is especially important in unstable economic times when core values and beliefs might get questioned. Internal Communication as part of HR in 2010 was faced with a couple of main tasks: • to organise various events and follow corporate standards despite budget cuts • to ﬁnd a way to keep the employees informed and motivated to participate in events and charity events as volunteers • to publish electronic CA Info on a monthly basis in order to foster corporate culture and strengthen RESPECT values NEW YEAR’S PARTY FOR EMPLOYEES’ CHILDREN According to the average age structure, CAS is a ’young’ Bank and its employees are young parents. Since CAS is actively supporting children’s rights, we are supporting our employees’ children’s rights to celebrations as well. That is why December is a month eagerly awaited for by the 500 employees’ children. Every year, there is a theatre play which ends with Santa Claus who is giving out presents to the little ones. How much this event is appreciated by the children, states the fact that they insist on coming to the play regardless of the weather conditions in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis or Kragujevac, because getting a present and taking a photo with Santa is something that simply can’t be missed. 32 www.creditagricole.rs RELATIONS WITH CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS Relations with Clients and Suppliers Corporate View CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA STRONG BANKING PARTNER OF SERBIAN ECONOMY Wide network consisting of 82 well organized branches, 3 specialized corporate centers, in all major Serbian cities • Strong and realistic intents to keep expanding and improving our network • Dynamic and proactive development • More than 900 highly qualiﬁed employees with only one common goal – to provide the best service possible to our customers • Extensive network of POS terminals and ATMs • ISO 9001 Certiﬁcate in the ﬁeld of banking services • Highly modernized and efﬁcient approach to providing the best banking service to all of our clients • Principal membership in VISA International, DinaCard association, MasterCard International 34 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers STRONG FOUNDATION IN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. • Retail bank leader in France (No. 1) and in Europe (No. 2) • 11,500 branches worldwide, with an efﬁcient and ever-growing presence in all areas of banking and ﬁnance • More than 160,000 employees • 59 million customers in 70 countries. PRIMARY GOAL: CLIENTS’ SATISFACTION CASH MANAGEMENT TRADE FINANCE CREDIT Domestic & International Payments Letter of Guarantees Short term corporate loans Electronic Banking and Internet Services Letter of Credits Long term Loans Collective order ZEN Collection Subsidized Loan Collective order – Direct Debit DEALING ROOM RELATIONSHIP MANAGER CREDIT AGRICOLE Foreign Exchange Spot GROUP SYNERGY Foreign Exchange Forward Outrigh fully committed International Banking tenders Joint approach to the client with Senior Foreign Exchange Covered Forward to servicing all of our clients’ needs Bankers – CA CIB Deposits products by offering the best tailor Synergy with CA CIB, BDI subsidiaries, other members of the Group LEASING TAILOR MADE CROSS BROKERAGE Financial leasing SELLING PRODUCTS Equity Management Services From Agro business – Tripartite agreement Rent (via partners) Corporate Employee Program Securities Trading Private Label Card System Loyalty Program Mobile Payments STRONG AND EXPANDING PRESENCE IN SERBIA 100% owned by Crédit Agricole S.A. • since 1991 • activities: Universal Bank • Total assets: 453 M EUR • Total Equity : 73.6 M EUR • No of employess: 901 35 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers 100% owned by CA Srbija • since 2007 • activities: Financial Leasing • Total Assets: 27 M EUR • Total Equity : 759 K EUR • No. of Employess : 18 100% owned by CA Srbija • since 2002 • activities: Brokerage AXA ŽIVOTNO OSIGURANJE • since 2006 • activities: Life Insurance Long term exclusive distribution agreement (AXA) Crédit Agricole Serbia Corporate Division SME SMALL COMMERCIAL AND MLCII – MIDDLE MARKET, AND MEDIUM PRODUCTS MANAGEMENT LARGE, INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES SECTOR AND INSTITUTIONAL 36 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Commercial and Products Management Sector SALES SUPPORT & PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT IN: • Cash Management • Trade Finance • Sales Management • Card business TOP-NOTCH ORGANIZATION LEVEL ENSURING FAST RESPONSIVENESS AND HIGH QUALITY OF SERVICE CEO MERIDIAN INVEST RISK CORPORATE & AGRICULTURE DIVISION MANAGEMENT CA LEASING Agro Small and Medium Large Corporate and Commercial and Product Management Sector Enterprise Sector International Sector Sector Speccial Account Unit Corporate Regional Middle Sales Corporate Management Center Belgrade Market Risk Cash Management & E-Banking Corporate Regional Large Risk Center Novi Sad Corporate Trade Finance Analysts Management Corporate Regional International Operational Center Niš Marketing 37 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers CA SERBIA CORPORATE TEAM : CLEAR VISION, PATH, GOALS AND VALUES Crédit Agricole Serbia has deﬁned clear objectives, guided by its customer-satisfaction driven ambitions and long term goals established by the Group. • We are looking to add value not only to our corporate partners’ businesses, but also to the overall Serbian economy. We aim to continue to be our existing clients’ ﬁrst choice for all of their banking needs, as well as engage into cooperation with new ones. • Our principal guidelines are based on providing the highest level of service to our clients, making sure that each request is dealt with within the most optimal time frame, with as much attention as possible, while ﬁnding the most convenient solution for the client. • We are constantly striving towards providing a wide range of tailor made products and services to our corporate clients, matching the diversiﬁed needs of their respective businesses. • The corporate values deeply embedded within each employee’s operative framework are proactivity, integrity, effectiveness, solidarity and teamwork. • The principles adopted and embedded in our corporate division’s daily operations are: utmost and unconditional respect for human rights, ﬁght against any form of corruption, optimal labor standards and socially responsible behavior towards all of our stakeholders. All of these principles are respected and implemented within our organizational structure, client and employee relations, risk management, social activity policies. OPERATING WITHIN LEGAL REQUIREMENTS AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROCEDURES Compliance was formed as a division in 2006. The same year a new law on banks required an independent body which would deal exclusively with compliance issues. That is why the compliance function was separated from the legal one and ofﬁcially, from 1st October 2006 Compliance exists as it is today. Besides its control function, compliance division also has an advisory role, both for corporate and all the other divisions of the bank. Being efﬁcient and responsive (all inquiries must be answered within 24 hours) the compliance division enables all of the corporate employees to clarify any doubts regarding the true identity of the corporate client, its possibly problematic past, suspicious transactions etc. Moreover, besides the above mentioned, this division also closely monitors the compliance of the positive local regulations, the rules of Crédit Agricole Serbia as well as the entire Group. Within the scope of their activities is also the ﬁnancial safety of the bank which includes fraud disclosure, checking various lists from ‘persona non grata’ to lists of terrorists, various European and UN lists of persons etc. Compliance undertakes ‘Due Diligence’ which means heightened client monitoring (in case of necessity, this body engages into such research as to discovering the true owner of the company, the origin of its ﬁnancial means, weather the client had previously been involved in political or criminal affairs or had been our ex-employee, whether there were economic trading sectors ‘under special attention’ or humanitarian organizations involved etc.). Finally, the compliance division conducts various training programs for all of the corporate employees in order to further introduce them to above mentioned notions, as well as equip them with knowledge necessary to make sure that each step within their scope of operations is in line with the law, as well as our internal rules and procedures. 38 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Corporate goals sustainable growth with constant focus on clients’ needs and demands ‘’Ambicija 2013’’ offers a list of priorities and goals which we have set out to achieve by year 2013. However, in the long run, our overall ambitions and visions strive even further, with our main pillars being: PROACTIVE DEVELOPMENT Proactive development in corporate segment means focusing on • Opportunities for cross-selling. Within the partnership with our corporate clients, we offer additional products and services designed to add value to their business as well as further strengthen Crédit Agricole Serbia as their priority choice. • Offering our customers a wide range of custom-designed products, taking into consideration their respective businesses, ﬁnancial situation, preferences, market conditions etc. IMPROVEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT. • We have been able to reduce the cost of risk due to more responsible management as well as further implementation of risk management policies designed to put all of our stakeholders in better positions. Our sales focus was and will continue to be directed towards agriculture, food industry, energy, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and infrastructure projects. GROWTH AND STRENGTHENING OF THE GROUP SYNERGIES Business parts of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are BDI, CA CIB & Caisse Regional. In 2010 we were able to leverage the CA brand, obtain strong group support and an exceptional level of organization within the CAS network in order to raise the quality of the service offered to our corporate clients. Furthermore, we have established three specially designed corporate centers (in Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis) with highly trained managers and bank ofﬁcers providing maximum level of operative service to our corporate clients. Listening to clients and providing what they need is our priority in 2011 as well. Partnerships Creating new partnerships and upgrading existing ones with renowned organizations that provide overall beneﬁts to all of the stakeholders is a long-term aim in Crédit Agricole Serbia. 39 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Crédit Agricole Serbia in a competitive environment Methodology: • Customer Satisfaction Study (CSS); • Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing (CATI); Sample: • 100 corporate clients of Crédit Agricole (50 SME enterprises and 50 LCI) • 200 corporate clients of 5 competing banks (40 clients per bank) KEY POINTS OF THE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION STUDY Most of CAS corporate clients intend to continue using Crédit Agricole Serbia in the future. Customer satisfaction is certainly one of our main priorities and we will thus continue to build and strengthen the existing relationships as well as create new ones. Corporate clients of Crédit Agricole put the most value on two products: e-banking and loans. Products and services resulting from listening to clients in 2010 Our clear ambition and driving factor is to constantly nurture a two-way communication with our clients. A paramount component of our decision making process is the feedback that we receive from them. It is their needs, priorities and objectives that we greatly take into consideration during our decision making process of creation of new products or improving the existing ones. In 2010 we have introduced Visa Business debit card, as well as Metro Cash and Carry CA private label Business card. Moreover, all characteristics of loans recorded satisfaction ratings above competitors’ average, in terms of simplicity of granting procedure, amount of documents needed in order to get a loan approved, bank’s advice on the loan choice, transparency and rate of ﬁxed loan-related fees etc. We have added to our existing offer Cash loans subsidized by Ministry of Economy and Regional Development as well as Long term Investment loans with subsidized interest rates. Finally, a current account characteristic that has been improved is the availability of account statements, which clients automatically receive daily via e-mail (unless a different preference is expressed), as well as per request and again, the existence of corporate centers guarantees an immediate response to any enquiry regarding the current account the client might have. 40 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE CLIENTS’ SATISFACTION STRUCTURE 100 91 91 87 86 84 83 82 82 82 80 80 76 77 70 67 60 40 20 0 Overall bank Relationship with Branch Prices Products Offer Communication satisfaction the bank satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction Base = 50 CORP1 and 50 CORP2 CA bank clients CORP1 (mid-sized enterprises) CORP2 (LCI) ACTION POINTS THAT STEMMED FROM THE CAS CORPORATE CLIENT’S SATISFACTION SURVEY Our goal in 2011 is to continue to upgrade the level and quality of communication with our corporate clients and especially with the ones within the SME sector. While generally we do not fall behind our competition in terms of overall clients’ satisfaction with the relationship with the bank, our objective for the following year is to further strengthen the existing relationships, as well as create new ones with our existing/potential corporate clients. In 2011 our plan is to further diversify our portfolio of products, while at the same time maintaining competitive pricing and fees. Our objective for 2011 is to further improve the responsiveness towards the clients’ complaints. The necessary steps have already been taken, as a decision was brought to upload each complaint to our internal website immediately upon its receipt. The complaints are uploaded to a specially created folder, which is constantly monitored. Immediately upon the receipt of the complaint, relationship manager is notiﬁed (if it hasn’t been directly communicated to him/her) and the complaint is uploaded to the above mentioned folder. This not only speeds up the response time, but also keeps a clear and concise track of all of the complaints, automatically decreasing the probability of a similar lapse occurring again. 41 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Agro View Crédit Agricole S.A. – No. 1 bank for farmers. More than 120 years of experience in crediting of agricultural production, providing a strong and invaluable support to all of its subsidiaries-including Crédit Agricole Serbia. New, modernized, and functional approach towards the organization of Agro Sector, designed to fully and efﬁciently service all of the existing/new clients HEAD OF DEPARTMENT AG AGRO RO SBE SBE AGRO AG RO SMESME (SMA (SMALL LL BUSIN BUSIN ESS AND ENTR USINESS ENTREPRE EPRENEUR EPRE NEUR S) NEURS) (SMA (SMALL LL AND MEDI MEDIUM ENTER UM ENTER NTERPRIS PRIS PRISES) ES) TE TEAMAM TE TEAMAM COMMERCIAL GROUP AGRO SME LEADERSUPERVISOR/ RELATIONSHIP MANAGER RELATIONSHIP MANAGER 5 AGRO SBE ACCOUNT OFFICER/ RELATIONSHIP SHARE WITH SME MANAGERS CRÉDIT ANALYST Subotica Kikinda, 1 Novi Bečej Sombor, Apatin Vrbas Bečej 3 Bačka Palanka Zrenjanin 5 Novi Sad 2 Šid Inđija Vršac Sr.emska Mitrovica Ruma Stara Pančevo 6 4 Pazova Strong foundation in Crédit Agricole S.A. which ﬁnances more than 70 % of the French farming market and more than 40 % of the food production industry. The Group attains a principal economic role not just in French, but also Europe’s farming industry, automatically presenting a competitive advantage for all of its subsidiaries. Experience on the Group level, solid organization and high level of professionalism enable us to efﬁciently monitor market trends, ﬂexibly respond to our clients’ diverse needs and demands, as well as offer highly competitive conditions for our products and services. 42 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Crédit Agricole Serbia Sustainable growth with strong emphasis on client satisfaction, products and services portfolio diversiﬁcation, ﬂexibility, building long lasting business relationships Our main pillar: offering a long term strategy to the Serbian agro-market, with added value to all of the stakeholders involved. Crédit Agricole Serbia has experienced relationship managers with great knowledge of the market, enabling them to offer each client the best, ﬂexible, tailor made solution, depending on their respective needs. We are looking to build long lasting partnerships with our clients, founded on respect, trust, ﬂexibility, dedication and commitment. Moreover, we are operating with dedicated and professional supporting teams, forming a cohesive unit with the relationship managers-all with a common goal of providing the highest level of service to our agro clients. The values deeply embedded within each employee’s operative framework are proactive approach, integrity, effectiveness, solidarity and teamwork. The principals adopted and embedded within every segment of our agro sector’s daily operations are utmost and unconditional respect towards the basic human rights, ﬁght against the corruption, optimal labor standards, socially responsible behavior towards all of our stakeholders. All of these principles are respected and implemented within our organizational structure, client and employee relations, risk management, social activity policies. BUSINESS COOPERATION WITH THE NOVI SAD FAIR IN 2011 An important step towards our ambition of deepening the business relations with existing/potential agro clients will be the signing of the agreement with The Novi Sad Fair in 2011, making our bank an ofﬁcial and exclusive partner of the International Agriculture Fair. This cooperation will be established with a main goal of improving the existing conditions for the development of agrobusiness as a key facet of Serbian economy. We will be looking to utilize this partnership in order to create a number of successful projects, further establishing our brand and, in the process, creating added value for all of the stakeholders involved. We plan to establish a closer cooperation with the NS Fair in order to even better present our most competitive products and services. During the fair, we are also planning on organizing a conference on ‘’Improving competitiveness as a condition for sustainable development’’, bringing together the know-how and expertise of European specialists with the representatives of the local agro-business. This will enable the exchange of experiences and information between the participants which will, in the long-run, strengthen our role as a signiﬁcant bank-partner of the Serbian agro-business. 43 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SERBIA AGRICULTURAL DIVISION CUSTOMER SATISFACTION STUDY Methodology: • Customer Satisfaction Study (CSS); • Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing (CATI); Sample: • 100 AGRO clients of Crédit Agricole bank (50 agricultural households and 50 agricultural businesses); • 200 AGRO clients of 4 competing banks (50 clients per bank) CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CLIENTS’ SATISFACTION STRUCTURE – AGRO SUBSEGMENTS 100 95 88 88 82 83 81 80 78 77 78 76 75 71 66 64 60 40 20 0 Overall bank Relationship with Branch Prices Products Offer Communication satisfaction the bank satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction Base = 50 AGRO1 and 50AGRO2 CA bank clients AGRO1 (agricultural producers households) AGRO2 (agricultural producers businesses) CAS AGRO CLIENTS SATISFACTION SURVEY TOOL FOR FURTHER IMPROVEMENTS • Our goal in 2011 is to upgrade the level and quality of communication with our agro clients and especially with the individual households. New organizational structure of the sector, specially designed to improve the overall level of service that the clients are receiving, as well as the support of an expert marketing team and knowledge and experience at the Group level, represent a strong step forward towards not only upgrading the communication channels with our clients, but also increasing their overall satisfaction with the bank. • In 2011 our plan is to further diversify our portfolio of products, with further improvements to the pricing structure and simpliﬁcation of granting procedures, in order to position our portfolio as one of the most competitive in the market. 44 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers A GLIMPSE INTO KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 2011 • Continuous, sustainable growth in all agro segments (farmers, cooperatives, corporate clients involved in agro production) with clear focus, deﬁned objectives and maintenance on board with the group’s key values, principles and corporate social responsibility policies • Continuous cooperation with top processing corporate clients • Systematic cross selling in cooperation with dealers of agro mechanization and raw materials • Continuation of systematic training • Further improvement of agro risk policy with expert support of CASA. Retail View TRUST BASED RELATIONSHIPS Our clients are better educated than ever before and that means they are also very well informed about the market and therefore know exactly what they want. Crédit Agricole Serbia is committed to better connecting with clients, offering a more personalised approach in providing products and services and closely attune to align its activities with the real needs of the clients. In order to accomplish this committment we have taken the following steps: 1. Listening to clients to better understand their needs 2. Taking a step back to better understand our own behaviour in the business environment 3. Developing meaningful relationships with the clients 1. LISTENING TO CLIENTS TO BETTER UNDERSTAND THEIR NEEDS • Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer satisfaction is the measure of how well a company’s products or services meet or exceed customer’s expectations. It is a result of a client product/services related experience, and it is a strong predictor of client retention, client loyalty and product repurchase. In the long term it delivers ﬁnancial beneﬁts providing stability and a platform for growth, and it is considered a corporate asset which needs to be managed, just like all other types of assets. The ﬁrst Customer Satisfaction Survey was conducted in May and June 2010 with the purpose to obtain the very ﬁrst impression about our customer’s experience in cooperation with CAS. Customer satisfaction survey covered the network of 82 branches and their clients. Results showed that there were no signiﬁcant differences in overall satisfaction level with our bank and main competitor’s banks. CAS is sharing the second place among 5 other banks that were used for comparison. 45 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers The aspects of the Bank which got the best scores are the assessment of the branch and the branch employee. Among all the other Bank segments: PI, SBE, Agro and Corporate, these two are percieved as the leading aspects of their business with the CAS. • Complaint management Various studies that measured clients’ perception of service quality and their loyalty revealed a strong correlation between these two items. One service that is not so visible, but certainly not less important is complaint management. Requirement for the bank is documented customer complaint ﬁling, follow-up and resolution monitoring. Action point after Customer Satisfaction Survey was to improve management of client complaints. Process started with creation of a procedure which deﬁned persons in charge of this task and answering to clients. Also, possible channels that clients could use for the complaint submission were deﬁned together with the deadlines for providing feedback to the clients’ requests or complaints. Dedicated employees were selected to manage complaints within the Retail division. In the last quarter of 2010 thanks to our clients’ remarks, the following was accomplished: • a new channel was provided to clients an opportunity to submit complaints via the website • Info Center was established which was there to provide answers to clients’ requests • Complaints Book was placed in every branch ofﬁce in order to provide clients without internet access, to express their views on our services and products Having all the basics set and re-organised, the emphasis was then placed on recording, monitoring and reporting the received complaints. A new team site was organised, supported by clear procedure on classifying and structuring the complaints. This improved organization and new approach allows for much better quality of reporting and therefore direct insight into areas for improvement. The full effects will be seen in 2011, but already we are right on track when it comes to improved communication with clients and better satisfying their needs. 46 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Web page for submitting a complaint http://www.Créditagricole.rs/Crédit-agricole/proﬁl/komunikacija-sa-klijentima/ Client is able to submit the complaint through the following channels: • Web site e-mail: prigovori@creditagricole.rs • Branches: there is a special form that a client can ﬁll in • Info Centre: any client can call our call centre on 0700 700 500 and express their opinions or concerns • Mailing address:Crédit Agricole Srbija a.d. Novi Sad, Odeljenje za upravljanje prigovorima, Milentija Popovića 5a, 11070 Novi Beograd or Crédit Agricole Srbija a.d. Novi Sad, Odeljenje za upravljanje prigovorima, Brace Ribnikar 4-6, 21 000 Novi Sad • National Bank of Serbia, Centar za zastitu korisnika ﬁnansijskih usluga, Trg partizana 8, 31000 Uzice DEADLINES FOR FEEDBACK TO THE CLIENTS Current laws and regulations deﬁninig this area allow 30 days for giving answer to the client. CAS has tighter regulations: • maximum 3 days to answer complaints submitted through e-mail and info centre • 3, 8 or 30 days to answer complaints that came from National Bank (NBS deﬁnes the deadline) • 7 to 15 days for complaints submitted through regular mail or in the Branch. 47 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers 2. TAKING A STEP BACK TO BETTER UNDERSTAND OUR OWN BEHAVIOUR IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT • Mystery shopping Client satisfaction sometimes seems an ellusive goal, but in essence it comes down to not only the offered products, but equally to the whole atmosphere created before, during, and after the purchase process – that is, servicing period. Mystery shopping is a known market research tool and the purpose for using it is to ﬁnd out what is happening during the interaction between a bank employee and a client. We have used it having in mind that the moment when client makes a decision whether to buy the product or not, is mainly inﬂuenced by human factor a bank employee. Mystery shopping, as a research tool for measuring quality of retail service in CAS branch network, was performed in May and June 2010. Research covered 78 branches out of 83, excluding 5 located in METRO centres since they were mainly dedicated to the SBE segments. The survey dealt with two scenarios – one for cash loan and the other for mortgage loan. Areas we focused on were overall ﬁrst impressions on: • the branch ofﬁce • employees • sales conversations • product knowledge • closing the meeting As far as Mystery shopping results are concerned, overall branch impression, impression on employees and sales conversation are seen as above average. Product knowledge and meeting conclusion are the areas that need further improvement. New trainings will be devised for sales staff to improve these two areas. • Refurbishment of Branch Network In the past decade banks in Serbia made signiﬁcant efforts and investments in their branch networks due to much higher client expectations in this area. Branches continue to play critical role in acquisition of new clients and their locations are still the key component of an institution brand image. That is why CAS puts a special emphasis on proximity factor because location of a branch ofﬁce in the vicinity of one’s home or business is a primary factor for selecting a bank. The process of CAS branch network reorganization started in 2008 by initiating New Branch Concept. This concept means that the branch ofﬁce is devided to Advisory and Cashier zones and they are visibly marked and easily managed. This is 48 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers signiﬁcant especially for the clients who are visiting for the ﬁrst time because the zones contribute to the client-friendly atmosphere. After the pilot phase where one branch ofﬁce was reconstructed this way the project of network reconstruction has started. From 2008 to 2009 there were 44 branches fully reconstructed while 8 were moved to a different location and one completely new was opened. All of them were designed according to the new concept. In 2010 we continued to build on the project and 3 branches were moved, and 1 new was opened. In total, 57 branches (out of 82) were redecorated and in line with new concept. Brach in Arilje before the reconstruction Branch Arilje after the reconstruction 49 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers 3. DEVELOPING MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE CLIENTS • Client segmentation & Portfolio management Client portfolio management is considered to be a very effective approach in creating more satisfying products and service ranges for different client segments. In 2011 a development of the Portfolio concept will be taken a step further and it will include the training phase as well. • Corporate Employee Programme (CEP) Corporate Employee Programme signiﬁcantly marked 2010. It started in March as a sub project of implementing Cross selling approach in CAS. The purpose of cross-selling is to increase the synergy of the activities of four Bank segments: Corporate, SBE, Agro and PI. Companies that sign the CEP agreement receive a special offer of bank products and services that signiﬁcantly beneﬁt their employees: • better prices than for standard PI clients • decreased number of documents / paperwork for PI clients • faster service 50 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Small Business Enterprises View HELPING CLIENTS WHO STRUGGLE BECAUSE OF THE RECESSION Credit Agricole Serbia’s position during the recession was that it is of essence to help clients who struggle because of the crisis. SBE segment was hit hard and it was one of the most vulnerable ones when it comes to assessing business-resistance to crisis periods. As a quick response to this new situation, CAS has opened a completely new Special Accounts Unit which deals with clients who are in delay over 90 days. This department deals with clients who need special assistance as well as expertise in ﬁnding the best way to overcome their problems. As an additional preventive measure, the ﬁnancial monitoring process is reintroduced to all SBE Relationship Managers. Problem detection at the beginning of a business crisis or in the middle of it is not the same, and our experienced bankers are here to assist not only in complicated but also in difﬁcult business situations. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY Together with a Customer Satisfaction Survey for other segments of the Bank, SBE clients were surveyed as well. In total, 320 SBE clients participated: 160 entrepreneurs and 160 owners of the micro and small companies. SBE client base covers the whole territory of Serbia and it means that all Branch network clients were included. Also, the strongest 5 competitors in SBE segments were also taken into consideration. For SBE clients, overall satisfaction with the Bank is in line with the market average. The majority of clients are ready to recommend CAS to another SBE client when it comes to: • loan products • prices • global offer SBE is providing for this segment. Dealing with client complaints needs improvement and higher visibility would be welcome. 51 www.creditagricole.rs CAS PARTNER IN SOCIETY CAS Partner in society CAS Children’s partner Crédit Agricole Serbia has chosen to become involved in innovative pilot projects aiming to promote social integration of children and combat various forms of exclusion. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations has proclaimed that childhood is entitled to special care and assistance. Also, recognizing that the child, for the full and harmonious development of his or her personality, should grow up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding, we in Crédit Agricole Serbia understand that these rights extend to the children’s social environments as well. We believe that every child has the right to dream, to believe in fairy tales, to enjoy holidays and create their own fantasy world. We also believe that one of the ethical indicators of where exactly the society currently stands is the indicator of how they treat children and how much care is provided to them. There are over 6000 children up to the age of 10 in Belgrade alone who do not have two meals a day. There are over 2000 children in Belgrade alone who have developmental difﬁculties and at the same time 80% of them belong to the socially vulnerable category. The multiplication exercise applied to the whole Serbia would result in not such encouraging numbers, but on the other hand, the same numbers could serve as drivers to parts of the society who wish to do something about combating poverty, ignorance and exclusion. Crédit Agricole Serbia is a bank fully dedicated to helping children with special needs and children in socially vulnerable situations by organising projects that are inclusive, educational and socially relevant because in the long run, they strive towards problem-solving. All our projects for children are long-term ones and there are several components that we especially value: • partnerships with business and NGO sectors • stronger ties to the local communities by connecting with the social services centres in city administrations • building very good relationships with the network of schools for children with special needs around the country • encouraging the employees to participate in projects as volunteers • educating the employees and the citizens about children with special needs • building strong corporate culture and culture of tolerance, respect and dignity within the Bank. 53 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society CREDITS TO OUR PARTNERS IN 2010 FOR WHAT THEY DID Highly valued and respected business partner in Crédit Agricole Serbia’s projects: METRO Cash & Carry • Magic Breakfast • Sweets Box • Christmas Shoebox Invalulable in logistics and volunteer support in Magic Breakfast and Food Bank Serbia Christmas Shoebox projects Efﬁcient and professional support in inviting socially vulnerable children, children with single parents, children in foster homes, City Department of the Social Protection Belgrade children in safe houses etc. to the events: Sweets Box and Christmas Shoebox Support in inviting children from Safe Houses and children with single City Department of the Social Protection Novi Sad parents to enjoy: – Children’s Safe House Department • Christmas Shoebox • Sweets Box Support in inviting children from Safe Houses and children with single parents to enjoy: City Department of Social Protection Nis • Christmas Shoebox • Sweets Box Suport in creativity – interactive, educational, tailor made theatre play featuring Good Fairy Dobrila, (Bank’s Good Fairy featuring in Balkan Novi Pokret – Theatre Belgrade every project with children) in each and every play during Christmas Shoebox and Sweets Box projects 54 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society 25 schools for children with special needs Participants in Easter and Christmas Bazaar 2010 Belgrade region OŠ Boško Buha OŠ Anton Skala OŠ Novi Beograd OŠ S.J. Sirogojno SOŠO Sveti Sava Srednja Zanatska škola SOŠO Stefan Dečanski OŠ Radivoj Popović OŠ Veljko Ramadanović OŠ NH Dušan Dugalić All schools provided teachers volunteers who organised the sales exhibitions in branch ofﬁces in the speciﬁed regions OŠ Vožd OŠ Ljubomir Aćimović All schools provided children’s arts and crafts for sale OŠ Dragan Kovačević Vojvodina region All schools provided warm, patient and professional teachers who ŠOSO Milan Petrović – NoviSad educated our clients and employees about the children in participantSOŠO Žarko Zrenjanin Subotica schools OŠ Heroj Pinki – Bačka Palanka All school Principals embraced the idea of a project that helps their OŠ 6. Oktobar – Kikinda schools in reaching out into the community ŠOSO Mara Mandić Pančevo ŠOSO Vuk Karadžić Sombor ŠOSO Jelena Varjaški Vršac Niš region Specijalna škola ”Bubanj” Niš ŠOSO 14. oktobar Niš ŠOSO Mladost Pirot ŠOSO 11. oktobar Leskovac Čačak region ŠOSO 1. Novembar Čačak Media Partners in Magic Breakfast and Christmas Shoebox: 55 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society Most important projects in 2010 featuring Good Fairy Dobrila • Magic Breakfast • Easter Bazaar • Christmas Bazaar • Sweets Box • Christmas Shoebox MAGIC BREAKFAST Where there are fairies, there is magic. All Crédit Agricole Serbia products for children are featuring Good Fairy Dobrila called Vila Dobrila, the mascot of the Bank. That is how, thanks to Good Fairy Dobrila’s help, Magic Breakfast – a charity event for children with special needs was born. Only fairies can do that for children: unite employees from two companies – Crédit Agricole and METRO Cash & Carry, ask NGO Food Bank Serbia to join them, invite both companies’ clients to shop on that particular Saturday in September 11th 2010 and buy specially designed packages for Magic Breakfast. Crédit Agricole, METRO Cash & Carry, Food Bank collected 2,435 kg food for children with special needs in Belgrade 56 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society Volunteers in front of METRO entrance Professional buyers alone collected 300 kg food for children with special needs and in particular biscuits, snacks, canned food and staple foods like ﬂour, sugar, oil, rice etc. for three schools that have their kitchens. Crédit Agricole Srbija and METRO Cash & Carry Srbija donated around 2 tons of food in total value of 5000 Euros. Food Bank distributed it equally, according to the number of children with special needs in each school. Employees of both companies volunteered, taking an active part in the event and 70 volunteers from Crédit Agricole Serbia were acting as a true team of Good Fairy Dobrila, the ’brand’ of the charity event. Apart from volunteering, employees of both companies had a chance to make donations in money, by placing them to a special account opened with Crédit Agricole Serbia for the charity purposes. They have collected around 300 Euros and the sum was added to the total two companies donated. The aim of Magic breakfast was not only to help schools for children with special needs, but also raise awareness about their problems and promote solidarity with those in need. There are 16 such schools in Belgrade, and they all have limited resources at their disposal. Estimates show that nearly 80% of almost 2,400 children attending these schools have full meals only while at school. The event was a double success because it was supported by the highest representatives of all participating parties. From Crédit Agricole Serbia there were Mr Francois-Edouard Drion, President of the Executive Board and Mr Benoit Destoppeleire, C.O.O. of the Bank. Ms Veronika Puncheva, President of the Board of Directors of METRO Cash & Carry Srbija was present as well as Ms Radmila Ivetić, President of the Food Bank. From the City Administration fo the City of Belgrade, Mr Vladan Djukic, Secretary of the City Department of the Social Protection and as a special support, Mr Branislav Lecic, actor appeared to personally give support to children with special needs. Magic breakfast was held under the auspices of the City of Belgrade and with media sponsorship from broadcaster B92 and daily papers Politika, Press, and Pregled. 57 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society EASTER BAZAAR IN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE BRANCH OFFICES IN SERBIA In the period of 22 to 25 March 2010 fourteen branch ofﬁces were hosts to the fourth humanitarian action, this time called: Easter Bazaar organised primariliy for the Bank’s clients, but by no means excluding employees. As support to schools for children with learning disabilities Crédit Agricole organised a sales exhibition in 8 towns in Serbia: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kikinda, Bačka Palanka, Subotica, Sombor, Vršac and Pančevo. Theme exhibitions of children’s arts and crafts had a twofold aim: to introduce the schools for children with special needs to our clients and employees and also to promote the idea that every one of us, with just a little good will can ’become’ Good Fairy Dobrila. Marketing team helped by designing a badge in a limited edition series for the occasion and each buyer of the children’s art became a Good Fairy Dobrila badge holder. All the participants learned something new from the experience. Teachers who spent their free time promoting and selling children’s artwork got to know the bankers in branch ofﬁces much better. Bankers, now more acquainted with guest-schools and their teachers, much better conveyed the message about the Easter Bazaar to the clients. The plan is to spread the action to Nis region and contact the Principals of special schools there. Our aim is to connect Good Fairy Dobrila to the idea that children from special schools can count on her to enrich the holidays and celebrations. All collected funds from the sales of the children’s products were directed towards schools in order to purchase new materials for the children’s workshops. The Bank will continue to support and expand the projects of children’s integration into the society and therefore is a partner the schools for special education can count on. 58 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society CHRISTMAS BAZAAR Every employee of Crédit Agricole got this message in their inbox at the very beginning of December 2010. „December is a month where the focus shifts toward holidays and celebrations. The year is slowly coming to an end and traditionally, people wish to ﬁnish it with lots of good wishes to their families and friends. With the good wishes for the New Year, there are usually some gifts and cards attached that add joy to the atmosphere of holidays. Crédit Agricole Serbia is a partner to schools for children with special needs and cooperates with 25 schools from all over Serbia. Our aim is to raise the level of social awareness that regardless of the child’s individual ability and skills, children are the most precious part of the society and without them the picture of the world would be hopelessly altered. Christmas Bazaar is simultaneously happening in 20 Crédit Agricole Branch Ofﬁces. Christmas Bazaar lasts from 6th – 9th December 2010. During this period our clients and partners will have a chance to choose a present or a gift in any of the listed 12 cities in Serbia and among 20 branch ofﬁces. Sales exhibitions of children’s arts and crafts will be on display in our Branch Ofﬁces for full four days. All earnings of the sold items return to the schools and children who created every one with a lot of love and pride. How much they succeeded please see for yourselves and visit the sales exhibition in the nearest Branch Ofﬁce that is on the list. Let this exhibition be the one to ‘open’ a Christmas season for you”. It was a great event simultaneously happening in 20 branch ofﬁces and the schools, partners in the project, were more than satisﬁed with the results and also media attention. 59 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society SWEETS BOX AND FLOWER FAIRY TALE FOR SOCIALLY VULNERABLE CHILDREN In the eve of the International Children’s Day on 20th November, Crédit Agricole Serbia decided to make something special for children who are socially vulnerable as well as for those with single parents and the ones in foster homes or safe houses. The idea was to provide them a highly educational and interactive ’Flower Fairy Tale’ theatre play, where Good Fairy Dobrila was the main actress. This project was organised in cooperation with the Centre of Social Protection in Niš, Safe House in Novi Sad and with the City Department of Social Protection in Belgrade. Also, CAS partner in projects with children, METRO Cash & Carry prepared special Sweets Box packages for all the children who attended the theatre play. After our research and realisation that those children very rarely if ever attend children’s plays in real theatres, preparing these events was a real pleasure. Regional Managers in Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade greeted the children and wished them to enjoy the play, but not to forget to collect their Sweets Boxes on the way out of the theatre. 60 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society CHRISTMAS SHOEBOX Crédit Agricole Bank Serbia and company ”Metro Cash & Carry”, in cooperation with City Department of the Social Protection of the City of Belgrade and a non-governmental charity organisation Food Bank organised on 13th December 2010 in Sava Center a charity event Christmas Shoebox for 900 children from socially vulnerable families in Belgrade and also children without parents and made them happy with 900 gifts from Santa Claus. Deputy Mayor of City of Belgrade, Mr Milan Krkobabic greeted the children and thanked Crédit Agricole, METRO and Food Bank for providing an event that allows children a glimpse into better childhood. Crédit Agricole and ”Metro Cash & Carry” donated together EUR 10.000 for the event. Volunteers from Red Cross and students from the Philology 10th Gimnazija high school Mihajlo Pupin participated in organising the space for 17 municipalities from Belgrade and a stand for the guests from Kraljevo who were hit by the earthquake on 7th November 2010. As part of the event, there was a Christmas Fairytale play organised by Crédit Agricole partner, Theatre Balkan Novi Pokret featuring a famous children’s actor Jova Radovanovic and Crédit Agricole’s famous Good Fairy Dobrila. There were 60 junior ballerinas from the Ballet School Baletino and also children from the Center for Children Protection in Zvecanska Street. Scene from the play Christmas Fairytale 61 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society There are more than 6.000 children up to the age of 10 in Belgrade only whose families are in such a difﬁcult ﬁnancial situation that they are not able to satisfy even the basic existential needs for food, and that is why they use Soup Kitchens. Also there are children without parents and they are taken care of by the Social protection institutions. Employees of Crédit Agricole Serbia and ”Metro Cash & Carry” have also prepared together 469 Christmas Boxes for children from socially vulnerable families and children without parents in Novi Sad and in Nis. Employees in both companies ﬁlled the shoeboxes with sweets, toys and Christmas cards as well as some small clothing items and then wrapped them up in shiny gift wrappings to give a ﬂair of holiday season. The Christmas shoeboxes were distributed with the help of the Centres of Social Protection in those cities 62 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society Donations FOOD BANK SERBIA Our partner in projects for socially and developmentally vulnerable children is Food Bank. In order to show our support to this humanitarian organisation we are ﬁnancing part of their administrative costs on an annual basis. It is very important for us to contribute to the organisations we believe in because that is the basis for long and sustainable development and growth while solving problems of hunger and poverty. Having trustworthy partners in projects is the prerequisite of reaching more people and children who really need our help. 15 SCHOOLS FOR CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS Fifteen schools for children with special needs who were the ﬁrst to join the Easter and Christmas Bazaar and work on raising awareness of our clients and employees were given considerable ﬁnancial support. The ﬁnancial support was used to buy beds for children in boarding schools, materials for art workshops, food, clothing items, etc. For next year it is planned to do a thorough needs analyses of all schools and ﬁnd a way to satisfy their needs in a more consistent way. SUPPORTING CHILDREN Three organisations: ‘Mali Veliki ljudi’, ‘Uvek sa decom’ and ‘Kosnica’ were given our support for various projects. All these organisations are dedicated to supporting children in various ways – either they are children with diabetes, who need to come to terms with their illness and learn to live with it, or they are children with developmental problems or they are children who are ﬁghting cancer. In either case, we are aware that there are far more organisations that there are donors, but we are dedicated to helping as much as we can. Also, after the earthquake in Kraljevo, through UNICEF we have supported equipping of one classroom with all the necessary furniture. Our plan for next year is to ﬁnd a way to build on the already existing relationships and ﬁnd new ways of cooperation. 63 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society Employee Initiatives VOLUNTEERING PROGRAMMES Volunteering initiative is relatively new in Serbia since it was not such long ago that there was not even legislation regulating this subject. Major contributions to the employee initiatives were CSR projects Magic Breakfast and Christmas Shoebox. In Magic Breakfast employees took an active part by animating the professional buyers at METRO Cash & Carry and explained the aim of the charity event. The better they explained, the higher the sales of prepared packages went. In Christmas Shoebox there was a different kind of volunteering – it included time and some ﬁnancial efforts. The employees needed to buy items for children who are not used to getting presents for Christmas because getting food was a struggle enough. They then placed the items into a shoebox, wrap it up and bring it to the Bank. All the collected shoeboxes were shipped to the Centre for Social Protection to be distributed to the most socially vulnerable children. 64 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society BELHOSPICE CHARITY FOOTBALL TOURNAMENT Sports and Recreational Centre in Kovilovo is becoming in CAS a synonim for BELHospice charity football tournament. This is the second year when towards the end of May or beginning of June there is a tournament with a very speciﬁc aim – to collect ﬁnancial support for the termianally ill patients who are under BELHospice care. Crédit Agricole Serbia has supported the tournament from the very beginning and is actively involved in its further development. During the tournament there were 13 teams who were playing the best they could. ’BELhospice 2010’ was a very successful one and 60 patients would receive care in the next three months. During the next phase of BELHospice development it can be expected that employees will be able to volunteer in different areas – Crédit Agricole Seriba has already signed up as a company BELHospice can count on. 65 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society MANAGING PERSONAL FINANCES Managing Personal Finances was a part of Global Compact UN Serbia project and it included coordinated action of 9 banks, among which Crédit Agricole Serbia as well. Banks that are members of the Work group for Corporate Social Responsibility in Banking and Finances with the support of the Academy for Banking and Finances from Belgrade and Chamber of Commerce of Serbia have organised free interactive workshops for citizens. The topics included those which are the most interesting in the periods of recession – how to plan and manage personal ﬁnances more efﬁciently. Two colleagues took part: Bojan Vesic and Svetlana Jakovljevic and they were the trainers during very successful workshops in Belgrade. 66 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society LUNCH WITH THE CEO Annual Manager’s Seminar held in November 2009 with the main aim to present the strategy of the Bank until 2013 also had a task to collect ideas during workshops. One of the topics that spontaneously emerged during a Motivation in Crisis workshop was: Lunch with the CEO. The idea was immediately accepted and it was proposed that it should be developed further. The end-result was very simple but effective: every month, CEO ( Francois-Edouard Drion) meets with six Bank Managers somewhere pleasant in town for lunch. Each Manager belongs to a different business line or department and during lunch there is not a strict agenda but a more relaxed ﬂow of business related conversation. The ﬁrst Lunch with CEO had happened in March 2010 and after lunch the Managers noticed almost the same things: • idea to meet in an informal atmosphere with people who work in the same Bank but practically don’t see each other is very useful • positive reactions to the idea to freely express different views of the current situation • openness of the top management for suggestions and readiness for intensiﬁed communication • true international and constructive approach to opinion survey In 2010 there were six lunches which were very useful and equally pleasant. Colleagues from different parts of the country had a chance to meet informally and enjoy the knowledge and idea-sharing. 67 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society DONATION TO THE CENTRE OF SOCIAL PROTECTION IN NOVI SAD Centre of Social Protection of the City of Novi Sad is one of the more proactive centres of this type in the country. Safe House is within a Centre as well as the day-care for children who only sleep at their own homes. This arrangement is effective because instead of spending their days in a very tense atmosphere at home, they spend their days at the Centre. Children who are placed in the Centre are either in transition until adoption, or they are put to a safe place because they were abused at home. Knowing this, a group of employees who were in Training Centre in Stara Pazova realised after one of the trainings that there were some items they were not really using and that they could be donated to the children in the Safe House. The same idea occured when it came to the surplus of the Christmas packages for employees’ children. So, it did not take long, and all the items were neatly packed. The donation was not a big one, but it came as an idea from the employees and that is why it was valuable. Today, whenever there are surplus toys from New Year, everyone knows where they would end up in the Centre which accommodates between 30 and 50 children on a weekly basis. 68 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society CAS and the ‘French Connection’ INTERNATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS Crédit Agricole Serbia is participating in the project of ﬁnancing talents and it is in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of France. The Programme of Scholarships 2010/2011 is a joint programme of Crédit Agricole S.A. and Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of France with the aim of supporting foreign students who wish to continue their studies in France. Master 2 or Professinal Master obtained at the prestigeous academic institutions in France are deﬁnitely very attractive motives for foreign students to apply. Crédit Agricole S.A. provided 10 scholarships in the amount of 120.000 EUR, together with the coaching in the desired institution, paid internship within CA Group and monitoring of the students after they return from France to their original countries. CAS found the project very interesting and important to support because this way we were able to give full support in the development of international skills, multicultural interaction and dialogue as conditions to making better international connections. FRANCOPHONIE AND FRENCH CULTURAL CENTRE Within the Francophonie there is a small-sided foodball tournament organised every year. There are usually more than 10 teams playing the qualiﬁcations, then semi-ﬁnals and ﬁnals and it is happening at the biggest raft on Sava. It is an exciting event for the football teams and the crowd consists of the employees from different companies, embassies or governmental institutions who are there to give support. It is a great opportunity for teambuilding among the teams and networking. This event is important because it stemed as pure employee initiative and the continuation depends on their motive to play and be consistent in it. This great opportunity for networking would not be possible if it weren’t for the French Cultural Centre that is the main organiser. CAS Team left to right: Stevan Brkić, Vladimir Milanović, Milan Sekulić, Francois-Edouard Drion, Miodrag Topalović, Vladimir Gašparović, Nikola Dževerdanović, Aleksandar Kostić, Vladan Stanisavljević, Edouard Drion –the biggest fan and Nikola Stankov. 69 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society FRENCH ANGELS PERFORM IN BELGRADE The main sposnor of the two extraordinary music events was Crédit Agricole Serbia where thanks to the Bank, there were two concerts for the public organised with the French Cultural Centre and Jugokoncert. The spring concert was on 26th May with Sandrine Piau, soprano and Susan Manoff, piano. The fall concert was on 27th November with Mireille Delunsch, soprano and Antoine Palloc, piano. Both concerts were open to the public and the tickets could be obtained free of charge. Crédit Agricole Serbia is committed to supporting the intercultural element in art forms where diversity is considered abundance in both cultures. Sandrin Piau 70 www.creditagricole.rs CAS Partner in society A SPECIAL VISIT ON EUROPEAN DAY OF LANGUAGES, 26TH SEPTEMBER Visit of a pupils’ delegation from the primary school ’Vladislav Ribnikar’, Belgrade Even before working hours on 24th September 2010 Crédit Agricole Bank Serbia received a visit from a very important delegation of curious pupils from the school ’Vladislav Ribnikar’. The reason for the visit of the bilinguial 8th class pupils was the European Day of Languages as proclaimed by the Council of Europe to be every 26 th September. The famous Ribnikar is a school which nurtures the tradition of the French language and culture and every year for the European Day of Languages they organise various activities. This year the professors of French Marija Nešić, Jovica Mikić and Anka Topalović-Radman organised an ofﬁcial visit to Crédit Agricole Bank Serbia with the aim to ﬁnd out the general knowledge of the Serbian culture, traditions and language. The pupils’ delegation was received by the President of the Executive Board of the Bank, Mr Francois-Edouard Drion himself, and he answered questions regarding sports, art, gastronomy, music and ﬁlm. From the maximum of the 19 points, Mr Drion collected 15, which is a signiﬁcant success for someone who was not born and grew up in Serbia, but in France. President of the Executive Board of Crédit Agricole Bank Serbia Mr Francois-Edouard Drion solving a test composed by the pupils of the primary school ’Vladislav Ribnikar’ 71 www.creditagricole.rs CSR 2010 EDITOR IN-CHIEF Brana Lisic EDITORIAL BOARD Marko Putnik Ilija Nesin Nevenka Aleksic Biljana Vidakovic Ninoslav Vasic Milos Radosavljevic TRANSLATION AND EDITING Brana Lisic 72 www.creditagricole.rs
