All Together Create Future for Sustainability 2011 KEPCO Sustainability Report Leading the history of light, KEPCO has pursued the creation of values for customers and its own management philosophy of respecting human life. Now, KEPCO will fulfill its economic, environmental and social responsibilities to take the lead in establishing a sustainable future and a society where everyone enjoys growth, and take a big leap forward as the “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer” KEPCO, as a representative company in the electric power industry, has provided electric power stably. It is referred to as a driving engine of economic growth. Now, KEPCO will pursue sustainable management strategies more faithfully; accomplish its Vision of “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer” to become an integrated global energy company that provides more values and benefits for humanity. Through smarter technologies and high quality services, Let us make a happier world to live in. Cover Story In such various sectors as nuclear power plants in overseas countries, thermal power plants, new & renewable energy, smart grid and resource development, KEPCO shows off its visible performance to become a global energy company by utilizing the highest standard of technologies and its operational capabilities. Contents About This Report About This Report 01 This is the 7th Sustainability Report published after KEPCO joined the CEO Message 08 UN Global Compact in August 2005. With this report, KEPCO shares KEPCO Vision 10 with stakeholders its efforts to achieve sustainability and its economic, CEO Management Principle 11 environmental and social performance. ABOUT KEPCO Guidelines Overview of Electric Power Industry 12 This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Guidelines 2006 (G3) and KEPCO Overview 14 based on materiality tests to collect the opinions of diverse stakeholders. Global Trends and Business Environment 16 Financial information and guidelines in this report are in accordance with Corporate Governance 17 Korea Financial Accounting Standards. Ethical Management 18 Code of Ethics 19 Coverage This report contains quantitative performance data pertaining to the period KEPCO AND SUSTAINABILITY from January 1 to December 31, 2010. Some of the non-quantitative Sustainability Management: Operational Mechanism 20 descriptions also include data on performance prior to June 2011. Principles for KEPCO Sustainability Management 21 This report primarily covers KEPCO’s sustainability management performance, Materiality Test Process 22 but part of the Environment section includes the performance of six power Key Performance Indicators 23 generation companies, or GENCOs, wholly owned by KEPCO: Korea Hydro Highlights 24 & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Western Power, Korea Southern Power and Korea East-West Power. economic performance To ensure that all of the KEPCO group companies pursue sustainability Domestic Business 28 management in a consistent manner, the GENCOs are already publishing their Overseas Business 30 own sustainability reports. Management Innovation 35 Major Changes and Scope environmental performance No significant change in corporate size, ownership structure or business Environmental Management Expectations 38 occurred in the reporting period. KEPCO faithfully incorporated all indicators Environmental Management System 39 Development of Low-Carbon Green Power Technologies 40 set forth by the GRI Guidelines 2006 (G3) in this report, and included contents Better Environmental Efficiency 41 of ISO26000 Index (P. 70) as well. Key performance indicators for the past three Eco-Friendly Power Supply Chain 42 years are also disclosed in the interest of improving sustainability management Resource Recycling & Hazardous Substance Control 46 performance. Response to the Convention on Climate Change 47 GHG Reduction Efforts 49 Commitment to Credibility In an effort to ensure the credibility of the report, KEPCO invited external social performance experts to review its compilation, starting from the design stage. The data here Strengthening Partnership with Stakeholders 52 in are verified by them in accordance with the AA 1000 AS (2003) principles Social Contributions 56 (significance, completeness, reaction). The details of the review are found in Respect for Human Rights 59 the section entitled “Third Party Review” (P. 64~66). Employee Safety & Welfare 60 Human Resource Development 61 Distribution and Feedback This report is published both in Korean and English, and readers’ feedback is APPENDIX accepted via mail, e-mail, or the KEPCO website. For any inquires concerning Third Party Review 64 this report, please contact KEPCO through one of the contact points indicated GRI Index 67 below. ISO26000 Index 70 Financial Information 71 KEPCO Group Companies 72 Power Grid Map 74 Awards Received & Initiatives Joined 75 National & International Memberships in Associations 75 512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul Glossary 76 Strategic Planning Team, Corporate Planning Department Global Network 77 Tel: 82-2-3456-3524 Fax: 82-2-3456-3578 E-mail: hjnature@kepco.co.kr Additional Information 78 Green Energy Pioneer Making A Greener and Cleaner World Together With People and Nature With having the environment as a top priority, KEPCO pursues a strategy of ‘low carbon and green growth’ to bring a brighter future. Towards Energy Pioneer Green World Driven by Eco-Friendly Energy • KEPCO has concentrated on developing eco-friendly energy to preserve the environment by proactively responding to climate change based on its philosophy and vision focusing on the health of the earth. • In improving environmental efficiency as a result of pursuing the eco-friendly management system, KEPCO is a green energy enterprise that embraces an ecofriendly electricity supply chain, develops ‘low carbon and green technologies,’ and creates environmental values with increased energy efficiency. Towards Energy Pioneer Smart Energy Pioneer Creating Plentiful Benefits and Future Value While Increasing the Quality of Life KEPCO has accumulated the best technologies and know-how and proactively responds to the new energy paradigm through creative innovation, qualitative change and strengthened global competitiveness. Towards Energy Pioneer Convenient World Created with Smart Energy • KEPCO, as a representing company in electric power industry, has laid the foundation for development of national economy by stably providing quality electric power that is referred to as a driving engine of economic growth. • KEPCO anticipatively responds to the future based on capabilities accumulated so far, is a smart energy company pioneering new business markets by providing high quality and differentiated services and strengthening knowledgebased creative soft-power capacity. Towards Energy Pioneer Becoming a Reliable and Beloved Company and Providing More Happiness for Humanity, All Together, Create Future Pursuing a happy society with all stakeholders, KEPCO does its part, becoming a sustainable company by creating value and fulfilling social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. All Together, Create Future for Company All Moves Forward to Live in a Happy World • With bringing light to the world and loving each other by sharing, KEPCO has contributed to making a beautiful and happy world as one of the corporate members in society. • Contributing more happiness for humanity, KEPCO is a sustainable company that sincerely fulfills its national and social responsibilities, and gains trust and affections from all stakeholders including employees, customers, shareholders, investors and partners. All Together, Create Future for Company KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 8 CEO Message KEPCO will raise its value as a sustainable company for the greater happiness of all stakeholders. 9 Distinguished stakeholders of KEPCO! We would like to express deepest appreciation to all of you for continuous encouragement and support. KEPCO has played a leading role in facilitating national development by reliably providing high quality electricity, and is moving beyond Korea to the world to become a sustainable company while at the same time leveraging its capability and performance to raise the value for stakeholders. KEPCO will not only comply with 10 principles of the UN Global Compact but also fully implement its sustainable management in order to contribute to the development of the nation, society, and the growth and happiness of humanity. We Let us become a sustainable company which pursues win-win growth. Trust from all interested parties is a prerequisite for a company to grow sustainably. KEPCO will focus on communication and cooperation with shareholders, customers, partners, employees and local communities, and create performance from economic, environmental, and social perspectives to fulfill social responsibilities in all areas. In addition, we will become a trusted, respected sustainable company by placing an emphasis on the philosophy of sharing, transparency and co-prosperity. Create Let us make energy contributing to the happiness of humanity. Providing quality of life to the nation, people and humanity is our calling and mission. We do this by fulfilling the roles and responsibilities assigned to us. KEPCO will minimize environmental impacts that can be generated while doing business in the power industry and lead low carbon & green growth in order to respond to climate change, an issue facing all human beings. In addition, we will do our part to provide convenient, clean and safe energy with one of the world’s best power quality and services. Future Let us create a future growth engine to become a Global Top. Faced with ever-changing business environments such as the combining of electric power and IT, expansion of the global market, a slowdown in the domestic electric power industry, there is a growing need for exploring a new driving engine to facilitate sustainable growth. KEPCO will proactively respond to changes in future trends, and examine and restructure the existing system. In addition, we will promote changes and innovation to enhance financial soundness of domestic electric businesses and the operational effectiveness of power infrastructure, thereby improving corporate value. At the same time, we will make efforts to maximize intangible soft power including human resources, technology and service, to create value from overseas businesses, green technologies, and resources development abroad. Distinguished stakeholders of KEPCO! KEPCO will pursue continuous growth, respect the environment and faithfully assume its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen to take the lead in creating a society where everyone shares the results of growth. We would like to urge all of you to remain interested and supportive to help us realize our dream of bringing a greater happiness to humanity. Thank you. October 2011 President & CEO Joong-kyum Kim KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 about kepco 10 KEPCO Vision KEPCO Vision KEPCO established its Vision as a “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer” to become one of the major energy enterprises leading in global green growth. KEPCO set its managerial targets of USD 87 billion for total sales, USD 26 billion for overseas sales and 6% of ROIC in 2020. Vision en & Smart En Gre erg p y Nuclear Power Hydro Glob & Thermal/ r Plant nee Operation Renewables al T Nuclear Resource Pio Power Plant Exploration o Construction Domestic Business Smart Grid Midand Long-Term Strategic Goals Sales: ROIC: USD 87 billion More than 6 % Overseas No. of World Best Sales: Technologies: USD26 billion 25 Midand Long-Term Strategic Directions Leading Expanding Driving Advancing Green Technology Business Markets Global Business Innovation & Efficiency Midand Long-Term Low Carbon Power Generation Commercialization of Overseas Expansion into Strategic Cooperation among Strategic Tasks •IGCC, CCS, Nuclear Power Green Technology All Power Generation Field Affiliated Companies Generation •IGCC, CCS, Smart Grid, •Thermoelectric Power, in the Group Electric Vehicle Nuclear Power, Hydroelectric Power, Renewable Energy, Power Transmission & Distribution High Efficiency Power Horizontal Diversification Fuel Self-Sufficiency for Innovation of Management Transmission & Distribution of Green Electric Power Electric Power Generation Infrastructure Technology •CDM Business •Independent development rate at 60% •Finance, Personnel, •Smart Grid, Superconduction, HVDC CO2 Reduction System Demand Creation Infrastructure Expansion of Green Technology Overseas Business •Electric Vehicle, Electrical Energy House 11 CEO Management Principle CEO Management Principle Foster a global and future-oriented mindset Contribute to the well-being of humanity Lead based on trust and communication Embrace change and innovation Create Value for all stakeholders Be socially responsible We aim to transform into a widely loved and admired company and pursue sustainable growth by creating future value based on continuous innovation for the purpose of achieving the mutual growth of employees, nation and society, and contributing to the general happiness of humankind. Map of Management Strategy Foster a global and future-oriented mindset Globalization as a way of thinking, •Benchmarking of globally-recognized best practice to become a Global No. 1 in all Thinking Establishment of future-oriented areas business structure • Pioneering new business areas through forecasts about future trends Contribute to the well-being of humanity Self-realization of all members, • Making an enjoyable place to work by creating a people-focused, creative and dynamic Contribution to the happiness of corporate culture mankind • Provision of high-level green energy services contributing to the happiness of mankind Lead based on trust and communication • Becoming an organization harmonizing with trust through honesty and communication Pursuit of reconciliation and Way common growth based on trust • Gaining social consensus through transparent dialogue and ethical management with stakeholders Embrace change and innovation • Continuous change and challenge to overcome limitations rather than being content Challenging future with no fear of with the present change • Securing future competitiveness by translating crisis into opportunity through creative innovation and qualitative change Create Value for all stakeholders • Creating tangible value to satisfy all stakeholders ranging from customers, Achievement of best corporate Goal value shareholders, and employees • Maximization of values from such aspects as talent, corporate culture, technology, brand and financial soundness Be socially responsible Becoming a beloved company, • Making an effort to become a beloved company by creating various values and leading Realization of sustainable growth a common growth • Pursuing a sustainable company through performance creation from an economical, environmental and social point of view KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 about kepco 12 Overview of Electric Power Industry Characteristics of The electric power industry requires facilities on stand-by at all times because electricity is consumed Korea’s Electric immediately after being generated, and by nature, cannot be stored economically. The industry also needs a Power Industry grid to distribute and transmit electricity. Korea highly depends on overseas markets for energy (97%) and its geographically-isolated grid system makes it impossible to import electricity from neighboring countries. In addition, long-distance transmission is required because production is concentrated in the south while most of the power is consumed in the northern part of the country. Furthermore, demand is very difficult to control, and considerable time and massive investment is required to secure supply capacity. Industry Structure The six power generation companies (GENCOs), independent power producers (IPPs) and community energy system (CES) providers generate electric power and sell it to KEPCO on the Korea Power Exchange (KPX). KEPCO, in turn, sells electricity to general customers through the transmission and distribution network. Competition in the sales sector of the industry is increasing as large-volume customers (more than 30,000kW) are allowed to buy electric power directly from producers, and each CES provider is allowed to supply electric power in a specific district. Structure of Korean Electric Power Industry Government CES Providers Supervision ing Trad Trad ing 6 GENCOs (5 Thermal, Customers 1 Hydro & Nuclear) Trading Transmission Trading (Power Consumption) & Distribution IPPs n + ratio Ope Sales ket Mar Related Business KPX KEPCO Group Affiliates 13 Work Flow in the Electric Power Industry Power Plants Transmission Line Substation Distribution Lines Customer GENCOs (Production) KEPCO’s Business Areas (Transportation + Sales) KEPCO’s Role KEPCO is a special corporation incorporated under the “Korea Electric Power Corporation Act,” and classified as a market type public corporation under the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations. KEPCO is carrying out diverse business projects according to its foundation objectives, for example, development of power sources, generation, transmission, substation, distribution, and sales, research and development, overseas business, investment or contribution, and development and operation of real estate holdings. KEPCO’s Mission Electric Power-related Research & Development Overseas Business Generation•Transmission Investment & Contribution, Development •Substation•Distribution•Sales & Operation of Real Estate Holdings Electric Power Development KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 about kepco 14 About KEPCO KEPCO Overview KEPCO Group Companies Overview • GENCOs As of Dec. 31, 2010 Korea Electric Power KEPCO’s Share Name Capital Stock Corporation Name Main Business Amount (KRW 100 million) Rate (%) (KRW 100 million) 512, Yeongdong-daero, Headquarters Korea South-East Power Co. Power generation & development 3,327 3,327 100 Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Foundation July 1, 1961 Korea Midland Power Co. Power generation & development 1,530 1,530 100 Korea Western Power Co. Power generation & development 1,760 1,760 100 Total Assets KRW 74 trillion Korea Southern Power Co. Power generation & development 2,309 2,309 100 Korea East-West Power Co. Power generation & development 3,074 3,074 100 Sales KRW 39.2 trillion Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power Co. Power generation & development 11,316 11,316 100 Employees 19,387 • Affiliates As of Dec. 31, 2010 Electricity Sold 434.2 billion kWh KEPCO’s Share Annually Capital Stock Name Main Business Amount (KRW 100 million) Rate (%) Korea Finance Corp 30% (KRW 100 million) Government 21% KEPCO Engineering & Shareholders Engineering service for power generation 76 60 77.94 Foreigners 26% Construction Company, Inc. Others 23% KEPCO Plant Service & Maintenance and repairs for plants 90 68 75 Engineering Co., Ltd. Korea Exchange (KRX) in 1989 KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., Ltd. Nuclear fuel manufacturing 932 898 96.4 IPO Markets New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 1994 KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Information and Telecommunications 640 640 100 Network Co., Ltd. KEPCO’s History Jan. 1898 Sep. 1915 Jul. 1, 1961 Jan. 1, 1982 Apr. 2, 2001 Hansung Electric Company Kyungsung Electric Company Korea Electric Company Korea Electric Power Spin-off of GENCOs Ltd. Corporation Aug. 1918 Aug. 1943 Daehung Electric Company Chosun Electric Company May 1946 Namsun Electric Company Reorganization Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power Co. Merger Korea South-East Power Co. Korea Midland Power Co. Korea Western Power Co. Korea Southern Power Co. Korea East-West Power Co. 15 Organizational KEPCO has 21 departments/offices under 7 divisions at the Head Office. Operations nationally and globally Structure span a total of 250 locations, including the Management Research Institute and other 12 special offices. Under General Business Division are 13 district divisions, 1 special office, 175 branch offices and 38 power transmission branch offices, while the Power Grid Construction Division oversees 3 construction district divisions and 6 construction branch offices. The Overseas Business Division is in charge of 2 overseas offices. KEPCO established a system in January 2009 in which a stable power supply and an efficient & responsible management can be pursued through the foundation of comprehensive business head offices on a local community level incorporating main functions of transmission, substation and distribution. In addition, KEPCO is proactively responding to environmental changes of a future electric industry by reinforcing organizational structure in business areas with growth potential such as overseas projects, Smart Grid and etc. Organizational Chart As of Jun. 30, 2011 President & CEO Controller & Audit General Audit & Inspection Office Executive Vice President Executive Vice President (General Business Div.) (Nuclear Export Div.) Secretariat Management Innovation Office Corporate Communications Office Planning & Power General Power Grid Administration Nuclear Overseas Coordination Technology Business Construction Div. Export Div. Business Div. Div. Div. Div. Div. Management 5 offices 3 offices 17 offices 3 offices 2 offices China Office Research including the including the including Seoul including including Institute KEPCO Academy Korea Electric District Division Gyeongin the KEPCO Power Research Transmission Abu Dhabi Institute & Distribution Branch Office Construction Office KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 16 Global Trends and Business Environment Global Trends in The trends in the global electric power industry can be summarized as diversifying business areas through the Electric Power horizontal and vertical expansion, developing a new market based on existing markets, and advancing into Industry the green market. In line with such global trends, KEPCO is expanding their overseas business presence, and preemptively securing green technologies and increasing the synergy effect of the Group’s businesses. Domestic With global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the energy industry is required to shift swiftly Environment in toward a low-carbon system. In addition, competition for resources is intensifying among nations, and Electric Industry stakeholders’ demand for corporate social responsibility such as ISO26000 is soaring. KEPCO will continue to respond proactively to such environmental changes to ensure sustainable growth, and fulfill social responsibilities to grow along with stakeholders. Management Economy Environment Society Condition by Area Increased demand for Realizaion of electricity mostly in carbon control and Increased demand for developing countries with Increasing needs for social responsibility resources, and intensified management of of corporation competition for prior energy efficiency by the stakeholders occupation of green market Responses Expand business areas Strengthen green management Pursuit of shared growth with including overseas power capacity and development interested parties, mutual plants and resource of eco-friendly electric management and partnership development technologies with partners Lay foundation for development Establishment of transparent Enhancement of social and commercialization of site selection system and contribution activities and green technologies through operation of eco-friendly Introduction of Global Smart Grid, IGCC, CCS and etc. electric facilities Standard-Level Ethical Management System 17 Corporate Governance Board of Directors The CEO of KEPCO is referred by the Nomination Committee, consisting of non-standing directors and nongovernment members, approved by the resolution of the general shareholder’s meeting, requested by the Minister of Knowledge Economy and finally, appointed by the President. The tenure of the CEO is three years. Board of Directors Standing directors other than the CEO are appointed by the CEO on the agreement of the general meeting of • Non-standing directors: shareholders. Non-standing directors are appointed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance with the referral 8 persons • Standing directors: of the Nomination Committee and the resolution of Steering Committee of Public Enterprises. Chairman of 7 persons the board of directors is one of senior non-standing directors appointed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance through voting process of the Steering Committee of Public Enterprises. Audit Committee In order to keep independence of the BOD, stakeholders who have special interests in a company cannot be •Non-standing auditors: 2 persons appointed as non-standing directors. In accordance with the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, •Standing auditor: tenure of directors other than the CEO is two years, and can be appointed for consecutive terms in a row, on a 1 person •Chair: Non-standing director one year basis every time. •Business & Accounting practices In 2010, the BOD met 16 times to address a total of 64 agenda items. Significant matters, which were not on the agenda list, were separately reported to the BOD. If necessary, the BOD can invite experts or any person Nomination Committee interested in hearing their opinion, and any director who has special interest in a specific agenda is not allowed • Non-standing directors + to vote on the agenda. In addition to the agenda, significant matters regarding economic, environmental or/ Non-government members and social performance are separately reported to the BOD pursuant to the articles of incorporation and the •The majority of non-standing directors regulations of the BOD. •Recommendation of candidates for members Efforts to strengthen the roles of BOD in 2010 Strengthened checks・ •Establishment of a process for pre-consideration about agenda by each stage to strengthen agenda deliberation procedure surveillance of •Facilitation of operation subcommittees, for example, a systematic operation of the Audit Committee the management of BOD •Advancement of the operational system of the BOD, for example, setting a system for real time monitoring on BOD operation •Securing non-standing directors from diverse areas that are commensurate with the company’s environment Intensified utilization of •Expansion of opportunities for non-standing directors into management process, for example, visit to electric business areas specialty of non-standing •Real time reflection of suggestions proposed by non-standing directors by establishing and operating a Alwaysdirectors Management Suggestion System Remuneration of Following consultations with the Nomination Committee, the CEO signs a pact with the Minister of Knowledge Directors Economy with respect to management objectives or key challenges to be achieved or addressed during his or her tenure. Every year, the progress made on the implementation of the pact is reviewed by the Performance Appraisal Board for Public Enterprises, which is composed of experts from various fields. Standing directors other than the CEO are required to set management objectives and sign a pact with the CEO every year and are evaluated by taking into consideration quantified performance on management objectives and the outcome of the Government Management Evaluation. The directors are paid under a remuneration ceiling determined by a resolution at the general meeting of shareholders. Non-standing directors are paid an allowance for work activities. Audit Committee KEPCO established a committee comprised of three auditors who are responsible for independent audit and inspection of its business and accounting practices. Two of them are non-standing directors, and the chair is assumed by a non-standing director. One of the three auditors is an accounting or financial expert in accordance with the enforcement decree of the Commercial Act. The work performance of the standing auditor is evaluated by the Performance Appraisal Board of Public Enterprises. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 about kepco 18 Ethical Management KEPCO established proactive action plans to pursue company-side anti-corruption and integrity strategies. Effectiveness of ethical guidelines has been enhanced through various activities such as revision of ethical guidelines. In addition, pre-control activities against corruption have been carried out by running a cyber ethical consulting center, monitoring use of corporate credit cards and operation of KEPCO’s 2nd ombudsman office. As a result, KEPCO was selected as the No. 1 company among 21 public enterprises in the survey of integrity on public bodies organized by Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Committees, and also the company was positioned itself as the highest for 5 consecutive years in the evaluation on policies about anti-corruption. Progress on Strategic Ethical Management phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 Establishment of Basics for Ethical Management Settlement of Ethical Management System Leading Corporate Culture of Integrity Ethics Introduction (~2005) Settlement (2006~2008) Maturity (2009~) • Enactment of code of ethics and code of conduct • Entering into mid-range of score 9 in integrity • Continuous attainment of getting score of 9.5 in integrity • Establishment of steering organization and required • Implementation of corruption detection and feedback • Continuous implementation of corruption detection and infrastructure system feedback system • Intensive improvement in vulnerable area to corruption • Strengthening anti-corruption system • Conducting customized ethical management • Training about ethical management·increased integrity • Online and offline ethical training • Leading ethical management in electric power industry • Establishment of basis for common understanding with • Encouragement toward stakeholders to join • Spreading ethical management towards interested partners anticorruption campaign parties Proactive Control Any job or position prone to corruption is excluded from job rotation in an effort to proactively control on Corruption Risks opportunities of corruption. Jobs to be rotated are specified, particularly in the sectors of finance, procurement, transmission & substation, distribution, construction and quality inspection. An IT-based intelligent monitoring system is operated to monitor 30 indexes in various areas as cases that are repeatedly detected by audit, marketing, financial accounting, purchased materials and so on. In particular, an unusual transaction scenario was additionally developed in 2010 in order to standardize risk indexes (from 15 to 20). Integrity & Ethics KEPCO employees continued to receive training on integrity & ethics to foster a corporate culture of integrity. Training In March 2010, KEPCO and its Audit Office encouraged their willingness for integrity by conducting “Visiting Integrity Training” towards 240 branch offices in 46 business areas across the country. Meanwhile, KEPCO Academy runs an “Integrity Promotion Class,” a training curriculum specialized in anti-corruption to allow persons responsible for pursuing integrity at their offices to participate in to increase the effectiveness of integrity training. In addition, in June 2010, a cyber training course called “Code of Conduct for Public Servants through Cases” was opened. With a total of 19,764 employees taking integrity training on& off-line, annual per capita training time rose 48.1% from 8.13 hours in 2009 to 12.1 hours in 2010. Actions against KEPCO has four levels of disciplinary actions to take with employees involved in corruption: (1) reprimand, Corruption (2) salary reduction, (3) suspension from duty and (4) dismissal. In November 2010, relevant regulations were revised to introduce a “Three Strikes & Out” rule which allows the company to dismiss employees who have engaged in corruption such as, demands for bribes, gifts, embezzlement three times to apply the criteria of punishment in a strict way. Code of Ethics 19 Enacted in Feb. 1996 1st Revision in Dec. 2003 2nd Revision in Jan. 2005 3rd Revision in Dec. 2009 4th Revision in Dec. 2010 We are truly proud that KEPCO has contributed to the development of the national economy and society by providing the best quality service and electric power to all customers. That pride and self-confidence is now being leveraged to make KEPCO a global power company that continues to grow and develop together with all stakeholders. To this end we are pursuing core values, which are “Global Excellence,” “Customer Respect,” “Performance Drive,” “Challenge & Innovation” and “Social Responsibility.” We understand that fair and transparent operation, firmly grounded in corporate ethics, is essential for us to achieve that end. Therefore this Code of Ethics has been adopted and all employees are required to follow it as the standard for correct behavior and proper decision making. •First, we share the company's core values and vision, carry out our duties with the spirit of challenge and entrepreneurship, comply with all laws, and perform tasks in a fair and faithful manner. •Second, we provide customers with the best quality service and electricity and respect all customers so as to pursue co-prosperity with customers. •Third, we make a healthy profit through business innovations and take the lead in enhancing corporate values and achieving sustainable growth. •Fourth, we respect each and every employee, give them equal opportunities, create a pleasant and comfortable working environment and make them proud of our company. •Fifth, we adhere to Korean and overseas regulations and laws, abide by international agreements, protect the environment, and actively participate in public interest activities as a member of society so as to contribute to the development of the nation and society. Article 1 General Rules long term by enhancing corporate values through continuous changes and This Code of Ethics is the standard for correct behavior and proper decision innovations. making. It must be complied with by all KEPCO employees in order to create 3. We disclose corporate information in a transparent manner, provide more a corporate culture based on fairness, transparency and business ethics. opportunities to participate in the company decision-making process and help shareholders and investors exercise their rights. Article 2 Basic Ethics for KEPCO Employees 1. We share company’s core values and vision, fulfill our duties and pursue Article 5 Ethical Treatment of Employees personal and company growth through continuous self-development. 1. We respect each and every employee, give equal opportunities to them 2. We abide by all laws, perform tasks in a fair and faithful manner, make according to their competence, and neither discriminate nor provide special no unfair profit and strive to maintain personal dignity and the company treatment on the basis of gender, educational background, religion, age, or reputation. disabilities. 3. We recognize that both labor and management are owners of our company 2. We fully support employees efforts to develop themselves and grow into and take the lead in pursuing joint growth and co-prosperity built on trust the professionals necessary for our company to succeed. We also create a and understanding. work environment that encourages creative and empowered thinking and behavior. Article 3 Ethical Treatment of Customers and Suppliers 3. We establish a pleasant and safe work environment and strive to make 1. In the spirit of respecting customers, we always put customer value first employees proud of the company based on mutual trust and understanding. and earn customers’ trust by providing them with the best quality electricity and services. Article 6 Ethical Treatment of the Nation and Society 2. We respect the order of the market economy based on the principle of free 1. We continuously grow and develop through reasonable and responsible competition and compete with others in good faith on the basis of mutual management so as to contribute to the development of a nation and society respect. and fulfill social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. 3. We provide a fair chance to suppliers, perform tasks in a mutually equal 2. We promote safety awareness to protect employees and customers in the position and seek win-win growth with suppliers by providing them with spirit of respect for all people. Understanding the importance of protecting diverse kinds of support. the environment, we comply with Korean and foreign environmental laws and regulations and endeavor to protect the environment and prevent Article 4 Ethical Treatment of Shareholders and Investors pollution. 1. We make sound profits through efficient management and transparent 3. We abide by Korean and foreign laws and regulations and international performance so as to protect the returns of shareholders and investors. agreements, and we respect the culture of host countries and contribute to 2. We pursue the sound growth and development of our company over the their economic development. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 KEPCO and Sustainability 20 Sustainability Management: Operational Mechanism Sustainability KEPCO set a sustainability management target called “KS-GT5” (KEPCO Sustainability Global Top 5) under Management the vision of “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer” by 2020, implementing 12 action items covering Framework economics, the environment, and society. The 12 action items were mapped to the “2020 Mid-/Long-term Strategies,” adding momentum to our drive to realize the vision. Sustainability KEPCO has been operating a unit dedicated to Corporate Sustainability Management (CSM) since 2005 in order Management to implement policy more systematically. Organization Sustainability management activities are supervised by the Strategic Planning Team under the Corporate Planning Department, and executed by 21 departments (offices) and 250 locations of operation nationwide. Sustainability Management Overview Vision Action Plans Economy Environment Society Strengthen basis for future growth Establish low carbon and green Secure social leadership growth management Key Action Items • Supply high quality electric power in a • Enhance an integrated environmental • Strengthen “partnership in growth” stable manner management system • Pursue social contribution activities • Provide differentiated customer • Accelerate development of green • Respect human rights and bring services technology diversity • Diversify overseas business and build • Increase eco-friendliness of electric • Establish labor relations based on up capacity power supply chain communication and harmony • Facilitate managerial innovation and • Respond to the Convention on Climate R&D strategies Change Development Phases of Sustainability Management Development Stage Foundation-laying Growth & development Sustainability management 2005~2010 2011~2015 2016~2020 3 Key Areas Sales: KRW 39 trillion Sales: KRW 68 trillion Sales: KRW 87 trillion Economy ROIC: 1% ROIC: 4% ROIC: More than 6% Certification of environmental Strengthen an integrated Lead green management and Environment management system environmental management system technology standardization 10th most respected Most respected Society Trust-building company in Korea company in Korea Principles for Enacted in August 2005 KEPCO Sustainability Management KEPCO leads Korea’s electric power industry. As such we are committed to corporate social responsibility, contributing to the sustainable development of the country, society and humanity. We hereby pledge to make KEPCO a world-class electric power company growing together with customers by pursuing sustainability management in the areas of economy, environment, society and human resources. Economy : Sustainable Growth • We secure a competitive advantage in the global market and build future growth engines based on a challenging spirit and creative, forward thinking. We also raise corporate value by maintaining a sound financial structure. • We continue efforts to raise operational efficiency to the global level by taking the initiative in innovation activities. Environment : Eco-Value Creation • We stay ahead in developing core technologies in the electric power industry through ongoing technological innovation, and are a leader • We implement environmental management systematically to in the development of the global electric power industry. maximize environmental efficiency, and continue to increase energy use efficiency through proactive demand control. • We strive to make the electric power supply chain eco-friendlier. • We closely cooperate with other group companies to tackle climate change issues, thereby contributing to global environmental Society : Trust-Building conservation and raising environmental value for future generations. • We perform all matters equitably according to moral and ethical values, and disclose business performance faithfully to enhance managerial transparency. • We seek to grow with all stakeholders by ensuring mutual benefits Human : People-Oriented Management for customers, suppliers, group companies, the government, society, shareholders and employees. • We continue to raise the quality of life of all employees by building • We make KEPCO a respected company that fulfills social future-oriented labor relations, strengthening health and safety responsibility by engaging all employees in the practice of sharing activities, and promoting employee welfare. management. • We nurture human resources with global capabilities under the definition of KEPCO’s Ideal employee to continue strengthening our corporate competencies. • We manage HR value by complying with the principles of respect for human rights & human diversity, gender equality, nondiscrimination, prevention of forced labor and child labor and support of the socially vulnerable. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 KEPCO and Sustainability 22 Materiality Test Process To draw up this Report, KEPCO identified stakeholders’ areas of interest and their relative impact on the company. A sophisticated materiality test process was established to identify significant issues affecting the decision-making process with regard to economic, environmental and social issues. Materiality Test Process is composed of Issue Identification, Priority Setting, Review and Reporting Framework. Accordingly we have made reporting a priority and adopted a structured approach toward significant issues. STEP 1 Identification of Issues STEP 2 Priority-Setting STEP 3 Review STEP 4 Reporting Framework Internal Issues •Business Strategy/KPIs Organizational Impact •Management Expectations/ •Strategic Importance Review by External Experts System •Impact on Business Improvement of External Issues Publication Process Interest of Stakeholders •Benchmarking/ Review by Management •Social Trends Government Policy •Importance by Issue •Survey of Stakeholders A Pool of Issues Key Issues Materiality Test Materiality Test Matrix High ◀ •Management Innovation •Expand Overseas Interest of Stakeholders •Respond to Business Climate Change •Secure Green •Diversify Social Technologies •Employee safety Contributions Activities and health •Mutual Growth •Human Resources with SMEs Development •Collaboration between Group Companies ▶ Low ◀ Impact on Business ▶ High KEPCO drew a conclusion on main issues for a sustainable management by performing the Materiality Test Process; Management Innovation, Response to Climate Change, Employee safety and welfare, etc. Participation of KEPCO recognizes all Koreans who use electricity, Stakeholders foreign residents who are working on overseas Government Shareholders projects in Korea, organizations, and corporations as its customers. The customers are categorized Society Economy based on the characteristics of interested people NGOs Consumers into stakeholders, creditors, the government, civic groups, partners and executives and employees. We utilize diverse channels such as a general meeting Local Communities Suppliers of shareholders, investment presentations, an Environment ombudsman system and a variety of committees and VOC to make decisions and identify main issues Employees Global Society regarding sustainable management. 23 Key Performance Indicators KEPCO has set key performance indicators (KPIs) in three major areas of economics, environment and society in association with the Mid-/Long-term Strategies and management goals. In this report, we presented three year performance results in order to help stakeholders understand the sustainability management activities of KEPCO. KPIs Performance Results Target Economy 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sales (KRW 100 million) 315,224 336,857 391,387 441,000 Overseas Sales (KRW 100 million) 5,074 5,640 15,478 19,800 Overseas Installed Capacity (MW) 2,991 3,116 3,455 3,039 Fuel Self-Sufficiency (%) 3.5 17 28 35 IPR (No. of cases) 1,416 1,536 1,476 1,423 Outage/Blackout Hour (MinuteㆍCustomer/Year) 16.08 15.59 15.15 13.22 Environment 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Usage (TOE) 74,991 77,195 78,045 80,397 Water Usage (Thousand tons) 963 1,025 1,014 1,191 Waste Recycling Rate (%) 94 92.1 100 100 Purchase of Environment-Friendly Products (%) 50.1 90.7 91.5 92 Progress of Green Technology Development (%) 8.15 29 48 CDM Business (No. of cases) 8 8 13 14 GHG Emissions (Thousand of tons of CO2) 2,795 2,175 2,036 2,000 T/D Loss Rate (%) 4.01 4.07 3.99 3.98 Society 2008 2009 2010 2011 Integrity as a Public Enterprise (Points) 9.52 8.82 9.44 9.5 Customer Satisfaction as Public Enterprise (Points) 90.8 95.7 98.1 98.4 Purchase from SMEs (%) 76.0 66.3 68.5 72.5 Supplier Satisfaction (Points) 93.3 94.5 95.1 95.5 Social Contributions (KRW 100 million) 1,214 2,885 2,971 3,000 Employment of Women (%) 24.9 20.5 42.0 42.5 Employment of Disabled Persons (%) 2.37 2.48 2.61 2.70 Industrial Accident Rate (%) 0.005 0.025 0.005 Zero KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 24 highlights Sustainability Management Highlights KEPCO is committed to push forward diverse overseas projects and green growth businesses as part of sustainable management strategies and more importantly, KEPCO is creating a society full of hopes by encouraging a culture of sharing and integrity. ●F  ull-Scale Execution of UAE Nuclear Power Business An historical groundbreaking ceremony on UAE Nuclear Power Business was held in Braka, UAE. The ceremony, held at the expected site for construction of a nuclear reactor, was the first official event of UAE Nuclear Power Business since the contract was signed between ENEC and KEPCO. The construction is underway to build a sophisticated and distinguished nuclear reactor. ●A  ccomplishment of the 1st in Integrity, Customer Satisfaction Survey KEPCO earned top score in the category of public enterprises’ integrity as a result of establishment of an ethics management system through continuous activities for improvement, for example, global ethics management training. In addition, Thanks to IT-based One Stop Service, expansion of marketing strategy toward the public, and so on, KEPCO achieved the highest level in the area of customer satisfaction among public enterprises for 12 consecutive years. ●W  inning a Series of Overseas Business in International Competition Bid In August 2010, KEPCO and Samsung C&T Corporation Consortium won the contract of construction and operation in Norte Ⅱ Gas-Fired Combined-Cycle Power Plant (433MW) awarded by Comisión Federal de Electricidad, Mexico. By taking the opportunity, KEPCO has, for the first time, entered into Central and South America. In October, KEPCO won the contract of construction and operation business in Shuweihat S3 Gas-Fired Combined-Cycle Power Plant (1,600MW) in UAE in the Middle East, one of the ferocious battlefields in the Independent Power Market. As such, KEPCO has contributed to job creation and export by winning such overseas businesses in cooperation with domestic companies, and financial organizations. ● Foundation of Steppingstone for “Becoming a Major Company in Global Power Fuel Industry” On July 2010, KEPCO acquired bituminous coal of 16,500,000 tons a year by taking over, shares of 100% for Bylong Mine, Australia, 51% for Ownaview Mine, and 20% owned by Bayan Resources, Indonesia. And it explored high-grade uranium in a mining area of Waterbury Lake, Canada so that KEPCO secured its economic feasibility. As a result of proactive effort to secure resources, KEPCO increased its rate of autonomous development from 17% in 2009 to 28% in 2010. 25 ● Acceleration of Development of Smart Grid and Green Technology KEPCO selected its major green technology items including Smart Grid and IGCC through execution of 2020 mid and long term strategies, and is committed to focusing its capacity on developing these items. In 2010, KEPCO laid the foundation for commercialization of systems including the establishment of comprehensive complex for Smart Grid in Jeju and development of a power distribution system so that groundwork for commercialization has been laid thanks to the introduction of core technologies for IGCC. ● Development of Eco-Friendly & High Efficient New Technology and Facility Operation KEPCO established an eco-friendly power facility system through a radical arrangement in electricity and communication facilities by developing and utilizing eco-friendly supplies and equipment while at the same time improving environmental conditions in side streets in urban areas largely thanks to the development of Semi-Shield New Method. ● Strengthened Inclusive Growth with Small & Medium-Sized Businesses KEPCO operates a technology advisory center for SMEs all year round to facilitate a common growth with them, and helps them promote their products towards overseas markets and strengthen their quality competitiveness. In addition to that, KEPCO shared economical results produced as a result of 5 efforts or areas including cost saving, quality improvement, newly-developed methods, etc. ● Accomplishment of Zero-Defect Power Supply in G20 seoul Summit KEPCO formed a task force team to provide zero-defect power during the G20 summit meeting in November 2010, and arranged power facilities in a comprehensive way. As a result, KEPCO committed to holding a successful G20 Seoul Summit by focusing on securing power in a stable manner. ● Pursuit of Rescue Activity in Disaster Sites on International Level In October 2010, KEPCO founded the 119 Rescue Service Team to support prompt rescue services in case of many unusual weather phenomena, disasters and safety accidents for the sake of realization of a safe society. The 119 Rescue Service Team, consisting of Human Rescue Team, Medical Support Team, and Site Support Team in 6 major cities across the country, carried out diverse restoration work against damaged areas affected by snowstorms, and sites in Yeonpyeong Island fired on by North Korea. ● Expansion of Social Contribution Activity through Labor-Management Joint Cooperative Effort Diverse social contribution activities have been conducted, for example, setting up a sisterhood relationship with local children center, volunteer activities in social welfare centers in cooperation with labor and management, a campaign for cornea donation, opening an account for love fund by all employees, purchasing gift cards for traditional markets, and so forth. Such activities have contributed to supporting the vulnerable and reviving the economy at the same time. KEPCO has also participated in efforts to realize social equity in employment by sharing job opportunities with the youth, national patriots and veterans, and the disabled. Value Creation for the Future ECONOMIC Performance K E P C O ’ s Value L eading to I n f inite P otential in t h e Futu r e KEPCO’s enterprise innovations maximize its management efficiency which creates high-quality and stable electricity supply and provides a variety of customer-oriented services, so that high added value is being created. In addition, KEPCO is moving towards a global energy company through overseas resources explorations and diversified overseas businesses such as nuclear power plants, hydro-thermal plants and renewable energies. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 28 Domestic Business Showing KEPCO’s competence on creating high added value by supplying high-quality and stable electricity and a variety of customer-oriented services. Sales areas where multi-loop transmission systems lie underground, additional installation of 3,117 sets of 154kV lightning arresters, a Thanks to economic recovery, KEPCO’s 2010 sales hit 434,160GWh, plan to operate the integrated prevention and diagnosis system for 10.1% up from 2009 and its profit posted a 13.4% increase year-aftersubstations on a trial basis and development of the warning system year to KRW 37.6842 trillion. Despite the group-level belt tightening of heavy equipment access to transmission lines. in cost savings, it recorded a net loss of KRW 61.4 billion due to energy cost hikes. While its business environment even in 2011 is • Transmission Lines expected to be unfavorable because of energy price increases and Unit: c-km growing competition in the energy industry, KEPCO will make all-out Item 1980 1990 2000 2008 2009 2010 efforts for outstanding business performance through continuous 765kV 595 755 755 835 cost-saving activities, management efficiency and so on. 345kV 2,044 4,935 7,281 8,310 8,552 8,580 Below 154kV 10,641 14,497 18,706 20,864 20,950 21,261 Total 12,685 19,432 26,582 29,929 30,257 30,676 • Sales Records ✽ Underground line is 2,985c-km. (incl. HVDC underwater line) Item 2008 2009 2010 • Substations Volume (GWh) 385,070 394,475 434,160 Unit: MVA Amount (KRW 100 million) 311,817 332,256 376,842 Item 1980 1990 2000 2008 2009 2010 765kV 23,114 24,115 27,115 345kV 6,334 21,171 53,115 98,884 104,595 108,096 Transmission and Substations Below 154kV 12,774 30,514 72,585 115,302 119,076 121,107 Total 19,108 51,685 125,700 237,300 247,786 256,318 For high-quality and stable electric power supply, the completion Number 378 319 483 693 715 731 of 96 projects, including the 765kV Shinanseong~Shingapyeong ✽T  he number of substations include 48 switchyards, and the number of unmanned transmission system, has made the 585c-km transmission lines substations is 590. ✽A  “switchyard” is junction connecting the transmission and distribution system on a and 8,540MVA main transformers ready on time. In order to make its power plant site. transmission system projects objective and transparent, KEPCO has largely used its effective location selection system involving interested Distribution parties like local residents, local experts and local governments. In order to address civil complaints, KEPCO has deployed its risk KEPCO has expanded power distribution systems to secure stable electric management experts on the main construction sites. Furthermore, supply by recently deploying 9,502 automatic switches and carrying out KEPCO has installed 430Mvar condensers for less loss and better 529 new projects such as distribution automation systems and broad efficiency of existing transmission lines and better electric reliability. distribution control centers. KEPCO has developed and used highIts construction of undersea cables and substations has just kicked efficient and low-loss equipment like power cables and transformers, off for the second Jindo-Jeju transmission network. so that it has achieved a world-class level of transmission loss rate For prevention of large-scale failures, KEPCO’s efforts have of 3.99% compared to other OECD economies. In addition, KEPCO’s continued: a monitoring system which is up and running in the urban state-of-the-art technologies like automation systems and smart & mobile engineering systems have made construction costs lower and the efficiency of distributor design has improved. • Distribution Lines Item 1980 1990 2000 2008 2009 2010 Line Length 122,919 231,263 351,264 410,015 420,257 428,259 (c-km) Supports 2,029 3,905 6,439 8,053 8,219 8,343 (Thousand Units) Transformers 264 602 1,309 1,917 1,961 1,990 (Thousand Units) Shinanseong 765kV Substation ✽ Underground line is 35,620c-km. 29 ECONOMIC Performance Customer Service System Improvement KEPCO continues to improve its customer-oriented operating system to satisfy customer needs. By lowering the baseline of low-voltage supplied customers from below 100kW down to below 50kW, the customers pay less for power supply systems and are given wider options to choose from. While electricity reserves were only allowed for high-voltage supplied customers in the past, any customers, if they want, can now be given electricity reserves. Gangnam Distribution Control Center KEPCO’s customer-oriented operating system continues to evolve: new power supply available within a shorter period of time than before, Electricity Quality no surety is needed when credit-healthy customers apply for electric uses and so on. KEPCO will endeavor to respond to changes and satisfy In order to check its distribution systems and transmission systems, customer needs. KEPCO uses high-tech IT equipment such as high-frequency monitoring equipment, thermal imaging equipment and optical binoculars, and IT-Based Customer Service helicopters, respectively. By doing so, KEPCO has maintained a KEPCO offers various IT services for the sake of customers’ global level of electric quality with the blackout time per household of convenience. As a growing number of smart phone users need 15.15 minutes in 2010, down 2.8% from 15.59 minutes in 2009. a ubiquitous environment, KEPCO has established mobile cyber KEPCO’s efforts do not stop here: for the sake of preventing systemcenters in which customers can make customer service requests breakdown-related blackouts, it plans to provide thermal imaging and get access to information any time and any place. monitoring services for high-voltage customers, to create equipment Now any customer who wants electric services can apply online in monitoring centers for each operation, to train monitoring personnel and to less time and for less money. Online applications for electric services in develop cutting-edge monitoring equipment. 2010 out of total applications stand at 32%. • Blackout Hour per Customer Unit: MinuteㆍCustomer/Year KEPCO ’10 15.15 Taiwan ’08 22.6 USA ’07 137.7 UK ’07 78.1 France ’08 78 Japan ’08 10 Efforts for High Electricity Quality Mobile Customer Service Center KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 30 Overseas Business Continuously driving KEPCO’s growth engine through diversified overseas businesses. Under the Vision of Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer equipped with technological competence, KEPCO endeavors to explore its growth engines in the overseas electricity markets, so that it can overcome sluggish domestic demand of electricity. Its future growth can be made overseas in the areas of thermoelectric power plants, nuclear power plants, renewable energies, resources explorations, transmission systems, smart grids, and so on. KEPCO’s 2020 target for overseas business is to attain USD 26 billion, or 30% of its total sales target. Advanced Power Reactor-1400 Nuclear Power Bird’s Eye View of UAE Nuclear Power Plants On December 27 2009 for the first time in its history, KEPCO made an 18.6 billion dollar nuclear power plant project deal with Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation (ENEC). Under the project, four Koreantype 1,400MW reactors will be built starting with No.1 reactor on May 1 2017 ending with No.4 reactor by 2020. KEPCO has been gearing up for a successful completion of the project since making the UAE nuclear deal: in 2010 it launched UAE nuclear project task force to make contracts with private companies and subcontractors, made UAE-customized designs, embarked on making and purchasing main equipment, carried out site-related activities like acquisition of permission, completion of the construction site survey and building of construction offices and supporting facilities, and applied for construction permission of UAE Federal Authority For Nuclear Regulation (FANR). On March 14 2011, KEPCO held a groundbreaking ceremony at the site for UAE power plants. 31 ECONOMIC Performance Cebu Thermal Power Plant in the Philippines Thermal and New & Renewable Power • Sales of Overseas Projects Unit: KRW 100 million Generation 2008 5,074 2009 5,640 In the area of thermoelectric power in 2010, KEPCO won Mexico’s 2010 15,630 Norte II project which Mexico’s state-owned power utility, Commission Federal de Electrician (CFE), has awarded and will billion in sales with a 17% growth year after year. be a 433MW combined-cycle power plant (CCPP). That is the first KEPCO will try to focus on renewable energies with great growth project that KEPCO won in Central and South America. In the UAE potential like wind power, photovoltaic power and geothermal power market, which is probably the most competitive market in the world while minimizing carbon emissions. KEPCO will also commercialize for private power builders, KEPCO won the UAE Shuweihat S3 CCPP technologies of eco-friendly thermoelectric power plants like project. Now it has established itself as a global private power leader. IGCC and CCS and be active in the hydroelectric power market In the area of renewable energies, KEPCO acquired wind power by capitalizing on affluent water resources of Latin America and projects of Inner Mongolia, China with a 975MW capacity in 2009 and Southeast Asia. an additional 246MW capacity in 2010. That proves to the world how competitive KEPCO is in the wind power market. Three overseas projects of about KRW 200 billion in sales in 2010 are expected to contribute not only to KEPCO’s profitability but also to its brand image as a global power builder. The expansion of the Neimenggu wind power project has secured a 10 billion won carbon credit per annum, which prevents global warming. UAE and Latin America projects involving other Korean companies have created new jobs related to construction and operation of power plants. In the areas of thermoelectric power and renewable energies as of 2010, KEPCO operates 7 plants with a capacity of 2,602MW in China, Malaya Thermal Power Plant in the Philippines the Philippines, Lebanon and other countries, achieving KRW 659.9 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 32 28 Domestic Business 30 Overseas Business 35 Management Innovation Resource Exploration Amid an increasingly growing competition for natural resources due to fierce resource nationalism and resource-rich nations control over resource exports, KEPCO has been very active in exploring overseas resources in order to secure stable supply of fuels and hedge against fluctuating fuel costs. For example, in 2010, KEPCO’s six major initiatives including a takeover of the Bylong mine in Australia have secured 24 million Signing Ceremony for the Contract of Construction and Operation tons of bituminous coal per year and another four projects including Mexico NorteⅡ Gas-Fired Combined-Cycle Power Plant acquisition of stakes in Canada-based Denison have acquired in 1,040 tons of uranium per annum, which has made KEPCO’s selfsufficiency rate go up to 28%, 11% up from 17% in 2009. Resource explorations offer a stable supply of fuels for power generation and create extra profits arising from takeovers of overseas mines. KEPCO’s resource explorations aim at KRW 5.4 trillion in sales, or a 60% self-sufficiency rate of bituminous coal and uranium by 2020. In order to get there, KEPCO’s move will go beyond minority ownership, operating mines by itself and investing not only in Australia and Indonesia Bayan Resources Mines Indonesia but North America for flaming coal and not only in Canada but Africa, Europe and Central Asia for uranium. For the good of stable resources supply and project risk management, the optimum On top of that, KEPCO will promote a trading business in a bid to portfolio will be created per each investment area and each mining broaden its regional horizons and make the best use of alreadydevelopment stage of exploration, development and production. developed resources. Status of Overseas Projects China: Gansu wind power plant (99MW) Neimenggu wind power plant (1,122MW) Kazakhstan: Balkhash power plant, EPC project for power plant modernization Shanxi power plant and coal mining Canada: Uranium development project (5,990MW) Jordan: Al Qatrana power plant (373MW) UAE: Shuweihat S3 gas-fired combined-cycle (1,600MW) Niger: Uranium development UAE nuclear power plant (5,600MW) Nigeria: Egbin power plant Saudi Arabia: Rabigh power plant (1,204MW) Mexico: Norte Ⅱ gas-fired combined cycle (433MW) Philippines: Malaya thermal power plant (650MW) Dominican Republic: Distribution EPC project Indonesia: Bituminous Illijan combined cycle (1,200MW) coal development Naga thermal power plant (448MW) Cebu thermal power plant (200MW ) Australia: Bituminous coal development 33 ECONOMIC Performance Neimenggu Wind Power Plant in China Transmission and Distribution Smart Grid In the field of transmission/distribution systems, KEPCO has a KEPCO is focused on smart grid projects to reduce greenhouse gas world-class competency in the loss rates of transmission/distribution (GHG) emissions, improve energy efficiency and promote the use of and electrical load factors. There are good examples showing new & renewable energy. “Smart grid” refers to an electric power KEPCO’s technological competency: Kazakhstan’s 140 million dollar grid that incorporates information & communication technologies to EPC project of building transmission systems and substations and maximize efficiency for greater eco-friendliness. Dominica’s 45 million dollar EPC project of improving distribution Korea was named a leader in the smart grid area at the Major systems. Like this, KEPCO’s overseas business is increasingly Economies Forum on Energy and Climate in July 2009. At a national growing. level, ground was broken for a smart grid test-bed on Jeju Island in Exhibition Hall of Smart Grid Miniature Distribution Automation System KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 34 28 Domestic Business 30 Overseas Business 35 Management Innovation August 2009, and a national roadmap for smart grids was announced in January 2010. KEPCO has participated in all five areas of the Jeju Smart Grid Test Bed on Jeju Island smart grid test-bed project (2009.12~2013.5). We are working to operate an integrated control center as well 5 Areas of Test Bed as develop smart grid technology and service models, laying the foundation for building a smart grid befitting Korean conditions. KEPCO’s smart grid business has five central pillars: reduction 01 Smart Power Grid •Make Transmission and Distribution Lines Smart in peak demand and load leveling, smart power grid, CO 2 •Build a Real-time Remote Monitoring System reducing renewable energies, standardization of a smart grid and establishment of an information protection system and future growth 02 Smart Place •Build AMI that Allows Two-way Data Exchange engines. •Lay the Foundation for Energy Efficiency based on Demand Response KEPCO has outstanding technologies in the smart grid such as transmission/distribution automation technology. Coupled with 03 Smart Transport •Build EV Charging Infrastructure technical prowess, KEPCO develops customized business models per •Build a Central Control System regions and countries to promote exports. Its smart grid business targets are to secure a foothold based on its smart grid test-bed 04 Smart Renewable •Connect New & Renewable Energy to Power Grid study by 2013, establish the broad smart grid by 2020 and build the •Validate Energy Storage Facilities Connected to Power Grid world’s first nation-level smart grid by 2030. 05 Smart Elec. Service •Develop Various Price Plans for the Establishment of Electric Power Service System •Develop Service Models Smart Grid Exhibition Center 35 ECONOMIC Performance Management Innovation Continuous improvement of management efficiency due to a pioneering organizational culture created by company-wide innovative activities. Thanks to its innovative management system and enterprise innovations, KEPCO was able to improve its management efficiency by creating an environment in which constructive internal competition takes place and employees take on challenges. We carried out innovation projects based on the Tear Down & Redesign (TDR) and Six Sigma (6σ) Concepts, and we also organized direct communication between management and employees. These efforts bore tangible results: we were able to lead the successful export of nuclear power plants to the UAE in and receive the highest mark in the Government Performance Appraisal conducted by Ministry of Strategy and Finance for four consecutive years. To be more concrete, the innovations have covered a total 257 TDR tasks from 2009 to 2010, making direct/indirect expected effects of KRW 928.4 billion. As of the end of August 2011, 100 tasks are being implemented. Going forward, we will continue to make substantial progress in the currently ongoing innovation projects, creating a unique innovation model in the process. Item 2009 2010 Total No. of Tasks 142 115 257 Expected Effects (KRW 100 million) 6,137 3,147 9,284 Management Innovation Program Method of Innovation Activities TDR 6σ (Tear Down & Redesign) (Six Sigma) Innovation Activities Promulgate the Concept of Innovation Direct Communication No. of TDR Tasks in 2009 and 2010 257 Harmony with the Environment environmental Performance KEPCO’s Effort for Coexistence with Nature and a Bright Green Future KEPCO, as a company that performs low carbon and green management and leads in green growth, established the Integrated Environmental Management System to focus on developing green technologies and to commit to securing electric infrastructure. Moreover, KEPCO understands the seriousness of climate change and makes contributions to making a clean environment by joining forces to respond to crisis in cooperation with its affiliates, and by performing activities to reduce green house gas emissions. Environmental KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 Management Expectations KEPCO, as a producer and supplier of electric power, the engine of national competitiveness, will comply with the Environmental Management Expectations stated below. With these Environmental Management Expectations in place, KEPCO will fulfill social responsibilities and strengthen environmental management capacity so as to achieve the vision of being a “Global Top Green &Smart Energy Pioneer.” • We will enhance eco-efficiency by implementing environmental management vigorously. 1. Comply with environment-related laws and regulations, and establish, operate and upgrade a globally-accepted environmental management system to accomplish environmental management goals. 2. Provide proper education and training to ensure active participation of employees in environmental management activities and strengthen communication with stakeholders. 3. Promote the reuse of resources and the use of eco-friendly products to reduce the environmental footprint and contribute to building a society that recycles resources to a high degree. • W  e will strive to make the power supply chain more environmentally-friendly, from production and transportation to sales and consumption. 1. Produce and supply electricity in an environment-friendlier way to improve the sustainability of our society. 2. Construct and operate facilities in harmony with local communities, and improve the efficiency of operation and maintenance to minimize power loss. 3. Carry out energy-saving activities such as load control and energy efficiency programs, enhance the efficiency of energy use at a national level. • We will understand and aggressively respond to climate change, a major environmental issue worldwide. 1. Play a leadership role in a joint response to climate change at the group level. 2. Seek the use of eco-friendly energy, energy saving and equipment improvement to reduce GHG emissions continuously. 3. Support activities to reduce indirect GHG emissions from the use of electric power through systematic power demand control and more efficient transmission and distribution. With the importance of environmental management in mind, each and every employee, from the CEO down, is fully committed to complying with these expectations. 39 environmental Performance Environmental Management System Acquired an international certificated for a company-wide environmental management to become a global composite energy group taking the lead in creating environmental values. In October 2007, KEPCO drew up a “Midto Long-term Environmental Management Master Plan,” designed to conduct environmental management in a more systematic way in pursuit of sustainable development. The midto long-term goal of our environmental management is to enhance environmental management capacity so as to become a global top green & smart energy pioneer. To this end, we have executed strategies and action plans in four areas according to the Environmental Management Master Plan. Environmental Vision Global Energy Group Leading the Creation of Environmental Value Strategies Reinforce the  Improve Capacity to  Strengthen External Respond Proactively to Climate Integrated Environmental Respond to Partnerships Change Management System Environmental Risks • Build up an environmental • Reduce environmental impact • Secure environmental management • Strengthen capacity to tackle Action Plans management organization & raise resulting from business activities leadership climate change awareness • Minimize risks posed by hazardous • Expand ecosystem preservation • Reduce direct/indirect GHG • Reinforce environmental substances programs emissions management programs • Increase the eco-friendliness of • Increase communication on eco• Accelerate Green Technologies • Expand the integrated facilities friendliness • Create Green Profit (CDM) environmental management • Minimize waste discharge • Minimize complaints regarding the system to the entire group environment Action Items 11 Items in 3 Areas 8 Items in 4 Areas 7 Items in 4 Areas 7 Items in 4 Areas Roadmap for Integrated Environmental Management Settlement of Environmental Foundation-Laying Growth & Development Management System 2007 2008~2010 2011~2015 • Establishment of Environmental Management Master Plan •Set-up of the Integrated Environmental Management •Settlement of the Green Management System • Introduction of Environmental Management Programs • ISO14001 Certificate for all locations in operation • Response to the Management of Green-house gas & (ISO14001, Environmental Performance Evaluation) • Eco-friendly Power Supply Chain Energy goals • Enhancement of Waste discharge management •Development of CDM business • Acceleration of Green Technologies •Establishment of CDM business plan •Creation of Green Profit (CDM) Environmental Management System Certification KEPCO obtained the Environmental Management System (ISO14001) Certification for five locations in operation in 2007 and then for all locations in operation in 2008. In 2010, KEPCO is trying to expand the extent for getting certificates into nuclear power plant construction and operational management areas, thereby leading the eco-friendly management mechanism. ISO14001 Certificates October 2007 October 2008 September 2009 October 2010 ISO14001 Certificate for 5 ISO14001 Certificate for Ex-Post Audit Renewal Audit locations in operation all locations in operation KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 40 Development of Low-Carbon Green Power Technologies Become a global green company leading the low carbon green technology industry by setting and accomplishing strategies for development of green technologies and midto longterm road map. KEPCO, according to its vision, established development strategies To obtain the core technologies in the earlier stage, KEPCO is and a road map for major green technologies in order to lead a low intensively controlling project progress rate regarding technology carbon green technology industry, and is committed to proactively development. Consolidated progress rate in 2010 was 21.15% (29.3% responding to climate change and to creating a new growth engine in accumulated), and regular rolling about specific strategies is being the electric power industry. made through strategically-organized meetings for technology In that regard, KEPCO plans to achieve goals of KRW 9 trillion development every quarter. in sales in 2020, securing the world’s best 25 core technologies, In addition, for some tasks which technologies have already been and CO2 reduction of 30% compared with the year 2000. To do secured, such as developed infrastructure for battery charge that, KEPCO will do its best to secure green technologies in their in electricity vehicles, we will set a specific business plan, and early stages and successfully commercialize them by strategically furthermore, explore a new business item related to green investing money of approximately KRW 3 trillion and by encouraging technologies. researchers to do their jobs. Mechanism for Low-Carbon Green Power technology development Vision Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer Goals Securing 25 World's Best Achieve New Sales of Reduce CO2 by 30% Technologies KRW 9 trillion compared with that of 2000 Three Strategies Strategy 1 Strategy 2 Strategy 3 to Lead Green Secure Low-Carbon Lead High Efficiency Transmission & Develop Demand Generating Technologies Generation Technologies Distribution Technologies Green Technologies IGCC (Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle) Smart Grid Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage) HVDC (High Voltage Direct Current) Electric Energy Housing Superconductivity (Fault Current Limiter and Cable) Build Four R&D Expand R&D Investment in Green Technologies Strengthen R&D Coordination among KEPCO Group Companies Infrastructures Patent and Standardize Developed Technologies Strengthen the R&D Management System Electric Vehicles Charging Station Electric Energy Housing 41 environmental Performance Better Environmental Efficiency KEPCO always tries to improve environmental efficiency by joining forces to reduce energy consumption by all employees while at the same time complying with laws and regulations related to the environment. KEPCO pushed forward an effort to substantially save energy in • Energy Consumption • Water Consumption accordance with the government’s policies on energy reduction in Energy Intensity (TOE/GWh) Energy Intensity (ton/GWh) 2010. To encourage employees to have energy-saving habits, we’ve Energy Usage (TOE) Water Usage (Thousand tons) emphasized the importance of energy saving. For example, we’ve 0.195 0.196 0.195 2.79 designated certain periods for reducing energy consumption during 2.60 2.58 summer and winter. More specifically, we came up with improvement measures through diverse activities including putting Eco-Life 78,045 77,196 Style in place (for example, compliance with an appropriate indoor 1,025 1,014 74,991 temperature), and detection of energy usage in offices so that we have 963 the foundation on which systemization of an energy saving scheme and upgrading of energy efficiency can be possible. In addition, we will gradually replace approximately 30% of all lighting facilities with high-efficient LED-based lighting facilities by 2012. In line with the 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 replacement, entire lighting systems using incandescent and halogen lights, which have the lowest energy efficiency will be replaced first, and fluorescent lighting systems, mostly installed in offices, are being Energy & Water Saving Efforts in 2010 replaced with LED according to the company’s annual plan. Strengthen Energy • Reinforce the activities of Energy Conservation Committee (chaired by CTO) Conservation • Designate ‘Energy Guardian’ to strictly control the Environmental Spending System temperature of air conditioners • Achieve reduction target through Total Energy In 2010, total environmental spending calculated in accordance with Consumption Volume System Enhance Energy (less than average for most recent 2 years) KEPCO's environmental accounting system was KRW 4,142.9 billion, • Increase use of high-efficiency equipment Use Efficiency equivalent to 10% of total sales. Much of the outlay was intensively (total 65.4MW) and energy-saving office appliances (5,654 units) invested in the procurement of construction of eco-friendly power facilities and new & renewable energy equipment. In 2011, the Raise Energy • Conduct energy saving campaigns • Provide education to share best practices of environmental accounting system will be firmly in place and be used Conservation energy saving to all locations of operation Awareness strategically, allowing top management and stakeholders to use • Have energy officers participate in professional training environmental accounting data in the decision-making process and improve environmental value. 2.4% 0.9% Environmental Impact of Company Vehicles 23.8% 72.8% KEPCO took steps to mitigate the environmental impact of company KRW 4,142.9  Stakeholders (KRW 3,015.1 billion) vehicles. In 2010 the vehicle fleet totaled 3,178, up 21 vehicles from billion in Total  Preventive Actions (KRW 987.6 billion) the previous year. Of these, 1,738 were passenger cars, and 1,420  Follow-up Actions (KRW 101.0 billion) L  egal Compliance & Restoration (81.7%) of these cars were eco-friendly models such as light and (KRW 39.2 billion) hybrid vehicles. At least 80% of all newly purchased vehicles will be light or hybrid models. Fuel consumption for company vehicles in Energy & Water Consumption Reduction 2010 was 7,163,000 liters, and fuel economy was 7.13 km/l. In 2010, KEPCO consumed 78,045TOE of energy and 1,014,000 • Eco-Friendly Company Vehicles tons of water in total. Thanks to the wider use of high-efficiency Item 2008 2009 2010 equipment and more efficient use of facilities, we achieved the Passenger Cars (No. of Units) 1,741 1,742 1,738 energy intensity (energy consumption/electricity sales) of 0.195TOE/ Light Vehicles (No. of Units) 1,359 1,359 1,360 GWh, which was a 0.001TOE/GWh lower than the target of 0.196TOE. Hybrid Vehicles (No. of Units) 60 60 60 Water intensity was 2.58tons/GWh, down 0.02ton/GWh from 2009, Eco-friendly Vehicles (No. of Units) 1,419 1,419 1,420 and no water was recycled; all was discharged. Portion of Eco-friendly Vehicles (%) 81.5 81.5 81.7 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 42 Eco-Friendlier Power Supply Chain KEPCO & GENCOs established an eco-friendly management system throughout the entire process of generation, transmission and distribution to make the electric power supply chain more efficient and valuable. Transmission Eco-Friendlier Generation Power Supply Chain Sales ● ● ● Eco-friendly power generation phase; Eco-friendly power transportation phase; Eco-friendly power sales phase; With the expansion of usage of clean energy Protecting ecosystems by selecting Improving electricity usage efficiency through and operation of facilities for desulfurization, construction sites based on scientific ground, development and distribution of high efficient denitrification and precipitator, substantial constructing power generation facilities equipment, stabilizing supply and demand minimization of air pollution and completely using eco-friendly materials and methods, of power based on proactive and systematic dealing with waste water using integrated substantially reducing loss of power during calculation of electric power needs, and waste water treatment facilities. transmission and distribution and controlling encouraging energy conservation. electromagnetic field. Encourage eco-friendly management Expand the Construction of Control Power Demand in a More at GENCOs Eco-Friendly Facilities Reasonable Way •Establish an Integrated Environmental •Secure the Objectivity and Transparency of Site •Ensure efficient control of peak demand Management System Selection Process •Improve the Efficiency of Electricity Use •Construct and Operate Facilities in Harmony with •Expand the Construction of Eco-Friendly Facilities Local Communities in Harmony with Local Communities • Improve Environmental Efficiency Strengthen the Operation and Maintenance of Facilities •Lower T/D Loss •Manage Electromagnetic Field and Preserve the Ecosystem 43 environmental Performance Generation 대기오염물질 배출량 Air Pollutant Emissions KEPCO and GENCOs established a close collaboration among the • SOx Unit: g/MWh generation, transmission and distribution sectors to make electric power supply chain more eco-friendly. 2008 179 2009 168 2010 159 Environmental Investment The GENCOs acquired the ISO14001 certificate for all locations of • NOx Unit: g/MWh operation in 2009 and made environmental investments totaling 2008 308 approximately KRW 460.6 billion in 2010. 2009 308 2010 295 C  onstruction of Facilities in Harmony with Local • Dust Unit: g/MWh Communities The GENCOs assess in advance how the construction or expansion 2008 10 2009 8 of power plants will impact the natural environment and traffic. 2010 8 They also conduct post environmental impact assessments for five years after construction is complete, reporting the results to the •CO2 Emissions Unit: kg/MWh government every year. 492 Improved Environmental Efficiency The GENCOs expanded the use of clean energy and operating systems to reduce emissions of SOx, NOx and dust from the power 463 457 generation process. The GENCOs has operating facilities that physically and chemically treat wastewater for reuse or discharge. Moreover, 100% of the de2008 2009 2010 sulfurized gypsum generated from coal-fired power plants was reused in cement. Efforts like these help encourage recycling in society. In 2010, GENCOs installed de-NOx, de-sulfurization and dust collecting facilities on every generator to minimize air pollution. Therefore, CO2 emissions fell 5.9% year after year. Turning to water CO2 Reductions -5.9% quality, chemical oxygen demand (COD) decreased by 14.4% and suspended solids (SS) fell by 14.7%. Water Pollutant Emissions COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) Reductions -14.4% • COD Unit: g/MWh 2008 0.088 2009 0.160 2010 0.137 SS (Suspended Solid) Reductions • SS -14.7% Unit: g/MWh 2008 0.041 2009 0.068 2010 0.058 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 44 38 Environmental Management Expectations 39 Environmental Management System 40 Development of Low-Carbon Green Power Technologies 41 Better Environmental Efficiency 42 Eco-Friendlier Power Supply Chain 46 Resource Recycling and Hazardous Substance Control 47 Response to the Convention on Climate Change 49 GHG Reduction Efforts Transmission • Downtown Underground Transmission Facilities Unit: % 2008 97.4 KEPCO constructed transmission and distribution facilities necessary 2009 97.7 for a stable electric power supply and runs them in an effective 2010 97.4 way. Also, diverse efforts are being made. For example, having • Underground Distribution Facilities Unit: % objectivity and transparency of site selection for electric facilities in order to pursue an eco-friendly process of the transformation 2008 13.3 of electricity, expansion of construction of eco-friendly electric 2009 13.8 2010 14.3 facilities harmonizing with local communities, reduction in loss rate through transmission & distribution, protection of ecosystem, and • T/D Loss Unit: % management of the magnetic field. 11.40 Objective & Transparent Site Selection Process To increase objectivity and transparency of site selection for 6.69 5.46 construction of transmission & substation facilities, we expanded 4.50 the scope where sophisticated scientific techniques are needed, and 3.99 all construction businesses can be started after considering results from a site selection survey conducted by residents since Jan. 2009. 1971 1981 1991 2001 2010 Objectivity and transparency are secured when it comes to decision on site selection that is made in Site Selection Committee by local Efforts to Lower T/D Loss residents, local government, district council, experts and etc. By developing and distributing high efficiency devices and equipment In addition, beginning in 2008, a presentation for residents prior to such as low loss wiring and transmitters and by maximizing capacity starting a construction should be made, and expanding its targets of transmission and distribution lines, we are doing our part to into all business projects just for businesses that an environmental reduce the loss rate of electric power. As a result, we reduced the impact assessment is required. loss rate of transmission and distribution to 3.99%, the lowest in the The “Open House” system was implemented in September 2010. world, and the need for construction of the additional generation This system is designed for additional presentations for some facilities, while at the same time contributing to reduction in the residents who do not attend the first presentation. emissions of green house gases. Eco-Friendly Construction of Electric Power Facilities Electromagnetic Field and Ecosystem Protection KEPCO continuously expands construction of eco-friendly electric As electromagnetic field generating from electric facilities has facilities by developing eco-friendly materials and construction low frequency of 60Hz, it does not deliver electricity far away, and methods harmonized with the surrounding environment. By applying electric power is sharply lower depending on distances. KEPCO, the Spacer Wiring Method and Ground Method, we were able to for the sake of operation of the safe electric facilities, operate them contribute to beautification of the environment thanks to reduction of with a relatively low level, one sixth of that set in electric industry in occupied areas where wiring is covered. And we make contributions Korea. In addition, to relieve conflicts and anxiety against safety of to protect the environment that was contaminated due to chemical the electromagnetic field, and to provide exact information for the insulating oil using plant-based insulating oil transmission. In people, we run a webpage (www.emfsafe.kr) about the industry and addition, we’ve tried to revise construction laws and regulations, Understanding Promotion Hall, and implemented a Measurement especially by making space inside architectures on the ground to Service System about the electromagnetic field. In addition, we improve the efficiency of resource utilization. By doing so, we were do continuous research to discover scientific findings about the able to eliminate obstructions to walking caused by equipment electromagnetic field, manage their policies in a systematic manner installed on the ground, and improve landscape at the same time. and gather opinions through diverse channels. The total area of In addition, we implemented a “Clean-Up Day” campaign, cleaning electric power facilities in ecosystem protection areas is 48km2, and electric facilities on the ground to make a contribution to eco-friendly we banned the construction of new transmission lines in designated operations of electrical facilities. ecosystem protection areas to help maintain bio-diversity. 45 environmental Performance Sales KEPCO has been committed to the stable supply of electric power through proactive and systematic demand control and endeavored to raise the efficiency of equipment, contributing to the nation's energy conservation policies. Through demand control, KEPCO reduced or distributed 3,151MW during peak demand; a figure is equivalent to the construction of three 1,000MW nuclear units and covering 86% of Power Demand Control the nation's total demand. Major Support Programs for Power Demand Control Summer Peak Demand Control in 2010 Load Control • F irst implementation of winter period forecast for •D  emand control during the fixed KRW 640~780/kW adjusted Strengthened peak stabilization of demand and supply period of time • I mprovement of restriction on required amounts load management • Weekly forecast demand control KRW 300~480/kW adjusted thanks to reduction in real load by adjusting required • Emergency saving KRW 270/kW saved conditions • Ice storage cooling system KRW 350~480 thousand/kW reduced • Promoted the use of ice storage cooling systems and • Direct load control  ase subsidy (KRW 375/kW)+Control B Expanded cooling demand control Peak demand controller: 98MW subsidy • Introduction of remote control system for heating and business and develop •R  emote control system about  RW 30,000 per kW+Control support/ K cooling inside the building, and laying a foundation for related technologies heating and cooling facilities Consumed electricity used for control a distribution scheme by establishing a system inside the building device • Peak demand controller KRW 1.50 million/unit • Demand Control Actual Unit: MW Efficiency Improvement Item 2008 2009 2010 • High-efficiency lighting device KRW 6,500~19,500/unit installed • High-efficiency inverter KRW 0.107~4.86 million (by capacity) Before Demand Control 68,738 70,118 73,548 • High-efficiency transformer KRW 0.4~5.3 million (by capacity) After Demand Control 62,794 63,212 69,886 Demand Control Actuals by KEPCO 4,104 4,999 3,151 Demand Control Actuals by Other Organizations 1,840 1,907 511 Effective Management of Peak Demand We designate 15 days for controlling the demand for electricity for a certain period when demand for electricity is high. As a result, Higher Electricity Use Efficiency we reduced 1,648MW on Friday 29th August, 2010, the peak day As part of the efforts to achieve low-carbon green growth, KEPCO of all seasons and 956MW per day on average by implementing expanded the use of new high-efficiency equipment such as LED a Period Forecast System for the first time in January, 2010. In lighting. In 2010, we started to introduce LED illumination and LED response to changed circumstances on supply and demand, we emergency lighting and expand an intelligent illumination autointroduced ‘Flexible Operation System for Forecast Target’ that control system. We also strengthened our targeted marketing to control operational factors such as implementing timing and the integrate eco-friendly high-efficient devices in the design from the required amount of reduction thereby increasing effectiveness of load beginning of construction based on closer relationship with public management. Also, when it comes to managing electric demand enterprises in the construction industry. With the wider use of highin an efficient manner, we accomplished a goal of reduction of efficiency devices, we lowered power consumption by 378,613MWh, 3,151MW in total by expanding distribution of remote control system translating into a reduction of 160,529 tons in CO2 emissions. for heating and cooling inside the building. In the future, we will continue flexible demand control in connection with the electricity reserve and establish a web-based system for regular demand control. We will also remain committed to the wider Types of Demand Control use of eco-friendly, high-efficiency devices. 1 Peak Clipping 2 Peak Shifting 3 Valley Filling 4 Energy Saving KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 46 Resource Recycling & Hazardous Substance Control KEPCO fulfills its responsibilities to respond to environmental regulations and conserve the environment through recycling of resources, purchasing of green products, and control over hazardous materials. Promotion of Resource Recycling • Purchasing Amount and Portion of Eco-friendly Products Unit: KRW million KEPCO has continued to increase resource recycling so long Total Purchasing Amount as power supply stability remains unaffected. This is part of an Green Purchasing Amount Purchasing Portion of Eco-Friendly Products ongoing effort to address global environmental issues, fulfill social responsibilities for environment preservation. Most waste materials 90.7% 91.5% are from the transmission and distribution sector, and include 50.7% concrete power poles, transmission towers, insulators and electric cable. They are highly valuable as resources. Currently we maintain 8,491 100% recycling rate and will continue to find new ways to recycle 7,869 7,203 waste equipment and materials. 7,074 6,418 4,305 • Total Material Usage Item 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Concrete 514,795 494,809 432,196 Metals 94,250 83,221 62,907 Green Purchasing Ceramic 4,510 2,497 1,816 Purchasing eco-friendly products is a priority. In 2010, we purchased Electric Cables 45,410 36,428 30,811 KRW 7.2 billion worth of eco-friendly products, accounting for 91.5% Others 7,395 5,536 8,804 of total related supplies. Going forward, we plan to add additional Total 666,360 622,491 536,534 items to eco-mark labeled suppliers in the pre-qualification process and expand green purchasing in various ways. • Wastes Generated and Recycled by Type Item Generation (Tons) Recycling (Tons) Recycling Rate (%) Concrete 204,835 204,835 100 Control of PCBs Metals 35,651 35,651 100 KEPCO deals with accumulated quantities of wasted transformers Ceramic 7,179 7,179 100 by forming an additional task force team to completely eradicate Poly Electric Cables 25,589 25,589 100 Chlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs), and establishes a PCBs controlling Others 439 439 100 program to handle it safely. The accumulated amount of 500,666 Total 273,693 273,693 100 fleets to be analyzed, and 153,209 fleets to be dealt with has been done. Therefore, almost of all of the piled waste transformers has • Resource Reuse Unit: % been controlled. We will continue to make this effort to manage 2008 93.9 PCBs in a safe and thorough manner ranging from removal, storage, 2009 92.1 analysis, disposal, selling of transformers. 2010 100 Puechasing Portion of Eco-Friendly Products Green Purchasing Amount (KRW 100 million) 91.5% 72 47 environmental Performance Response to the Convention on Climate Change KEPCO responds to climate change through utilization of a sustainable energy system by actively joining efforts to preserve the environment and live up to changes in the energy paradigm. Directions for Response to Convention on Climate Change Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. Impact on Electric Power Industry KEPCO Group’s Response Strategies A change in the portfolio of power generation sources Build a system to respond to Convention of Climate Change A growing demand for the expansion of new & renewable energy Create action plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Expanded opportunity for new market creation Develop new & renewable energy technologies An increase in generation cost Establish a low carbon energy system Mechanism to Tackle Climate Change Vision Create New Growth Engines through Proactive Response to Climate Change Areas Strengthen Efforts to Build Response Secure Carbon Credits Expand R&D Activities Reduce GHG Emissions Infrastructure Action Items •Voluntary reduction target •C  DM project development •C  O2 capture and storage •G HG control system •L ow-carbon energy mix •R  egistration of GHG reduction technology •J oint response at a group level •M ore efficient use of energy •C  arbon fund investment •F  ossil fuel substituting technology •S tronger internal capacity Technology & Climate Change Collaboration Committee Technology &Climate Change Collaboration Committee •Chair: CTO of KEPCO• •Members: Top management of six GENCOs• •Mission: Major decision-making on climate change, environment and new & renewables• Working-Level Group on Climate & Environment Change Working-Level Group on New & Renewable Energy •M  embers: Team leaders from KEPCO and six GENCOs •M  embers: Team leaders from KEPCO and six GENCOs •M  ission: Exchange of information on climate change •M  ission: Coordination on new & renewable energy KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 48 38 Environmental Management Expectations 39 Environmental Management System 40 Development of Low-Carbon Green Power Technologies 41 Better Environmental Efficiency 42 Eco-Friendlier Power Supply Chain 46 Resource Recycling and Hazardous Substance Control 47 Response to the Convention on Climate Change 49 GHG Reduction Efforts Joint Response at the Group Level working-level groups on climate and environment change, and When the Kyoto Protocol took effect in February 2005, Korea was renewable energy are in place under the Committee. categorized as a non-Annex 1 country. However, Korea can now In July 2005, KEPCO and the GENCOs signed an agreement with the be included among the Annex 1 countries under the post Kyoto Korean government regarding the supply of renewable energy. The climate regime, which becomes effective from 2013. The electric agreement called for a KRW 520 billion investment in renewable energy power industry accounted for approximately 29% of CO2 emissions. If facilities with a 63MW output equivalent over 3 years (2006-2008). Korea is obliged to reduce GHG emissions, it will have a huge impact During the second term of the contract (2009-2011), we will invest a on KEPCO operations. Against this backdrop, KEPCO and the six total of KRW 1.2 trillion in facilities with a total capacity of 503MW. GENCOs are considering the change as a new opportunity as well as an operational risk; striving further to ensure effective response. KEPCO and the GENCOs re-organized and expanded the existing Joint Response to Climate Change at Group Level Climate Change Collaboration Committee to form the Technology • Completed the validation of GHG inventory & Climate Change Collaboration Committee. This is part of the Joint Response • Built an on-line system to control GHG emissions at efforts to be proactive in preserving the earth’s environment and group companies establishing a sustainable energy system in line with a changing • Set a voluntary target to reduce GHG emissions for energy paradigm (Jun. 2008). The Committee is chaired by the CTO KEPCO and GENCOs Future Plans • Provide local and overseas training on carbon credit of KEPCO and attended by top management of the GENCOs. Two trading NEWS KEPCO, CDM Program in Distribution Becomes 1st in the World to be Registered with UN UN CDM Website KEPCO’s “Distribution Sector SF6 Gas Emission Reduction CDM Program” authorized by the government has recently decided to register with the UN as one of CDM programs. The CDM program registered by KEPCO is the 1st of its kind in the power distribution category among the 3,497 CDM programs currently registered with the UN. SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) gas is mostly used in circuit breakers and switches found in power transmission or distribution networks because of its excellent electric insulation property. It is harmless to human beings but accelerates global warming with global warming index that is 23,900 times greater than CO2. The CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) program aims to earn marketable carbon credits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Distribution Sector SF6 Gas Emission Reduction CDM Program seeks to retrieve at least 97% of SF6 gas, which used to be released into the air when distribution switches were discarded, and recycle it after refining it to reduce greenhouse gas emissions drastically. KEPCO expects revenue of KRW 30 billion from carbon credit sales for the next 10 years by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 150,000 tons every year with SF6 gas retrieval/recycling technology. Likewise, refined SF6 gas can be recycled into gas-insulated distribution switches, etc., which will translate into the further reduction of SF6 gas procurement costs by KRW 2.5 billion. The CDM program is made more meaningful by the fact that KEPCO implements the program exclusively with home-grown technologies without relying on technology or funding from other developed countries and owns 100% of the carbon credits to be earned. In the meantime, KEPCO plans to utilize the CDM program not only to avoid management risks resulting from the greenhouse gas emission reduction obligation following 2013 but also to make a dent in the global CDM market such as Southeast Asia, based on its CDM implementation know-how and lead the CDM business with SF6 retrieval and recycling technology. KEPCO intends to develop a master plan to ensure a systematic CDM implementation and establish a working group by allowing both in-house and global experts in power transformation and distribution to participate in, and come up with midto long-term strategies covering CDM program development in Korea and elsewhere in the world, carbon asset management system, and carbon credit trading. 49 environmental Performance GHG Reduction Efforts KEPCO commits to reduce the amount of green house gases by establishing a GHG emission control system commensurate with international standards, and through verification of GHG inventory. GHG emitted by KEPCO and the six GENCOs can be mainly classified into two types: direct emissions, such as CO2 from the use of fossil GHG Emissions fuels during power generation and SF6 emissions from switches in the transportation process, and indirect emissions from T&D loss.  KEPCO In 2010, GHG emissions from the KEPCO group, which includes the  GENCOs six GENCOs, totaled 182 million tons, 2 million tons of which came Including from KEPCO. KEPCO's emissions are mainly direct SF6 emissions GENCOs and indirect emissions from T&D loss. 182,124,000 In 2007, we established a GHG Emission Data System in accordance 98.9% tons with international standards and in October 2008 system reliability 1.1% was verified through the “GHG inventory” on emission statistics control and emission volume (KEMCO GHG Certification Office). For the first time as a public enterprise, we acquired a carbon footprint certificate from the Ministry of Environment, showing the CO2 equivalent for GHG emissions from T&D lines. Meanwhile,  SF6 Emissions KEPCO has been operating an online GHG control system at the  Office, Heating/Transportation group level in a bid to collect and provide accurate GHG emission  Others data since February 2010. KEPCO KEPCO is also promoting the CDM business at home and abroad as 2,036,000 tons 85% a way to proactively cope with the Convention on Climate Change. For example, our wind power business in China has brought a carbon 7% credit of 940,000 tons. In Korea, we acquired a carbon credit of 8% 150,000 tons per annum through gas-recovery equipment to reduce SF6 used for switch insulation. • GHG Emission Data System Scope • KEPCO and Six GENCOs • Jan.~ May 2007: Developed and validated an emission data program • Sept. 2007: Set up the guideline for building up emission data Progress • Oct. 2008: Validated GHG inventory • Feb. 2010: Built IT-based GHG control system at a group level Strategies for CDM Projects GHG Emission Information System Creation of New Growth Engines Strategy I Strategy II Turn projects at home and Build a carbon asset management GHG Emissions in 2010 (including the six GENCOs, million tons) abroad into CDM projects system (CAMS) 182 • Accumulate project development experience and expand project participation • Acquire effectively carbon credits and nurture trading capacity Partnership with All Stakeholders SOCIAL Performance KEPCO’s Communication and Participation for Win-Win Growth and Sharing KEPCO fulfills its responsibilities as a corporate citizen by enhancing its management transparency and through active communication with the interested parties. We will do our part to give more satisfaction to customers, provide a good working environment for executives and employees, try to establish a futureoriented relationship between labor and management, and more importantly, we will play a key role in strengthening relationships with partners for mutual cooperation and common growth, and in reaching out to the needy in local communities to make a better society to live in together. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 52 Strengthening Partnership with Stakeholders KEPCO commits to pursue a sustainable development in our society by considering the ways to achieve a win-win growth in cooperation with interested parties in every activity. Protection of Customer Rights and Interests KEPCO runs a Customer Satisfaction Advisory Committee, a Customer Panel and an Advisory Committee to protect the rights and interests of customers and to manage its businesses based on the needs of customers. To facilitate such committees, we communicate with customers through a regular dialogue channel to build close relationships with customers. With regard to a stable use of consolidated VOC system, we introduced the VOC operational index by each business area, and an alarm system to analyze VOC daily/monthly/quarterly/yearly so that we reflect the needs of customers on a regular basis. In addition, we KEPCO Cyber Branch run a “Customer Suggestion” program in a cyber office all year to live up to current IT trends such as use of the Internet, spread of mobile devices and do on. In 2010, we accepted 175 cases of customer suggestions so that we were able to improve our sales system Shareholder Value Management accordingly. In the meantime, we operate a Power Consumption Consulting KEPCO posted a record USD 61.4 billion net loss in 2009 and 2010, as System (PCCS) to provide information on electricity consumed in the management of the environment aggravated such as increased real time and how to analyze for high-voltage supplied customers. In fuel costs according to a series of hikes in energy prices. Therefore, 2011, we expanded the use of PCCS to operate the i-SMART system we were not able to pay a dividend for 3 years in a row despite a high so that we are able to provide information on the consumed amount dividend payout ratio of 20% in the past. However, we made great and fares, thereby inducing efficient electricity use and fare saving. efforts to meet the shareholders’ right to know and to recover our KEPCO conducts its own customer satisfaction survey two times corporate reliability by conducting diverse IR activities regarding a year to provide high quality services for customers. The results our management status, such as IR by management, investment and feedback of the survey have been utilized in improving the presentation, conference calls to announce performance results, quality of services. In addition to that, we reflected the changed interviews with investors and so forth. As a result, KEPCO was rated conditions related to services on the site. For example, we improved “A1,” the same rating as the Korean government, by Moody’s in April the monitoring system measuring services on the customer level, 2010. improved the environment where electricity services are provided so that we were able to satisfy customers’ needs. As a result, KEPCO • Trend of Stock Price and Credit Rating (Moody’s) has gained a reputation of “the highest level” for 12 consecutive Credit Rating years in the survey of customer satisfaction in the category of public Stock Price enterprises, presented by the government in 2010. A1 A1 A1 • Status of Customer Satisfaction Advisory Committee A2 • Advisory Committee 14 • Advisory Committee 173 KRW 39,650 Branch • Customer panel 47 • Customer panel 396 KRW 34,100 Offices Members (No. of branch (Person) KRW 30,200 • Joint Councils 24 • Joint Councils 662 KRW 29,600 offices) • Total 85 • Total 1,231 • Customer Satisfaction Survey Unit: Points 2008 90.8 2009 95.7 2010 98.1 2007 2008 2009 2010 53 social Performance Stakeholders Right to Know Win-Win Growth with Suppliers KEPCO is committed to the stakeholders’ right to know and KEPCO is strengthening our mutually-beneficial collaboration with continues to improve the transparency of business operations. To SMEs in an attempt to improve global competitiveness and pursue this end, we make public key information in various ways, including “win-win” growth. management disclosure, integrated disclosure, corporate disclosure and information disclosure. Support for Export by SMEs As a result of intensive export marketing towards overseas offices, Corporate disclosure KEPCO achieved contracts worth approximately USD 19.14 million We pursue proactive corporate disclosure in order to meet the for construction projects in 12 countries including UAE, Finland and principle of 「Meeting Right to Know」 in line with strengthened rights others in cooperation with as many as 112 small and medium sized to speak by minority shareholders, and to respond to the changing companies in winning the contracts. This accomplishment was 4 trend of corporate disclosure that contributes to investor protection times greater compared with that of USD 4.77 million in 2009. In and a fairness of stock price. KEPCO was selected as 「Excellent addition, we are now conducting a business of installing manhole Enterprise in Corporate Governance」 organized by Korea Exchange surveillance systems through a supply line to the National Assembly and Korea Corporate Governance Service for 3 consecutive years in the USA in association with export businesses of research from 2008 to 2010 by playing a leading role in contributing to creating results done by SMEs in a cooperative way. In addition to that, we an environment for faithful disclosure. are expanding a basis for export by SMEs by utilizing the brand image of KEPCO, for example, we helped 3 companies conclude Information Disclosure contracts of MOU for exports worth of USD 5 million as a result of KEPCO will commit to promoting the people’s right to know by support for international exhibition in the area of electricity, and improving customer reliability based on a transparent working holding the Inward Export Mission (IEM). KEPCO is now intensifying process, having a guarantee of people’s right to know, and through the promotional effort about our export support business of SMEs active information disclosure. by exploring cooperative development business items, holding In 2010, a total of 327 requests were received for information presentations (2 times, for 165 companies) about SMEs-led projects disclosure and 283 of these were accepted. such as overseas marketing, holding presentations (4 times, for 190 The remaining 44 requests were subjects that should be confidential companies) promoting support for overseas expansion by SMEs, in accordance with Public Information Act law of public institutions. gathering bidding information on overseas initiatives, and operating an English web site about supplier information and so on. • Status of Information Disclosure Channels Item Disclosure Site Item Disclosed KEPCO Website Management Management Disclosure (http://www.kepco.co.kr) Status, etc. ALIO System Management Integrated Disclosure (http://www.alio.go.kr) Performance, etc. DART System Business Report, etc. (http://dart.fss.or.kr) Corporate Disclosure KRX System Operating Results, etc. (http://kind.krx.co.kr) KEPCO Website Items individually Information Disclosure (http://www.kepco.co.kr) requested SMEs Equipment Exhibit Hall KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 54 52 Strengthening Partnership with Stakeholders 56 Social Contributions 59 Respect for Human Rights 60 Employee Safety and Welfare 61 Human Resource Development Expanded Public Procurement unfair trade practices within 2 years. To prevent bidding collusion, KEPCO has a priority of public procurement to SMEs suppliers to we implemented systems of 1 person to 1 company bidding foster joint growth within the electric power industry. We take the lead representative and an identification process through fingerprint in promoting win-win growth with SMEs by efficiently utilizing the verification using an electronic bidding system with the Public Public Procurement System and by establishing a common growth Procurement Service. And we also implemented a system to liquidate management system through expanded procurement targets, for damage against bid-rigging for the first time in January 2011. By example, products worth about KRW 4 trillion (increased KRW 107.6 doing so, we are not able to sign a contract with unfair companies billion compared with the previous year) developed and manufactured so that we can establish a transparent contract culture, and prevent by SMEs, by supporting KRW 327.9 billion for production fund such possibilities of corruption in advance. In addition, we made progress as the Network Loan in 2010. on improved customer satisfaction by resolving inconveniences that bidders could face the process of using the electric bidding system. Improved Supplier Satisfaction KEPCO strives to improve the satisfaction of partners by • Financial Supports for SMEs Unit: KRW 100 million supplementing plans and systems by gathering various opinions Supportive Areas 2008 2009 2010 from equipment suppliers. In 2010, we provided quality consulting Joint R&D 52 41 35 services for the manufacturing plants of 8 suppliers to teach them Quality Competitiveness 2 3 1 about the ISO9001 Upgrade, quality control methods and others. We Overseas Marketing 12 5 9 also improved a system to offer every facility for users by applying Management Support 10 12 11 an interface system for procurement prices between ERP and Information Technology Development 35 2 SRM, automatic conversion system for EDMS standardization, OTP Heavy Electric Equipment 91 105 64 certification (tightened security, output and etc.), and by installing Technology Development Fund Loan multidirectional dialogue channels (like SMS, E-mail and etc,). Total 202 168 120 Therefore KEPCO’s partners’ satisfaction has been increased since • Supplier Satisfaction Unit: Points 2007. In particular, satisfaction in the working process in 2010 was 95.1 scores, up 0.6 from 94.5 in 2009. The result of partner 2008 93.3 satisfaction surveys is reflected in the working process thereby 2009 94.5 2010 95.1 leading a cooperative system for win-win growth. In addition, amid increased demand to join efforts to enhance the • No. of Screenings of Human Rights human rights of employees of partners, we include audit items about Item 2008 2009 2010 human rights into the list that is used for partners’ evaluation while No. of PQs 6,289 5,802 4,924 the bidding process is done. In 2010, the number of cases of human No. of Screenings 789 717 506 rights evaluations was 506, accounting for approximately 10% of all Rate (%) 12.5 12.4 10.3 4,924 cases. Also, when we evaluate competency of partners, we give partners, showing excellent performance, 2 extra points by evaluating • E-Procurement Trend Unit: % employment performance on the vulnerable, including the disabled and women workforce partners. 2008 98.8 2009 99.1 2010 99.7 Fair Contracting Process To eradicate irrationalities in the process of signing contracts in advance, and to create a transparent contract culture, KEPCO is improving systems continuously. In 2010, we established a system with which real-time monitoring and surveillance over partners Financial Supports for SMEs (KRW 100 million) who engaged in unfair business practices while a qualification 120 audit about bidders is done and contracts are written in order not to sign a contract with partners that got punished against 55 social Performance Contributing to the Nation & Society Joint Growth of KEPCO Group Companies KEPCO is fulfilling its responsibilities for the nation and society by Achieve Joint Growth of KEPCO Group Companies sincerely paying taxes, creating new jobs, and establishing a fair trade culture. First of all, we are actively participating in initiatives pursued by Enhance Competitiveness the government such as continuous job creation as part of solving and Create Synergy Effect unemployment among young people, expansion of women and the disabled in the workforce. In 2010, we hired 132 new employees and 1,008 for internships, and the numbers of displaced workers was 32. Win-Win Competition Cooperation for Joint Growth In the meantime, salary of the newly-employed workers against legal minimum wage in 2010 was approximately 237% (excluding annual Enhance Corporate Value Strengthen a Collaboration System leave and a portion of annual salary based on performance). • Cost Reduction and Better Productivity • Joint Response of Fuel Supply KEPCO’s amount of tax payment in 2010 was KRW 34.4 billion, not • Diversification of Profit Sources •J oint Participation in Overseas •Stable Supply and Higher Facility Projects including donated amounts to political parties and organizations, and Efficiency • Joint R&D grants received from the government. KEPCO complies with laws and regulations related to a fair trade to establish a fair and free trade order, and no punishment such as KEPCO Group companies pursue win-win competition based on penalty or non-financial restriction has been imposed according to decentralized, accountable management. They have established a violation of relevant laws. collaborative system for domestic and overseas projects that require synergy within the electric power industry. We are also seeking an economic supply of power generation fuels, • Status of Economic Value Distribution Unit: KRW 100 million closer R&D collaboration, joint participation in overseas projects and Item 2007 2008 2009 2010 joint response against climate change to ensure a stable supply of Total Dividends 4,670 electricity and enhance the capacity of all group companies. Interest Expense 6,025 7,524 9,884 11,216 National Pension 376 390 386 380 • Status of Tax Payment Unit: KRW 100 million Item 2008 2009 2010 Internal Tax 845 -1,856 -67 KEPCO Group’s Joint Growth Efforts Local Tax 369 373 411 • Enhancement of Strategic cooperation to Total 1,214 -1,483 344 accomplish Management Innovation at GENCOs Integrated purchasing of power generation fuel, • Status of New Employment integrated operation of maintenance materials, Unit: Person Management Innovation integrated management of IPRs, establishment of ERP at GENCOs 2008 472 at group Level, efficient execution of overseas projects, efficient management of construction personnel 2009 92 • Belt-tightening at group level: 2010 132 KRW 973.1 billion in savings • Completion of power plants as scheduled: 1,595MW Stable Supply of Electricity • Higher Capacity Factor: 71.9% in 2009 > 76.6% in 2010 Economic Purchasing of •Consolidated purchasing of fuel: Internships (Persons) Power Generation Fuel KRW 72.5 billion of saving 1,008 •Joint response and coordination on management issues, sharing of best practices Group CEO Meeting •Management performance analysis to provide feedback on management performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 56 Social Contributions Nationally-organized KEPCO’ Social Volunteer Group makes contributions to the world and the neighborhood, bringing light and love. KEPCO Community Service Group hottest (July-September) and coldest (December-February) months. The KEPCO Community Service Group (CSG) was launched under If they are facing service suspension because of unpaid electricity the slogan of “Bring Light to the World and Love to Our Neighbors” bills, we install a current limiter to guarantee a minimum power in May 2004. KEPCO CSG is currently composed of 272 sub-groups supply. Discounted rates are offered to customers with disabilities, across the country, engaging in community service activities such as low-income families, and social welfare facilities. At the same time, community caring, environment protection, and disaster relief. The we offer special electricity tariffs to large families to alleviate the KEPCO CSG has mainly focused on electricity-related community progressive tariffs for residential use and for the household with services, which are financed by funds voluntarily raised by KEPCO more than three children to support the government’s policy to raise employees and matching grants provided by KEPCO (KRW 4.1 the birth rate. billion). In 2010, social contribution activities of 5,726 have been carried out. • Social Welfare Discount Rates for Electricity For example, setting up a sisterhood relationship with local centers Total Discount Amount (KRW 100 million) for children, searching for missing children and preventive campaign, Item In Scope 2008 2009 2010 cornea donation campaign called ‘Sharing of Silver Lining,’ Customers with Grade 1 to 3 541 564 633 Disabilities improvement and repair of electricity facilities for the vulnerable and Low-income Households in the so forth. And in total, 32,179 employees have participated. 252 274 330 Household Lowest Income Bracket Social Welfare 132 200 256 Facilities • Status of KEPCO Community Service Group Year 2008 2009 2010 No. of Activities 8,208 5,761 5,726 No. of Participants 48,742 32,658 32,179 Diversified Social Contribution Programs With CSR in mind, KEPCO has incorporated social contribution • Social Contribution Amount Unit: KRW 100 million activities in the corporate core values, making it a consideration in 2008 1,214 the decision-making process. Furthermore, doing community service 2009 2,885 at social welfare facilities is mandatory for employees at the general 2010 2,971 manager level or higher to raise employee awareness of CSR. Each quarter, management and labor union officials have done community • Community Service Hour per Capita Unit: Hour services together. 2008 10.5 In addition, KEPCO’ Art Center, as a part of providing benefits to 2009 6.5 the socially disadvantaged, provides a free performance of ‘Happy 2010 5.6 Sharing’ for those who belong to local centers for children. ‘Hope & Love Sharing Concert’ has been performed 16 times and has Basic Right to Energy targeted local residents living in areas where electric facilities are KEPCO helps protect people’s basic right to energy by subsidizing built. KEPCO is also making contributions to enhancing a cultural art electricity tariffs to the socially disadvantaged. environment by holding a KBS & KEPCO-led Music Competition in For low income households, we lifted power restrictions during the order to explore and support excellent new musicians. Hope & Love Sharing Concert Performance of Happy Sharing 1 Major Social Contribution Activities Cornea donation campaign called ‘Sharing of Silver Lining’ Convention on cornea donation with (October, 2010) As many as 8,138 persons participated (the largest in Korea) (approximately 42.2% of the total employees) 2 Foundation of KEPCO119 Rescue Service Team to help recover from national disasters (October, 2010) Full support of resources for safety and medical assistance during G20 summit, recovery from attacks in Yeonpyeong Island, recovery of the areas affected by snowstorm in Pohang and Gangwon regions. Volunteer services to help the needy and men of national merit facing trouble in their livelihood: KRW 180 million (2,921 households supported) Offering flowers to Seoul National Cemetery, improvement of electricity facilities, offering helping hands, replacement of new wallpaper, and linoleum, and keeping/making companies and friends. 3 Volunteer activities to help recover and repair electric facilities for the socially-vulnerable and the elderly living alone Check and repair of electrical facilities in 1,117 households. Setting up a sisterhood relationship with local center for children, and support for activities of the relationship Learning guidance, cultural experience, meal assistance and etc. (637 times in total / KRW 340 million funded) Campaign to find missing children Category Details Remark 1 Eye Love project Reunion of the separated 2 KEPCO119 Rescue Service Team Posting photos of Post photos of lost children missing children (electric bill, company magazine) family members (106 3 Kimchi-Making for the Needy persons) Use name tags to prevent children Using name tags 150,000 tags from going missing Moving video about Production and distribution of moving picture prevention of children 6,000 videos (elementary schools across the country) from going missing Marionette play to Performance of marionette play about the prevent children from 34 times prevention of missing children by employees going missing Campaign to prevent children from going missing KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 58 52 Strengthening Partnership with Stakeholders 56 Social Contributions 59 Respect for Human Rights 60 Employee Safety and Welfare 61 Human Resource Development Social Contributions Overseas 1 We support social contribution programs in countries where KEPCO has a presence (the Philippines and China) to lay the groundwork for successful localization and improve the corporate image. We are also fulfilling CSR as a global company by sponsoring free medical services, scholarships and providing support for communities near power plants. In the Philippines, KEPCO has been involved in a project to promote electrification in agricultural and fishing villages, a priority of the Filipino government. To accelerate progress, we support line extension from the on-grid side and photovoltaic power generation 2 from the off-grid side. KEPCO has continuously worked to provide fair opportunities to local workers in terms of employment and promotion, and we are committed to respecting the human rights of employees in accordance with local laws and regulations. •W  ages of Local Employees and the Ratio of Local Managers in the Overseas 3 Item Country 2008 2009 2010 Legal Minimum Wage/ Philippines 19/32 23/44 24/32 Initial Wage (KRW 10 thousand/month) Jordan 26/163 26/163 Philippines 43.8 47.3 50 Ratio of Local Managers (%) Jordan 11 11 • Status of Local Employment Unit: Person Item 2008 2009 2010 Philippines 277 305 314 Jordan 9 11 1 Free Medical Service in the Philippines 2 Taekwondo Training Service in the Philippines 3 Marine Environmental Clean-up in the Philippines • Philippines Item 2008 2009 2010 8 times 10 times 13 times Medical Service (9,210 persons) (7,162 persons) (8,596 persons) 33 schools 51 times 66 times Scholarship (7,210 students) (11,470 students) (12,888 students) Support for Power 98 times 173 times 285 times Plant Neighborhood (25,910 persons) (22,135 persons) (28,871 persons) •P  roject for Promotion of Electrification in Agricultural and Fishing Villages Participants for Social Contributions (Persons) in the Philippines 32,179 Item Result On-grid (Line Extension) 484 Project completed (Jan. 2011) Off-grid (Photovoltaic Power Generation) 270 Project completed (Jan. 2011) 59 social Performance Respect for Human Rights KEPCO’s pursuit of protection of human rights and gender equality and leader in realizing a fair culture without discrimination. Discrimination Eradication Human Rights Education We have pledged not to discriminate on the grounds of gender, KEPCO provides education on human rights issues to irregular educational background, religion, age, and disabilities in Chapter and newly-hired employees to foster a corporate culture based on 5 (Employee Ethics) of our Code of Ethics. We also faithfully abide respect for people and non-discrimination. by ILO Convention No. 111 Concerning Discrimination In Respect In 2010, a total of 19,433 employees including 683 irregular and newly of Employment and Occupation. None of our operations inside hired employees attended this education, and all employees have or outside Korea have a record of human rights violations or classroom or online training at least once a year. In addition, human discrimination on grounds of gender or disabilities. rights education was given to all 486 counselors working in the branch offices through professional training or itinerant education. Gender Equality We will continue to provide training and education to ensure gender KEPCO is working towards gender equality in various ways such equality and respect for human rights. as eliminating discriminatory factors in terms of employment and promotion, and operating a Counseling Center for women Hiring the Vulnerable to Employment employees. We have a quota for women employment, and 42% of all KEPCO hired 520 workers with disabilities in 2010. Workers with persons hired in 2010 were woman, raising the ratio of women in the disabilities receive 10% additional points in the employment workforce. Moreover, the number of women employees with the rank process. We will continue to increase the number of employees of assistant general manager or higher rose from only 7 in 2000 to 78 with disabilities, for example, by enhancing working conditions for in 2010. the disabled and by developing an occupational range specificallyWe strictly comply with ILO Convention No. 100 Concerning Equal designated for the disabled. Remuneration for Men and Women Workers for Work of Equal Value. At the same time, we give preferential treatment in hiring those who major in science and engineering to achieve a target set since 2004. Support for Coexistence with Work and Home The employment rate for workers in science and engineering was KEPCO pushes ahead to improve the quality of life of its employees 72.7% in 2010. by implementing diverse systems like family-friendly programs such as promoting child birth and child raising, family support and family Prevention of Forced Labor and Child Labor harmony campaign, and by providing benefits for employees so KEPCO abides by the Labor Standards Act, ILO Convention No. 105 that our company’s goal of becoming a good corporate workplace, Concerning Abolition of Forced Labor, and the Labor Standards, one contributing to creating an environment where work at the company of the UN Global Compact's 10 Principles, and no operation has a and building a good family can be possible. In particular, for the sake record of forced labor. of resolving the problem of low birth rate on the national level, we establish a Pool System for substitute personnel against those who Dealing with Employee Grievances apply for maternity leave for child birth and child rising to encourage In line with improvement of the quality of life by resolving grievances employees to enjoy maternity leave. More specifically, we allow at work, KEPCO established diverse communication channels our employees to arrange their commuting time, to reduce their including the On-line HR Grievance Handling System, CEO Hotline, working time during the caring for their child. And having a couple Labor-Management Grievance Handler System and Women of days off for prenatal diagnosis and taking a leave of absence from Workforce Support Portal. In 2010, 103 cases were reported in total work because of sterility are given to our employees. Through such through the HR Grievance Handling System, 97 of them were dealt exceptional benefits that are much higher than that guaranteed by with. law, we had the rate of leave for child-caring of 73%, and birth rate of 1.63 in total of KEPCO in 2010 so that we realize good results when it Customer Privacy Protection comes to creating a family-friendly climate. We have implemented technical security measures such as web firewalls and system access control to protect customer privacy information and prevent illegal data leaks. We also provide regular education on the importance of privacy protection. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 60 Employee Safety and Welfare KEPCO makes efforts to build close labor relations based on mutual trust and respect, and to create a corporate culture of communication and harmony. Mutual trust between Labor-Management Health Management KEPCO believes in labor relations built on mutual trust and respect. We have operated a prevention-focused health management We promoted communication between labor and management program to improve the employee health and ensure vitality in the through the Labor-Management Council (four times) and laid the workplace. The program is also applied to the families of employees. foundation for mutual trust by delivering a presentation on the A total of 10,188 employees and 659 spouses took a blood test and company status 232 times at the branch level and providing key thorough medical checkup in 2010. In addition, vaccinations against management information to the labor union weekly. influenza were provided to 7,001 employees. KEPCO complies with ILO Convention No. 87 Concerning Freedom We provide employees with a health consultation program after the of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize and ILO medical checkup. Convention No. 98 concerning the Application of the Principles of the Right to Organize and to Bargain Collectively. In 2010, 14,892 (75.6%) Better Benefits employees out of a workforce of 119,710 belong to the union. The KEPCO makes an effort to increase welfare satisfaction of executives collective agreement is renewed every two years and applied to all and employees to facilitate vitality of the organization. We upgraded employees. our loan system of livelihood stabilization into an urgent loan system in which employees can respond to urgent situations such as natural Safety and Health Management disasters, rare diseases, traffic accidents, etc. Even for employees KEPCO convenes the Occupational Safety and Health Committee, facing natural disasters, we decided to improve compensation plans which is composed of 10 labor and management representatives. and scheme by increasing our limit of compensation amounts. Also, We also strive to achieve the goal of zero industrial accidents and we conduct a survey on welfare satisfaction on a regular basis to improve the health of all employees through field-based safety reflect the needs of employees. Therefore, the result of the welfare management. satisfaction survey targeting employees in 2010 was 70 out of 100. In addition, we control overall affairs regarding safety management thanks to diverse channels. For instance, by developing advanced • Satisfaction with Benefits Unit: Points new types of safety devices and equipment, by introducing 2008 72.2 Occupational Health & Safety Management System (KOSHA18001 2009 72.5 and etc.) and expanding its application. 2010 70.0 In 2010, one employee was involved in an industrial accident (a 0.005% accident rate) and no cases of occupational illness were reported. Outplacement Korean society is aging, and life after employment is emerging as Customer Health and Safety a social issue. In line with this, KEPCO has provided outplacement KEPCO works to strengthen preventive campaigns in construction training consisting of seven programs, 26 subjects that cover sites along with promotional activities concerning electrical safety change management, asset management and business startup for aimed at all citizens by using advertisements such as CATV or employees slated for retirement. The programs are provided both outdoor billboards using LED lights. To urge customers to safely use on-and off-line to ensure accessibility and efficiency, significantly electricity, we prevent the possible occurrence of electrical fires and helping employees be prepared for their life after leaving KEPCO. A electric shock by detecting electrical facilities that customers are total of 153 retiring employees took this program in 2010. using. We will diversify our safety activities to protect both customers’ health and their wellbeing. • Safety Accident Rate Item 2008 2009 2010 Industrial Average (%) 0.71 0.70 0.69 No. of Victims at KEPCO 1 5 1 Accident Rate (%) 0.005 0.025 0.005 OHSAS18001 Certification 61 social Performance Human Resource Development Through evaluation, rewards, a fair competition based on competencies and performances, KEPCO is committed to nurturing globally-specialized human resources combining passion and executive talent. HRD Plan Vision Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer Ideal Employee Global Talent with Ability to Create the Future HRD Goal Building Talent & Competency-based HRD Human Resource Development Leadership Pipeline HRD Task Building Talent & Establishing Enterprise-wide Learning System Redesign Performance-based HRD HRD System • Redefinition of KEPCO Ideal Employee •Definition of Professional talent, Core •Redesign of Training Courses to Secure •Establishment of Competency model & talent and recruiting process, etc. Global Talent Competency-based HRD System Overseas Business/Green Growth/ •Enhancement of Core Values Education, Common Competency, Leadership Domestic Business Professionals Leadership training and Learning Competency, Strategic Job •Establishment of plan to secure Organization Competency talented people • Improvement of KEPCO Academy curriculum KEPCO’s Ideal Employee We have defined an ideal employee by identifying basic competencies after considering the company's shared values and the outcome of an employee survey. These qualities were incorporated with company-wide competencies, leadership competencies and strategic job competencies. Nine core competencies have been identified, including an achievement-oriented attitude, flexibility, and teamwork. Company-wide competencies are identified as execution, professionalism and collaboration. KEPCO will take such qualifications as a standard for hiring personnel and development of human resources. HRD Roadmap KEPCO set up a roadmap for nurturing the right people for global operations by 2020. To this end, we have devised a mid-/long-term plan for human resources development as part of efforts to secure Workshop for New Employees talented people. KEPCO Sustainability Report 2011 62 52 Strengthening Partnership with Stakeholders 56 Social Contributions 59 Respect for Human Rights 60 Employee Safety and Welfare 61 Human Resource Development Education and Training 1 KEPCO has created a talent pool dedicated to overseas projects to nurture global professionals, providing them with apprenticeshipbased OJT and a year of full-time education (IB-MBA). In addition, we are operating programs to enhance job competencies and improving the mentoring system and strengthening the simulation training program. Meanwhile, we have expanded our blended-learning, which combines onand off-line programs to ensure efficient education and training. We have provided information on major training & education programs and feedback on performance through a training portal 2 system. • Training Courses Internal Training Professional Item Total Classroom Online Training No. of Courses 202 81 191 474 No. of Persons 9,198 163,076 4,021 176,295 • Training Budget and Hours 3 Item 2008 2009 2010 Education & Training Expense 0.16 0.15 0.13 Relative to Total Sales (%) Education & Training Hours a year 92.8 62.6 80.3 (Hour/Person) Performance Evaluation KEPCO has evaluated the performance of all employees per year and paid a performance bonus based on the outcome of the evaluation. We also adopted an open competition-based placement system that fills available positions with successful applicants via open competition. 1 KEPCO Academy e-Learning 2 New Employee Training KEPCO will commit to strengthening employees’ capability 3 Job Training through a fair assessment about their performances and capability development and to creating a performance-based corporate culture. Education & Training Hours (YoY, Hour/Person) +17.7 Appendix 64 Third Party Review 67 GRI Index 70 ISO26000 Index 71 Financial Information 72 KEPCO Group Companies 74 Power Grid Map 75 Awards Received & Initiatives Joined 75 National & International Memberships in Associations 76 Glossary 77 Global Network 78 Additional Information 64 Third Party Kim, Soo-wook Review •Ph.D, Eli Broad Graduate School of Management, Michigan State University •Director, The Korean Society of Supply Chain Management (present) •Director, The Korean Society for Quality Management (present) •Professor, Business School, Seoul National University (present) Prior Suggestions ●E  nhancement of economical performance and strengthening social contribution through improved electric charges system ● Emphasizing social contributions and responsibilities rather than economic performance ● Expansion of global sustainable management system for mutual growth with SMEs ● S  teady and further progress has been made regarding contents and formats of Sustainable Management Report KEPCO has continuously made efforts to enhance the quality of the Sustainable Management Report, especially in its content and format by reflecting advice and recommendations received from external experts, therefore great progress has been made. Suggestions from experts are reflected in this year’s report and furthermore, other content is significantly improved, indicating that KEPCO’s efforts to pursue sustainable management are not going to stop. In other words, KEPCO can be a good model to other companies that do not yet publish their Sustainable Management Reports. However, to make these strenuous efforts lead to sustainable and practical results, we believe that a certain organization or division needs to be formed as a permanent body to push forward its clear vision and commitment to a sustainable management system. ●  EPCO’s philosophy and vision about sustainable management become clear and find their right K direction. In this seventh report published by KEPCO, its clear philosophy and vision towards sustainable management structure are described as one of the world class electricity companies. In that regard, we look forward to more clearly establishing KEPCO’s own management philosophies in the eighth report next year. In addition, KEPCO, as a leading company, will commit to enhancing ethical standards of global corporate management by proposing heightened goals and performance targets from environmental and ethical management perspectives. ●  EPCO plays a leading role in pursuing labor-management culture based on gender equality and K mutual reliability. KEPCO realizes the concept of gender equality inside the organization through expansion of new recruits in the female workforce and promotional benefits, and makes a road to establishing a family-oriented corporate culture by strengthening financial support necessary for childbirth and child-rearing. In addition, a trust-based labor and management culture established over a long period of time represents KEPCO’s pride. We believe, therefore, that KEPCO’s cooperative and mutually-friendly labor relations can be served as a good model for all corporations. ● Efforts to secure safety of nuclear power plants should be strengthened. Alerts and concerns over potential risks of nuclear power plants are getting attention around the world partly due to the massive explosion of nuclear power plants in Japan. The accidents were a good chance to realize possible consequences we face if proper control and management is not done, even if nuclear power plants have advantages, for instance, generating significant amount of electricity with relatively less costs. Since nuclear power plant businesses require long-term periods to make plans, for example, several decades, serious consideration and thorough plans should be prerequisites to secure safety of nuclear power plants at home and abroad. October 2011 65 Third Party Nam, Mee Jung Review •MA, Graduate School of Social Development, Chung-Ang University •Committee Member, Presidential Commission on Sustainable Development •Co-Representative, Korea NGO’s Energy Network (present) •Co-Representative, Korea Women’s Environmental Network (present) Prior Suggestions ● Need for interface between fostering human resources and technology development & long-term competitiveness from the enhanced corporate value point of view ● Need for provision of specific information calculated through environmental accounting system and measurement of effectiveness as a result of spending expenses on the environment ● Need for benchmarking towards global companies to improve corporate value from the environment and social perspectives ● I t is viewed that KEPCO’s 2011 Sustainability Report is written based on ESG performance measured by objective and reliable tools in accordance with GRI criteria. In particular, we believe that KEPCO’s economic, environmental and social performance are described in the simplest way by pointing out important issues compared with its previous report. The following shows strengths of this year’s report. First, seriousness assessment procedure organized to identify issues of interested parties has been done in an objective manner, and the issues selected through the procedure reflected requirements of the parties concerned. Second, from an environmental performance perspective, it is positively viewed that progress from diverse aspects has been made, for example, quantitative measurement of environmental costs based on a newly-introduced environmental accounting system, measurement of performance on eco-friendly electricity supply chain. Third, we believe that social performance achieved through a strengthened partnership with interested parties showed KEPCO’s efforts focusing on public interest, and the results are appropriately reflected economic performance. ● KEPCO’s Sustainability Report that intends to become a Global Top Energy Corporation has competitiveness as a global-scale report in terms of its format and structure, while at the same time it should be supplemented as follows. First, diverse efforts and performance should be supplemented and upgraded, for example, scope of management risks, management system, and responding organizations that are supposed to include a globally-recognized sustainable management framework. Second, from the aspects of corporate governance and sustainability, assessment results from internal and external organizations, for example, Corporate Governance Service, represent the report’s objectiveness and comparability with other global companies. Therefore, proactive utilization of such assessment organizations is recommended. Third, it is recommended that resources invested in the process of pursuing green growth policies and their results should be compared and analyzed by each business area, and specifically reflected in the report. We are certain that if global-level activities in such areas as labor, human rights, anti-corruption and ethical management are supplemented, a Sustainable Management Report with more sharpened competitiveness can be published. October 2011 66 Third Party Jaemin Park Review •Ph.D in Economics, The Ohio State University •Committee Member, Presidential Committee on Education Innovation •Committee Member, Committee on Science and Technology, National Science and Technology Council (present) •Head & Graduate Program Chair, W. F. Miller School of Technology Management, Konkuk University (present) Prior Suggestions ●N  eed for suggestions on KEPCO’s efforts to communicate with various shareholders ● Need for pursuit of global-level environment management as a representing company in the electricity industry ● Need for emphasizing social contribution activities necessary for fulfillment of responsibilities for the nation and society, rather than gaining economical performance ● KEPCO represents a company pursuing a sustainable management and communicating with society beyond fulfilling social responsibilities. Since KEPCO joined UN Global Compact in 2005, this is the 7th Sustainability Report to be published. We have committed to fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate citizen based on financial growth, ethical management, win-win growth and social contribution. Such strenuous KEPCO’ efforts have been recognized all over the world. In particular, our performance in sustainable management has been proven. For example, our report was selected as UN Global Compact Notable COP for 2 consecutive years (’08 to ’09). Now as a company contributing to active communication with society and improvement of the quality of life based on our sustainable management capacity, KEPCO’s commitment and efforts are well described in this 2011 Sustainability Report. ● More efforts should be made to move forward with society and to give more benefits to people. Through this advisory process, we were able to see how strong KEPCO’s commitment and efforts are as a company living with society. KEPCO has already acquired world class level of technological prowess and management capability and has played a leading role in strengthening our industrial competitiveness, and more importantly, has established a sustainable management system equivalent to a global standard. However, we would like to call on KEPCO to make heightened efforts to carry out their responsibilities. We look forward to seeing that KEPCO demonstrate its unprecedented roles and leadership from the sustainable management and social contribution perspectives. ● We hope that KEPCO contributes to make a ‘Bright World with Light and a Happy World with Love’. It is well known that KEPCO’s efforts regarding customer satisfaction and social contribution activities have been nothing like other companies. KEPCO’s sustainable management include not only basic factors like technology, environment and management, but also emotional feelings like hopes and dreams that can be prevailed both with customers and society. We believe KEPCO will present a higher standard of sustainable management as a company that wants to grow along with society. We are certain that KEPCO’s vision of “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer” will be fully accomplished. Not only that, but also a ‘Bright World with Light and a Happy World with Love’ can also be made. October 2011 67 GRI Index Reporting Level: ● Fully ◐ Partially × Not Reported N/A No. Descriptions Page Reporting Remarks ● Strategy & Analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to 1.1 9 ● the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16 ● ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 14 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 13 ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 14 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 14 ● 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 77 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 14 ● 2.7 Markets served 12 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 15 ● 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership Front Cover ● 2.10 Awards received 75 ● ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Front Cover ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Front Cover ● 3.3 Reporting cycle Front Cover ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 78 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 22 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report Front Cover ● 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Front Cover ● Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, and other entities that can significantly affect 3.8 Front Cover ● comparability from period to period 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Front Cover ● Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 Front Cover ● for such re-statement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 Front Cover ● applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 67 ● 3.13 External assurance for the report 64 ● ● Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 17 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the BOD is also an executive officer 17 ● 4.3 Number of members of the BOD that are independent and/or non-executive members 17 ● 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the BOD 17 ● 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the BOD and executives and the organization’s performance 17 ● 4.6 Processes in place for the BOD to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 17 ● 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the BOD 17 ● Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 4.8 21 ● social performance Procedures of the BOD for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 4.9 17 ● environmental, and social performance Processes for evaluating the BOD’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, 4.10 17 ● and social performance 4.11 Precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organization 17, 39 ● Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 4.12 75 ● the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 75 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 52 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 22 ● 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 22 ● ● Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 55 ● EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 16 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 55 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 55 ● EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 55 ● 68 GRI Index Reporting Level: ● Fully ◐ Partially × Not Reported N/A No. Descriptions Page Reporting Remarks EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 53 ● Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community EC7 58 ● at locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 44 ● EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 53 ● ● Environmental Performance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 46 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 46 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 41 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 41 ● GENCOs’ Performance EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 41 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reducEN6 41 ● tions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 45 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 41 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A Used Tapped Water 100% EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 41 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of EN11 44 ● high biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN12 44 ● of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 44 ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas afThe entire nation is EN15 N/A fected by operations affected by operations EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 49 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 49 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 49 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 49 ● EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 43 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 43 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 46 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 49 ● Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of EN24 46 ◐ the Basel Convention Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signifiEN25 41 ● cantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 41 ● EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 46 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance EN28 N/A with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29 41 ● for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 41 ● ● Labor Performance LA1 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 59 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 55 ● LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 60 ● LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 ● LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 60 ● Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety LA6 60 ● committees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related LA7 60 ● fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 60 ● members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 60 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 62 ● Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 62 ● employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 62 ● LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 59 ● LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 59 ● 69 GRI Index Reporting Level: ● Fully ◐ Partially × Not Reported N/A No. Descriptions Page Reporting Remarks ● Human Rights Performance Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights HR1 54 ◐ clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights HR2 54 ● and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 59 ● HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 59 ● HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 60 ● HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 59 ● HR7 Measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor 59 ● Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning HR8 59 ● aspects of human rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 58 ● ● Society Performance SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 43 ● SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 18 ● SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 18 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 18 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N/A SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions N/A Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and SO7 55 ● their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance SO8 55 ● with laws and regulations ● Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for imPR1 44 ◐ provement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety impacts PR2 N/A of products and services PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 29 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service inforPR4 N/A mation and labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 52 ● PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 52 ● PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications N/A PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer information protection 59 ● Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9 N/A provision and use of products and services 70 ISO26000 Index Core Subjects Issue Descriptions Page ● Organizational Governance 6.2.3 Decision-making processes and structures Board of directors, remuneration of directors, audit committee 17 ● Human Rights 6.3.3 Due diligence Audit committee, ethical management, respect for human rights 17-18, 59 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Respect for human rights, risk management 59 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Improved suppliers satisfaction, fair contracting process 54 Mutual trust between labor-management, dealing with employee 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 52, 59, 60 grievances, protection of customer rights and interests Discrimination eradication, gender equality, hiring the vulnerable 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 59 to employment, performance evaluation 6.3.8 Civil and political rights Respect for human rights, mutual trust between labor-management 59, 60 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Social contributions, employee safety & welfare 56-58, 60 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work Respect for human rights, employee safety & welfare 59-60 ● Labour Practices Employment and employment 6.4.3 Respect for human rights, employee safety & welfare 59-60 relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Respect for human rights, employee safety & welfare 59-60 6.4.5 Social dialogue Employee safety & welfare 60 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Employee safety & welfare 60 Human development and training 6.4.7 Human resource development 61-62 in the workplace ● The Environment 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Resource recycling and hazardous substance control 46 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Resource recycling and hazardous substance control 46 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action Response to the convention on climate change, GHG reduction efforts 47-49 Protection of the environment & 6.5.6 Eco-friendlier power supply chain (transmission), social contributions 44, 56-58 biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitat ● Fair Operating Practices 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Ethical management 18-19 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement N/A 6.6.5 Fair competition Win-win growth with suppliers, contributing to the nation & society 53, 55 Promoting social responsibility 6.6.6 Win-win growth with suppliers, social contributions 53, 56-58 in the value chain 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Win-win growth with suppliers 53 ● Consumer Issues Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7.3 Protection of customer rights and interests 52 information and fair contractual practices Resource recycling and hazardous substance control, 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 46, 60 employee safety & welfare 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Smart grid, development of low-carbon green power technologies 33, 40 Consumer service, support and 6.7.6 Protection of customer rights and interests 52 complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy Customer privacy protection 59 6.7.8 Access to essential services Basic right to energy 56 6.7.9 Education and awareness Protection of customer rights and interests, customer health and safety 52, 60 ● Community Involvement and Development 6.8.3 Community involvement Social contributions 56-58 6.8.4 Education and culture Social contributions 56-58 Employment creation and skills 6.8.5 Contributing to the nation & society , social contributions 55, 56-58 development 6.8.6 Technology development and access Social contributions 56-58 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Win-win growth with suppliers, contributing to the nation & society 53, 55 6.8.8 Health Employee safety & welfare 60 6.8.9 Social investment Social contributions 56-58 71 Financial Information •Statements of Financial Position Unit: KRW 100 million FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 Account (As of Dec. 31, 2010) (As of Dec. 31, 2009) (As of Dec. 31, 2008) 1. Current Assets 48,292 43,170 42,304 (1) Quick Assets 47,696 41,265 40,036 (2) Inventory 596 1,905 2,268 2. Non-Current Assets 695,690 656,685 626,378 (1) Investment Assets 335,622 308,317 288,186 (2) Tangible Assets 346,734 333,465 319,412 (3) Intangible Assets 964 1,051 1,960 (4) Other Non-Current Assets 12,370 13,852 16,820 Total Assets 743,982 699,855 668,682 1. Current Liabilities 85,291 80,875 78,755 2. Non-Current Liabilities 248,220 208,101 180,537 Total Liabilities 333,511 288,976 259,292 1. Capital Stock 32,078 32,078 32,078 2. Capital Surplus 147,930 146,662 145,562 3. Capital Adjustments △7,415 △7,415 △7,415 4. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 4,172 5,234 4,068 233,706 234,320 235,097 5. Retained Earnings (Net Income) (△614) (△777) (△29,525) Total Shareholders’ Equity 410,471 410,879 409,390 Total Liabilities and 743,982 699,855 668,682 Shareholders’ Equity • Statements of Income Unit: KRW 100 million FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 Account (2010.1.1~2010.12.31) (2009.1.1~2009.12.31) (2008.1.1~2008.12.31) Revenues 391,897 336,857 315,224 Cost of Goods Sold 397,653 330,948 338,717 Gross Profit △5,756 5,909 △23,493 SG&A 12,118 11,596 13,099 Operating Income △17,874 △5,687 △36,592 Non-Operating Income 31,049 23,044 15,479 Non-Operating Expenses 14,938 18,561 23,949 Income before Income Taxes △1,763 △1,204 △45,062 Income Tax Expenses △1,149 △427 △15,537 Net Income △614 △777 △29,525 [ Total Assets ] FY2010 743,982 Unit: KRW 100 million FY2009 699,855 FY2008 668,682 [ Revenues ] FY2010 391,897 Unit: KRW 100 million FY2009 336,857 FY2008 315,224 72 kepco Group Companies GENCOs Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd.(KHNP) Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd.(KOSEP) Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd.(KOMIPO) Installed Capacity Power Generation Installed Capacity Power Generation Installed Capacity Power Generation 18,256 MW 150,098 GWh 8,976 MW 61,658 GWh 9,399 MW 55,724 GWh Employees Revenues Employees Revenues Employees Revenues 7,731 5,829.6 KRW billion 1,967 4,227.9 KRW billion 2,146 4,839.8 KRW billion KHNP is operating nuclear power plants as base KOSEP is operating the Samcheonpo Thermal Power KOMIPO is operating the Boryeong Thermal Power load power plants and hydroelectric plants as peak Site and Yeongheung Thermal Power Site as base Site and Seocheon Thermal Power Plant as base load load power plants. KHNP has currently 20 units load plants. As of late December 2010, KOSEP has an plants. As of late December 2010, KOMIPO has the in operation, including Kori Unit 1, which started installed capacity of 8,976MW, which includes 6,580MW installed capacity of 9,399MW, which breaks down commercial operation in 1978. KHNP is the world’s for 10 bituminous coal units (73.3%), 922MW for 10 as 4,000MW for eight bituminous coal units (42.6%), 5th largest nuclear power company, responsible for LNG combined cycle units (10.3%), 528.6MW for two oil 3,700MW for 21 LNG combined cycle units (39.4%), approximately 32.5% of the national power supply. units (5.9%) and 325MW for two anthracite units (3.6%). 400MW for two anthracite units (4.3%), 285MW for five KHNP has recorded the capacity factor of higher than oil units (3.0%) and 1,000MW for four pumped storage 90% for 10 convective years, starting in 2000. The units (10.6%). capacity factor in 2010 was 91.2%, higher than the global average. As of late December, 2010, KHNP has 18,256MW of installed capacity, which breaks down as 17,716MW of 20 nuclear (97.0%) units and 537MW of 27 hydroelectric units (3.0%). Affiliates KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc. (KEPCO E&C) KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. (KPS) •Address: 2354 Yonggudaero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do •Address: Migeumro 1, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do •Website: www.kepco-enc.com •Website: www.kps.co.krservice of electric power facilities. KEPCO Engineering & Construction KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering (KEPCO E&C) was founded in 1975 (KPS) is an integrated plant service to attain self-sufficiency in design company, providing high-quality technology for nuclear, hydroelectric maintenance services for power plants, and thermal power plants. Since transmission & substations, and then, KEPCO E&C has grown into industrial facilities. KPS is responsible a world-class nuclear power plant for commissioning maintenance of design company. The Korean Standard power plants under construction, Nuclear Power Plant OPR1000 and and ordinary maintenance, planned APR1400 are rated as top-tier nuclear power reactors in terms of economy and safety. outage and other repair & maintenance of power plants in operation, contributing KEPCO E&C has also enhanced the performance and economy of a standardized to preventing unplanned shutdowns and improving the capacity factor. KPS also 500MW coal-fired power plant, and started commercial operation of an 800MW offers total maintenance services for transmission and substation facilities such as thermal power plant, an upgraded version of the 500MW model. In addition, KEPCO transmission facility maintenance, live wire maintenance, underwater HVDC cable E&C’s project management (PM) and construction management (CM) technology and conversion facility maintenance, design, construction, supervision and safety is considered among Korea’s best. Recently, KEPCO E&C advanced into the highly service of electric power facilities. potential environmental market with the world’s first low-temperature desulfurization technology. 73 As of December 31, 2010 Korea Western Power Co., Ltd.(WP) Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd.(KOSPO) Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd.(EWP) Installed Capacity Power Generation Installed Capacity Power Generation Installed Capacity Power Generation 9,604 MW 53,033 GWh 9,638 MW 59,954 GWh 9,510 MW 54,707 GWh Employees Revenues Employees Revenues Employees Revenues 1,811 4,766.8 KRW billion 1,793 5,153.4 KRW billion 1,990 4,573.4 KRW billion WP is operating the Taeahn Thermal Power Site as KOSPO is operating the Hadong Thermal Power EWP is operating the Dangjin Thermal Power Site and base load plants. As of late December, 2010, WP has Site as base load plants. As of late December, 2010, Honam Thermal Power Plant as base load plants. the installed capacity of 9,604MW, which includes KOSPO has the installed capacity of 9,638MW, which As of late December, 2010, EWP has an installed 4,000MW for eight bituminous coal units (41.6%), breaks down as 4,000MW for eight bituminous coal capacity of 9,510MW, which includes 4,500MW for 10 2,998MW for 24 LNG combined cycle units (31.2%), units (41.5%), 4,553MW for 31 LNG combined cycle bituminous coal units (47.3%), 2,100MW for 17 LNG 1,400MW for four oil units (14.6%) and 1,200MW for units (47.2%), 640MW for eight oil units (6.6%), 400MW combined cycle units (22.1%), 1,800MW for six oil units four pumped storage units (12.5%). for two pumped storage units (4.2%) and 41MW for 19 (18.9%), 700MW for two pumped storage units (7.4%) wind units (0.4%). and 400MW for two anthracite units (4.2%). As of December 31, 2010 KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., Ltd. (KNF) KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network Co., Ltd. (KDN) •Address: 1047 Daedukdaero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon-si •Address: 1355, Seocho 2-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul •Website: www.knfc.co.kr •Website: www.kdn.com KEPCO Nuclear Fuel (KEPCO NF) is a KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network nuclear fuel cycle company, providing (KEPCO KDN) was founded as a nuclear fuel design, manufacturing KEPCO IT provider in 1992. Since & engineering services. KEPCO then, KEPCO KDN has offered total NF is the world’s only producer of IT services ranging from generation, nuclear fuel both for PWR and CANDU transmission & substations, and reactors. KEPCO NF has developed distribution to sales, growing into a and commercially supplied PLUS7TM global electric power IT company. for Korean Standard Nuclear Power KEPCO KDN has mainly engaged Plants (KSNP) and ACE7TM for Westinghouse models, helping to increase power in the business of deployment/operation of information systems, automation of plant output power and reduce nuclear fuel cycle cost, thereby raising the operational electric power IT, deployment and maintenance of IT infrastructure and consigned economy of nuclear power plants. management of distribution facilities. KEPCO KDN is now striving to enhance PLC and RFID technologies with an aim to provide ubiquitous electric power services. 74 Power Grid Map 765kV Substation 345kV Substation Power Generation Plant 765kV Route 345kV Overhead Line 345kV Underground Line Yangyang P/P DC±180kV Cable Link Shin-yangyang Shin-deukeun Yangju Eujeongbu Shin-incheon C/C Shin-gapyeong Seo-incheon C/C Jungbu Donghae Sungdong Seo-incheon Shin-bupyung Migeum Incheon T/P Youngdeungpo Shin-incheon Youngseo Shin-yangje Shin-siheung Dong-seoul Shin-seongnam Shin-ansan Youngheung T/P Seo-seoul Gonjiahm Shin-taebaek Hwaseong Pyeongteak T/P Shin-suwon Shin-yongin Shin-anseong Shin-jecheon Ulchin N/P Dangjin T/P Shin-dangjin Shin-jincheon Hyundai Steel Asan Shin-tangjung Taeahn T/P Cheongwon Shin-onyang Shin-youngju Shin-seosan Choengsong P/P Cheongyang Shin-gyeryong Boryeong T/P Boryeong C/C Shin-okcheon Shin-youngil Seonsan Shin-pohang POSCO Gunsan Seo-daegu Buk-daegu Wolsong N/P Muju P/P Ulju Shin-gimje Goryeong Shin-gyeongsan Ulsan T/P Daegu Shin-kori #1~2 N/P Shin-ulsan Shin-namwon Kori #1~2 N/P Younggwang N/P Buk-busan Shin-onsan Sancheong P/P Euryong Shin-gimhae Shin-yangsan Shin-masan Gwangyang Busan C/C Shin-gwangju Shin-goseong Nam-Busan Hadong T/P Samcheonpo T/P Shin-hwasun Gwangyang POSCO Gwangyang C/C Yeosu T/P Shin-gangjin Hawnam C/S Jeju C/S 75 Awards Received & Initiatives Joined List of Awards Received in 2010 Date Awards Presenter Award for the 38th International Exhibition of 2010. 4 International Federation of Inventors’ Associations Inventions of GENEVA The Presidential Award for the Best Patent 2010. 5 Management Company on the 45th annual Invention Day. 2010. 11 Award for IT Innovation Ministry of Knowledge and Economy The Presidential Award for the 5th International 2010. 12 Construction Day 2010. 12 Presidential Award for The 1st Nuclear Day Ranked top among a total 21 organizations in 2010. 12 Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission the survey on integrity of public enterprises Acquired the top grade in the survey on 2010. 12 customer satisfaction of public enterprises for Ministry of Strategy and Finance 12th consecutive year Major Initiatives Joined Date Initiatives Jun. 2005 Transparent Society Pact between KICAC and the CEOs of 18 public enterprises Jul. 2005 Renewable Portfolio Agreement with the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy Aug. 2005 Agreement to comply with the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Transparent Society Pact in the Electric Power Sector among 11 KEPCO Group companies and the Sept. 2005 representative of major electric power companies Jan. 2006 Integrity Pact between KEPCO and business partners (1,579 companies/18,135 persons participated) Agreement with private-sector organizations on business cooperation in the area of the environment Jun. 2007 (UNEP National Committee for Korea, Korea Green Foundation, Korea Women’s Environmental Network) Jul. 2009 Renewable Portfolio Agreement II with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy Dec. 2009 Accession to UN Global Compact in Korea National & International Name Objective Date Exchange of information on technological standards, including industrial Memberships Korea Standard Association standardization and quality management 1964 in Associations Korea Electric Association Promotion and development of electric industry 1965 Korean Member Committee Enhancement of international relationship in the energy area 1969 of the World Energy Council Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Exchange of nuclear technology at home and abroad 1975 Korea Electrical Engineering Basic research and nurturing of human resources with regard to 1989 & Science Research Institute electric power industry Korean Society for Quality Exchange of information among quality management organizations 1995 Management to improve quality management activities Korea Nuclear Society Technology development and academic exchange with regard to nuclear power 1995 Korean Institute of Electrical & Academic exchange and cooperation between industry and academia 1996 Electronic Material Engineering regarding electrical and electronic material engineering Cooperation among electric power companies & experts of East Asia and AESIEAP 1998 the Western Pacific Protection of the rights of US electric power companies and provision of EEI 2004 information on the electric power industry AEIC Technological exchange among electric power companies in North America 2008 Korea Invention Promotion Exchange of needs and trends of IPR market 2009 Association 76 Glossary Gas Insulated Switch Gear (GIS) Electric Quality c-km (Circuit Kilometer) A complex switching device which opens or The quality of electricity provided is represented Length of one cable made up of three lines. closes an electric circuit which is insulated as blackout time, voltage & frequency margin One of the most generally used units for the with sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) gas and total harmonic distortion (THD) length of transmission line Community Energy System (CES) Smart Grid Demand Control A type of power business that generates “Smart grid” refers to an electric power grid All the activities to satisfy electricity demand electricity using a small-capacity generator that incorporates information & communication at a minimal cost by changing customers’ and supplies electricity to users within the technologies to maximize efficiency for greater electricity use patterns. Load control and designated district directly without going eco-friendliness. energy efficiency improvement are major through the power exchange market methods for demand control Clean Development Mechanism Base Load Generator An arrangement allowing industrialized Ice Storage Cooling Facility A generator which keeps running at a countries with a greenhouse gas reduction An advanced cooling system that stores ice or constant output due to little output adjustment commitment to invest in projects that reduce cold water by using off-peak electricity during according to demand control. Currently coalemissions in developing countries as an the night and uses it for cooling during the fired thermal power generators and nuclear alternative to more expensive emission day. Distributes the increasing cooling load to power generators are running as base load reductions in their own countries. the night time zone and helps improve load generators imbalance between day and night Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) Certified Emission Reduction (CERs) Emissions Trading System (ETS) Regulation that requires the increased CERs are carbon credits issued by the CDM The system that sets the total quantity of production of energy from renewable energy Executive Board for emission reductions greenhouse gas emissions of all advanced sources achieved by CDM projects nations and imposes a certain amount of emission quotas. Countries exceeding the Greenhouse Gases quota can purchase emission rights and Global Compact Elements of air generated either naturally those under the quota can sell emissions UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan presented 10 or artificially, which may contribute to global universal principles in the areas of human rights, warming when there is an excessive increase Load Factor labor, the environment and anti-corruption, calling of their proportion in the atmosphere. Refers for business leaders to join an initiative called the The ratio of average power as compared with to gases like carbon dioxide (CO2), methane Global Compact aimed at promoting business the peak power during a given period. Used (CH4), chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), nitrous oxide transparency and corporate social responsibility. as the indicator representing the efficiency of (N2O), and sulfur hexafluoride(SF6) The operational phase of the initiative was power facilities launched at UN Headquarters in July 2000 Electricity Effect Valuation System Transmission & Distribution Loss A technique to select ideal sites for constructing Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Electricity loss incurred while electric transmission and substation facilities. Quantifies A body of the United Nations Environmental power flows from power plant to substation, the effect of electricity on the natural, social Programme in charge of developing globally transmission/distribution lines, and finally and technology environment by using GIS and applicable guidelines for sustainability reporting point of consumption, mainly due to resistance CAD and analyzes the weighted importance of the effect. Results are rendered in 3D images Energy Intensity SF6 Gas Self-Sufficiency Rate SF6 gas is used as insulation medium for GIS. Energy consumption per US$ 1,000 of GDP The impact of SF6 gas on global warming is app. KEPCO defines Self-Sufficiency Rate as the 25,000 times more than CO2 ratio of the amount of a given fuel secured to Electricity Reserve Rate the amount of a given fuel required Electric power in reserve against contingencies TOE (Ton of Oil Equivalent) or to meet sudden surges in electricity demand Unit converted on the basis of the caloric value of 1 ton of oil 77 Global Network 08 09 19 05 06 18 04 13 20 12 01 10 11 15 02 03 16 14 17 07 Overseas Offices Overseas Subsidiaries Abu Dhabi Branch Office 01 KEPCO International Hong Kong Ltd. 11 KNOC Nigerian East/West Oil Co., Ltd. Muroor Road (4th st), al Mamoura, B Po Box 112010, Abu Dhabi, UAE 02 KEPCO International Philippines lnc. 12 Korea Imouraren Uranium Investment Tel: 971-2-659-5590 Fax: 971-2-659-5666 03 KEPCO Philippines Holdings lnc. 13 KEPCO Middle East Holding Company KEPCO Washington, D.C.Office 04 KEPCO Gansu International Ltd. 14 PT Bayan Resources TBK. 8100 Boone Boulevard, Suite 620, Vienna, VA 22182, U.S.A 05 KEPCO Neimenggu International Ltd. 15 Dolphin Property Ltd. Tel: 1-703-917-1591 Fax: 1-703-917-1593 06 KEPCO Shanxi International Ltd. 16 KEPCO Electric Power Nigeria Ltd. KEPCO China Office 2702, Tower A, Tianyuangang Center No.C2, 07 KEPCO Australia Pty Ltd. 17 PT Adaro Energy TBK. Dongsanhuanbeilu, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China 08 KEPCO Canada Energy Ltd. 18 AMEC Partners Korea Ltd. Tel: 86-10-6466-9426 Fax: 86-10-6466-9436 09 KEPCO Netherlands B.V. 19 KEPCO Netherlands S3 B.V. 10 KEPCO Energy Resource Nigeria Ltd. 20 KEPCO Holdings de Mexico 78 Additional Information Sustainability Reports including this one and Annual Reports can be downloaded on the website of KEPCO. Additional information of the management of KEPCO is available on the websites below. Expressions such as forecast, expect and estimate is a description of the analysis of the future as of today. Therefore, for specific risk or uncertainty, please refer to Form 20-F. Report Website Address Financial Supervisory Service’s DART Business Report (data analysis, retrieval and transfer dart.fss.or.kr system)/company overview Form 20-F US Securities and Exchange Commission www.sec.gov KEPCO homepage/Investor relations/ Annual Report www.kepco.co.kr management Statistics of Electric KEPCO homepage/Investor relations/ www.kepco.co.kr Power in Korea Investor resources/Statistics of electricity Social Contribution KEPCO homepage/Sustainability www.kepco.co.kr Public Institution Information Management Information Management System, the Ministry of www.alio.go.kr of Public Institutions Strategy and Finance Contact Information For more detailed information on this report, please contact us at: 512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea (zip code: 135-791) Strategic Planning Team, Corporate Planning Department, KEPCO Tel: 82-2-3456-3524 Fax: 82-2-3456-3578 E-mail: hjnature@kepco.co.kr Other Contact Points Financial Information: General Accounting Team, Treasury Department (yuyong@kepco.co.kr) Ethical Management: Anti-corruption Team, Audit & Inspection Office (kms8504@kepco.co.kr) Environmental Management: Green Growth Strategy Team, Technology Division (rookie@kepco.co.kr) Social Contribution: Social Contribution Team, Corporate Communications Office (ogong119@kepco.co.kr) Reader Feedback Your valuable feedback on 2011 KEPCO Sustainability Report will be used to improve the quality of our sustainability management and sustainability reports. Please send us your feedback by posting on KEPCO website or by e-mail/mail. Recycled papers and soy ink, certified by Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), were used to print this report. 512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-791, Korea Tel 82-2-3456-3114 www.kepco.co.kr
