Global Compact 2011 Communication on Progress Company information Plougmann & Vingtoft a/s Sundkrogsgade 9 PO Box 831 2100 Copenhagen Ø Denmark Small/medium-sized enterprise Member since September 2008 Contact person: Lars Toke Graugaard, Head of Communcation and Marketing Plougmann & Vingtoft is one of the leading European firms offering intellectual property consulting with a commercial and strategic focus, particularly within patents and other intellectual property rights. Our core competence is the ability to quickly understand new technologies and to develop these into well-protected and commercially profitable intellectual property rights for our clients. Our clients range from innovative start-up companies to large multinational corporations within all industries. We have a staff of 100 dedicated professionals spread across our offices in Denmark, Norway, and Germany. Statement of support We are pleased to support the UN Global Compact, and we strongly agree with all the ten principles which we strive to incorporate in our daily business routines. Since some of the principles concern issues which we, as company working from a Scandinavian basis, could take for granted, we believe it is important not to rest on our laurels, but continuously work to conform with and recognize the importance of supporting all the principles. Therefore, we are moving in the direction of formulating a relevant code of conduct for our business by communicating the Global Compact principles to our employees in order to further integrate the Global Compact principles in our company. By supporting the Global Compact, we intend to spread the message to the people we do business with and thereby encourage them to join the Global Compact and abide to the ten principles. Supporting the UN Global Compact is a matter of taking a stance and signaling to our stakeholders that we care to be a responsible business in all possible aspects. In this COP report our focus is especially on the environment principles, as our business is under development in this area. In early 2012 our Copenhagen office will move location to a more environmentally friendly office building with many features for implementing and improving environmentally concious behaviour. Human Rights Principle one: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; Principle two: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment At Plougmann & Vingtoft we support the UN Declaration of Human Rights as well as the general ideas about human rights which are embedded in the Scandinavian culture. Further, we are committed to respecting human rights throughout all of our business activities, including the way we treat our employees and clients. Therefore, we also require our business partners to conform with our approach to human rights, and we strive not to assist clients who knowingly violate the UN declaration of Human Rights. Processes and systems We communicate our views on human rights to our business partners. Our business terms reflect the way we seek to do business with current and prospective partners and by communicating our support for Global Compact externally as well as internally we are working towards creating a code of conduct to reflect our ethical views, values, and standards for doing business. As a knowledge-based consultancy our employees are our greatest asset. Therefore, we are highly focused on the rights of our employees by having a specific Employee Policy regarding the rights, duties, and personnel conditions of the employees at Plougmann & Vingtoft. This policy is made available for all employees via our Employee Handbook and through our intranet. Our Employee Policy covers, among others, the following aspects: • Employee development • Insurance and other employee benefits • Working conditions • Senior and Retirement policy Further, we have a Health and Safety Committee which continuously works to ensure a good physical and psychological working environment for all employees. Two selected employees represent the rest of their colleagues in ensuring that the opinion of the employees is voiced to the Committee. This also ensures that the everyday talk among the employees is heard by the Committee, which makes it easier for us to react to an issue at its early stage. Actions implemented or planned and results thereof We require our business partners to adhere to the laws in the countries they work in as we do ourselves. In 2009, we ranked 27th in the survey “Best Workplaces in Denmark” executed by “Great Place to Work Institute”. This bears witness of the satisfaction our employees feel about working at Plougmann & Vingtoft. One of the main characteristics of Plougmann & Vingtoft in the survey was the “7 day weekend” concept, which enables employees to work as flexible as possible in order to balance their work life with their personal life. We use the positive result in the survey as a starting point of working towards being among the best workplaces in Europe. Every two years we undertake an employee satisfaction survey among our staff to ensure that all of our employees are content and satisfied with their job and the company. We continuously invite the employees to help us create an even better workplace. In the fall of 2011 we will undertake a new employee satisfaction survey where the results will be used in creating an even better working environment for our employees. Labour rights Principle three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Principle four: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle five: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle six: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment As Plougmann & Vingtoft is a Scandinavian company, we view the labour rights principles as commonplace due to the cultural and social guidelines of our society. Thus, our employees can freely join any union they prefer as we have organisational freedom in Denmark. We have a clear policy not to support, use, be complicit in or benefit from any kind of forced labour. Child Labour is not a problem or concern within our line of business, as we are a knowledge-based consultancy. The biggest risk is thus through our business partners and we strive to make sure that the companies we co-operate with comply with the principles of upholding the effective abolition of forced and child labour. At Plougmann & Vingtoft we dissociate ourselves from discrimination of any kind. We believe that everyone is equal and should have the same rights in respect of employment and occupation. Processes and systems Our Human Resource department strives to inform our employees of their rights, such as compensation and benefits and employee development and training. For instance, it is our wish and goal that the majority of our consultants supplement their scientific education with an education as a European patent attorney, and Plougmann & Vingtoft supports this by allocating time for studies and paying for the education on previous agreement. Plougmann & Vingtoft is an internationally oriented company and we welcome employees from any part of the world, as we see diversity as a strength and competitive advantage in an international company like ours. What matters is the knowledge and competences of the individual employee. Furthermore, we are working to ensure that employees at all levels know and respect national and international standards for prevention of discrimination. Actions implemented or planned and results thereof In our Employee Handbook we communicate our commitment to the Global Compact, in order to increase awareness for our employees about the principles and to integrate our ethical views on labour rights further in the company. This is also a step in the idea process of creating our own code of conduct. Further, we also adhere to the code of conduct of the European Patent Institute (epi). A unique and concrete initiative to promote the support of social initiatives outside of work is our sponsor pool. Every time Plougmann & Vingtoft reaches a financial goal the sponsor pool is awarded 15,000 DKKR. The employees can hereafter apply for a sponsorship for an organisation, union or project that they or their relatives are involved in. With the sponsor pool we thereby encourage our employees to actively engage in and support social causes. The environment Principle seven: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle eight: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle nine: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment It is our policy at Plougmann & Vingtoft to support environmental efforts. Therefore we encourage employees to consider the environment in their daily work activities. Further, our Copenhagen office will in March 2012 move location to a more environmentally friendly office building, as a way of promoting environmental responsibility. Within our group of consultants we have a competent and innovative cleantech team whose work helps to promote technological developments which can improve environmental conditions. Our team works with products and services that improve operational performance, productivity or efficiency while reducing costs, inputs, energy consumption, waste or pollution. Processes and systems In March 2012, we will be moving the location for our Copenhagen office. Our new address will be at Mikado House, a large office complex close to the city centre of Copenhagen. Mikado House has undergone a screening from the American certification system LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) in order to determine the sustainability level of the building. The screening result was 73 points which places Mikado House at the LEED Gold certification level. There are four possible certification levels where LEED Gold is the second highest. Most international companies accept buildings with a Silver level certification to meet their internal environmental demands. By introducing a few more environmental initiatives – which also includes the actions of the tenants of the building – Mikado House would be able to be LEED Platinum certified. Plougmann & Vingtoft hopes to encourage employees to comply with and take advantage of the environmental benefits of this new location. For instance, the office building is close to public transportation facilities as well as being an ideal location for using bicycles as transportation to and from work. Initiatives for promoting the use of bicycles are already implemented in our Copenhagen office where we offer bike preparation each spring for our employees. Actions implemented or planned and results thereof Within the past years we have implemented initiatives such as recycling of water bottles, avoiding unnecessary paper waste by encouraging employees only to print when necessary as well as printing on both sides of the paper, and promoting the avoidance of unnecessary transportation by using the IT facilities for long-distance meetings. We also recycle used printer paper by delivering it to various child care facilities rather than disposing of it. We also include our suppliers and business partners in our environmental considerations. An example of this is that the cleaning companies we use for our offices are environmentally focused in their operations. Our new location at Mikado House will evidently lead to environmental actions. Currently, we plan to implement initiatives regarding water and electricity use as the build-in features for, for instance, energy use at Mikado House allow tenants to be more environmentally savvy. Anti-Corruption Principle ten: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Commitment Fortunately, corruption is not very widespread in Scandinavia and is thus not a direct issue in our daily business. Still, Plougmann & Vingtoft is committed to non-acceptance of bribery directly or indirectly, in any form, and we make an effort to ensure that all of our employees are aware of this policy. Further, Plougmann & Vingtoft comply with the guidelines of Danish legislation regarding the ban of insider trading of stocks. The ban on insider trading means that buying, selling or encouraging to buy or sell stocks/securities is prohibited for persons with inside knowledge (For instance our employees), which could be of significance for the trade of these stocks. Processes and systems Plougmann & Vingtoft has participated in a conference with the topic of avoiding corruption in a globalised world by the Confederation of Danish Industry. This provided insight on the possible corruption challenges for us, such as the markets we operate in and the industries where corruption are higher. The speakers of the conference further elaborated on how to view external grey areas, such as facilitation payments and how to avoid internal corruption. Actions implemented or planned and results thereof We use the knowledge from the confederation of Danish Industry as a guideline in order to avoid corruption. Furthermore we have strict invoice and receipt approval procedures. Availability of COP report to stakeholders At our company website we communicate our commitment to the Global Compact to our stakeholders. Here, we show that we, by joining Global Compact, are committed to implementing the ten principles in our daily business activities and development. We plan to publish selected excerpts of our 2011 COP report on our website in order to show our development and to inspire others to do the same. For all our employees the COP report will be made accessible through our intranet system, giving them the opportunity to get an insight in our social responsibility activities as well as the opportunity to contribute with any ideas they might have.
