Bristol-Myers Squibb: UNGC Communication on Progress Page 1 of 3 HOME | CONTACT US | INDEX Our Company R&D Products News Investors Partnering Responsibility Careers Sustainability BMS.com Home » Sustainability » Governance and Management » UNGC Communication on Progress Responsibility Message from CEO About this GRI Report UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Executive Summary 2011 Sustainability Issues To Our Stakeholders Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators I am pleased to submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s first annual Communication on Worldwide Facilities Progress report. Stakeholder Engagement In so doing, I reaffirm our company’s Governance and steadfast commitment to the Ten Management Principles of the United Nations Global Corporate Governance Compact – principles that are at the very Leadership heart of our business. In fact, as part of Compliance & Ethics our overall adherence to good corporate Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the Management Systems citizenship practices, these principles United Nations Global Compact, which is the help guide our work, inform our world’s largest corporate citizenship and Environment, Health sustainability initiative. and Safety Policy decisions and drive our success. Systems for Managing Risks In this annual Communication on Progress, we speak to this commitment and describe our efforts to further integrate the Management Systems Certification Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We Management System also plan to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of Components communication. Overarching Policies Bristol-Myers Squibb is a company rooted in a firm commitment to the highest standards Economic of business integrity and ethics. We therefore not only share the values of the United Responsibility Nations Global Compact. We live them. Social Progress Environmental Sincerely, Performance Lamberto Andreotti Go Green Chief Executive Officer Subject Index Downloads Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010. We take this responsibility seriously and have worked this year to review and integrate its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption with our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. Several significant actions were taken as a result. We communicated our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact both internally to all employees and externally to the public on our company website. We used the U.N. Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool to identify opportunities for improvement across the company. We also developed and adopted standards of business conduct and ethics for third parties, such as suppliers, distributors, consultants and other company service providers, just as we have long had standards of business conduct and ethics for employees. Our participation in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative promotes similar Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers. Our company's website contains further information on policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective http://bms.com/sustainability/governance_and_management/Pages/ungc-communication-... 12/5/2011 Bristol-Myers Squibb: UNGC Communication on Progress Page 2 of 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bristol-Myers Squibb Human Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Website References Rights Responsibility Message from CEO Our Mission and Commitment Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties Sustainability Report GRI Index Workplace Policies Our Suppliers Diversity & Inclusion Social Progress Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Sustainability 2015 Goals Achievements Our Employees Management Approach Environment, Health and Safety Policy Management Systems Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators Environmental Performance Go Green Corporate Governance Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs © 2011 Bristol-Myers Squibb http://bms.com/sustainability/governance_and_management/Pages/ungc-communication-... 12/5/2011 Bristol-Myers Squibb: UNGC Communication on Progress Page 3 of 3 Your use of the information on this site is subject to the terms of our Legal Notice and Privacy Policy. http://bms.com/sustainability/governance_and_management/Pages/ungc-communication-... 12/5/2011
