Sustainability at CEWE COLOR Progress Report 2010 Contents Progress Report 2010 3 Company PROGRESS REPORT 2010 Foreword by Dr Rolf Hollander 4 Conversation with Andreas F. L. Heydemann 8 Sustainability management 10 Reporting system, publication details 11 Organisational structure 12 Economy Production sites 13 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 16 Environmental policy 32 Tradition 16 Saving energy (Scopes 1, 2, 3) 34 Mission statement 17 Green IT, climate change 35 Code of conduct 18 Protecting water 36 Environment Ombudsman 19 Conserving resources 37 Materials balance 38 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 22 Ensuring occupational health and safety 39 Sustainable innovation 22 Risk management 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Quality management 24 Corporate management 42 Product safety, Supplier management 25 Equal opportunities 43 Memberships and partnerships 26 Employee satisfaction/participation 44 Pension scheme, Training 45 Social Employee development and junior management programmes 46 Occupational health and safety and sick leave 47 COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITY 50 Commitment at the German sites 50 Commitment throughout Europe 52 Supporting young, skilled employees 53 Community Internet reference SUMMARY 56 Additional information Status and objectives in accordance with the GRI G3 guidelines 56 4 Introduction Foreword DEAR READER, At CEWE COLOR, our focus is on sustainability. We published our work hand in hand? And we haven’t just started asking ourselves ﬁrst sustainability report last September and today – eight months these questions today. We are celebrating 50 years in business this later – the progress report is already available. Why this commityear – proof that CEWE COLOR “still exists later on”. ment? Because it is a key theme to which we are passionately dedicated, and because the ﬁrst report generated strengths and From an economic perspective, sustainability also always means ambition. We want to be even better, to think one step ahead, to investing in the future viability of the company. In the nineties, we initiate more and to present our progress more tangibly. When it had to acknowledge that new technologies were encroaching on our comes to sustainability, we know that changes in company processes original business and squeezing it out of the market. Digital cameras become clear and measurable if a member of the Board of Manageinitially captured the markets slowly, and then in leaps and bounds. ment is speciﬁcally responsible for and ensures commitment to this We were one of the ﬁrst to see the great potential of digital phoissue. At our company, Board member Andreas F. L. Heydemann, tography and to develop a large number of innovations for digital together with experts from the Sustainability Coordination Group, photo processing. The CEWE PHOTOBOOK followed in 2005, the has taken on responsibility for this task. beneﬁts of which are described by 15-year-old Sebastian on page 21. Today, you can even order photos directly from your mobile phone, Young “experts” – namely some of our employees’ children – also and we are currently developing mobile innovations such as the have their say in this sustainability report. As sustainability is particuCEWE PHONE ALBUM app to enhance this service. larly concerned with future generations, we have also spoken with them. We were thrilled with the logic they used to get to the heart of 2010 was a very successful business year. Growth of 9 per cent abstract notions. For example, 15-year-old Tilman gave the following generated a record turnover of EUR 447 million. Throughout answer to the question of what he understood by the term sustainEurope, our customers bought 2.5 billion photos, 4.3 million ability: “Sustainability means that something will still exist later on.” CEWE PHOTOBOOKS and numerous photo gift items. As already reported, CEWE COLOR doubled its after-tax earnings from This is exactly what we are working on at CEWE COLOR – we careEUR 6.7 million to EUR 13.7 million and earnings per share from fully weigh up what is happening today with what resources and for EUR 1.00 to EUR 2.02. whose beneﬁt, and calculate the effects this will have on tomorrow. We have a huge responsibility to our environment, our employees, This sustainable economic success also means that we can give our customers, our suppliers and our shareholders. How can integsomething back to society. In the section “Community Responrity, honesty and responsibility guide the daily operations of a sibility” starting on page 50, you can read about our commitment nachhaltigkeit@cewecolor.de business-focused company? How can proﬁtability and sustainability in the social, cultural and sporting realms. Foreword Introduction 5 In 2010, 90 young people were receiving professional training with us. The number of employees participating in our employee share ownership plan is growing. Employee satisfaction is important to us. Our employees know that each individual makes a great contribution to the company’s success. I hope that the contributions from our employees’ children will make it clear how sustainability-related issues are being well received at our company. Maxi, Corina, Pia, Tilman, Felix, Sebastian, Niklas and Maximilian: I would like to take this opportunity to thank you again for your excellent collaboration. Oldenburg, May 2011 PS: If you have questions regarding this report or would like to send praise or criticism, please e-mail us at: nachhaltigkeit@cewecolor.de Dr Rolf Hollander, Chairman of the Board of CEWE COLOR Holding AG and of the Neumüller CEWE COLOR Foundation. Maxi, 15, daughter of a CEWE COLOR employee working at Reception. I’ve just completed my working experience at CEWE in Oldenburg. Of course, I was familiar with the CEWE PHOTOBOOKS, but I didn’t know the PEOPLE who produce them, and I also didn’t know how nice they are to one another. That surprised me – and I liked it. 8 Introduction Conversation SUSTAINABILITY AT CEWE COLOR Employees’ children in conversation with Board member Andreas F. L. Heydemann For the purpose of this sustainability report, Mr Andreas F. L. Heydethe FSC® logo on their paper. An organisation that operates globally, mann, Commercial Director of CEWE COLOR Holding AG, met with the Forest Stewardship Council, which is where the name FSC® comes Pia, Sebastian, Niklas and Tilman (all children of employees) in from, inspects companies that do not fell more trees than they replant. Oldenburg for a discussion. The companies receive a certiﬁcate for this. Furthermore, the forestry companies undertake to provide decent working conditions and to Moin is a greeting used in parts of Mr Heydemann: Moin, Moin! First of all, thanks very much for collpay their employees appropriately. Northern Germany. It means “hello” and can be used at any time of day or night. aborating with such interest in our new sustainability report this year. Today, we want to talk about the topic of sustainability, and you Do you actually know how much paper each person in the world can ask me questions if you like. First though, I’d like to ask you if consumes on average in a year? 56 kilograms. you are familiar with the word “sustainability” and what you actually think it means. Sebastian: But I don’t consume photos or photo books at all. I keep them. Tilman: Sustainability means that something will still exist later on. Mr Heydemann: Yes, that’s right. But if, for example, you order a Niklas: If a company is sustainable, then it protects the environment. CEWE PHOTOBOOK, then we send it to you in a strong cardboard envelope so that it arrives safely. You probably then put this envelope Mr Heydemann: Tilman’s answer gets to the heart of the matter. into the paper recycling bin so that it is recycled. The 56 kilograms Something that will still exist later on. The principle of sustainability refers to all of the paper, including the paper that you keep at home. means that, in all your actions, you are already keeping an eye on the effects on the future. It has a lot to do with responsibility. For Niklas: Does CEWE COLOR also do something for climate example, our responsibility to you is to use resources sparingly. protection? Resources are things such as water, wood and energy. CEWE COLOR needs all of these to manufacture photo products, and we use them Mr Heydemann: We ship everything that our customers order from particularly carefully. us via goods vehicles and delivery vans. Since April 2010, CEWE COLOR has therefore been using Deutsche Post DHL’s carbonPia: Do you also use environmentally friendly paper here? neutral shipping service (GoGreen) for home deliveries in Germany. We cannot do without transportation, but DHL, and we, are paying Mr Heydemann: Yes, we use FSC® paper. This means that forestry for climate protection projects to be supported which offset carbon companies which manage their forests in an exemplary way can use dioxide emissions that occur during transportation. That means Conversation Introduction 9 climate protection projects worldwide receive EUR 0.85 for every 1,000 letters and EUR 0.02 for each package sent. Tilman: Can CEWE not do more? Mr Heydemann: Yes, we are doing more. For example, no orders are delivered to retail stores on Saturdays. The fewer vehicles on the road, the better it is for the environment. In the future, we also do not want to collect from or deliver to over 1,000 customers several times a day, and we are also looking into carbon-neutral shipping in other countries, like we have in Germany. Pia: Who is looking after all these issues at CEWE? Andreas F. L. Heydemann, Commercial Director of CEWE COLOR Holding AG, in conversation with Tilman, Niklas, Sebastian and Pia. Mr Heydemann: I’m actually responsible, but a team does the work. We have set up a Sustainability Coordination Group and, together with experts from individual departments, we are drawing up speciﬁcations here in Oldenburg, which will then need to be complied saving day where as many employees as possible will cycle to work with at all plants. You probably know that CEWE COLOR works in instead of driving. Furthermore, with the support of our energy a total of 24 European countries. provider EWE, we have already purchased four natural gas vehicles here in Oldenburg. We want to further reduce the CO² emissions of Sebastian: What happens here in Oldenburg to protect the our passenger cars. environment? Thank you for your questions! Mr Heydemann: We have set up a new internal project that we’ve called C3RP. With this project, we are focusing on how we can better save energy. For example, we are optimising the lighting in the corridors and reducing the energy consumption of computers and servers by using better air conditioning. We are planning an energy10 Introduction Sustainability management MANAGING SUSTAINABLY Sustainability objectives need to be deﬁned, implemented and Sustainability management at the CEWE COLOR Group examined. To this end, CEWE COLOR has established a comprehensive sustainability management programme in recent years. The Sustainability department has been represented at Board level since Strategic decisions 2008. The Board member responsible for the programme is Andreas F. L. Heydemann. He is head of the Sustainability Coordination CEWE COLOR Board of Management Group, which, together with experts from various departments, is drawing up objectives and working on their implementation at all sites. E COLOR departments CEW Specifications Recommendations Many sustainability-related issues are already ﬁrmly established in Finance/ Production/ Financial the company and are implemented systematically in internal strucQuality Control Assurance tures and processes. At CEWE COLOR, sustainability is therefore a Environliving cycle, which on the one hand seeks to meet the objectives ment Legal and on the other hand is continually growing as new issues and Operational decisions current developments come into play. Sustainability Coordination Group PR/ Marketing Human Resources Logistics/ Purchasing Sales Specifications Reporting Sustainability ofﬁcer’s staff at the Group companies Directly reporting Group companies Reporting system Introduction 11 REPORTING SYSTEM Objective of the report Editorial notes This report aims to transparently present the objectives that CEWE This sustainability progress report is published in German and COLOR is pursuing in order to overcome economic, environmental, English. The deadline for the receipt of copy was 1 May 2011. social and community challenges, and the measures it is using to do so. Procedure Publication details This is the progress report of the ﬁrst sustainability report, which was published in September 2010. The report was prepared in Responsibility of: conjunction with the Sustainability Coordination Group and was CEWE COLOR Holding AG approved by the Board. Meerweg 30 – 32, 26133 Oldenburg, Germany Publication Telephone: + 49 (0) 441 / 404 – 0 The report is published on our company homepage at Fax: + 49 (0) 441 / 404 – 421 www.cewecolor.de www.cewecolor.de. www.cewecolor.de Fundamentals nachhaltigkeit@cewecolor.de As a ﬁrst step, data collection is based on the current sustainability guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). CEWE Basic concept www.globalreporting.org COLOR complies with the GRI G3 guidelines in this regard. These FIRST RABBIT GmbH, Cologne focus on qualitative and quantitative information on the performance indicators for sustainability: ethical, economic, environmental, social Concept, editing and design and community. UMPR GmbH, Hamburg Data Photos The data was collected over the course of the 2010 business year, Robert Geipel, Christian Schallschmidt, Oldenburg which extended from 1 January to 31 December. The information in FIRST RABBIT GmbH, Cologne, and Horst Gerlach, Cologne the report concerns all afﬁliated companies, i.e. all companies in which CEWE COLOR Holding AG held a majority shareholding at the Printing time the sustainability report was prepared. The ﬁnancial data is viaprinto, the online print service of CEWE COLOR www.viaprinto.de presented in euro. 12 Introduction Organisational structure ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE The CEWE COLOR Group is structured as follows: Shareholders CEWE COLOR Holding AG Neumüller CEWE COLOR Stiftung 4 Members on the Board of Management, no other employees 9 Members on the Board of Management / Executive Board, no other employees • Shareholder of OHG • Managing shareholder of OHG • Supervisory Board of AG • Board of Trustees at the foundation • Board of Management of AG • Board of Management of the foundation/Executive Board manages CEWE COLOR AG & Co. OHG ca. 2,700 employees • Conducts the entire operations of the CEWE COLOR Group • Managed by the Boards of Management and the Executive Board of the foundation Legal structure combines capital market and family The founder Senator h.c. Heinz Neumüller wanted to make certain, (largest shareholder with 27.4 per cent). It guarantees the continued on the one hand, that his entrepreneurial principles were permanently operation of the Group in the sense of the legacy of Senator h.c. incorporated in the company and, on the other hand, that the existence Heinz Neumüller, thus supporting the character of a family business. of the company was sustainably guaranteed. This purpose is served It stands for a long-term alignment of the corporate policy. For this by the Neumüller CEWE COLOR Stiftung (foundation) and the large reason, the community of heirs has the function of managing shareshareholding of the community of heirs of Senator h.c. Heinz Neumüller holder to the company. Introduction 13 CEWE COLOR SITES AND OFFICES 2010 Production sites Delivery area Sales offices Oldenburg With twelve high-tech production sites and almost 2,700 employees, CEWE COLOR is present in 24 European countries as a technology and market leader. The company was founded by Senator h.c. Heinz over 4.3 million CEWE PHOTOBOOKS (+19 per cent compared to Neumüller in Oldenburg, Germany, in 1961 and ﬂoated on the stock the previous year) and photo gift items were delivered to over exchange by Hubert Rothärmel in 1993. CEWE COLOR Holding AG is 45,000 POS shops. Turnover in the 2010 business year amounted listed on the SDAX (stock market index for small and medium-sized to EUR 446.8 million. CEWE COLOR is a ﬁrst mover in the introcompanies in Germany). In 2010, approximately 2.5 billion photos, duction of new technologies and products in the photo industry. Corina, 6, daughter of a CEWE COLOR employee in the Human Resources department. My mum’s boss once said that the employees at CEWE are the MOST IMPORTANT. I think she deﬁnitely especially means my MUM nobody would get any – without my mum money at the end of the month. 16 Corporate Responsibility Tradition CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY www.corporate-governance-code.de Buzz words such as Corporate Social Responsibility, Good Business sibility guide the daily operations of a business-focused company? and Corporate Ethics are seldom used at CEWE COLOR. What use How can proﬁtability and sustainability work hand in hand? In order are such trendy terms when the company has been acting responto provide answers to these questions, CEWE COLOR has drawn sibly for the past 50 years, not just since yesterday? At Europe’s up a mission statement and developed a code of conduct for employleading photoﬁnisher, the question of what resources are used for ees. Moreover, the company is committed to the principles of good whose beneﬁt is weighed up carefully. What responsibility does and responsible corporate management and governance, which are CEWE COLOR have to the environment, its employees, customers, based on the German Government Commission’s Corporate Goversuppliers and shareholders? How can integrity, honesty and responnance Code. 50 JAHRE I N N O V A T I O N Mission statement Corporate Responsibility 17 Company Mission statement The CEWE COLOR Group is the leading photoﬁnisher and technolBusiness partners and the competition ogy leader in industrial photoﬁnishing, and aims to maintain and Relationships with CEWE COLOR’s business partners are characterexpand this top position in Europe. This aim is to be achieved only ised by trust and fairness, and are based on honesty and reliability. through performance, honesty and the proper execution of business CEWE COLOR is a reliable partner and expects applicable laws and activities. Customer focus, product quality, maximum innovation and regulations to be observed in all aspects of business. the good reputation of the corporate Group are at the heart of all employee activity. As a company, CEWE COLOR conducts its activAt the end of 2009, CEWE COLOR adopted the code of conduct ities responsibly, strategically and cost-effectively, and considers it set out by the German Association for Materials Management, Purimportant to be able to impress customers with skilled staff and chasing and Logistics (Bundesverband Materialwirtschaft, Einkauf www.bme.de high-quality products. The most important capital for CEWE COLOR und Logistik e. V., BME). This code of conduct is supported by many is its employees. Each employee makes a fundamental contribution renowned German companies in a wide variety of industries. to the company’s success. Partnership and respect for the individual constitute the corporate culture of CEWE COLOR. The cooperative Community and social responsibility management approach is based on mutual trust, respect for each The shareholders of the CEWE COLOR Group also understand and every individual and the delegation of responsibility. The emownership to be an obligation towards society. They believe the ployees of the CEWE COLOR Group have a great deal of scope for company’s position in the market economy is legitimised by its action and, within the range of their responsibilities, they participate contribution to society. Employees always behave responsibly both both in decision-making processes and in the economic success of internally and externally, and are guided by ethical principles, parthe company. At CEWE COLOR, well-informed, motivated employees ticularly honesty, integrity, loyalty, fairness, tolerance and openare a guarantee of quality, efﬁciency, capacity for innovation and mindedness. CEWE COLOR feels a particular obligation to protect growth. its employees and the environment, and fulﬁls this obligation through sustainability. In addition to the company’s social responsibility, this also includes compliance with the highest ethical standards: made clear by the fact that products manufactured using child labour are strictly rejected. 18 Corporate Responsibility Code of conduct Code of conduct The company has developed a code of conduct with its employees Corporate Governance Code based on how the CEWE COLOR Group sees itself. The central The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of the CEWE themes of the code of conduct were addressed at information events COLOR Group are committed to the principles of good, responsible and in personal letters. In summary, its objective is that employees corporate management and governance (Corporate Governance). www.corporate-governance-code.de comply with the following principles: In this regard, the company complies with the German Government Commission’s Corporate Governance Code. In order to do adequate • Integrity and ethical behaviour determine daily actions justice to the signiﬁcance of the issue, Andreas F. L. Heydemann, Commercial Director of CEWE COLOR AG & Co. OHG and member • Business relationships are appropriate and free from unfair of the Board of Management of CEWE COLOR Holding AG, was practices appointed Corporate Governance Ofﬁcer on 31 December 2008. He is also responsible for fostering and developing the compliance • Employees of the CEWE COLOR Group do not accept any gifts or structure, and reports directly to the Board of Management and the other additional beneﬁts from business partners Supervisory Board. • Business information and trade secrets are conﬁdential Declaration of compliance CEWE COLOR published a declaration of compliance in 2011 in accord• Abuse of one’s own position for personal advantage or for the ance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktienadvantage of third parties is not permitted gesetz, AktG) on the German Corporate Governance Code. The company complies with the recommendations of the Code as amended on 26 May 2010, with the exception of the following deviations: 쐍 Setting up specialised committees (deviation from clause 5.3.1) The current practice, namely that the entire Supervisory Board always deals with all the issues on hand, is to be maintained. This also applies with respect to the setting up of an Audit Committee and a Nomination Committee. Ombudsman Corporate Responsibility 19 Company 쐍 Setting up of an Audit Committee Ombudsman/whistle-blowing (deviation from clause 5.3.2) Illegal practices are incompatible with the basic values and business The entire Supervisory Board functions as an Audit Committee. principles of CEWE COLOR. Within the scope of the compliance Due to exceptional competence in matters relating to accounting system, appropriate standards of conduct have been drawn up to and risk management, general responsibility for these areas in the prevent white-collar crime. Supervisory Board lies with solicitor Mr Otto Korte and in the event of his absence with solicitor Dr Christian Jacobs. In this context, an external ombudsman was appointed. Employees, but also business partners and third parties, may contact this om쐍 Setting up of a Nomination Committee budsman if they want to conﬁdentially report any indications of (deviation from clause 5.3.3) suspected cases of corruption, fraud, embezzlement or any other A Nomination Committee has not been set up in view of the size of serious irregularities. Suspected cases can of course also be subthe Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is made up exclumitted anonymously. Since his appointment, no irregularities have sively of representatives of the shareholders. been reported to the ombudsman. 쐍 Members of the Supervisory Board with more than three Supervisory Board mandates in companies not belonging to the Group (deviation from clause 5.4.5) Each member of the Supervisory Board ensures that sufﬁcient time is available to him for performing his duties. For this reason, CEWE COLOR feels that it is not essential to limit the number of mandates Address to three. Statutory regulations concerning a maximum of ten manDr Rainer Buchert, Solicitor dates are observed. Kettenhofweg 1 www.dr-buchert.de 60325 Frankfurt am Main 쐍 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements available within 90 days, Germany interim reports available within 45 days of the period under review (deviation from clause 7.1.2) Telephone Statutory regulations and the regulations of the Frankfurt Stock +49 (0) 69 / 710 – 33 33 0 or +49 (0) 6105 / 92 13 55 Exchange – specifying that consolidated ﬁnancial statements must be publicly available within four months of the end of a business Fax year and that interim reports must be publicly available within two +49 (0) 69 / 710 – 34 44 4 months of the end of the period under review – are observed. E-mail dr-buchert@dr-buchert.de Sebastian, 15, son of a CEWE COLOR employee working at Reception. My mother’s bosses are really CLEVER. They realised that you can make something complicated easy. In the past, it was a case of taking your photos, handing in the ﬁlm and waiting. Then sticking the photos awkwardly into an album. And today? Load your mobile phone photos onto your laptop, download the CEWE PHOTOBOOK software, select the format and the CEWE PHOTOBOOK assistant does the rest. EASY! 22 Economic Responsibility Sustainable innovation PRONOUNCED BUSINESS ACUMEN From an economic perspective, sustainability means investing in the through digital printing expertise, successful marketing, efﬁcient future viability of the company. CEWE COLOR takes this important industrial production and logistics, extensive distribution via the task seriously and continues to expand its competitive advantage Internet and 45,000 retail partners. Sustainable innovation In the photo industry, digital technology has almost replaced anaHowever, CEWE COLOR did not rest on its laurels. Driven by the logue. CEWE COLOR recognised this development back in the strong expansion in the digital camera segment, the company denineties – signiﬁcantly ahead of its competitors – and acted on it. veloped a growing number of individualised, high-quality, addedFirst of all, as far back as 1997, the company installed an order value products. Customers’ digital images found their way onto station for digital photos in a specialist photo shop and followed photo calendars, photo canvases, greeting cards and photo gift items this up in 1998 with the introduction of an order platform for digital such as printed mugs, mousepads and lunchboxes. photos on the Internet. With the Internet, the company opened up new sales channels and thereby strengthened its contacts with retail The next innovation followed in 2005: with the introduction of the stores that had been built up over decades. The invention of the “MY CEWE PHOTOBOOK” brand, the company reached new target Digi Photo Maker terminal opened up further sales opportunities to groups and established price stability in a growth market. Strategic retail partners in the stores. From that point on, many partners could brand development and consistent brand management are leading read data from their customers’ memory cards and later provide to the success of this new form of individualised photo book. In the ﬁnished prints for collection in the retail store. October 2010, the ten millionth copy of the most popular European photo book was presented to its owner amid celebrations. The successfully accomplished technology change attracted attention: the German business magazine WirtschaftsWoche and management consultants A. T. Kearney selected CEWE COLOR as the Sales targets for 2010 Best Innovator 2010 in the medium-sized business category for its Figures in billions of units Target Actual Change “outstanding example of innovation in a business model”. The consulting company Deloitte awarded CEWE COLOR the prize for Digital photos 2,0 2,1 + 6,5% groundbreaking innovation 2010 in Northern Germany. CEWE Photos developed from ﬁlm 0,35 0,37 + 5,1% PHOTOBOOK was a 2010 ﬁnalist in the “Best New Brand” category Total photos 2,35 2,50 + 6,2% of the prestigious brand award organised by the German marketing CEWE PHOTOBOOKS (in millions of units) 4,2 4,3 + 3,3% journal absatzwirtschaft and the German Marketing Association. Risk management Economic Responsibility 23 Today, CEWE COLOR is the leading photoﬁnisher in Europe. All Risk management sales targets were exceeded in 2010. Growth of 9 per cent resulted in a record turnover of almost EUR 447 million. Throughout Europe, CEWE COLOR Holding AG has set up an internal control and risk customers purchased 2.5 billion photos and numerous photo gift management system in compliance with legal requirements. This will items. Compared with the previous year, sales ﬁgures for the CEWE enable the company to proactively identify and assess potential risks PHOTOBOOK in 2010 were up 700,000 units (2009: 3.6 million units, on an ongoing basis and, if necessary, counteract any potential risks 2010: 4.3 million units). As announced, CEWE COLOR more than by means of appropriate measures. It allows the identiﬁcation of doubled its after-tax earnings from EUR 6.7 million to EUR 13.7 milrisks that could have an adverse effect on business activities as well Economy lion and earnings per share from EUR 1.00 to EUR 2.02. Against the as on net assets and the ﬁnancial and earnings position. background of this positive performance, the Board announced an increased dividend proposal of EUR 1.25 (2009: EUR 1.05). The main areas of risk for CEWE COLOR include operational risks, ﬁnancial risks, strategic risks, commercial and logistical risks, and g The management has set itself the target of expanding its successful legal risks. Risk areas relating to sustainability, such as the environposition. It aims to increase the value of CEWE COLOR for employees, ment, product safety and staff, are also taken into account. Control customers and shareholders. In the 2011 business year, the objective is and risk management is an integral part of the company’s business to increase turnover to up to EUR 460 million and annual net proﬁt to and planning processes. It is incorporated into the CEWE COLOR 39 per cent. Group’s information and communications system, and is a key component of the management system. Control and risk management is based on a systematic process involving the identiﬁcation, assessment and control of risk – across the entire Group. Responsibility for control and risk management has been entrusted to the Board of Management, the heads of the regional sites in Germany and abroad, and the corporate departments. Overall Turnover in EUR million responsibility for the control and risk management system lies with 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the Board of Management. Partial risks are allocated to those mem446,8 bers of the Board of Management who have responsibility for that 420,0 413,5 409,8 area of risk. 396,0 The risk management system examines the individual areas of risk by means of an annual, Group-wide risk inventory. The annual risk report is prepared on the basis of this risk inventory. The risk assessments are examined on a quarterly basis throughout the year. The results are then reported to the Supervisory Board. –8.1% +4.4% +1.6% –2.4% +9.0% Change compared to previous year 24 Economic Responsibility Quality management New risks are reported to the Risk Officer, recorded in the risk for processing photographs. The photographic paper, chemicals, management system and allocated to a relevant member of the printing paper and colorants that the company uses are improved Board of Management. For example, the risk area of product safety constantly in close collaboration with suppliers. For industrial digital was incorporated into the risk management system in 2009. If printing based on electrophotographic processes, the company uses required, the assessment of individual risks results in the establishsystems that combine high performance with high colour quality. ment of appropriate measures and, if necessary, the setting up of For inkjet printing, CEWE COLOR uses twelve-colour systems with relevant provisions. pigment-based inks that guarantee the widest colour scheme, better colour gradations and optimum stability. Furthermore, all companies in the Group undergo a periodic “external review” in the area of ﬁnance and accounting. The other In recent years, the processing of digital data has become increasfunctional areas undergo “internal reviews”, with additional input ingly important. The digital workﬂow is self-programmed and from external experts in certain cases. In the context of the control undergoes continuous improvement processes. The company also and risk management system, the CEWE COLOR Group also moniuses the best software available for enhancing image quality. tors the intrinsic value of its investments in subsidiary companies. CEWE COLOR selected this software from a wide range of products, The Group’s interests are subject to periodic impairment tests. adjusts the parameters itself and checks these on an ongoing basis. Colouring processes are one of CEWE COLOR’s core competencies. Quality management The company has implemented procedural checks in this regard that ensure uniform colour quality. The majority of these checks were At CEWE COLOR, the quality management process in the area of developed in-house and are in line with professional standards. photo production begins as soon as an order is received. Digital image data is already optimised when it is sent to the print g CEWE COLOR handles complaints quickly and in an accommodating computer. This allows the optimisation of image quality before the manner. Its aim at all times is to keep the complaint rate at the low level photos are even printed. The quality management process covers the achieved in 2010 (0.28 per cent), in spite of the increasing complexity of manufacture of products at the production sites and the digital the products that are manufactured. workﬂow through to the ﬁnal check. The quality process concludes with the ﬁnal check. Once again, Industrial production and high standards of quality go hand in hand the objective here is to continuously improve product quality. This at CEWE COLOR. Standardised processes have been developed for approach is also reﬂected in the way the company handles comCEWE PHOTOBOOKS to ensure a high level of quality. At CEWE plaints. Tips and suggestions received for improving product quality COLOR, quality management from the point of view of the overall are passed on to the relevant departments. process begins with the selection of the procedures and materials to be used. All materials are examined on a regular basis, while the control loop and exchange process between the supplier’s quality control system and CEWE COLOR are enhanced continuously. The company has 50 years of solid experience in the methodologies used Product safety · Supplier management Economic Responsibility 25 Product safety To avoid risk, the company adopts a two-supplier approach for production-critical materials. Product safety is of particular importance to the company. A team of experts is responsible for the systematic management of product As part of the supplier management process, CEWE COLOR has been safety. This team is comprised of employees from the Purchasing, running a project that also has an effect on sustainability. In 2010, Production, Product Management, Legal and Quality Assurance all relevant suppliers were informed in writing of the compliance departments. The team examines the marketability of all existing guidelines put in place by CEWE COLOR. These include both the products on an ongoing basis. company’s own business conduct guidelines and the code of conduct Economy of the German Association for Materials Management, Purchasing and g The goal is to distribute products without any safety defects. Logistics (BME). These guidelines are intended to ensure compliance with current legal stipulations. The main focus here is the prevention New products are therefore only launched with the appropriate of corruption and cartel arrangements as well as combating child certiﬁcation. In addition, current legislation is always followed and labour and forced labour. is taken into account in all procedures. All consumer products such as toys, mugs and textile goods undergo special product tests. The Compliance with ethical principles, human rights, and environmental test criteria extend beyond the scope of current legal stipulations and health protection is also required. The supplier accepts the and follow the latest recommendations of the German Federal guidelines and ensures compliance with their content. Furthermore, Institute for Risk Assessment. the issue of compliance has been incorporated into the terms and conditions of purchase. Supplier management CEWE COLOR places high demands on its suppliers and works in close collaboration with them. CEWE COLOR focuses on core suppliers in order to forge effective, long-term partnerships and avoid ﬂuctuation in terms of quality. In conjunction with selected partners, developments are achieved in terms of production materials as well as machines and facilities which lead to customised solutions in the production process. In addition to price-driven procurement, integrated quality management is of primary importance to the Corporate Purchasing department at CEWE COLOR. Where possible, CEWE COLOR works with local suppliers. In terms of production and required materials, this means that the company purchases 55 per cent of its materials from Germany, 44 per cent from the European Economic Area and 1 per cent from outside Europe. 26 Economic Responsibility Memberships and partnerships MEMBERSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS www.unglobalcompact.org UN Global Compact BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) www.bsci-eu.org The UN Global Compact is a UN initiative which aims to combat In March 2003, the Foreign Trade Association formally established corruption, slave labour and child labour as well as create decent the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI, www.bsci-eu.org) working conditions worldwide. Currently, more than 5,000 comwith the aim of developing the tools and procedures required for panies around the globe as well as employee, human rights, enthe common European Business Social Compliance Programme vironmental and development organisations are involved in the (European programme for social standards). initiative. When implementing the objectives deﬁned in the BSCI code of Today, Global Compact Network Germany (www.globalcompact.de) conduct, companies take into account the speciﬁc situation at includes more than 120 companies as well as organisations from local, regional and national levels with regard to the social, the ﬁelds of civil society, science and politics. It is actively cultural and economic conditions of their respective countries. supported by the German government, in particular through However, the obligation on the part of the companies to work funding from the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and towards implementing and complying with the social and Development (BMZ), and has established itself as an important environmental standards of the BSCI code of conduct remains platform for dialogue in the area of corporate social responsibility. unchanged. g CEWE COLOR has been a member of the network since The BSCI has established a code of conduct which serves as the September 2010. basis for auditing members’ suppliers. At present, more than 650 companies are members, including a wide range of customers of the CEWE COLOR Group. g CEWE COLOR has been a member since October 2010. Memberships and partnerships Economic Responsibility 27 Economy German Association for Materials Management, Niedersächsische Allianz für Nachhaltigkeit www.bme.de www.umwelt.niedersachsen.de Purchasing and Logistics (BME) (Lower Saxony alliance for sustainability) Founded in 1954, the German Association for Materials ManageIn December 2008, the outline agreement for the Niedersachsen ment, Purchasing and Logistics (BME) provides services to 8,000 Allianz für Nachhaltigkeit (Lower Saxony alliance for sustainability) individual and company members, including medium-sized was signed by the Lower Saxony state government (represented companies as well as Germany’s top 200 companies. The BME by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour association provides a network to promote the exchange of and Transport, and the Minister for the Environment and Climate knowledge for business and science, on the procurement side Protection), Lower Saxony business associations (UVN), the Lower and on the supplier side. The association is open to all industries Saxony Association of Chambers of Commerce, the Chamber of (manufacturing, retail, public sector, banking/insurance, etc.) and Commerce of Hanover, the Lower Saxony Association of Chambers all types of companies. Across Germany, 41 regional branches of Industry and Commerce, the Lower Saxony Association of organise 400 information events each year (technical presenChambers of Industry and Commerce for Hanover and Brunswick, tations, supplier days, company visits) in the ﬁelds of purchasing and the German Federation of Trade Unions of Lower Saxonyand logistics. Bremen-Saxony-Anhalt. g CEWE COLOR signed up to the BME code of conduct at the The aim of the alliance is to increase capacity for innovation and to end of 2009. ensure economic growth in an environmentally friendly manner based on the principle of sustainability. In addition to applicable legal stipulations, speciﬁc agreements and projects aim to provide for the preservation of natural resources and the proactive prevention of burdens facing future generations. In this way, Lower Saxony aims to adopt a purely environment-focused approach with the alliance for sustainability, allowing it to cover as broad a range of sustainability issues as possible. g CEWE COLOR has been a member of the alliance since February 2011. 28 Economic Responsibility Memberships and partnerships www.cdproject.net Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) www.fsc.org The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an initiative that aims to The Forest Stewardship Council was set up in 1993, one year after provide more transparency with regard to companies’ CO² emisthe UN Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de sions. Each year, the 551 investors who support the CDP worldJaneiro. The council’s objective is to implement the requirements for wide invite companies across the globe to disclose their CO² sustainable forest development that were agreed on at the conferemissions and strategies for dealing with climate change. ence in Rio. In terms of the requirements agreed on in Rio, the requirement for equal consideration of social, ecological and ecoBased on the information provided by the companies, the Carbon nomic aspects in relation to the use of natural assets is of particular Disclosure Project has compiled the largest freely available index importance. The FSC ® (www.fsc-deutschland.de) is an international, of CO² emissions for business-related activity in the world. The non-proﬁt organisation with headquarters in Bonn, Germany, and responses provided by the companies are made available on a national working groups in 43 countries. Its aim is to ensure the website for all interested parties. The investors who have given preservation of forests. It strives to achieve this by promoting rethe project their backing have access to all responses. This ensponsible forestry. Strict criteria for the management of forests serve ables them to incorporate the various effects of climate change to prevent uncontrolled deforestation, violation of human rights on business, such as price risks for certiﬁcation, direct weather and pollution of the environment. risks and rising energy costs, when making their investment decisions. According to FSC ® regulations, the entire processing and commercial chain from forest to wholesaler must be certiﬁed completely g CEWE COLOR has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project on and seamlessly. As part of the certiﬁcation process, the production several occasions and in 2010 was the only SDAX-listed company to be processes are examined on an annual basis by independent third included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. parties. Certiﬁed operations are permitted to include the FSC ® label on FSC ® products. By purchasing these products, consumers can make a direct contribution to the improvement of forests. g The operations of the CEWE COLOR Group in Germany were awarded certiﬁcation in 2010. Memberships and partnerships Economic Responsibility 29 Economy Deutsche Post DHL ertemis www.gogreen.de www.ertemis.eu GoGreen is a carbon-neutral shipping service for customers of The European Research and Transfer Network for Environmental Deutsche Post DHL. With the GoGreen shipping service, all transManagement Information Systems is a research network working in port-related emissions are calculated in advance and then offset the ﬁeld of operational environmental information systems. The by means of external climate protection projects. Business custonetwork brings together core competencies from the disciplines of mers have the option to ship all or just some of their national and information systems, business studies, environmental management, international consignments using the GoGreen service. Business ecology, economics and computer science, and is committed to customers who use the GoGreen service receive a GoGreen label addressing new challenges in the area of environmental managefor their consignments as well as an annual certiﬁcate specifying ment in conjunction with its professional partners. the total volume of CO² that was offset for them during the year. The participating colleges provide the network with the very latest The carbon-offset certiﬁcates, generated by the external climate in scientiﬁc expertise. Other companies are invited to share their protection projects, are managed by a separate carbon managepractical knowledge of procedures and methodologies for environment team. The carbon management procedure, all GoGreen promental management, the effects on business of closed-loop recesses and the method for calculating emissions are veriﬁed on cycling as well as new environmental technologies. Partners provide an annual basis by external auditor SGS. their industry-based knowledge of business processes and products. The network therefore includes companies with extensive expertise g CEWE COLOR has been sending all German mail-order consignin the area of organisational and process consulting. ments through the Deutsche Post GoGreen service since April 2010. The ertemis network enables the bidirectional transfer of knowledge between science and industry through the pooling of a wide range of skills. g CEWE COLOR has been an active partner in the network since the inception of the project. Tilman, 15, son of a CEWE COLOR Sales employee. When I want something, I want it NOW. Just like CEWE customers, my mother says. That’s why you see so many delivery vans travelling all around the country. All those trips are not good for the environment. Which is why you can’t pick anything up from CEWE’s outlets on Saturdays any more. Maybe customers will have to wait a little longer – but it’s better for the ENVIRONMENT. I think it’s a good thing. 32 Environmental Responsibility Environmental policy ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EVERY DAY Over the last few decades, the areas in which CEWE COLOR actively environmental policy which deals with the issue in a very thorough contributes to environmental protection have changed signiﬁcantly. manner. The company from Oldenburg in Germany is well aware that The shift in technology from ﬁlm to digital photography has paved every action has a corresponding reaction on the environment. This the way for many new innovations and customisations. New prois why talking about environmental protection often achieves very cesses have been added to many established processes that had been little – whereas actively doing something secures great results. optimised over the years. CEWE COLOR has created an effective Environmental policy Occupational health and safety and environmental protection are CEWE COLOR’s four-point plan commitments that CEWE COLOR takes very seriously with regard CEWE COLOR’s occupational health and safety and environmental proto its employees and society. As a result, the commitments that tection policies are geared towards the generally accepted environmental CEWE COLOR has set for itself include both compliance with impacts in the areas of wastewater, waste and energy consumption: applicable legal regulations and additional customer requirements. • Save energy CEWE COLOR also places particular importance on individual • Protect water customer requirements and is committed to meeting these. In terms • Conserve resources of planning and investment, CEWE COLOR uses the best technol• Ensure occupational health and safety ogies available. This applies not just from an economic perspective, but also from the point of view of occupational health and safety and environmental protection. All newly installed systems and procedures must comply with applicable national and international standards and laws, and must be below the speciﬁed threshold values with Saving energy regard to the health of employees and the environment. Climate protection is very important for CEWE COLOR. Signiﬁcant steps have been made in recent years both in reducing CO² emisg Continuous improvement of occupational health and safety and sions and in improving the company’s energy balance. CEWE COLOR environmental protection as well as the prevention of environmental also intends to actively promote climate protection in the future and pollution are CEWE COLOR’s declared objectives. During the last ten has set up an internal project in this regard (C3RP project; CEWE years, CEWE COLOR has not breached any of its requirements with COLOR Carbon Reduction Programme). In conjunction with external regard to the environment. This is also the company’s policy for 2011 energy consultants, all energy-consuming processes are being and beyond. examined. Environmental policy Environmental Responsibility 33 CEWE COLOR has already participated in the Carbon Disclosure of purchased electricity (Scope 2). Other indirect emissions relating Project on many occasions (see page 28). The project was set up to corporate activities, but not generated as a result of corporate in London in 2000. The declared objective of this non-proﬁt organactivities, are labelled Scope 3 emissions. For example, these include isation is to create more transparency with regard to harmful logistics processes for purchasing goods and delivering products, greenhouse gas emissions. The 200 largest stock corporations in logistic processes for waste disposal, emissions generated by emGermany are taking part in the project and regularly disclose their ployees driving to work and on business trips. carbon dioxide emissions. Owing to the high quality and transparency of the ﬁgures disclosed, CEWE COLOR was the only SDAXIn the last business year, CEWE COLOR’s CO² emissions, both direct listed company to be included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership emissions and those resulting from energy consumption, amounted Index in 2010. to 12,550 tonnes in total (Scopes 1 and 2). Expressed as a relative quantity, CO² emissions amount to 28 tonnes per EUR 1 million in 쐍 Measuring and managing turnover and approximately 5 grams per image. In contrast, CO² emisCO² emissions are calculated and presented in accordance with the sions relating to corporate activities, but not generated as a result Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard of the Greenhouse of corporate activities (Scope 3), are twice as high for goods delivery www.ghgprotocol.org. Gas Protocol Initiative of 2004. All production sites operated by the and supply logistics. For this reason, energy conservation manageEnvironment CEWE COLOR Group are taken into account. All direct CO² emissions ment not only deals with internal business processes, it also looks from stationary and mobile sources (Scope 1) are recorded and extensively at the optimisation of supply and distribution logistics. reported, as are the indirect emissions resulting from the generation Carbon footprint, CO² emissions, Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon footprint, CO² emissions, Scopes 1, 2 and 3 (2010 distribution) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 3 % Employee trips 10 % Scope 1 60 1 % Waste logistics 50 21 % Scope 2 40 30 39 % Logistics 26 % Supply 20 10 0 CO2 (t/EUR million) CO2 (0.1 g/image) 34 Environmental Responsibility Saving energy 쐍 Scope 1 쐍 Scope 2 CEWE COLOR includes emissions produced by the company’s own For Scope 2 emissions, the electrical energy consumed by the lacombustion units, such as gas boilers for hot water and heating, oil boratories in each country in kilowatts per year is multiplied by the heaters and company vehicles, as Scope 1 emissions. Scope 1 CO² respective emission factors of each country, as deﬁned by the GHG emissions were reduced from 5,000 tonnes to 3,930 tonnes in the Protocol. The CEWE COLOR Group reduced overall power conperiod from 2005 to 2010. This reduction is also due to the fact that sumption by 4 per cent to 21.5 GWh/a in 2010 (2009: 22.4 GWh/a). CEWE COLOR cut the number of its production sites. The particuThe corresponding reduction in emissions was almost 200 tonnes of larly cold months of March and December in 2010 led to increased CO² per annum (2009: 8,805 tonnes; 2010: 8,620 tonnes). Year on gas consumption for the twelve sites in comparison to the previous year, power consumption at CEWE COLOR has fallen from 31.2 GWh year (up from 784,000 m³ in 2009 to 900,000 m³ in 2010). To allow (2006) to 21.5 GWh, and CO² emissions have fallen from 10,996 for further cold winters, CEWE COLOR has provided for a heattonnes (2006) to 8,620 tonnes (2010). This is also related to the recovery air conditioning system in its internal C3RP project (see restructuring process – the number of operations was cut from 22 in page 32). 2005 to twelve in 2010. However, it can already be seen that energy expenditure per image is increasing. The consumer trend towards g The company’s aim is to achieve a 5 per cent reduction in gas continuously higher-quality products, which are based on more consumption in both 2011 and 2012. energy-intensive production methods, has led to higher energy expenditure per image. In terms of company vehicles, the goal is to achieve a consistent value of around 2,200 tonnes of CO² per annum. A programme g CEWE COLOR has set itself the goal of cutting power consumption has been drawn up for 2011 with incentives for switching to more to less than 20 GWh/a within the next ﬁve years on the basis of the efﬁcient company vehicles. A pilot project was also launched in same number of production sites. 2010 in conjunction with EWE which saw the addition of four natural gas-powered vehicles to CEWE COLOR’s ﬂeet of vehicles. g Overall, the Group has set a target of a 10 per cent reduction in CO² Carbon footprint, CO2 emissions, Scope 2 (2010) emissions to be achieved within the next three years, based on the results of 2010. Year No. of plants Images Electricity Electricity (million/year) (MWh/a) per image (Wh) 2005 22 3,433 31,187 9.08 2006 19 2,879 26,524 9.21 2007 20 2,792 24,818 8.89 2008 17 2,615 23,303 8.91 2009 14 2,594 22,423 8.64 2010 13 (12) 2,500 21,508 8.60 Green IT · Climate change Environmental Responsibility 35 쐍 Scope 3 쐍 Green IT Logistics processes are shown to have the most signiﬁcant effect CEWE COLOR’s participation in the ertemis project is another exon the environment in terms of emissions. For this reason, they are ample of its commitment to climate protection (see page 29). The regarded as one of the most important aspects of CEWE COLOR’s ertemis project was established to make IT infrastructure in business environmental management strategy. Since April 2010, CEWE more environmentally friendly (Green IT). In collaboration with the COLOR has been using Deutsche Post DHL’s carbon-neutral shipping German universities of Oldenburg, Osnabrück and Göttingen, a initiative (GoGreen) for all German mail-order consignments. sustainable IT strategy has been drawn up for CEWE COLOR and other selected companies in Lower Saxony. This means that all mail-order products shipped in Germany arrive at the customer’s door with zero carbon impact. GoGreen offsets the 쐍 Consequences of climate change emissions generated by transportation through climate protection Within the framework of the nordwest2050 research project, CEWE projects. Climate protection projects worldwide receive EUR 0.85 for COLOR addresses the consequences of climate change. A working every 1,000 letters and EUR 0.02 for every package sent (see page group considers the risks and opportunities associated with climate 29). change as well as strategies for adaptation in collaboration with universities and business partners. The challenge is to pave the way Environment g The company’s objective in the medium term is to also ship internafor innovative processes adapted for climate change in the Brementional consignments using the GoGreen carbon-neutral initiative. By 2012, Oldenburg metropolitan region. In conjunction with businessthe aim is to reduce Scope 3 CO² emissions by a further 10 per cent. partners and the Bremen-Oldenburg metropolitan region, the objective of the nordwest2050 research project is to develop long-term To achieve this, logistics processes will continue to be made more technical and institutional innovations for adapting to climate and more environmentally friendly. By the beginning of 2009, the change. transport requirements of important suppliers had been consolidated with a single logistics provider. Grouping transportation has led to reduced CO² emissions and less mileage, as deliveries are made in fewer, more efﬁciently utilised vehicles. By reducing the amount of goods imported from overseas, 800 tonnes of CO² were saved in the supply chain in 2010 compared with 2009 – the equivalent of 7 per cent (2009: 11,750 tonnes; 2010: 10,932 tonnes). Discontinuing Saturday collections has led to sustainable CO² savings in terms of point-of-sale logistics. In Germany, it equates to a saving of 10 per Two-stop means that two trips are made to a business partner per night. cent (1,850 tonnes of CO² per year; 2009: 18,187 tonnes; 2010: The ﬁrst trip is to pick up the photo 16,312 tonnes). orders, so that they can be processed quickly in the laboratory. The second trip is made to return the completed orders. g Over the next two years, CEWE COLOR is also planning to withdraw Both trips are to be combined into one trip in the future, which will mean the so-called two-stop system for around 1,500 customers. This will changed delivery times in some cases. correspond to further CO² savings of roughly 520 tonnes per annum. 36 Environmental Responsibility Protecting water Protecting water • Reverse-ﬂow cascade rinsing of paper CEWE COLOR uses water to develop photographic materials such as • Use of low carry-over paper-developing machines without a leader ﬁlm and paper. As a photoﬁnishing company, sustainable water manbelt, in many cases using eco-wash technology agement optimisation means less and cleaner water. Consequently, the • Use of ﬁnal baths rather than ﬁnal rinses for colour negatives company is constantly examining its entire production process to • Consumption-based water-dispensing equipment identify where it can save water. The quality of wastewater has been monitored for decades now, and it always complies with legal reAbsolute water consumption declined by 11 per cent in 2010 comquirements. pared to the previous year. The decline is also due to the overall reduction in chemical development. For example, data for the 쐍 Reducing water consumption Oldenburg site shows that approximately 77 per cent of the water Over the last nine years, the company has managed to reduce water consumed in 2010 was used for chemical development processes, consumption by 80 per cent. This is due partly to the decline in ana13 per cent for air humidiﬁcation and 10 per cent for toilets and logue photography, as the process of developing ﬁlm by its nature washing facilities. requires more water per unit of material (m²) than photo paper does. CEWE COLOR has also developed and implemented several effective g The company is aiming for a further reduction of 10 per cent in water water-saving changes in its production process: consumption in 2011. Water consumption at all CEWE COLOR sites l/m2 Full year 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 8 7 6 5.53 5 4.47 4.37 4 3.79 3.03 3 2.56 2.28 2.27 2.33 2 1 0 Speciﬁc water consumption based on the quantity of developed photo paper fell in the same period (last nine years) by 58 per cent (from 5.5 to 2.3 l/m2). Conserving resources Environmental Responsibility 37 쐍 Improving the quality of wastewater electrolytically desilvering its photographic processing baths Even in the future, industrial photoﬁnishing will require water for and using low-ﬂow rinses and their separate desilvering with ionthe development of photographic materials. For CEWE COLOR, exchange systems. Silver recovery is therefore very efﬁcient. In the constant improvement of the quality of wastewater produced is 2009, CEWE COLOR recovered 12.9 tonnes of silver; the ﬁgure of crucial importance. From an environmental perspective, CEWE for 2010 was 10.1 tonnes. The reduced quantity can be explained COLOR’s processes are already exemplary and in some cases above by the sharp decline in the use of ﬁlm and the slight decline in the industry standard. the consumption of photo paper. Since 2001, CEWE COLOR has complied with the photo industry’s Conserving resources voluntary commitment to halve the release of hard complexing Since the company was founded, the environmentally friendly use agents into wastewater, as these are highly resistant to biodegradof materials has been of crucial concern to CEWE COLOR. It selects ation. CEWE COLOR meets this stringent German requirement at its materials very carefully, bearing in mind sustainability and all twelve of its European laboratories. CEWE COLOR now deploys environmental considerations. The company aims for the minimum biodegradable alternatives in colour ﬁlm processing rather than amount of scrap and carefully disposes of any unavoidable waste. complexing agents like EDTA, PDTA and DTPA. The use of EDTA 쐍 Efﬁcient and environmentally friendly material usage Environment has been halved in bleach ﬁxing baths. This was achieved by extending the process time and intensifying the effect of the process CEWE COLOR has accelerated the use of environmentally friendly by using reverse-ﬂow cascade technology. materials, in particular in the case of its most popular product, the CEWE PHOTOBOOK. The company achieved the objective that No ﬁnal baths containing formaldehyde have been used since 2002. it set itself for 2010 – FSC ® certiﬁcation of all digital print products CEWE COLOR’s in-house analytical laboratory at its headquarters for the German sites and the Swiss sales organisation. in Oldenburg constantly monitors all relevant wastewater contaminants. These include silver, pH values, COD (chemical oxygen The entire value added chain, from forest owner to printing works, demand), sulphate and ammonia. All developing bath samples is certiﬁed. Under the terms of the certiﬁcation, goods receipt, goods collected from CEWE COLOR’s European sites are analysed in the issue and production processes are inspected once a year by indelaboratory. pendent third parties. 쐍 Recovering silver g The plan is to extend certiﬁcation to the entire CEWE COLOR Group Silver is a by-product of ﬁlm and photo paper processing. The in 2011. German Wastewater Ordinance (Abwasserverordnung, AbwV) stipulates a limit of 30 mg / m² of photo material. This is ﬁve or six 쐍 Recycling methods in photographic processing times greater than the value produced by CEWE COLOR. The In 2010, CEWE COLOR achieved a high recycling rate of 89 per cent new European chemical legislation, REACH, (EU Regulation No. at its German sites and 88 per cent throughout the Group as a 1907 / 2006) requires CEWE COLOR to pre-register as a producer whole. The recycling rate is derived from the ratio of recycled of silver. CEWE COLOR has been achieving an average silver overﬂow to the total quantity of processing baths used. The company recovery rate of 95 per cent for several years by systematically managed to reduce both the volume of chemicals used and the 38 Environmental Responsibility Materials balance volume disposed of as waste. In 2010, CEWE COLOR used 11.4 All packaging materials are licensed under a dual system in Germany. million litres of processing baths and 318,000 litres of chemicals. CEWE COLOR has lodged its declaration of completeness for all of Due to the high recycling rate, it only needed to dispose of its German operations with the Oldenburg Chamber of Industry and 578 tonnes of chemicals. Commerce. When it comes to photographic processing, CEWE COLOR has 쐍 Materials balance and waste achieved the maximum recycling rate at its sites, as a certain fresh The CEWE COLOR Group generated 4,026 tonnes of waste in the rate (of 20 per cent) is unavoidable in the developers. year under review (2010). This corresponds to approximately 26 per cent of the quantity of material used (waste rate). All photochemical baths used at all CEWE COLOR sites are sent for analysis to the main laboratory in Oldenburg. Formulas used as a g Further reductions in scrap should lead to a fall in the waste rate basis for recycling are also calculated here. To ensure the process from the current 26.1 per cent to 20 per cent in the coming ﬁve years. quality remains high, sensiometric tests are also conducted several times a day for analytical control purposes. Most of the waste is recycled, and CEWE COLOR therefore assumes a waste recovery rate of more than 95 per cent. 쐍 Packaging Corrugated cardboard, most of which is manufactured from recycled In total, CEWE COLOR generates approximately 20 different types of Sensitometry is the umbrella term materials, accounts for 97 per cent of packaging. The remaining 3 per waste. The ten main types account for 99 per cent of the waste. In used in the photo industry for measurement procedures that are deployed to cent are plastics, which are used primarily to protect CEWE PHOTOaddition to industrial waste (recyclable waste), most of the waste is determine certain characteristics, e.g. BOOKS and other moisture-sensitive products during transport. The generated from printing and packaging, and consists of paper and sensitivity, of photographic materials. total quantity of packaging increased by 7 per cent compared to the cardboard. In 2010, this waste fraction amounted to 1,349 tonnes. previous year, but the proportion of plastic remained low at 3 per cent. g The company’s aim is to maintain the proportion of plastic used at Materials balance at all CEWE COLOR sites (materials and technologies) (2010) less than 5 per cent in 2011 and beyond, despite increasing packaging quantities and higher demands. Material Product Waste (t) (t) (t) Material Paper (photo and digital printing) 10,406 9,261 1,145 Other product components 1 2,811 963 1,848 Packaging materials for products 1,123 1,123 0 Supplies and tools 2 1,033 0 1,033 Total 15,373 11,347 4,026 1 Camera bags, photo gifts (mugs, T-shirts, etc.), packaging for basic materials. 2 Chemicals, water for using with chemicals, imaging oil, single-use cameras, metal for ﬁlm canisters. Ensuring occupational health and safety Environmental Responsibility 39 Approximately 578 tonnes of waste chemicals were generated from Ensuring occupational health and safety the preparation of photographic baths in 2010. These are ﬁrst conCEWE COLOR sets high standards when it comes to protecting its centrated to reduce the volume. The overﬂow from the developing employees. After all, its employees are potentially the ﬁrst people who baths is reused as a nitrogen oxide reducing agent in the cement would be exposed to environmental hazards. Safety at the workplace industry. Left-over photo paper and other waste fractions with high is a fundamental aspect of environmentally sustainable activity. CEWE caloriﬁc values are also used as substitute fuel in the cement industry. COLOR has taken the appropriate precautions and reduced the conCEWE COLOR delivers all imaging oil waste generated by digital centration of hazardous substances as much as possible. This also printing to a distillation plant. Once it has been cleaned, it can be means using the latest and most environmentally friendly technologies used again, mostly in the paint and printing industry. in the entire production process. CEWE COLOR’s efforts in the area of digital printing machines are plain to see: its printing process CEWE COLOR disposes properly of metals, plastics, wood and other produces low levels of ozone that are well below the statutory limits. residual waste types such as construction and garden waste. The Eighty-ﬁve per cent of digital printing machines that print CEWE housings of so-called single-use cameras have been part of a rePHOTOBOOKS use very small toner particles that optimise the photocycling programme for several years now. graphic image quality. As the toner’s liquid carrier binds the toner particles with imaging oil, employees are not exposed to any air Environment pollution whatsoever. In addition, the ink that is used to manufacture selected digital printing products in the inkjet process is solvent-free. Regular workplace inspections and annual risk analyses and rescue drills guarantee a high standard of safety. Maintaining and promoting the health and productivity of all employees is of vital importance to CEWE COLOR. g In order to document its strong commitment to environmental Waste balance at all CEWE COLOR sites (2010) management, CEWE COLOR plans to obtain ISO 14001 environmental management certiﬁcation for its Oldenburg headquarters by the end of 35 % Cardboard, paper, card 4 % Metal 2011. 2 % Plastic 3 % Wood 1 % Garden waste 3 % Single-use cameras 2 % Imaging oil 35 % Recyclable waste 14 % Waste chemicals 1 % Other Pia, 19, daughter of a CEWE COLOR employee in the Instant Printing department. My mother owns a part of the company. Because CEWE employees can BUY shares. I think it’s fantastic, as everyone gets to beneﬁt when things go well. 42 Social Responsibility Corporate management SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY – A LIVING CULTURE Almost 2,700 employees is not exactly a small family. How can reConducting business with energy and farsightendness sponsibility be actively structured for so many people? A key task The huge challenge of futureprooﬁng the company has also led to that CEWE COLOR has set itself for over the past ﬁve decades is the difﬁcult management decisions in the past. The technological securing of the social future of the company, based on four pillars: transition resulted in the closure of a number of sites. The fact that CEWE COLOR is still a major employer with twelve production • Responsible entrepreneurship sites is due largely to the farsightedness and energy of company management. In 2007, management successfully stood up to the • Professional human resources management greed of US hedge funds, which, despite job cuts, were demanding • Promotion of young talent a special dividend. CEWE COLOR has achieved a high level of job • Modern and safe working conditions security thanks to extensive investment in the digital future. No. of employees at all CEWE COLOR sites in Europe (2010) Central Europe Benelux Western Europe Eastern Europe Total 3,500 3,000 2,921 2,742 2,681 2,500 2,000 1,645 1,607 1,665 1,500 1,000 920 846 781 500 326 255 201 30 35 35 0 2008 2009 2010 Equal opportunities Social Responsibility 43 Number of employees, average age and length of service In 2010, the CEWE COLOR Group employed an average workforce Of a total of 2,681 employees, 1,523 (57 per cent; 2009: 54 per cent) of 2,681 in Europe (2009: 2,742). The slight decline can be explained work in Germany, while 1,158 (43 per cent; 2009: 1,253) work by the closure of two sites. abroad. Personnel expenses totalled EUR 102.3 million in 2010 (2009: EUR 104.8 million). The average age of German employees was 41, while the proportion of under-35s increased by 1 per cent to 34 per cent. The number At the company’s German sites, 77 per cent of employees worked of employees aged between 36 and 50 increased by 2 per cent to 41 full time and 23 per cent worked part time in 2010. Seventy-nine per per cent, and the proportion of employees over the age of 51 recent of part-time workers were women. Women accounted for 55 mained constant at 25 per cent compared to the previous year. The per cent of the overall workforce last year; the proportion of women average length of service was 11.9 years. Last year alone, 68 anworking in production is signiﬁcantly higher. The company aims niversaries were celebrated at the Oldenburg headquarters. Of these, to increase the number of women working in middle management in more than half were celebrated by employees who could look back particular and plans to do this by implementing additional support on a period of employment of 25 years or more. Such long-standing initiatives, e.g. a better work–life balance. One example of deservice is a key factor in guaranteeing expertise and experience. velopments in this area is the establishment of a partnership with AWO Elternund Seniorenservice Oldenburg, which offers CEWE Equal opportunities COLOR employees free consultations to arrange care for children or Everyone has the same opportunities at CEWE COLOR, regardless elderly relatives. The company also aspires to have at least one of gender, ethnicity, nationality, age, sexual orientation or religion; woman on the Supervisory Board by 2012. the only thing that counts is a person’s ability to do a job. As an international company, CEWE COLOR values and promotes diversity g The company has set itself the objective of continually increasing the among its employees. Different nationalities also reﬂect the different number of women working in management. Social markets and customers. At its German sites alone, the company employs staff from 37 countries (roughly 8 per cent of employees). No cases of discrimination were reported to the ombudsman or the Works Council last year. g CEWE COLOR’s objective is to ensure that there will be no cause for reports of discrimination in coming years too. 44 Social Responsibility Employee satisfaction/participation Employee satisfaction Employee participation CEWE COLOR has been conducting employee satisfaction surveys Since 2005, under the terms of an employee share ownership plan, since 2005, the results of which have been very positive. Survey employees have been able to purchase CEWE COLOR shares every responses provide valuable information, which is taken on board year at a special price, supported by a ﬁnancial contribution from the when making executive and organisational decisions. Another company that is tax-free and exempt from social security contriindicator of employee satisfaction is the low rate of staff turnover butions. (dismissals and resignations). The rate was 4.7 per cent in 2010, representing an increase of 1.1 percentage points compared to the The number of employees who availed of this programme rose again previous year. A process to create a management model has been in 2010 to 454, representing a participation rate of 29 per cent initiated to improve the situation. All management levels address this (2009: 27 per cent, 411 employees). This increase indicates employee issue in various workshops. Employees who do not have any conﬁdence in the company’s business prospects. management responsibility are also included. g The company’s aim is to increase employee participation in the g The company’s aim is to permanently reduce the rate of staff employee share ownership plan to 31 per cent in 2011. turnover to less than 4 per cent from 2011. Rate of staff turnover at CEWE COLOR in Germany Participation rate in employee share ownership plan 2008 2009 2010 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 6% 5.5 30 % 29 5% 4.7 27 4% 3.6 20 % 18 3% 14 2% 10 % 8 1% % % Pension scheme · Training Social Responsibility 45 Pension scheme Training Employee participation in the company pension scheme has inThe company retained its high rate of vocational training (5 per cent) creased at the German sites. By the end of 2010, 390 employees had in 2010. Last year, 90 young people worked at CEWE COLOR as chosen to provide for their retirement by participating in a private, apprentices in nine different professions that require professional company-ﬁnanced pension scheme. This is supported by the company training. A new addition is the provision of training for dialogue with subsidies that are subject to the collective labour agreement marketing administrators. Most apprentices are photo media laborsystem. atory assistants and photo media specialists (30), followed by business management assistants (15), IT specialists (8) and elecg Even more employees are to be informed about the beneﬁts of tronic engineers (11). Six young adults started their training as a private pension scheme by providing speciﬁc information and photographers and two as bookbinders. In 2010, as in previous years, arranging a series of talks on the subject. many CEWE COLOR apprentices achieved excellent exam results and received awards from the Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Employer brand g The company’s objective once again in 2011 and beyond is to be available to the labour market as a company that offers training and A project to develop the CEWE COLOR employer brand has been to continue to enable young people to gain a foothold in their chosen established. As part of the project, various employee workshops profession. involving participants from a diverse range of departments took place in 2010. CEWE COLOR’s USP was developed based on the attributes that make the company special. The ﬁndings will be published in 2011 on the Careers page of CEWE COLOR’s website and in promotional brochures, ﬂyers, etc., positioning CEWE COLOR as an attractive employer in the relevant region and making it the ﬁrst choice Social for applicants in the future. Professions requiring professional training at CEWE COLOR 1 Dialogue marketing 30 Photo media administrators laboratory assistants and photo media specialists 2 Office administrators 2 Bookbinders 15 Industrial administrators 3 Qualified warehouse logistics staff 12 Dual study 6 Photographers 11 Industrial electronics 8 IT specialists engineers 46 Social Responsibility Employee development and junior management programmes Employee development and junior management programmes CEWE COLOR’s success as a business is based on its employees’ and safety management increase management expertise. A larger commitment and professional skills. The role of modern human group of employees can also avail of modules covering project maresource management is to promote and retain employees. Managnagement, rhetoric and presentation skills as well as creativity and ing talent and systematically selecting and promoting performancedecision-making techniques. The company’s restructured junior focused, highly motivated junior executives are other important executive programme has been running for more than two years and aspects of the role. Consequently, increased numbers of computer includes intensive workshop and training modules. Participants work science and business administration graduates are currently being independently over an extended period in project groups on project trained in the dual study system to avoid the anticipated skills assignments and present their results at the end. shortage in this area. CEWE COLOR has a long tradition of working closely with universities and colleges. In 2010, a total of 1,171 CEWE COLOR employees took part in employee development initiatives (2009: 647). The number of talks In 2010, the Human Resources department developed a new and increased from 209 in 2009 to 307 in 2010; this equated to 2,603 comprehensive support and development programme which has training days, up from 1,933 in the previous year. been in place since the beginning of 2011. Workshops speciﬁcally focused on topics such as motivation, coaching skills, communiCEWE COLOR also offers its employees free professional development cation and negotiation techniques as well as occupational health opportunities with its own trainers outside of working hours. Employee development initiatives at CEWE COLOR Year No. of workshops No. of training days No. of participants 2009 209 1,933 647 2010 307 2,603 1,171 Occupational health and safety and sick leave Social Responsibility 47 Occupational health and safety and sick leave In addition to language and computer classes, the range of courses Occupational health and safety plays a key role, particularly in offered is constantly expanding to include topics relating to health the production area. In 2010, work-related accidents increased by and nutrition. 2 to 21. Six of these accidents occurred while travelling to work. The cause of each accident is investigated so that measures can be CEWE COLOR also encourages part-time study in disciplines such taken to avoid repeated incidents in the future. Such measures inas innovation management, freedom of information, marketing, etc., clude educating employees about the potential risks associated with by providing ﬁnancial assistance and leave of absence. machines. The number of employees participating in ﬁrst aid courses exceeded 50 for the ﬁrst time in 2010. Oldenburg has a company The company places great importance on the issues of training and doctor, an occupational health and safety expert and 102 trained ﬁrst professional development and achieved the goals that it set itself aiders. In addition to providing advice on burn-out and eye washes, in 2009 and 2010, namely to further expand and consolidate its the company also has contingency planning for pandemics. efforts in these areas. g The company’s objective is to reduce the number of work-related g Its focus in the coming years will be on the following issues: accidents; in 2011, it is aiming for a ﬁgure of less than 20 again. increasing the number of women in management positions, intensifying innovation management and expanding the company suggestion One of the ways in which the company plans to reduce sick leave is scheme, increasing family-friendliness and part-time working models. through a positive work–life balance. To achieve this, it implemented ﬂexible working time options and arranged partnerships with gyms and sports clubs, which offer employees incentives to stay healthy and prevent lifestyle diseases. Another example of measures that have been implemented is the Social ergonomic design of ofﬁce workstations. The “Health Day” that was introduced in Oldenburg in 2009 and repeated again in 2010 met with a very positive response and will be continued each year. g Management aims to maintain the very low level of sick leave in 2010 (3.5 per cent in Germany; 3.3 per cent abroad) and to reduce it even further in the coming years. Felix, 7, son of a CEWE COLOR Sales employee. NI HAO means “hello“ in Chinese. I know this, because in school we looked at a book with stories and pictures about CHILDREN in China. My dad’s company printed lots of these books for free. I think that’s great. But my dad still didn’t know what Ni hao meant. But that’s not surprising – he just says MOIN at any time of the day. 50 Community Responsibility Commitment at the German sites WORKING FOR A SOCIETY WORTH LIVING IN Socially responsible action and social commitment are important CEWE COLOR supports projects in Oldenburg, where its headcornerstones of CEWE COLOR’s corporate culture and an integral quarters are located, and at its respective sites in Germany and part of its corporate strategy. Public welfare is very important to Europe. The company has a preference for projects in which it can CEWE COLOR, and therefore the promotion of social, cultural and use its expertise and experience and promote young talent. community projects plays an important role in the company. Education, culture, sport, community – commitment at the various sites For many years now, CEWE COLOR has been providing ﬁnancial and CEWE COLOR was one of the sponsors during Oldenburg’s tenure as in-kind support to museums, theatres, universities, schools, crèches, City of Science in 2009. It also supported KIBUM, the 36th children’s associations, clubs and community organisations at its various sites and young people’s book fair, in November 2010. It is the largest nonin Germany and abroad. In 2010, Dr Rolf Hollander received the commercial children’s and young people’s book fair in Germany. “Oldenburger Bulle” on behalf of CEWE COLOR for the company’s Among other publications, CEWE COLOR produced the two KIBUM services to Oldenburg. In addition to recognising the economic publications Wunderpferd und Tigerprinz – Reise in die chinesischen beneﬁts generated by the company, Dr Rolf Hollander also received Bilderbuchwelten (Magic horse and tiger prince – journey into the the award for the company’s social commitment to the city. Chinese worlds of story books) and China girl, China boy – Chinas Kinder im Fokus (China girl, China boy – focus on China’s children). CEWE COLOR awards scholarships for doctoral theses, master’s CEWE COLOR has also been supporting the German Maritime degree programmes and research projects at Oldenburg’s main Search and Rescue Service (Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Rettung Schiffuniversity and its university of applied sciences. Computer science, brüchiger, DGzRS) for several years. In 2010, together with the business, law, technology and science are particular favourites. Search and Rescue Service, the company organised a major photo As part of its continuing professional development strategy, the competition to attract the public’s attention to this very worthy cause. company also cooperates with the Carl von Ossietzky University in In sport, CEWE COLOR has been a long-term sponsor of the Oldenburg, for example on its part-time master’s programme in VfB Oldenburg and VfL Oldenburg football clubs. It also sponsors innovation management. For the last 13 years, CEWE COLOR has the VfL Oldenburg women’s handball team and the Oldenburg EWE also organised the corporate planning game “Management InformaBaskets basketball team. tion Game” for pupils attending the Liebfrauenschule in Oldenburg. The game gives pupils an opportunity to learn to think and act in an entrepreneurial way based on realistic business scenarios. Commitment at the German sites Community Responsibility 51 Munich Dresden CEWE COLOR is also involved in Munich with numerous activities The Dresden site has been a long-time supporter of Leipzig’s Camera that beneﬁt the people of the region. For example, it supports and Photo Museum. In addition to supporting the “Parkhaus” youth various campaigns that help young people to get started in their centre, various sports clubs and the volunteer ﬁreﬁghters in Klotzsche, careers and provides 25 to 30 work experience placements each it provides pupils of the nearby secondary school with free access to year in Munich. It also offers young people an opportunity to the world-famous “photokina” photography trade fair in Cologne. gain experience at CEWE COLOR’s site in England. The company Proceeds from the sale of photos and posters on the open days go to supports interview training at schools in Germering (where the Children’s Hospice Foundation (Kinderhospizstiftung). CEWE COLOR is based) and in the rural district of Fürstenfeldbruck, and offers teachers the opportunity to gain an insight into everyMönchengladbach day corporate life. CEWE COLOR also takes part in “Future Day”, CEWE COLOR is active in several areas in Mönchengladbach, for a career orientation day, similar to Germany’s national “Girls’ Day”, example through its membership of organisations like Aktiv für which enables boys and girls to ﬁnd out what working life is like. Mönchengladbach e. V., Clean-up-MG. e. V., MG3.0 Masterplan Mönchengladbach e. V., and the Friends of the University of Applied Freiburg Sciences in Lower Rhine. Pupils at the neighbouring Franz Meyers The Freiburg site supports the Arbeitskreis Anerkannter Blindensecondary school in Mönchengladbach-Giesenkirchen have the werkstätten (a task force for recognised workshops for the blind) opportunity to complete work experience placements, take part in in Hürtgenwald-Horn, several crèches and a nursing home in the guided tours of the site and have their CVs and application letters area. In 2010, CEWE COLOR employees in Freiburg spontaneously professionally assessed. CEWE COLOR Mönchengladbach also Community donated to earthquake victims in Haiti. Promoting young talent is sponsors three children through the children’s development organalso extremely important in Freiburg: each year, 14and 15-yearisation Plan International. old pupils can attend an introduction day where they learn about working at a production site. 52 Community Responsibility Commitment throughout Europe Commitment throughout Europe The international sites and European sales ofﬁces are also involved in The Nordic CEWE COLOR sales ofﬁce is active in Norway and Dena variety of different ways. mark. At the Danish site, CEWE COLOR works with the municipalities to offer employees who have become unemployed as a result of In the UK, the company donates a percentage of the price of every illness a new start in the working world through a four-week internChristmas card that is sold to a children’s charity called the Starlight ship. The organisations Børns Vilkår and Kræftens Bekæmpelse also Children’s Foundation. Its site in the Czech Republic supports the receive support. Børns Vilkår provides a helpline and counselling for Krtek Foundation, a children’s oncology hospital in Brno and the children living in difﬁcult circumstances. Kræftens Bekæmpelse is “Sue Ryder” nursing home in Prague, SOS Children’s Villages and Denmark’s largest organisation for ﬁghting cancer. The Danish the visually impaired Paralympics participant Anna Kulíšková. The branch is also involved with the country’s largest animal protection Czech site supports the following sports clubs: HC Sparta Praha (ice association. The company and its employees support the Hapet hockey), TJ Chodov Praha (football), TJ Lokomotiva Praha (handball), project, which helps children in São Paulo, Brazil. TJ Tuklaty (women’s football) and the Fotolab Praha team (cycle racing). In Hungary, CEWE COLOR arranges an event for children The Benelux subsidiary supports an old people’s home, a facility for with hearing problems where the children can meet and get to know people with disabilities and, since 2007, a development project for one another and take part in a joint programme. children in Kenya. Donations help in the purchase of teaching materials and the construction of a school. Supporting young, skilled employees Community Responsibility 53 German campaign – the Philipp Lahm summer camp CEWE COLOR’s involvement in the Philipp Lahm summer camp holidays close to Munich and Hamburg, and 80 participants took www.philipp-lahm-sommercamp.de combines social and education sponsorship with sports promotion. part in each camp. CEWE PHOTOBOOK sponsored a total of eight CEWE COLOR used the CEWE PHOTOBOOK brand to support the participants. A team of 20 camp counsellors and teachers provided Philipp Lahm summer camp as ofﬁcial education partner in 2010. extensive, full-day supervision. Philipp Lahm constantly set new The aim of the camps is to help boys and girls aged between ten tasks for the young people, which they had to resolve as a group. and 13 to enhance their skills in the areas of nutrition, exercise and The camps thus helped them to learn a lot about social responsipersonal development. The camps took place during the summer bility, sustainable action and their own self-conﬁdence. Supporting young, skilled employees CEWE COLOR promotes the training and development of young photogCEWE COLOR is an active member of various DIN and ISO commitraphy talent. The company trains 90 young people in nine different tees and associations. These include the German Association of the professions every year. The role of the Neumüller CEWE COLOR Photographic Industry (Photoindustrieverband, which represents the Foundation is to support technically and scientiﬁcally minded young photo and imaging industry), the German Federal Association of talent. CEWE COLOR is involved in an ongoing partnership with the Industrial Photographic Laboratories (Bundesverband der PhotoPhoto + Medienforum Kiel state vocational school. As Oldenburg’s großlaboratorien, BGL), the German Photographic Society (Deutsche leading photoﬁnisher, the company has made a signiﬁcant contribuGesellschaft für Photographie, DGPh) and the German Association of tion to the job description of “photo media laboratory assistant”. Each Photography (Deutsche Verband für Fotograﬁe, DVF). CEWE COLOR year, the Heinz Neumüller Prize is awarded to the best graduates in sees this involvement as a natural part of its corporate responsibility. the photo media laboratory assistant, photo media expert and photographer courses. The winners also receive a cheque to help them get g CEWE COLOR’s aim is to continue to make a noticeable contribution started in their chosen career. CEWE COLOR also supports the to society. This includes getting involved at the various company sites Department of Media and Photography at the University of Applied by supporting regional associations and initiatives as well as promoting Sciences in Cologne and awards one master’s and three bachelor’s cultural, educational, social and sports projects. Community degree scholarships for particularly talented students every semester. Both institutions also receive professional advice and teaching mag CEWE COLOR’s second-biggest responsibility is to continue playing terials. a meaningful role in the development of professional talent in the photo industry. Niklas, 15, son of a CEWE COLOR Public Relations employee. The issue of SUSTAINABILITY is complicated but also extremely important. At CEWE, many people are involved in this and they are all very committed. I would really like to do my working experience here next year – it means that I could ﬁnd out whether these OBJECTIVES have also been achieved. 56 Summary Status and objectives in accordance with the GRI G3 guidelines STATUS AND OBJECTIVES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GRI G3 GUIDELINES, PART I Economic and environmental performance indicators Area of responsibility Status in 2010 Objective for 2011 GRI performance Information indicators in report Finance After-tax earnings more than doubled from EUR 6.7 to EUR 13.7 million; To grow turnover to EUR 460 million; to increase annual net proﬁt to 39 per cent EC 1 p. 23 and Financial Control earnings per share more than doubled from EUR 1.00 to EUR 2.02 Human Resources By 2010, 390 employees had signed up for the company’s private To increase participation through additional means of information, e.g. brochures EC 3 p. 45 pension scheme Purchasing Local suppliers where possible, 55 per cent located in Germany; As many local suppliers as possible EC 6 p. 25 44 per cent located in the EU Environment See materials balance for all CEWE COLOR sites To maintain the proportion of plastic used below 5 per cent, despite the expected EN 1 p. 38 increase in the amount of packaging used Environment See materials balance for all CEWE COLOR sites Due to the high quality of paper needed for printing and photos, recycled paper is EN 2 p. 38 not used, FSC® paper is used instead; 100 per cent recycled cardboard to be used for product packaging Environment Gas consumption: 900,000 m³ in 2010 Objective for 2011 and 2012: 5 per cent reduction EN 3 p. 34 Environment Electricity: 21.5 GWh/a Objective by 2015: less than 20 GWh /a with the same number of sites EN 4 p. 34 Environment Green IT initiative started Green IT initiative to be continued EN 7 p. 35 Environment Water consumption: 2.33 l / m²; absolute reduction compared to 2009: Further reduction of 10 per cent in water consumption EN 8 p. 36 11 per cent Environment Scopes 1 and 2: 12,550 t CO² emissions 10 per cent reduction in Scope 1 EN 16 p. 33 Environment / Logistics Scope 3: 28,872 t CO² emissions To be reduced by 10 per cent by 2012; carbon-neutral mail-order service to be used EN 17 p. 35 for international shipments; 520 t CO² to be saved by abolishing the two-stop system Environment Establishment of internal C3RP initiative Purpose of the C3RP project: To draw up and implement emission reduction measures EN 18 p. 32 Environment See waste balance for all CEWE COLOR sites To reduce the current waste rate of 26 per cent to 20 per cent by 2015 EN 22 p. 39 Environment Establishment of C3RP project Purpose of the C3RP project: To draw up and implement emission reduction measures EN 26 p. 32 Environment Licensing of product packaging using a dual system Licensing of product packaging using a dual system EN 27 p. 38 Environment No sanctions No sanctions EN 28 p. 32 Logistics Quantiﬁed within Scope 3 To reduce Scope 3 emissions using initiatives to cut transport routes and frequencies; EN 29 p. 35 Oldenburg initiative to encourage employees to cycle to work *EC: Economic performance indicators EN: Environamental performance indicators Status and objectives in accordance with the GRI G3 guidelines Summary 57 STATUS AND OBJECTIVES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GRI G3 GUIDELINES, PART II Performance indicators: work practices and humane labour conditions, human rights, society and product responsibility Area of responsibility Status in 2010 Objective for 2011 GRI performance Information indicators in report Human Resources Approx. 2,700 employees in Central Europe, Benelux, Western Europe, To retain the same number LA 1 p. 42 Eastern Europe; 77 per cent full time, 23 per cent part time Human Resources Rate of staff turnover: 4.7 per cent To permanently reduce the ﬁgure to less than 4 per cent LA 2 p. 44 Human Resources 102 trained ﬁrst aiders, one occupational health and safety expert in To retain the same number LA 6 p. 47 Oldenburg, one company doctor in Oldenburg; training in eye-washes; Health Day Human Resources 21 work-related accidents, of which six occurred while travelling to work; To reduce the number of work-related accidents to considerably less than 20; LA 7 p. 47 3.5 per cent sick leave to reduce the level of sick leave Human Resources Health Day, various CEWE Wissen (knowledge) training courses, To continue these measures LA 8 p. 47 e.g. eye care, healthy eating, avoiding burn-out, consultation with company doctor, e.g. following a return to work, contingency planning for pandemics, sports clubs Human Resources Rate of vocational training: 5 per cent; 1,171 employees participated in To maintain this training rate; to further expand the range of workshops LA 10 pp. 45, 46, 47 professional development programmes/CEWE Wissen Human Resources 55 per cent of employees are women; 8 per cent of employees are nonTo implement support measures for a work–life balance; to appoint a woman to the LA 13 p. 43 German Supervisory Board Purchasing All relevant suppliers have been informed about the compliance guidelines New suppliers will also be selected if they comply with these basic regulations and HR 2 p. 25 that CEWE COLOR has imposed on itself; contractor accepts the speciﬁed principles guidelines and ensures that they are observed; compliance guidelines included in terms and conditions of purchase Human Resources Neither the ombudsman nor the Works Council received reports To keep the number of reports at zero HR 4 p. 43 Purchasing Joined BSCI and UN Global Compact To consistently implement the BSCI, UN Global Compact and in-house compliance HR 6 p. 26 guidelines Purchasing Joined BSCI and UN Global Compact To consistently implement the BSCI, UN Global Compact and in-house compliance HR 7 pp. 26, 27 guidelines Legal Training in compliance No cases of corruption SO 3 p. 18 Legal No incidents of corruption To avoid incidences; to implement immediate measures if corruption is suspected SO 4 p. 19 Quality Assurance Monthly product safety meeting To be continued PR 3 p. 25 Quality Assurance Complaint rate: 0.28 per cent To maintain a low level of complaints; to deal with complaints swiftly and fairly PR 5 p. 24 Quality Assurance No sanctions No sanctions PR 9 p. 25 *LA: Performance indicators for labour practices and decent working conditions HR: Performance indicators for human rights SO: Performance indicators for society PR: Performance indicators for product responsibility ANY QUESTIONS? NACHHALTIGKEIT @ CEWECOLOR.DE Maximilian, 3, son of a CEWE COLOR Accounting employee. viaprinto makes life easy. Award winning viaprinto: Organise print runs of any size: easy, fast and reliable. Your CEWE COLOR Online Print Service. viaprinto makes quality brochures, flyers or books out of your documents in a twinkling of the eye. The process is amazingly simple: Just upload your documents on www.viaprinto.de, preview your chosen products in detail and receive your delivery only 36 hours later. Especially for you: Direct upload from Word, PowerPoint or PDF formats Intuitive user guidance allows simple uploading, selection, checking and ordering Detailed preview of your products before production starts All products can be ordered with no minimum order quantity Shipping to one or any number of recipients Save and organise your documents conveniently in your protected document manager To contact us: Phone +49 (0) 800 589 31 41* or visit www.viaprinto.de * Freecall on German landlines and within the German mobile network
