CSR REPORT 2010/2011 Respect for people and environment About egetæpper and the CSR report Contents It is our pleasure to present egetæpper’s current Coroccupational health and safety. The report is primarporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. The report ily based on conditions at our three factories at Hernprovides an overview of our internal and external CSR ing, Gram and Vejle in Denmark. The data conceractivities during the financial period 2010/2011 (from ning CO2 emissions also includes Bentzon Carpets, in 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011). which we hold 51% of the shares, and our subsidiaries. The long-term plan is to include both Bentzon Carpets CSR is all about results, initiatives and opportunities and the subsidiaries in the report on an equal basis. for improvement, viewed in the context of the environmental, social and financial challenges we face with The CSR report has not been verified by a third party. regard to sustainability and social responsibility. If we Nevertheless, the report is the result of comprehensive 4 Profile are to preserve our planet so that future generations efforts to collect and internally verify the information can live here too, it is imperative that we, as a compresented. All environmental data from Herning, Gram pany, take responsibility for how we act internally and and Vejle are verified by Bureau Veritas Certification in 6 A sustainable company philosophy to our surroundings. connection with the preparation of our annual Environmental Report. In this report we present egetæpper’s results, as well as 9 Organisational anchorage detailed information on the parameters we see as sigWe have chosen to report in accordance with the nificant and which are therefore the focus of our CSR Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), level C, although we activities. These are the environment, employees, and have doubled the number of indicators. 10 Results 24 GRI indicators Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ 32 CSR in the future Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B. 1.1 Level C plus: G3 Profile Disclosures OUTPUT 2.1 2.10 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 1.2 3.9, 3.13 34 GRI index of contents 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not required. Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Indicator disclosed for each G3 Management category. Indicator category. OUTPUT Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 performance Indicators, performance Indicators, at least and Sector Supplement* G3 Performance including at least one from one from each of: economic, enindicator with due regard to the OUTPUT Indicators & each of: social, economic and vironment, human rights, labor, materiality Principle by either: Sector Supplement environment. society, product responsibility. a) reporting on the indicator or Performance Indicators b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version If you have questions about the contents of this report, please contact: Quality and Environmental Manager Jan Ladefoged, e-mail jlj@ege.dk, Tel.: +45 97 11 88 11 Dye plant in Herning. 2 Markets Awards won in the reporting period In addition to the factories in Denmark, the ege Group To mark the International Health and Safety Day on comprises subsidiaries in our primary markets: DenThursday, 28 April 2011, the Danish Confederation of mark, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden, the UK Trade Unions in Herning-Ikast awarded a health and and the United Arab Emirates. We are currently also safety prize to egetæpper in Herning. The background working to establish a subsidiary in China. We have was the company’s sustained effort to reduce the numgreatest potential in the contract market, where we sell ber of occupational injuries. to five different segments: hotels, offices, the healthcare sector, institutions and the transport sector. Within these Openness segments, our typical customers are: hotels, restaurants, In general, egetæpper has a declared intention to retail stores, offices in the public and private sectors, maintain a high level of information for stakeholders airports, schools and institutions, hospitals and nursing and employees on development and activities in the homes, shipyards and train manufacturers, etc. In the Group. We therefore publish quarterly, half-yearly and domestic carpets market, egetæpper concentrates its annual reports. The Annual Report 2010/2011 proefforts in Denmark and Sweden. Our customers are vides information on egetæpper’s management orgamainly retail flooring chains (Garant and Tæppeland nisation, financial results, assets, ownership, net sales in Denmark and Golvkedjan AB in Sweden) and indeand total capital value, etc. We also publish an anpendent carpet retailers. nual Environmental Report and an annual Greenhouse ege head office in Herning. Gas Account. These reports include factual information egetæpper’s sales organisation takes care of carpet about the group’s environmental activities. As a supsales from the main office in Herning and through our plement to these reports, we also publish our ”Green seven subsidiary companies, and agents/distributors in Thinking”, a report that covers all our environmental ini50 countries. The sales department in Vejle takes care tiatives and labelling schemes, including focus on soft of yarn sales. We also undertake outsourced producvalues and current cases, as well as the annual CSR Profile tion for other suppliers in the industry. report. Significant changes The first CSR report was published last year and was In 1938, Mads Eg Damgaard founded egetæpper, produce 26 different standard carpet products for the On 1 May 2010 we acquired 51% of the shares in well received. We are proud to state that the Dawhich is today one of Europe’s largest manufacturers contract market, as well as 29 standard domestic proBentzon Carpets, which was founded in 1976 and nish Commerce and Companies Agency has cited of textile flooring. Mads Eg Damgaard was a visionary ducts, which we use advanced technology to produce which produces flat-woven carpets for the contract and four paragraphs from the report as good examples man. His philosophy was uncompromising: he used in a multitude of colours and patterns. This year we domestic markets. The plan is that by 1 May 2020 at in an official guide for companies on CSR reporting only the latest and most advanced technology in carproduced 3,082,659 m² of carpet in Herning and the latest egetæpper will take over the remaining 49% in Denmark. The guide is entitled ”Redegørelse for pet production and he was not afraid to challenge 2,168,001 m² in Gram. This gives a total production of the shares in the company. Bentzon Carpets is cursamfundsansvar praktisk vejledning og inspiration” conventions. His philosophy survives at egetæpper. of 5,250,660 m² of carpet. rently continued as an independent company. During (Report on Corporate Social Responsibility practical We still believe that quality and the ability to supply the next years Bentzon Carpets will gradually be introguide and inspiration) and is available (in Danish) at groundbreaking design is the way ahead for ege. Production takes place at our three factories in Denduced to the same environmental management systems www.samfundsansvar.dk. mark. and requirements under which egetæpper operates. The report was also well-received by egetæpper’s egetæpper’s vision Herning: Production and sale of patterned, tufted and Already this year, some data for Bentzon Carpets Board of Directors, and it has been mentioned several We wish to be the trend-setting supplier to the most flat-woven carpets. will be included in the CSR report. In the other CSR times by local media and organisations. demanding sectors of the market. Gram: Production of tufted and flat-woven carpets areas, Bentzon Carpets will not be included in full until Vejle: Production and sale of yarns for the carpet egetæpper’s ownership has been further expanded. We firmly expect the CSR report to be of particular egetæpper’s mission industry, including both carded yarns of uninterest to our employees at all levels, end-users of our Our mission is to design carpets with respect for dyed wool and synthetic fibres, and natural The financial crisis still has a negative impact on products, architects, designers, schools of architecture/ people and the environment. white polyamide (or BCF) yarns. egetæpper’s turnover, although there is progress and design, trade magazines, the Danish Environmental new optimism in the market. In the last financial year Protection Agency, the EU, the ege Foundation, the Activities We also purchase undyed flat-woven ground tiswe made 46 employees redundant due to the finanege Board of Directors, suppliers and others. In 1985, egetæpper was listed for the first time as a sue from Bentzon Carpets, which we then dye, add cial crisis. This development has now ceased, so that public limited company: egetæpper a/s. The group’s backing to and resell. egetæpper outsources isolated we are now retaining the same number of employees. All our reports and updates are available to the pubprimary activities are the production and sale of tufted maintenance tasks, including cleaning, maintenance of We currently employ 353 people at the three factolic as hard copy editions, and/or via our website: carpets for the contract and domestic markets. We lawns and gardens, and supply of indoor pot plants. ries, which is exactly the same number as last year. www.egecarpet.com. 4 5 A sustainable company philosophy During the past year, the environmental, social and like ripples on the surface and in time help achieve of our employees at the three factories, including safety egetæpper’s declared CSR objective is to contribute to economic challenges at global level have become more positive global development. inspections and workplace assessments, and by offera more sustainable world by continually striving to imeven more demanding. Global environmental cataing healthcare insurance, physiotherapy and healthy prove how we handle environmental, social and finanstrophes, economic depression and the resulting social egetæpper’s core value is respect for people and the canteen meals (the Canteen Diploma scheme). We cial challenges, for the benefit of future generations. problems reveal a growing need to focus on turning this environment. Working with CSR is therefore not a great also focus strongly on health and safety in connection In view of the new sustainability initiatives, we believe development around. As a company we believe that innovation for us. The new aspect is the commitment with our products. egetæpper’s mission states that ”We that we are on the right course. This is a process of even more sustainable development is the right course we made one year ago when we endorsed the UN design carpets with respect for people and the environcontinuing to learn more about our areas of both excelto take. In the past year we have therefore launched Global Compact and the Danish Fashion & Textile ment”. We do our utmost to create carpets that are not lence and improvement. In both the wider and smaller two important sustainability initiatives. Code of Conduct. Since then, we have begun to work detrimental to the environment and have a positive efaspects, the future belongs to us, and we are ready in a number of the areas where there is basis for imfect on health and safety. To document this, we actively to take up the challenge of ensuring a bright future for In cooperation with DONG Energy, in the first months provement. There have been several success stories as use a large number of labelling schemes, all of which our company. of 2011 we drew up an ambitious proposal for a a result, but there are still issues and challenges in other indicate what effect egetæpper products have on the strategy and action plan for egetæpper’s climate reareas that we need to tackle. In overall terms, we conenvironment, health and safety. These are BRE, the CE sponsibility and climate communication for 2011-2014. tinue to concentrate our CSR work in three main areas marking scheme, the Danish Indoor Climate Label, We have adopted the vision to be an energy-efficient which are highly relevant for egetæpper: the environLEED, INSTA 800, IMO and the Swedish Construction company in which management and employees take ment, employees and health and safety. Products Declarations BVD3 and BVB. Herning, 1 August 2011 active climate responsibility by: We believe that our environmental responsibilities extend far beyond general legal requirements. For the • having an ambitious climate vision and last many years we have therefore worked consistently strategy to reduce our impact on the environment. In 1996, we • being energy-efficient, so that energy commenced the implementation of ISO 14001 and consumption is reduced by 20% in the EMAS at the Group’s three factories in Herning, Gram period 2006/2007 2013/2014 and Vejle. The rigorous requirements specified in these • reducing our own CO2 emissions by 20% environmental management systems help us ensure that in the period 2006/2007 2013/2014 the environmental impacts of our production and prod• promoting renewable energy in Denmark ucts are as low as possible. We are also committed by purchasing this type of energy to continually reducing our environmental impacts as • communicating and documenting climate much as possible. We also continue to work on the responsibility introduction of Cradle to Cradle certification, in cooperation with EPEA and Cradle to Cradle Denmark. We furthermore prepare and publish the Group’s annual As another important step, we have joined the DaGreenhouse Gas Account, in accordance with the Svend Aage Færch Nielsen John Vestergaard nish Council for Sustainable Development (RBE). RBE Greenhouse Gas Protocol. CEO CFO promotes market development based on a sustainable balance of economic, social and environmental conOur employees are an important part of our company. siderations. RBE has among other things been very In 2006, we therefore embarked on implementation actively involved in the development of the Danish of the occupational health and safety management Consumer Ombudsman’s guidelines on the use of envisystem, DS/OHSAS 18001, the objective of which is ronmental and ethical claims, etc. in marketing, which to manage and minimise safety and health risks in the were published in January 2011. We have high expecworkplace. Moreover, we offer our employees a numtations to the work that we will now be part of via RBE. ber of services and benefits that help make egetæpper an attractive workplace for current and potential These two initiatives ensure that we take our share of employees. responsibility, and this will hopefully inspire other companies to follow suit. This may seem a drop in the Within the company, we conduct a number of activiocean in global terms, but it can nevertheless spread ties that are intended to promote the health and safety 6 7 CASE Organisational anchorage egetæpper’s Strategy Group is responsible for the over272 customers were invited to participate, and 81 all corporate strategy. The Strategy Group, comprising accepted. The overall conclusion of the analysis was both egetæpper chief executives, the management that egetæpper commands a sound position in the team and selected employees, resolved in May 2009 Danish market. In the respondents’ view, we perform to form a CSR steering committee with responsibility well compared with our competitors, and by far the for developing egetæpper’s CSR strategy. Under the majority of the respondents were satisfied or very satisleadership of Quality and Environmental Manager Jan fied with egetæpper. A few respondents had had less Ladefoged, the CSR steering committee has among positive experiences with egetæpper, and all of these other things published the CSR report, as well as a cases have been considered internally and followed number of initiatives in the defined CSR focus areas. up when deemed relevant. The work of the CSR steering committee is presented at regular intervals to the Strategy Group, which means In March 2011, in cooperation with an external analythat the CSR focus areas are implemented in egetæpsis institute, we launched a major international stakeper’s corporate strategy. holder analysis involving architects, interior architects and flooring contractors in Denmark, Norway, SweStakeholders’ role and importance at egetæpper den and the UK. The purpose was to achieve a sound egetæpper’s stakeholder group comprises: current and basis for adjustment of the business strategy, and to depotential employees, end-users, flooring contractors, artermine and adjust the development in our ranges and chitects and designers, alliance partners, educational product development, marketing strategy, sales focus institutions, trade unions, the media, the authorities, and operational areas. A total of 900 interviews were shareholders/owners, NGOs, trade organisations, the held with the three target groups, which included stakegeneral public, and suppliers of products, services and holders with whom we already cooperate, and stakeplant. holders we did not know. The analysis showed that egetæpper ranks high in the Nordic market, while marOpen dialogue with the company’s stakeholders is one ket shares can still be won in the British market, among of the cornerstones of the egetæpper management phiother things by making egetæpper better known. We losophy. We therefore maintain continuous dialogue are still working on implementing the analysis’ concluwith customers, suppliers, employees, the authorities sions in our business strategy and the other focus areas and other stakeholders. In the past year we have, for of the analysis. example, performed two different analyses involving our stakeholders. The plan is to conduct the same analysis in France and We have manufactured 2,781,436 kg yarn in Vejle in 2010/2011. Germany later in the year, so as to gain a complete In January 2011, we in Denmark conducted a cuspicture of our primary markets. tomer satisfaction survey of retailers and contractors. Energy project in Vejle – savings of 1,058,820 kWh In January 2009, egetæpper in Vejle initiated cooperanual energy savings of 129,800 kWh. Another examtion with NRGi Consulting to find energy savings at the ple was a post-fitted new water control system that did factory. The cooperation has put focus on improved not function optimally with the recycled heating system. supplementary adjustment of the production processes. A small adjustment gave an annual saving of 328,900 After a restructuring of production some years ago kWh. In total, 17 projects have achieved total energy there is no longer the same water drainage requiresavings of 1,058,820 kWh. ment as before. A drainage realignment entailed an8 9 CASE Results Environment quirements. Therefore, in 1996, we implemented ISO The environment has been important to egetæpper 14001 at the factory in Herning, followed by Gram for many years. Our environmental policy is to prevent in 1997 and Vejle in 2003. ISO 14001 is one of the and reduce the environmental impacts of the producenvironmental management standards most frequently tion, use and disposal of our products, and to continue used in the world today. To achieve certification, a to improve our efforts in the working environment area. company must meet a number of different requirements We achieve this via focused activities and by persisrelated to environmental policy, planning, implementatently setting environmental objectives that are based tion and execution, control and remedial action, and on the following policies. management review. The system thus obliges us to closely monitor all areas in which our activities have an impact on the environment, and this helps us to conWe will tinually improve and prevent by setting new objectives. • develop products that have least possible environmental impact EMAS • perform environmental assessments of raw EMAS is an EU directive formulated for the purpose of materials promoting environmental initiatives in all types of com• produce our products in a way that ensures panies. EMAS takes the requirements in ISO 14001 best possible use of all resources a step further, as the EMAS requirements for improved • continually prevent and reduce environmental activities include employee involvement, environmental impacts and waste verification of compliance with applicable legislation production and that environmental policy is communicated to • ensure responsible waste disposal stakeholders. EMAS is a direct response to some of the • train and motivate employees to work in an key principles of the EU’s environmental action plans, environmentally responsible way and to the challenges we face in ensuring sustainable • promote dialogue between management development. egetæpper has registered for EMAS and employees verification as we believe that EMAS improves the The boiler station in Herning. • inform users of our products of their quality of our environmental management system. In environmental impact via product addition to the ISO 14001 requirements, we are also declarations required to prepare a detailed environmental report, • encourage openness and dialogue which must be verified by an accredited verifier. between the company and the general public Greenhouse Gas Account Climate strategy • meet legal, official and other requirements Since 2009 we have prepared a Greenhouse Gas pertaining to the environment in general Account for the ege Group. A Greenhouse Gas Acand the working environment in particular count is a statement of the company’s total emission of At the beginning of 2011, in cooperation with DONG The criteria for the success of the climate strategy are: • prepare an environmental report CO2, and thereby also documentation of the Group’s Energy, we drew up a proposal for a climate strategy • Reduction of energy consumption by 20% in the pecontaining environmental policies and contribution to global warming. The Greenhouse Gas that includes a number of ambitious targets to ensure riod 2006/2007 – 2013/2014. objectives. Account is calculated in accordance with the Greenthat egetæpper is an energy-efficient company in • Reduction of CO2 emission by 20% in the period house Gas Protocol, which has been developed by which management and employees take active climate 2006/2007 2013/2014. the World Business Council for Sustainable Developresponsibility. 16 different energy saving projects will • Development and implementation of a sales training ISO 14001 ment and the World Resources Institute. In 2010/2011 help us reduce our energy consumption. The projects programme with focus on our climate strategy. At egetæpper, we believe that our environmental we emitted 18,943 tonnes of CO2, corresponding to a include greater focus on recovery in our production, responsibilities extend far beyond general legal re20.6% reduction relative to the basis year. greater focus on recycling via Cradle to Cradle cerThe climate strategy entails that we can offer carpet tification, and the promotion of renewable energy by solutions in a creative design, in first-class quality, with purchasing this type of energy. In addition, a number due consideration of the climate aspect. of initiatives for communication of our climate strategy will be launched. 10 11 CASE Weavers in Herning. Cradle to Cradle certification draw up a ”roadmap” for egetæpper’s future business Last year we established cooperation with EPEA Comodel for Cradle to Cradle certification. penhagen ApS on the introduction of Cradle to Cradle certification of selected carpet tile products. Cradle to Animal welfare Cradle is an expansion of Cradle to Grave, which we egetæpper uses sheep’s wool in production of the have worked on for a number of years by assessing yarns used to make carpets. The bulk of our wool is product life cycles relative to how the products impact purchased from New Zealand and the remainder from on the environment during their lifetime. Cradle to Crathe UK. Manufacturers in the textile industry often buy Arla, Denmark. dle goes one step further by focusing on how we dewool from sheep that have been subject to mulesing, Barcode Econyl with 90% recycled carpet fibers. sign products which, instead of ending as waste, can i.e. that wool-bearing skin and hair is surgically rebecome nutrients or other substances that can be recymoved from the animals’ breech (buttocks) without prior cled in future generations of products or raw materials. anaesthetisation. egetæpper has expressed strong opposition to this practice. Danish Fashion & Textile has Cradle to Cradle certification of carpets has proved to investigated the scope of mulesing and has concluded be a difficult process that takes longer than expected that mulesing is not used in connection with the producSeries of sustainable carpet collections to implement. It is a new field for suppliers, and it takes tion of wool for the carpet industry. time for them to establish what they are required to document. Furthermore, the collection of the required In summer 2011 we will send Danish Fashion & TexCarré Modular, produced in the same way as Bar100% textile and produced without using PVC or bitudata from the many suppliers in order to begin certitile’s Code of Conduct, principle 11 concerning animal code Econyl, has been added to our Ecoline series of men. A new aspect is our decision that we will in future fication has proved to be a bigger task than we exwelfare, to our supplier of wool from New Zealand sustainable carpet collections. The unique aspect of use renewable energy from wind turbines in a volume pected. We are thus still awaiting feedback from a with an enquiry concerning how they will document the Ecoline collections is that they are produced with that corresponds to the electricity consumption used to number of suppliers before we can complete the final that the sheep are fed, treated and culled with dignity minimum 90% recycled fibres from egetæpper’s own produce the Ecoline collections. DONG Energy will product certification of the first carpet tile product. At and respect. This will be the first step in the developwaste yarns. Due to the high contents of recycled fiadvise us in this process, in order to ensure that the rethe beginning of the new financial year, in cooperament of a procedure and practice to ensure animal bres, 50% less energy is used to produce the yarn in newable energy is verified as really being renewable. tion with EPEA and Cradle to Cradle Denmark, we will welfare in the future. these products. Moreover, the carpet tile backing is 12 13 CASE June 2010: Employees Health check and fitness assessment offered to all employees. Questionnaire survey of own health and proposed action areas. Working environment We are aware of our corporate social responsibility to Our working environment policy is: our employees and we wish to make egetæpper an • ensuring a sound and healthy working September 2010: attractive and pleasant workplace for our employees. environment Competition to see who could take most The creation of a safe and healthy working environ• continuous improvement to working steps in the course of a week. Step ment is therefore an important element of our environenvironment conditions counters were issued to all employees, mental policy. To achieve this, we work with the oc• activities to promote inclusiveness and most of them took part in the competition. cupational health and safety management system DS/ and health Two afternoon events with an exercise OHSAS 18001, which we implemented in Herning in coach who presented the benefits of 2006, and in Gram and Vejle in 2008. healthy exercise. One of our overall objectives is to ensure a safe and DS/OHSAS 18001 is an international management healthy working environment through close cooperatool for the working environment and health and safety, tion between company management and employees October 2010: which aims to help companies manage and minimise and for this reason, we encourage active employee Participated in the nationwide ”Exercise at health and safety risks. In order to achieve DS/OHinvolvement. We have set up an interdisciplinary Enthe Workplace” competition. Arranged a family activity day at the local SAS 18001 certification, we were obliged to docuvironment and Health and Safety Committee which leisure centre. ment that the working environment at egetæpper is regularly investigates and assesses the need for activiOffered personal stop smoking schemes, both safe and healthy. We have therefore resolved all ties that can help promote the well-being of our emaccepted by three employees. obvious and significant issues relating to the working ployees. For example, we have Stop Smoking courses, environment, and we consistently seek to improve our and we offer employees weekly physiotherapy at the efforts by revising our policies and setting new objecfactory. In Herning, the staff canteen now provides November 2010: tives for both the working environment and health and healthier and nutritious meals. In addition, we have New health check and fitness assessment safety. The issues on which we currently focus are assoa number of interdisciplinary Environment and Safety offered to all employees. ciated with the physical working environment and conGroups charged with the task of resolving health and cern noise, dust, the indoor climate, space issues, lack safety issues in the individual groups’ areas of work. of time, heavy lifting and draughts. The psychosocial January 2011: Two afternoon events with focus on a working environment is assessed in regular workplace During the past year several egetæpper projects have healthy diet. assessments. In Herning we commenced a new round been launched with focus on health promoting activiInvitation to attend three evenings on of workplace assessments in 2011, which will lead to ties. practical cookery, led by a dietician. March 2011: concrete action plans in autumn 2011. Ten employees participated in the ”Count your steps” campaign. Workplace on the Move– health project in Gram In June 2010, the factory in Gram joined a three-year extent or other. After the first six months an evaluation project called ”Workplace on the Move” initiated by showed that most employees are more aware of the Haderslev Municipality. The project helps employees need to get more daily exercise and generally feel to live more healthily by offering health checks, exerhealthier than at the start of the project. The project has cise campaigns, dietary advice and stop-smoking courbeen so successful that the initiatives will be continued, ses. Most employees took part in the project to some as long as there is an interest among employees. 14 15 CASE Absence due to illness (%) 10 9 ege group 8 7 Herning 6 5 Gram 4 3 Vejle 2 1 0 2007/2008 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 Absence due to illness pay equivalent to the sickness benefit payment for the The overall target for the Group is maximum 4% abdays they are absent due to their chronic illness. sence due to illness. With absence due to illness measured at 3.4% for the year, this target has been Rights achieved. The best results were in Herning, where abegetæpper is a member of the trade association Dansence due to illness was 2.7% and in Gram, where it ish Fashion & Textile. In Herning, Gram and Vejle, was 3.8%. In Vejle, absence due to illness was 5.3%, the company complies with the respective collective which both exceeds the objective and is slightly higher bargaining agreements between the Confederation of than last year. The increase from last year is due to Danish Employers (DA) and 3F (United Federation of long-term absence due to illness (only the first nine Danish Workers), Dansk Metal (Danish Metalworkers’ weeks of absence are included in the statistics) conUnion), HK privat (commercial and clerical workers’ uncerning non-occupational illness. In this context, over ion) and Teknisk Landsforbund (the Danish Association the last four years absence due to illness in Vejle has of Professional Technicians). We comply with these been reduced from 7.9% to the current 5.3%. This has collective agreements where salaries, maternity/pabeen achieved by means of a scheme whereby sick ternity and parental leave, industrial injury insurance, employees are contacted by a nurse, the introduction liability and accident insurance, terms of notice, etc. of regular contact with employees while they are off are concerned. This means, for example, that most of sick, and internal publication of absence statistics. our employees are entitled to 4 weeks of maternity Transport issues leave with pay before confinement, and 14 weeks afAccommodating diversity in the labour force ter the child is born. Hereafter the parents are entitled egetæpper wishes to accommodate diversity among to a total of 11 weeks of paid parental leave, and of Due to the sharper focus on CO2 emissions, the issue common system to collect this data. In addition, we do its employees. For example, if an employee becomes these 11 weeks, each of the parents is entitled to their of the environmental consequences of transporting our not always know the final destination for our carpets. ill or worn down, we find them alternative work or light full pay for 4 weeks. Either the father or the mother carpets has become relevant. On an annual basis, we They are often initially supplied to our customer, for duties. In 2010/2011 we had 5 employees employed receives pay for the remaining 3 weeks. If the leave is produce around 5 million m2 of carpets in Denmark, example a flooring contractor in India. This contracunder flexible employment schemes: 2 in Herning, 2 in not taken, the pay entitlement lapses. which are exported to 76 countries worldwide. The tor then undertakes the transport to the final customer. Vejle and 1 in Gram. In addition, 4 employees in Herncarpets are transported by lorry, aircraft and ship. To Notwithstanding these challenges, we have concrete ing are employed under the Danish Section 56 scheme, We offer all employee groups a 12% labour-market gain an overview of the total CO2 emissions, we need plans to develop a method of compiling the CO2 emiswhereby the company can claim salary compensation pension scheme, where egetæpper pays a premium to know the total number of kilometres that the carpets sions due to the transport of our carpets. This has been from the municipal authority when an employee suffercorresponding to 8% of the employee’s salary and the are transported. It is difficult to gain a precise overincluded in our climate strategy, and we expect to take ing from a chronic illness is absent due to this illness. employee pays 4%. The individual employee can elect view, as there is a lack of reliable data from our transup this challenge in the next financial year. The employees under the Section 56 scheme receive to make additional pension contributions. port suppliers. The transport industry does not have a 16 17 CASE WalkingAid: 147 employees and family members Supplementary education and training all employees. Employees can also choose to insure 16,908 km walked in the first quarter In order to be seen as an attractive employer, employtheir spouse or partner and children. ees must be enabled to do their work as well as possible, with opportunities to develop their competences. Other benefits include: egetæpper employees receive RunningAid: We therefore support supplementary education activitheir normal salary during acute visits to their own doc107 employees and family members CycleAid: ties and training programmes for our employees. With tor or acute treatment during working hours. Production 4,017 km run in the first quarter 108 employees and family members the exception of the last financial year, when we had workers are supplied with workwear shortly after start20,562 km cycled in the first quarter to put many activities on standby, due to the financial ing work at egetæpper. egetæpper also offers staff crisis, since 2006 we have held three-day introducassociations, discounts on fuel and paint, for example, tion courses for employees at the three factories. In the and the opportunity to rent a summer cottage on the GolfAid: course of these three days employees are introduced island of Læsø on favourable terms. 31 employees and family members to every aspect, from product development and de396 km covered on the golf course in the sign processes, to environmental management systems, Charity first quarter sales and marketing, and receive practical guidance in As we have endorsed the Danish Fashion & Textile Contributions via salary: 18 employees have chosen to donate the assembly and installation of carpets. They also visit Code of Conduct, last year egetæpper decided to DKK 25, 50 or 100 of their monthly all three factories in order to be briefed on production. have more focus on charitable causes. In Herning we salary over a whole year to KidsAid. This have therefore commenced cooperation with the Kidstotals DKK 15,900 in one year. We also support employees’ competence developAid Foundation, whose main objective is to support ment by offering external courses, supplementary edusick and underprivileged children in Denmark. Money cation and workshops. We have not previously calis collected for KidsAid via four different types of exerculated the percentage of employees that participate cise, where egetæpper donates DKK 1 for every km in these activities, but we would like to focus more on that employees and their closest family members exerthis area in the future. From the next financial year we cise in the course of the project. All of the funds are will therefore state how many employees participate in competence development activities. channelled to the children’s ward at Herning Regional Hospital. Besides the exercise groups, all employees Around the World for KidsAid have the opportunity of making an annual donation to – Exercise for a good cause Employee benefits KidsAid of a fixed amount of DKK 25, 50 or 100 from There is more to an attractive workplace than the their monthly salary. We consider the project to be working environment and collective agreements. It is a natural opportunity to combine the need for healthWith ”Around the World” for KidsAid we wish to focus employees and their families can raise money for the also important that we offer employees a wide-rangpromoting activities with charitable causes in the local on health and well-being, while supporting a worthgood cause by taking part in more exercise. All eming package of benefits. Among the most important community. while charitable cause. Our objective is to cover the ployees have been issued with step counters, and all benefits at egetæpper is the collective monthly bonus ”Ege Foundation the Vibeke og Mads Eg Damgaard distance around the world of 42,000 kilometres. For they need to do is to note down how many steps they scheme, where the bonus depends on a variety of facFoundation” also makes annual donations to deserving every kilometre that we walk, run or cycle, egetæpper take each day, how far they cycle, and how far they tors including revenue and production. causes. The foundation’s capital derives from the yields donates DKK 1 to KidsAid, which goes to the children’s run. on egetæpper’s shares. Annually, an amount in the milward at Herning Regional Hospital. We also offer employees supplementary healthcare inlion range is paid from the Ege Foundation, primarily 161 employees and family members have signed up surance via the insurance company If. The price is DKK to non-profit, cultural activities. KidsAid is a Danish charitable foundation with the key for the project, and in the first quarter we covered a 76 per month after tax and this insurance is offered to objective of supporting sick and underprivileged chiltotal distance of 41,885.75 km. This means that we dren in Denmark. KidsAid collects funds based on the are already very close to the objective of 42,000 km. philosophy that a good environment and positive, lifeIt has therefore been decided to expand the project affirming activities can help children manage the more to twice round the world, i.e. 84,000 km, which will difficult aspects of their lives. conclude the project for this year. The project at egetæpper was launched in spring 2011 Besides the exercise activities, on 2 April 2011 with the objective of improving employees’ health and egetæpper opened its doors to the public, who could strengthening team spirit across the organisation. Four tour the factory in Herning and buy carpets from stock exercise groups were set up: WalkingAid, RunningAid, at favourable prices. We had between 1,000 and CycleAid and GolfAid, as an opportunity for all em1,500 visitors in total. The event made a profit of DKK ployees and their families to participate in communal 59,960 which all went to the KidsAid project. health-promoting activities. On an individual basis too, 18 19 Health and safety We believe that health and safety is a matter of proour tile collection, Carré Econyl Modular 750, based ducing carpets that contribute to a safe and healthy on recycled fibres. EPD stands for Environmental Proindoor climate in the buildings where they are used1. duct Declaration, covering a life cycle assessment We focus on product characteristics and we work conof the carpets’ environmental impact pursuant to ISO sistently to reduce any negative impacts our products 14025. The organisation Gemeinschaft umweltfreunmay have. Each of our products is certified according dlicher Teppichboden (GuT), which represents the carto a range of standards to ensure that the carpets meet pet industry on environmental issues in Europe, together the highest quality requirements, including health and with Deutsches Institut für Bauen und Umwelt (IBU), are safety. behind the EPD verification scheme. CE marking During the 2010/2011 financial year egetæpper colAll egetæpper carpets carry the CE mark. CE stands for lected data for EPD, which has now been submitted to ”Conformité Européenne”. The CE standard indicates GuT for processing. The environmental product declathat the product conforms to the relevant EU directives. ration is expected to be available in August 2011. When a product carries the CE mark, the manufacturer declares that the product meets all relevant European Sustainable construction with LEED legislative requirements, the objectives of which are to LEED stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmenprotect health, safety and the environment. The stantal Design. LEED is a voluntary certification programme dard includes a list of regulations concerning product for buildings. The programme has been prepared by specifications within key areas such as fire prevention, the U.S. Green Building Council and is dedicated to health, environment, safety in use, energy conservation sustainable and green design and construction at the and heat insulation. global level. The programme provides architects, designers and purchasers with concrete, practical ratings BRE Life Cycle Analysis for design and product characteristics, and also offers The British organisation, BRE Certification Ltd. prepares independent third-party certification. environmental profiles that make it possible to register products in a universal measurement system. EnvironThe LEED system is appropriate for use in all types of mental profiles describe the environmental impacts of construction projects and at all stages of a building’s the products throughout their life cycle, making it poslife cycle, from design and construction to retrofitting. sible for architects, designers and purchasers, etc. to Buildings constructed according to LEED use resources include the environmental aspects in their choice of more efficiently than conventional buildings. carpets. The BRE certificate provides information on the environmental characteristics of an individual prodFurthermore, these ”green buildings” provide healthier uct in relation to a series of pre-defined requirements. living and working environments, as the materials used Points are given to products where the manufacturer all have a low impact on the environment and the inhas succeeded in using low-impact materials at every door climate. egetæpper’s products first qualified for stage of their life cycle. egetæpper has 12 BRE-certiLEED in 2008 and today all our products with synthetic fied products. tufting, and textile and latex backing, as well as wool, are LEED-qualified. This relates to 41 products, which Environmental declarations in accordance is a considerable increase from last year, when we with ISO 14025 had 28 LEED-qualified products. As an innovation, egetæpper has applied for EPD of 1 Health and safety naturally also includes the health and safety of our employees. This section, however, is dedicated to health and safety in relation to our products and the people who use them. 20 21 CASE Harmful substances requirements via BASTA 10 of egetæpper’s contract carpets. All of these carBASTA is a Swedish registration system which aims pets were vacuum cleaned using a Nilfisk appliance to establish an industrial standard for the limitation of and all achieved index 5. harmful substances in building materials. The system also aims to speed up the phasing-out of harmful subEnvironmental profiles with construction stances in construction. product declarations The Swedish Construction Products Declaration (BVD3) Through BASTA, the Swedish construction sector has is a document containing detailed information about reached consensus on a common definition of harmthe chemical substances in a product, how the proful chemical properties. This definition is then used to duct should be handled in the construction and operadetermine whether a product is acceptable or not. It is ting phases, and product disposal. The document thus up to the supplier to confirm whether the product conincludes information about a product’s environmental cerned meets these predefined criteria. To ensure its impact at different stages of its life cycle. BVD3 is imcredibility, the system is subject to a quality assurance portant because the declaration can form the basis of audit. All of our carpet products meet the BASTA criselecting and prioritising eco-friendly construction prodteria, but only carpets supplied to the Swedish market ucts, including textile flooring. are registered in BASTA’s system. The system that prepares BVDs for flooring is under Healthy indoor climate via the auspices of the Swedish Flooring Trade Association Danish Indoor Climate Labelling (GBR) in cooperation with the Ecocycle Council. GBR’s All egetæpper carpets are approved according to the declared intention for the construction products declaDanish Indoor Climate Labelling (DICL) scheme. This is ration is to create transparency concerning the environa voluntary labelling scheme under the Danish Technomental impact of individual products. At present, 35 of logical Institute that addresses the impact on the indoor our products are BVD3-declared. climate of construction materials and products. The objectives of indoor climate labelling are to improve Overall assessment under construction the indoor climate in buildings by giving manufacturers product provisions a tool by which to develop indoor climate-friendly The Swedish Building Materials Assessment (BVB) is a products, to give consumers a helping hand to choose standard for environmental assessment of building maMember of the Danish Council for indoor climate-friendly products, and to give interested parties a tool for improving their understanding of how terials. A common standard for assessment of building materials makes it easier to find approved building maSustainable Development products impact on the indoor climate. terials, so that tomorrow’s buildings can be built from environmentally-approved products and made subject In January 2011 we joined the Danish Council for Suamong other things been very actively involved in the The DICL scheme presents contractors, architects, deto environmental assessment. BVB’s ambition is to be stainable Development (RBE). Its overall objectives are development of the Danish Consumer Ombudsman’s signers and purchasers with the opportunity to select the only system required in the construction sector. to: guidelines on the use of environmental and ethical products that do not pollute the indoor climate. At the Based on a web-based tool, the system will facilitate claims, etc. in marketing, which were published in same time, the labelling scheme gives these stakeholdthe selection of environmentally-sound construction ma• promote an understanding and knowledge of suJanuary 2011. ers the opportunity to make an informed choice beterials. We have 8 product groups that are assessed stainability among companies and society tween the different labelled products. on the basis of BVB. • work proactively for the market and sales penetraAt egetæpper we attach considerable importance to tion of companies that make an active effort to enthese guidelines. We wish to avoid any type of ”greenTop-quality cleaning through INSTA 800 Maritime safety through IMO sure the sustainability of their activities and services washing” in our communication concerning environINSTA 800 is a Scandinavian system which assesses The international maritime organisation IMO has de• influence political fora to create optimum conditions mental issues and are therefore very conscious of the the quality of cleaning in a room. Cleaning quality veloped a certificate for products that are used on for sustainable business development words and expressions we use in our communication. is checked by taking readings both before and after board passenger ships. Certification is based on EU Our membership of RBE has facilitated our understancleaning. For instance, INSTA 800 rates dust deposits Directive 96/98/EC and the approval of the U.S. The Council holds internal network events and pubding and interpretation of the guidelines’ significance in a carpet both before and after vacuum cleaning. Coast Guard. The tests include fire spreading, smoke lic meetings, to address key issues. The Council also for our company. The ratings are then converted to a dust index, on a and toxicity. There are 13 egetæpper products that prepares concrete guidelines on sustainable business scale of 1 to 5, where 5 is the best possible result. meet the IMO requirements and these are certified by development, prepares white papers, and is active So far, we have primarily participated in RBE from the Det Norske Veritas. on various boards and working groups set up by sideline, but we expect that in future we will be able to The Technical Research Institute of Sweden has tested the government and other public authorities. RBE has engage more actively in the Council’s work. 22 23 GRI indicators EN1 – Consumption of material EN1 – Consumption of material EN3 – Direkte energy consumption EN4 – Indirect energy consumption EN8 – Water consumption Herning: 3.22 kg material per m2 of carpet Vejle: 0.95 kg of material per kg yarn Herning: 19.6 MJ per m2 of carpet Herning: 5.8 MJ per m2 of carpet Herning: 19.3 litres of water consumption Gram: 2.56 kg material per m2 carpet Gram: 21.9 MJ per m2 of carpet Gram: 4.1 MJ per m2 of carpet per m2 of carpet Vejle: 3.6 MJ per kg of yarn Vejle: 4.0 MJ per kg of yarn Gram: 17.7 litres of water consumption per m2 of carpet Vejle: 3.7 litres of water consumption per kg of yarn Environment EN4 – Indirect energy consumption As egetæpper does not use district heating, our indirect energy consumption only includes electricity consumption EN1 – Material by weight for buildings and production. A carpet is built up of pile (yarn and chemicals) and backing (latex, filler, auxiliary chemicals and textile backing). The carpets are dyed (dyes and chemicals including acid). We also use various materials for operation, cleaning Herning: 16,898 GJ and maintenance (oil, chemicals) and packaging (cardboard and plastic carpet tubes, wrapping foil and cardGram: 8,581 GJ board). Vejle: 14,967 GJ Total: 40,445 GJ Herning Gram Pile: 2,909,741 kg 973,457 kg EN5 – Energy savings Dyeing: 101,975 kg 167,444 kg Energy saving, projects have been undertaken in Herning and Vejle on the establishment of frequency converters Backing: 6,900,286 kg 4,408,254 kg and timers in the production plant, and the establishment of heat recycling and new process management in producOperation, cleaning, maintenance: 45,155 kg 5,125 kg tion. The savings total 1,142 GJ. Packaging: 317,872 kg 203,371 kg Total: 10,275,029 kg 5,757,651 kg EN7 – Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption egetæpper’s indirect energy consumption consists of air travel and leased vehicles. We have not introduced initiaIn Vejle, we produce yarns (carded yarns, BCF yarns, chemicals). Here we consume materials for operation, cleatives to reduce indirect energy consumption. ning and maintenance (various chemicals and oil) and packaging (cardboard, wrapping foil and disposable pallets). EN8 – Water consumption We use large quantities of water during production. In Herning and Gram the water comes from the municipal water Vejle supplies. In Vejle, the water comes from our own well. There is no shortage of water in any of these areas. Yarn: 2,781,436 kg Operation, cleaning, maintenance: 18,435 kg Herning: 59,368 m3 Packaging: 13,828 kg Gram: 38,288 m3 Total: 2,813,699 kg Vejle: 10,943 m3 Total: 108,599 m3 EN3 – Direct energy consumption Our direct energy consumption comprises natural gas and LPG at all three factories, and natural gas used to proEN10 – Water recycling duce electricity at the combined heat and power plant in Herning. In Vejle we have recycled 5,851 m3 of the water consumed, which represents 53.5% of water consumption in Vejle. This is almost 20% less than stated for the previous year, but the difference is due to a more precise measurement Herning Gram Vejle method. For the last financial year the measurement thus included both actual recycled water, and evaporation of Natural gas: 60,297 GJ 47,508 GJ 13,348 GJ the water that passes into the drying furnace with the yarn. This year, the last two factors have been deducted, LPG: 428 GJ 140 GJ 28 GJ so that the figure solely covers the actual recycled water volume in the last recycling station. In Herning, a smaller Natural gas for electricity production: 7,747 GJ proportion of the water consumption was recycled, estimated at approximately 3,000 m3. This corresponds to 5% Total: 68,472 GJ 47,648 GJ 13,376 GJ of Herning’s water consumption. In Gram, 166 m3 of the water was recycled, corresponding to 0.4% of Gram’s water consumption. This is an increase by 0.3%. This means that the ege Group has recycled 8.3% of the total water consumption at the three factories. 24 25 EN16 – Greenhouse gas emissions EN22 – Weight of waste and methods of disposal egetæpper’s direct emissions of greenhouse gases come from natural gas used in production and buildings, and to We dispose of our waste using recovery, thermal recycling, deposit in land fills and destruction. Details of the produce electricity. In addition, fuel oil is used in buildings, LPG in production, and diesel and petrol in the vehicles material we dispose of and how we dispose of them are given in our Environmental Report. The statements from owned by the company. Total direct greenhouse gas emissions in 2010/2011 were 8,046 tonnes of CO2. In adVejle include recycled yarns received from Herning, Gram and Røjle. dition, we emitted 9,048 tonnes of CO2 as indirect greenhouse gas emissions from electricity for production and buildings, and district heating. In total, therefore, we have emitted 17,094 tonnes of CO2. The greenhouse gas emisHerning Gram Vejle sions are calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which has been developed by the World Recovery: 68,021 kg 42,002 kg 201,685 kg Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute. Besides egetæpper’s three Danish Thermal recycling: 931,400 kg 420,780 kg 53,000 kg factories, the CO2 emissions include data from our subsidiaries and Bentzon Carpets. Deposit as land fill: 39,740 kg 44,740 kg 0 kg Destruction: 1,420 kg 5,292 kg 0 kg EN18 – Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Energy savings projects have been undertaken in Herning and Vejle on the establishment of frequency converters Chart showing percentage distribution: and timers in the production plant, and the establishment of heat recovery and new process management in produc100 tion. The total savings achieved represent a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 73.8 tonnes of CO2. 90 Herning 80 70 Gram EN21 – Water discharge 60 All process water from our factories is piped into the local water purification plant, while sanitary water is piped 50 into the sewers. The three factories calculate water discharge slightly differently. In Herning, it is measured in m3, 40 Vejle in Gram, it is calculated at 83% of water consumption in production, and in Vejle, it is calculated as total water 30 20 consumption less dampening. 10 0 Herning: 46,198 m3 Recovery Thermal recycling Refuse deposition Destruction Gram: 31,684 m3 Vejle: 9,073 m3 EN24 – Weight of transported hazardous waste Total: 88,955 m3 All our hazardous waste is transported for destruction. The term ’hazardous waste’ covers solid waste containing oil, waste oil, organic solvents, dye and paint containers, liquid latex, light sources containing mercury, accumulators and spray cans. A total of 5,292 kg of hazardous waste was transported for destruction from Gram, and 1,420 kg from Herning. There was no hazardous waste in Vejle during this period. A total of 6,712 kg of hazardous waste was transported for destruction. EN26 – Limiting environmental impacts In our Ecoline series, which consists of two carpet tile collections, 90% of the carpet fibres are recycled. For the yarn manufacturer, this means there is a 50% reduction in energy used, compared to producing new fibres. In 2010/2011, we have used a total of 13,402 kg of recycled fibres. Our ”NONO No Noise Runners” carpet collection comprises carpet runners especially developed for wooden floors where the carpet’s noise-reducing properties are important. The noise-reducing effect is due to acoustic absorption and dampening of the sound of footsteps. We recommend that our customers use the ChemDry® method to care for our carpet products. This method cleans using warm, carbonised water with no added chemicals or soap. The method uses less water than other cleaning methods in the market. Moreover, the method requires a shorter drying period, so the carpets can be used sooner after cleaning. We cooperate with EPEA and Cradle to Cradle Denmark on the introduction of Cradle to Cradle certification of selected carpet tile products. The original plan was to introduce certification during the 2010/2011 financial year, but this has proved to be a difficult process that is taking longer than expected. We are thus still awaiting feedback from a number of suppliers before we can complete the final product certification of the first carpet tile product. At the beginning of the new financial year, in cooperation with EPEA and Cradle to Cradle Denmark, we will draw up a ”roadmap” for egetæpper’s future business model for Cradle to Cradle certification. 26 27 Finance LA6 – Employee involvement in the health and safety committee (previously called the safety organisation) At egetæpper we have both Safety Groups and a Health and Safety Committee. The Health and Safety Committee EC1 – Direct financial value is the decision-making body, determining guidelines for health and safety issues, while the Safety Groups work with We have reported on this indicator in the egetæpper Annual Report 2010/2011. day-to-day health and safety issues in the area they represent. Often the same people are elected to both bodies. Health and Safety Committee Safety Groups Total number % of total workforce Herning: 6 people 12 people 13 people 6.3% Employee conditions Gram: 7 people 7 people 9 people 14.8% Vejle: 5 people 6 people 6 people 8.0% LA1 – The workforce In Herning, we employ 206 people, of whom 100 are monthly-paid and 106 are hourly-paid workers. In Gram, LA7 – Industrial injuries, accidents at work, absenteeism there is a total of 61 employees, of whom 11 are monthly-paid and 50 are hourly-paid workers. In Vejle, we employ During the past year, there have been 5 registered industrial accidents in Herning, 1 in Gram and 2 in Vejle. These 75 people, of whom 6 are monthly-paid and 69 are hourly-paid workers. In addition, there are 11 monthly-paid have resulted in 36 sick days. or 263 hours of time lost. This is almost one third of the number of sick days and hours workers in ege contract. This represents a total of 128 monthly-paid staff and 225 hourly-paid workers at the three of time lost compared to the previous year. Sick days are registered from the first sick day. None of these accidents factories. The overall total is 353 employees. The number of employees at the end of 2010/2011 is thus exactly the has resulted in permanent injury or death. In addition, there have been 9 other accidents in Herning, 1 in Gram and same as in the preceding financial year. 1 in Vejle, which did not result in sick days. The total percentage of time lost relative to the total number of hours worked by the workforce is 0.04%. No industrial injuries have been registered during the past year. All hourly-paid workers are employed full-time. Some of the monthly-paid staff are employed part-time. There are 15 part-time employees in Herning, 1 in Gram, and 1 in ege contract. LA2 – Staff turnover Product liability The staff turnover rate has more than halved over the past financial year compared to the year before, when the financial crisis forced egetæpper to make a large number of employees redundant. This year, 32 employees have PR1 – Product assessment left a position with egetæpper. The distribution by gender and age group is presented below. egetæpper is working to resolve health and safety issues throughout our products’ life cycles. In each of the following stages in a product’s life cycle we therefore evaluate the extent to which the product’s impact on health and safety Herning Gram Vejle can be improved. Age group Men Women Men Women Men Women >20 0 0 0 0 2 0 Development 20-29 4 1 0 0 1 0 We assess the environmental aspects when we select raw materials and suppliers. On establishing a contractual 30-39 1 2 0 0 0 0 agreement, suppliers are required to sign a document to ensure that quality and environmental specifications are 40-49 1 2 0 0 1 1 fulfilled. 50-59 0 0 1 0 0 1 <60 7 1 3 0 1 2 Manufacturing We work according to DS/OHSAS 18001, which ensures employees’ health and safety throughout the manufacDuring the period, we have employed a total of 32 new employees, of whom 21 were employed in Herning, 3 in turing process. Gram and 8 in Vejle. Marketing and sales promotion activities LA3 – Employee benefits In our marketing, we actively use the different environmental labels carried by our products. Our marketing activities egetæpper complies with the collective bargaining agreements between the Confederation of Danish Employers include press releases, newsletters, the company’s website and product catalogues. We also have an exhibition (DA) and the following trade unions respectively: 3F (United Federation of Danish Workers), Dansk Metal (Danish stand which all our subsidiaries and agents may use. The exhibition stand is designed to send a strong signal about Metalworkers’ Union), HK privat (commercial and clerical workers’ union) og Teknisk Landsforbund (the Danish Asenvironmental awareness at egetæpper. sociation of Professional Technicians). We offer all employee groups a 12% labour-market pension scheme, where egetæpper pays a premium corresponding to 8% of the employee’s salary and the employee pays 4%. There are Storage, distribution and delivery also a number of employee benefits, of which the most important are a monthly bonus to all permanent employees, At egetæpper we use forklift trucks to lift and move rolls of carpet. There are no obvious health and safety risks and healthcare insurance. We also allow employees to visit their doctor during working hours, and offer physiorelated to the storage of rolls of carpet. The distribution and delivery of rolls of carpet to carpet retailers entail certain therapy and staff associations, etc. ergonomic issues for both carpet retailers and carpet fitters. It is therefore important that the correct lifting and handling equipment is used to move the heavy rolls of carpet. egetæpper’s carpet tiles are easier to lift, transport and fit. 28 29 Use and service Our products are delivered with instructions for their fitting and care. These instructions also focus on environmental and safety issues. We recommend, for example, the use of specific types of flooring adhesive with specially low degasification into the indoor climate; EMICODE 1 in the lowest degasification class. We also recommend the Chem-Dry® cleaning method, which uses warm carbonic acid as a cleaning agent (no surfactants). This method uses less water than conventional cleaning methods. Disposal, recycling or recovery Used carpets are disposed of in different ways in different countries. In Denmark, carpets are disposed of by thermal recycling. In egetæpper’s Ecoline series, consisting of two carpet tile collections, 90% of the carpet fibres are recycled. PR3 – Product information All our products carry the CE mark, which means that they meet all relevant European legislative requirements, the objectives of which are to protect health, safety and the environment. In addition, our products are also certified according to a long series of voluntary labelling schemes, the objective of which is to protect health, safety and/or the environment. These are BRE, LEED, BASTA, the Danish Indoor Climate Label, INSTA 800, BVD3, BVB and IMO. For details, see the health and safety section. Dansk Fashion & Textile Code of Conduct Principle 11 – Animal welfare We are certain that we do not use wool from sheep that are subjected to mulesing. In New Zealand, from where we import most of our wool, sheep breeders operate according to the regulations of ”Best management practise Applicable to New Zealand Wool” (BMP), which sets out the New Zealand wool industry’s best practice and standards for wool production. According to BMP, 90% of the sheep breeders are part of a nationwide programme to safeguard quality in a large number of areas, including animal welfare, feed and water, stock keeping and the environment. However, BMP cannot be considered to be direct documentation that our wool suppliers adhere to these principles. In summer 2011 we will therefore send Danish Fashion & Textile’s Code of Conduct, principle 11 concerning animal welfare to our supplier of wool from New Zealand with an enquiry concerning how they will document that the sheep are fed, treated and culled with dignity and respect. This will be the first step in the development of a procedure and practice to ensure animal welfare in the future. Principle 12 Charity Via the ”Ege Foundation the Vibeke og Mads Eg Damgaard Foundation” annual donations to deserving causes are made from the yields on egetæpper shares. The funds are primarily donated for non-profit making activities in the local community. We have also launched a major charity and exercise project whereby egetæpper donates DKK 1 for every km that employees and their closest family members exercise in the course of the project. All of the funds go to the KidsAid Foundation, which supports sick and underprivileged children in Denmark. KidsAid transfers the funds raised by egetæpper directly to the children’s ward at Herning Regional Hospital The project’s initial target was to cover the distance around the world of 42,000 km, and this target was reached in the first quarter of the project. The project has therefore now been expanded to cover the distance twice round the world. Principle 13 Monitoring egetæpper is not subject to an external audit in connection with the management and control of compliance with the Code of Conduct, nor have we developed any practice to monitor suppliers’ compliance with the Code of Conduct. In time we will inform all our suppliers and cooperation partners that we have endorsed the Code of Conduct and we will establish a method for managing and monitoring these parties. 30 31 CSR in the future In the past year we have upgraded our activities in a Central Denmark Region and KompetenceMIDT, whose number of areas, as stated in the results section. But objective is to raise the level of education and prepare we will not stop here, since in a company as big as employees for future labour-market requirements. ours there is always potential for additional measures and initiatives. We also continue to work on the introduction of Cradle to Cradle certification for selected tile products, as well During the next year we will focus on employees’ as environmental declarations (EPD) in accordance competence development. So far, we have focused with ISO 14025 for selected carpet tile products. on health and safety, but we are now ready to offer all employees a screening programme to establish In due time, we plan to have our CSR report verified by whether they would benefit from a spelling or reading an independent third party. course. This will take place in cooperation with the Millitron color plant in Herning. Time line ISO 9001 quality certification 1992 First Greenhouse Gas Account 2009 INSTA 800 cleaning quality 2002 BVB construction products assessments 2010 Cradle to Cradle certification of selected products 2011/2012 ISO 14001 environmental management DS/OHSAS occupational health and safety certification 1996 certification 2006 Endorsed the UN Global Compact 2010 CSR verification by independent third party First official workplace CE marking 2006 First CSR report 2010 in accordance with DS 49001 assessment 1996 LEED sustainable construction 2008 Endorsed Danish Fashion & Textile Code of Conduct 2010 First Environmental Report 1996 BRE Life Cycle analysis 2007 Environmental declarations in accordance BVD3 construction products declaration 2009 with ISO 14025 (EPD) 2011/2012 EN 1307 product classification 1998 BASTA harmful substances requirements 2008 EMAS Eco-management certification 1996 32 33 Index of GRI content No. Topic Section Page No. Company CST indicators Section Page Strategy and analysis Finance 1.1 Management endorsement A sustainable company philosophy 6-7 EC1 Direct financial value Profile 5 Organisation profile Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 28 2.1 Organisation name Profile 4 GRI indicators 2.2 Primary products and markets Profile 5 Environment 2.3 Organisational structure Profile 4 EN1 Materials distributed by weight GRI indicators 24 2.4 Location of main office Profile 5 EN3 Direct energy consumption GRI indicators 24 2.5 No. of countries in which the organisation Profile 5 EN4 Indirect energy consumption GRI indicators 25 operates EN5 Energy savings GRI indicators 25 2.6 Ownership structure Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 5 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect GRI indicators 25 2.7 Markets Profile 5 energy consumption 2.8 Key figures for the organisation Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 5 EN8 Water consumption GRI indicators 25 2.9 Significant changes Profile 5 EN10 Water recycling GRI indicators 25 2.10 Awards won in the reporting period Profile 5 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions Results Environment 26 GRI indicators Report details EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse GRI indicators 26 3.1 Reporting period About egetæpper and the CSR report 2 gas emissions 3.2 Latest report date About egetæpper and the CSR report 7 EN21 Water discharge GRI indicators 26 3.3 Reporting frequency Profile 5 EN22 Weight of waste and method of disposal GRI indicators 27 3.4 Contact us About egetæpper and the CSR report 2 EN24 Weight of transported waste GRI indicators 27 3.5 Limitation basis Organisational anchorage 9 EN26 Limiting environmental impact GRI indicators 27 3.6 Limits About egetæpper and the CSR report 2 Employee conditions A sustainable company philosophy 6 LA1 The workforce GRI indicators 28 3.7 Limitations About egetæpper and the CSR report 2 LA2 Employee turnover Profile 28 3.8 Subsidiaries, etc. About egetæpper and the CSR report 5 A sustainable company philosophy 3.10 The effect of changes compared to As this is the first report, this is not relevant GRI indicators the previous report LA3 Employee benefits Results Employees 28 3.11 Significant changes compared to As this is the first report, this is not relevant GRI indicators the previous report LA6 Employees in safety organisation GRI indicators 29 Management, obligations and stakeholder involvement LA7 Industrial injuries, accidents at work, Results Environment 29 4.1 Management structure Profile 5 absenteeism GRI indicators Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 Product liability 4.2 Chairman Profile 5 PR1 Product evaluations GRI indicators 29 Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 PR3 Product information Results – Health and safety 20-22 4.3 Independent status Profile 5 GRI indicators 29-31 Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 Danish Fashion & Textile 4.4 Shareholders’ and employees’ Profile 5 opportunities to exert influence Reference to the Annual Report 2010/2011 Principle 11 Animal welfare Results Environment 12 GRI indicators 31 4.14 Stakeholder groups Organisational anchorage 9 Principle 12 Charity Results Employees 18 4.15 Identification of stakeholders Organisational anchorage 9 GRI indicators 31 Principle 13 Monitoring GRI indicators 31 34 35 ege inhouse 0811 8054001 Head Office egetæpper a/s • Industrivej Nord 25 • DK-7400 Herning • Tel. +45 97 11 88 11 • Fax: +45 97 11 95 80 • E-mail: ege@ege.dk • www.egecarpet.com
