Power Supply The average Ranked the Ranked the 87.77million Electricity supply to Reliability Rate of the whole grid is customer outage decreased 185th 1 st by customer tons of carbon dioxide emission reduction 106,000 in the Fortune satisfaction survey by energy saving and rural households with no 99.87% 105 minutes 500 list in Guangdong and Yunnan emission reduction campaign. access to utility service in the past CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China Board Chairman’s Speech Last year is an unusal and inspiring year. At early 2009, after the aftermath of global financial crisis , China’s economy was adversely effected. CSG encountered the toughest challenges since the establishment of the company: weak power demand and conspicuous contradiction. Facing the serious and complicated situation, under the decisive leadership of the Party Central Committee and the State Council, CSG earnestly implemented the principles and deployment of “ensure economy growth, ensure the people’s livelihood and ensure the stability” promulgated by the Central Government, practiced scientific development, played power utility’s role as infrastructure to facilitate economy’s smooth and fast development of the 5 provinces and regions in CSG’s service area. Through in-depth study and understanding of the scientific development principle, we set our CSG target : increase power supply reliability rate and improve our scientific development level. We believe the target reflects CSG’s reality and it is an important measure for us to undertake our social responsibilities and serve a harmonious society. ------We took proactive measures to increasing power supply and expanding power sale in the 5 provinces under the context of economy growth, boosting domestic demand and structure adjustment. We fulfilled the set objective of increasing power sale 5% and realized a 6.2% growth rate. ------We earnestly implemented the 10 measures of boosting domestic demand set by the State Council: we expedited the urban power grid upgrading and rural power grid improvement, fulfilled the tough task of 102.5 billion Yuan’s investment on fixed assets well. Our effort culminated with the single operation of the 1st ±800kV UHVDC Transmission Project in the world---Yunnan to Guangdong project. More than 60% of project has been manufactured and engineered domestically, symbolizing a breakthrough of China’s electricity technology and equipment manufacture . The project secured our leading position in international advanced level and the world power transmission and transformation technology. The 500kV cross-sea interconnection project---Hainan Interconnection project put into operation on schedule, ranking the 1st and 2nd in transmission capacity in Asia and in the world respectively. The project put an end to the history of Hainan as an isolated island in electricity. 01 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 ---We always adhere to the “client-oriented”concept and make every effort to provide safe, reliable and continuous power supply to our customers. The average customer outage reduced 13.6% on YoY basis. ---We reinforced our effort in energy saving and emission reduction.We are dedicated to establish CSG as a green power grid, supporting green energy development and faciliting customers’ energy saving. We built China’s largest scaled EV charging station in Shenzhen. We made fruitful achievement and accumulated valuable experiences in handling complicated situations. At the same time, we understand that, as an enterprise under the direct management of the state-owned assets supervision and administration commission of the State Council ( hereinafter refer to as “the central enterprise”), our fundamental responsibility is to serve the party and the state and serve the economic and social development of the 5 provinces and region. As a power grid enterprise, our unremitting pursuit is to optimize the distribution of energy resources, promote the transform of economic development mode and to realize a sustainable development of the society and ourselves. As a Fortune 500 company , our mission is to shoulder our social responsibility, support 10 principles of the Global Compact, tackle global climate change and promote lowcarbon economic development. CSG can not achieve an overall, healthy and sustainable development without the support and help from all sides. CSG still has a long way to go to meet expectations in terms of administration, technology, service, etc. We hope this report can better our mutual understanding. We believe with sincere communication, trust , we can achieve a joint development for now and the future. Board Chairman’s Speech 02 Framework of Responsibility Actively undertake social responsibility Make every effort to ensure electricity supply Corporate social responsibility means that an enterprise should be hold accountable for the impact of its activities of operation and administration on its stakeholders. Enterprises should interact with its stakeholders in a sincere and harmonious manner and facilitate its own growth and sustainable development of the society. Central enterprise’s practice of social responsibility is the actual practice of serving the Party and the state and serving social construction in line with the Scientific Development Principle. Electric power industry is an infrastructural industry and an utility industry in nature. It is the lifeline of the national economy, state energy security and social stability. CSG’s mission is to “Actively take on social responsibility and make every effort to ensure electricity supply”. CSG’s social responsibility is reflected in the following 4 aspects: To deliver safe power supply: CSG’s core responsibility is to guarantee a safe, stable, reliable and quality power supply for the sustainable development of the society. CSG’s political responsibility is to maintain public security and public interests in confronting serious and unexpected natural disaster. To promote social harmony: We are committed to universal power service. CSG’s special responsibility is to facilitate coordinated development between cites and the countryside. To cooperate with stakeholders for a win-win outcome are the shared responsibility of CSG and all sectors of the society. To gain a good economic performance: CSG’s fundamental responsibilities are to implement in strict accordance with the national policy on tariff, pay special attention to management, ensure security, appreciation, cost reduction and efficiency enhancement of stateowned assets, and prioritize social To save energy and protect the benefit . enviornment: CSG’s responsibilities are to build a green power grid, to facilitate energy saving and emission reduction and to facilitate a coordinated and sustainable development of enterprise, society and enviorment . 03 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Contents 01 Board Chairman’s Speech 03 Framework of Responsiblity 05 Responsibility 11 About Us 19 Electric Power Supply 31 Economic Performance 39 Energy Saving and Enviormental Protection 49 Social Harmony 59 Outlook of 2010 60 Rating Report 61 The 3rd Party Endorsement 63 Performance of the United Nations Global Compact 64 Report Index Contents 04 To Increase Electricity Supply and Expand the Electricity Sale Electricity Sales totalled 523.9 TWh, 6.2% increase compared to that of 2008. 12 TWh of it were obtained through electricity sales promotion measures Starting from the 4th quarter of 2008, aftermath of global financial crisis continuously spread its impact on economic entities. To prevent economy from drastic decline, the Central Party and the State Council rapidly announced a 4 trillion Yuan’s Stimulus Package aiming to boost domestic demand and stimulate economy and to retain a 8% economic growth rate. At the beginning of 2009, CSG set a core working target of 5% growth in electricity sale to fulfill the Central Government’s decision and deployment of “ensuring economic growth, ensuring the people’s The Share of Additional Power Sale by livelihood and ensuring the social stability ” the 5 Provinces and Regions Electric power market is a rapidly changing one. In the first half of 2009, power demand decreased 1.3%. CSG made tireless efforts to gain a power sale increase by taking specific measures. The whole year’s power sale increased 12 TWh, 1.2% higher than the target set at the beginning of 2009. In 2009, 5 provinces and region scored a 10.5% economic growth and the whole Guangdong nation recorded 8.7% economic growth, we are proud of our 120 Guangxi contribution to the achievement. Yunnan Guizhou Hainan Unit: TWh Guangxi: Placing the key sectors on the Guangdong: BYD “ Oil to Electricity” priority support list BYD Company Limited, headquartered in Shenzhen Guangxi Power Grid Company played an excellent used oil to generate electricity for partial commercial supporting role to the autonomous region government production. The annual electricity consumption is about of Guangxi. It put forward a flexible scheme of purchase200 million kWh. To address BYD’s difficulties of low sale coordinated power supply, carried out active efficiency, loud noise and heavy pollution caused by meansures to support key sectors’ production. In diesel generating sets, Shenzhen Power Supply Branch 2009, Guangxi Power Grid Company organized 100 provided on-site services and made a proposal on taskforce and paid 1200 visits to key factories, mines “oil to Electricity”. They helped the company to shut and enterprises. In total, 216 resumed production and in down diesel generating sets and use electricity from return, helped to stabilize power Consumption. the grid. This measure successfully reduced BYD’s power consumption cost, and helpted to protect the enviorment. 05 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Responsibility How 12 TWh was “Digged Out” The Share of Additional Power CSG established relevant organizations to translate responsibilities Demand by Measures into actions and reinforced appraisal scheme. Company management visited grass-roots units to express their confidences and guidance. The company secured a brilliant success in increasing power supply and sale by taking a number of specific measures. We understand one more kwh power supply means to more contribution to economic growth”. CSG offered follow-up service to customers out-of-production 120 or production decrease. In total, we helped them to stablize and restore the power load totaled at 9500MW and in return, we sold additional 6.4 TWh power; We facilitate “household appliances to the countryside” Unit: TWh campaign.Our measures of replacing coal (oil, gas, firewood) by electricity helped to increase the propotion of electricity in enduser’s engergy consumption and increase power sale of 2.5TWh. Assist to Restore Commercial Production The time consumed on application and installation for capacitiy Increase the Propotion of end-users’ expansion reduced 14 hours than last year. We ensured early energy consumption operation and production of 11.40 GW new projects with an Speed up business expansion Reducing outage additional power sale of 1.2 TWh. Solve “the bottleneck” problem in power consumption CSG reinforced its efforts in customer outage management and Others outage reduction. The annual average customer outage reduced 13.6% than that of 2008 with an additional power sale of 1 TWh. CSG addressed “bottleneck” problem in a timely manner, facilitating power consumption to guarantee the power generation and transmission with an additional power sale of 0.8 TWh. An additional power sale of 0.1 TWh was gained by other measures. Yunnan: “Electrification project Guizhou: “One Strategy for One Hainan: Optimize Operation for tobacco production” benefit tobacco growers Factory” facilitate Production and Increase Production Yunnan Power Grid Company fully Guizhou Power Grid Company Hainan Power Grid Company tapped the potentials of alternative adopt the measure of “One Strategy spared no effort to increase power energy market. Linchang Power Supply for One Factory” and helped supply. Dongfang Power Supply Branch vigorously promoted electric enterprises to overcome difficulties. Branch guided Xinda Cement baking barn to tobacco growers. It played a coordination role in Company to optimize operation More than 3700 electric baking barns the ingot aluminium procurement shift by taking full advantages of were built. It solved the problem of from Guizhou Enterprise of China the difference of peak and valley enviormental pollution caused by firewood and coal , continuously Aluminum Co., Ltd.(GECA). They tariff. The practice reduced 17% reduced the energy consumption cost took proactive approaches to help of average power consumption of tobacco growers, promoted tobacco GECA to solve cash flow difficulty, cost, increased 44% of the production.The efforts were well received and stablized its operation and monthly power consumption and by tobacco growers. This “Electrification employment. In return, GECA’s helped its production turnover. project for tobacco production” acted as power consumption maintained a a demonstration project and were rolled 2.2 million KWh per day. out to other regions of Yunnan Province. Responsibility 06 Strategy with the First ±800kV UHVDC Transmission Project in the World Guizhou Paying tribute to the 10th Aniversary of the Implementation of National Western Development Yunnan Chu Xiong Yun-Guang UHVDC Transmission Project Starts from Lufeng County, Chuxiong Canton, Yunnan Province at its west end and Zengcheng City, Guangdong Province at its east end. It passes through Yunnan, Domestic production rate is 62.9% Guangxi and Guangdong provinces with the total length of 1372 km, rated voltage with the leading technology of ±800kV and the transmission capacity of 5000MW. The project was put into operation It was awarded “The Best Transmission and Transformation monopolarly on Dec. 28, 2009. Engineering in Asia” by Asian Power Magazine According to the Master Plan of Southern Power Grid Development, the power transmitted from the western China to Guangdong will exceed 41GW in 2020 and 56GW in 2030. After 2010, the main power resources from the west to Guangdong will be the hydropower in Northwest of Yunnan Province.The ±800kV Yun-Guang UHVDC project construction is significant, as it implements the National Western Development Strategy and support western provinces’ ( Yunan, for example) big-scale hydropower development export to other provinces. Independent-Research: We adhere to the concept of “ being independent , harnessing production, teaching and research”, CSG organized domestic research and design institutions, universities and manufacture enterprises to conduct 7 areas and 58 specific studies on UHVDC Transmission technologies. Self-Design: We conducted study on engineering system and complete design by using self-developed software and accomplished the construction drawing design independently. Domestic manufacture: CSG adhered to the guiding principle of An Inspection on 2250kV Foundamental Frequency “Made in China and Cooperate with the world”, self-developed and Testing Transformer manufactured most of the key equipments. Domestic manufacture rate reached 62.9% Proprietary intellectual property rights: We researched and formulated 25 state and industry standards, applied or authorized 106 patents and registered 8 software copyrights. 07 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Responsibility We implemented the Central Government’s decision on “Expansion of Domestic Demand”, increased investment on power grid construction, accomplished the target goal under the situation of a doubled construction task by dedication and perseverance. The operation of ±800kV Yun-Guang UHVDC Transmission Sample Project and Hainan Interconnection Project has great significance and far-reaching impact. Zeng Cheng Guangxi Guangdong ±800 kV New Heights of HVDC Transmission Voltage Level 500 0MW New Record of HVDC Transmission Capacity 1850 meters New Height of the Converter Station in Altitude Hainan Yun-Guang Transmission lines straddle the mountains to deliver light Transmission Capacity: To transmit Yunan’s clean hydropower to the heart of Pearl River Delta with an annual supply of 22.5 TWh. In this way, Yunnan’s resources have been translated into economic benefits and Guangdong benefited from clean power supply. The transmission capacity is equevalent to 2 ±500kV HVDC lines. Energy Saving and Enviormental Protection: Based on coal-fired power plant replacement, the annual emitted CO2 reduced 17 million tons. Compared with 500kV HVDC transmission project, line losses reduced 40% and 8300 hectares of ROW was saved. Demonstration Role: As a demonstration project of China’s UHVDC Transmission project, it laid the technical foundation for China to develop UHVDC transmission engineering, accumulated construction experience, trained a large number of specialized technical personnels, produced a series of technologies, specifications and standards with proprietary intellectural property rights. It boosted China’s electricity equipment and power grid construction in terms of research, development, manufacture, and representing China’s power grid operation and management level are ranking top in the world. Responsibility 08 Guangdong Province Zhanjiang City 500kV Hainan Interconnction Project 500kV Guangcheng The 1st in Asia and the 2nd in the world Substation End the history of Hainan as an “isolated” island in electricity On June 30, 2009, 500kV Hainan Cross-Sea Interconnection Project, featured by extra high voltage, long distance and large capacity, was successfully put into operation, ranking No.1 in Asia and the 2nd in the world. It ended the long history of Hainan Province as an “isolatedly operated” island in 500kV Overhead Line 125km electricity. The project starts from 500kV Gangcheng substation in Zhanjiang City, Guangdong Province at its north end, passed by Leizhou Peninsula, crossed through Qiongzhou Channel, ended its south end at the 500kV Fushan substation in Chengmai County, Hainan Province. The total length of transmission line is 171.9 km with a sea cable of 32 km Xuwen County crossing Qiongzhou Channel. It is connected by 500kV AC lines with a designed capacity of 600MW. Fushan Substation is connected to the 220kV Hainan Power Grid by 5 circuits of transmission lines. 500kV High Voltage Shunt Reactor Station The development of industrial economy needs a stable Nanling Terminal Station and secure electric power supply. By the end of 2010, a large number of big scale industrial projects and tourism development projects will be in their construction and operation peak. The power demand of the whole province Qiong zhou Strait will present a great-leap-forward growth trend. Hainan Power 500kV Sea-Cable 3×32km Grid Company has an outstanding performance by creating the 9th new record on unified dispaching load despite the whole country’s power demand was decreased in the 1st half Lin Shidao of 2009. Terminal Station 500kV Overhead Line 14.5km The operation of Hainan Interconnection Project ensured Haikou City a more stable, reliable and secure power supply to Hainan 500kV Fushan Substation and made a significant contribution to improve Hainan’s investment enviorment and promote Hainan’s economic development as well as the construction of an international tourism island. Chengmai County Hainan Province Sea Cable landed Linshi Island, Hainan 09 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Responsibility Traction Boat is drawing the floating-point package which Over 100 km of 500 kV Cable is loaded on the ship holds the sea cable Ensuring power grid security: Before the interconnection Relieving power shortage: The time difference between of Hainan power grid, fault and load backup had to be the summer peak load in Hainan and Guangdong is about 80 supported by single unit; After the interconnection, the minutes, time difference between Yunnan and Guizhou grid is bottleneck of so called “Big unit and small grid” can be 20 minutes. We can take advantages of the “time difference effectively relieved. The security and stability of Hainan power benefit” by interconnection to relieve power shortage at peak grid operation was enhanced. time within a short timeframe. Reducing the operation cost: Hainan Interconnection Complementarity: In the coming years, thermal and nuclear Project will effectively increase the efficiency of hydropower power projects in Hainan years will be completed and and thermal power units. The inconnection set free Hainan’s operation will be started. Hainan Power Grid has the capacity existing backup capacity of 330MW, equivalent to capacity to deliver power to Guangdong. The complementarity of the increase of 1.5 TWh annually. It will basically meet the future two provinces help to promote the energy cooperation within demand of Hainan’s economic development in the coming Pan-Pearl River Delta (PPRD) regional and realize an optimized years. distribution of regional resources in a bigger area. Laying of the Marine Cable During the engineering Construction of Hainan Interconnection Project, the most crucial and challenging task is laying 3 marine cables with the length of 32 meters each through Qiongzhou Channel. Fishing nets, fishing gears and remnant should be removed before the laying of cables .Then, a ditch in the seabed would be digged out, and safety warning measures should be prepared. When the cables were being laid, it must to be laid on the ocean floor at one attempt. The key was to control the angle that cable plunging into the water and control the laying tension. These should be achieved by controling the ship’s sailing speed and laying speed.Once the cables were laid, cables must be buried to reduce the adverse impact of the complicated ocean enviorment The ship is laying the marine cable on the cable and to ensure the security of operation. Responsibility 10 China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd, locating its headquater in Guangzhou, is responsible for the power grid investment, construction and operation of the 5 provinces and region, including Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan with the serving area of 1 million square kilometers and a population of 230 million. Corporate Commitment: 1 Being Responsible to the Central Government Serving the 5 Provinces Corporate Mission: Actively Take on Social Responsibility Make Every Effort to Ensure Electrticity Supply 2 Strategic Objective: To establish CSG as a service-oriented, modern, integrated enterprise, With a leading position in China and reputation in the world Development Road Map: Reinforcement Innovation Advancement 3 Corporate Lifeline: Safety and Stability of Power Grid Working Philosophy: Attach more Importance to Relying on Scientific and Technical Advancement; 4 Attach more Importance to Establish Scientific Development Concept; Attach more Importance to Social Benefit; Attach more Importance to Effective Management; Attach more Importance to Deepening Reform; Attach more Importance to Human Resources Development. Corporate Decree: Safe Production No.1 Decree; 5 Legitimate Business No.2 Decree Corporate Image: CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China Responsible Southern Power Grid, Harmonious Southern Power Grid Windpower Hydropower Solar Power Nuclear Power Thermal Power Corporate Concept: Safety Idea ---All Accidents can be Prevented Business Idea Structure of Power Generation Resources ---Emphasize Corporate Benefit, Prioritize Social Benefit Service Idea ---Our Service is Endless Behaviour Idea ---Make Every Effort to Accomplish Each Task Clean Idea ---Clean Conduct, No Crruption Hydropower Team Idea Pumped Storage ---Principle plus Affection Produce Harmonius and Thermal Power Powerful Teamwork; Lead the Team with High Standard, Nuclear Power Strict Requirement, and Hearted Care; Common Pursuit Wind Power throughtout the Team, Smooth Implementation of Policy Others and Order, Everyone Enjoys Happy Working-day. Total Installed Capacity 155051.7MW Unit: MW 11 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 About Us 10 11 6 7 12 9 8 13 Transmission Line Substation Power Distribution House business outlet Industry Agriculture Commerce Domestic Main Business Data Structure of Customers (year) Total Assets Billion Yuan Sales of Power TWh Industry Major Business Revenue Billion Yuan Residence Commercial Length of 110kV and the above Transmission Lines km Algreculture Transformation Capacity of 110kV and the Bulk Sale above(MWA) Others Highest Load of Unified Dispatching Electricity Sales totalled 523.9 TWh Unit: TWh power(MW) Power Transmitted from the West to the About Us 12 East(TWh) Company Leaders Zhong Jun Zhao Jianguo Board Chairman Board Director President Xiao Peng Zhou Jitai Board Director Board Director Vice President Vice President Wang Jiuling Qi Dacai Board Director Board Director Vice President Vice President Wang Yushuang Wang Liangyou Board Director Board Director Vice President Head of Discipline Chairman of the Trade and Inspection Union Zhang Xiaodong Li Wenzhong Board Director Chief Accountant Vice President 13 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Company Governance The company is administrated by the Central Government. State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council prosecutes his responsibilities as the patrons. Board of Supervisors for the Main State-owned Enterprises is assigned to CSG by the State Council. The company’s governance structure consists of board of Director and management team which is established in accordance with decision making, control, execution and inspection procedures. The company has well defined power and responsibility and continuously improves its governance operation mechanism. The company pays special attention to enhance the corporate management and system construction, standardize collective decisionmaking procedure, significant decisions are made in line with regulated procedures to ensure the company’s operation according to the laws. Structure of Organization CSG headquarter has 14 departments and 2 affiliated units. Under the CSG headquarter, there are 3 branches, namely CSG EHV Power Transmission Company, CSG Power generation Company and CSG Technology Research Centre; 6 wholly-owned subsidiaries, namely Guangdong Power Grid Company, Guangxi Power Grid Company, Yunnan Power Grid Company, Guizhou Power Grid Company, Hainan Power Grid Company, and CSG International Company. Besides, CSG is the controlling shareholder of CSG Financial Company and Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd.. Board of Director Board of Supervisors Management Team Assistant President, Chief Counsel, Chief Engineer and Chief Economist General Office Strategy and Planning and Marketing and Human Finance Dept. Operation and Safety Rural Electricity International Audit Dept. Inspection Bureau Party Affairs Dept. Information Center Policy Dept. Trading Dept. Resource Dept. Technology Dept. Supervision Dpet. Cooperation Dept. Development Dept. Administration Dept. Affiliated Units Branch Companies Holding Subsidiaries Wholly-owned Subsidiaries CSG Power Dispatching and CSG Social Insurance EHV Power Transmission CSG Power Generation CSG Technology Research CSG Financial Company Dinghe Property Insurance Guangdong Power Grid Guangxi Power Grid Yunnan Power Grid Guizhou Power Grid Hainan Power Grid CSG International Company Company Company Company Company Management Center Company Company Company Co., Ltd. Center Information Center About Us 14 Introduction of Secondary Utilities Guangdong Power Grid Company www.gd.csg.cn EHV Power Transmission Company www.ehv.csg.cn Guangdong Power Grid Company is in charge of investment, The CSG Extra High Voltage Power Transmission Company is construction, operation and management of Guangdong Power grid. responsible of construction, operation and management of interIt is responsible for power transmisison and distribution management, provincial main networks and the important connection lines of China power procurement, power sale, power trading, dispatching and Southern Power Grid. It manages 10 grass-roots units. The capacity optimized distribution of power resources, etc. It is China’s largestof power transmission from the West to the East reached 24.20 scaled provincial power grid company at the moment. It manages GW by 2009. By the end of 2009, the total assets of the company 21 local power supply enterprises and 40 utilities functioning as amounted to RMB 41.724 billion with 3,639 employees. dispatching, communication, design and capital construction. By the end of 2009, the total assets of the company amounted to RMB 222.7 billion with 109,299 employees, serving 96.38 million clients. CSG Power Generation Company www.pgc.csg.cn The CSG Power Generation Company is in charge of construction, Guangxi Power Grid Company www.gx.csg.cn operation and management of power plants for CSG. It has 7 subordinates. The total installed capacity reached 4920MW. By the end of 2009, the total assets of the company amounted to RMB Guangxi Power Grid Company is in charge of investment, 16.484 billion with 1,359 employees. construciton, operation and management of Guangxi Power grid. It is responsible for power transmission and distribution management, power procurement, power sale, power trading, dispatching and optimized distribution of power resources, etc. It manages 22 branch CSG Technology Research Center www.csg.cn companies (14 of them are prefectural (city) electric power supply bureau), 43 wholly-owned and 1 holding subsidiary company. And it is mandated to govern 2 county level electric power supply enterprises. The CSG Technology Research Center (TRC) is the “National By the end of 2009, the total assets of the company amounted to Assessed Enterprise Technology Center”. Its main business covers RMB 50.9 billion with 63,980 employees and 50.49 million clients. power grid related research, new technology development, technical assistance and supervision, technical transfer, technical service, consultancy and training etc. By the end of 2009,the total assets of TRC amounted to RMB 378 million with 73 employees. Yunnan Power Grid Company www.yn.csg.cn Yunnan Power Grid Company is in charge of investment, CSG International Company www.csg.cn construciton, operation and management of Guangxi Power grid. It is responsible for power transmission and distribution management, CSG International Co., Ltd.was established in 2007. It is in charge power procurement, power sale, power trading, dispatching and of operation of transnational (cross-border) projects of power optimized distribution of power resources, etc. It manages 30 branch transmission and transformation; investment and management of companies, 87 wholly-owned companies and 11 holding subsidiary offshore power projets and equity, offshore power projects contracts, companies.By the end of 2009, the total assets of the company labor services cooperation, external technical cooperation, import/ amounted to RMB 63.45 billion with 64,707 employees and 43.20 export of new technologies, international trade, consulting and million clients. information service. The registered capital is RMB 200 million. By the end of 2009, it has 51 employees. Guizhou Power Grid Company www.gz.csg.cn CSG Financial Company www.csg.cn Guizhou Power Grid Company is in charge of investment, Approved by China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC), CSG construciton, operation and management of Guangxi Power grid. It Finalcial Company was established on Dec.29,2004 as a non-banking is responsible for power transmission and distribution management, financial institution with registered capital of RMB 1 billion. Its main power procurement, power sale, power trading, dispatching and business covers deposits, settlement, loan, and entrusted loan, its optimized distribution of power resources, etc.It manages 23 units financial services cover securities investment and equity investment with business in power sale, power design, construction, research and to financial institutions. It has 7 departments and sets 5 business development. By the end of 2009, the total assets of the company departments in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan amounted to RMB 43.11 billion with 47,901 employees and 39 million respectively. By the end of 2009, the total assets reached RMB 17.8 clients. billion and total number of employees were 66. Hainan Power Grid Company www.hn.csg.cn Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. www.edhic.com Hainan Power Grid Company is in charge of investment, construciton, Approved by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission operation and management of Guangxi Power grid. It is responsible (CIRC),Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. Was founded on May for power transmission and distribution management, power 16,2008. Its main business covers property insurance, liability procurement, power sale, power trading, dispatching and optimized insurance, credit insurance, guarantee insurance, short-term health distribution of power resources, etc.It manages 18 branch companies, insurance and accident insurance, etc. It sets 11 departments, 1 sales 2 electric power supply company which are listed as independent department at the headquater, 3 secondary institutions. And other units, 11 affiliated units and 1 power plant. By the end of 2009, the 3 secondary institutions are preparing for construction. By the end total assets of the company amounted to RMB 11.588 billion with of 2009, the total assets amounted to RMB 1.557 billion with 242 11,719 employees and 8.7 million clients. employees (including sales representatives). 15 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Responsibility Management The Work System of Social Responsibility Advocating “Being Responsible to the Central Government, Serving the 5 Provinces”, CSG actively facilitated and drove social responsibility management, perfected relevant work system, established a leading group and a general office. Each provincial power grid company established a working institution accordingly. The leading group heads the management and promotion of the company’s social responsibility practice. It oversees the approval of the working plan, addresses substantial issues, analyzes and effectively manages social responsibility risks. As a daily administrative arm of the leading group, the general office heads implementation of the resolutions made by the leading group, compiling working plan, conducting training, coordinating relevant issues, setting index system, collecting working documents, preparing and releasing company’s Social Responsibility Report. Leading Group of the Social Responsibility Work General Office General Office Strategy and Planning and Marketing and Human Finance Dept. Operation and Safety Supervision Rural Electricity International Audit Dept. Inspection Bureau Party Affairs Dept. Information Center Policy Dept. Trading Dept. Resource Dept. Technology Dept. Dpet. Cooperation Dept. Development Dept. Administration Dept. Leading Group (General Office) of the Branch Companies and Subsidiaries Social Responsibility Index System Taking the G3 standard and reference standard of international advanced enterprises and power sectors into account, CSG set a social responsibility index system with its own characteristics. Revision was made to the index system based on the social responsibility index system of power supply sector. The index is set by Research Center for corporate Social Responsibility Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. About Us 16 Communication and Participation of the stakeholders Stakeholders Analysis We always seek recognition and support Stakeholders Expectation and Communication from the stakeholders to realize the win-win Analysis requirement and response goal. We pay great priority to stakeholders’ expection and requirement, bear in mind the impact of our operation and management Safe power supply National Policy implementation on stakeholders, continuously perfect State-owned asset value Regulatory system Government approaches and channels of communication, maintenance and appreciation Operation management (Sponsor) exchanges and participation. Legal and standardized improvement management Working report All of the 5 provincial power grid companies under the CSG composed their own 2009 Social Responsibility Report and have taken proactive meansures to better their Basic right protection Compliance with National labor communication with their stakeholders. Health and safety laws and regulations Open corporate information Staff Career development Listen suggestions and advices Corporate culture The company attaches great priority to social responsibility Establish multiple communication and has established a communication platform with multi-channel and multi-level.The publication communication channel of the Social Responsibility Report is a solid evidence of communication. SAIDI reduction Improves power supply reliability High quality service Customer need survey Energy-saving service Customers Accept complains Discussion and visits Provide guidance on energysaving Commitment Fair Open and Justice Dispatching Fair purchase Released Corporate Social Responsibility Report Partners Open purchase information Experience sharing Accept feedback and suggestion Negotiation and communication Energy saving and emission Energy-saving oriented reduction generation scheduling Resources saving Open environment information Environment Climate protection Energy-saving technology development Eco-environment protection Energy-saving technology promotion Branch Companies of CSG have also released Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2008 Community safety Community Education and Community and publicity Public utility development For more details, please visit www.csg.cn, public Workshop and communication Poverty-relief Corporate Social Responsibility Feature Report Charity 17 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Communication and Training on Social Responsibility On May 26 th , CSG released International Seminar of Chinese Enterprise. the second Corporate Social CSG, together with 29 other enterprises, won Responsibility Report, elaborating the award of Golden Bees 2009 Best Corporate CSG’s achievements in safe and Social Responsibility Report in 541 reports. quality power supply, contributions On December 5th, CSG attended the 2009 made to the economic and social Guangdong Province Corporate Social development and the environment Responisibility Annual meeting and the 2nd of year 2008 and interactions with Southern Corporate Social Responisibility Forum, its stakeholders. sharing CSG’s social responisbility concept and practice with its counterparts. On November 3rd, CSG attended the first Corporate Social Responsibility working Conference of Central Enterprises, delivering a report on “Launching Green Action, CSG attended a series of academic exchange Promoting Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction, Taking Social Responsibility as an events held by Corporate Social Responisibility Electricity Enterprise”. Center of CASS, and relevant staff were invited to work in the center. CSG was admitted to the United Nations Global Compact Organization, CSG shall support and promote ten basic principles in the global compact of the United Nations. We also organized a number of trainings such as compiling Corporate Social Responisibility and On December 2nd, CSG attended the second Corporate Social Responsibility Report the Best Practice of the World Advanced Power Utilities Social Responsibility. Responsibility and Reputation Major Awards of 2009 CSG Social Reposibility Practice and Promotion Awards Number Granting Units Central Enterprise Annual Operation 1 SASAC Performance Evaluation A Rank Special Award for Performance 1 SASAC Advance Excellent Central Enterprise Social 1 SASAC Responsibility Practice Excellent Central Enterprise Financial 1 SASAC Final Accounts Innovative Enterprise 1 MOST, SASAC, ACFTU Excellent Social Responsibility Practice in Central Enterprises National Awards for Science and 1 NOSTA Technology Progress, First Prize China Power Technology Awards, CSEE 2 Third Prize China Quality Power Project Award 7 CEPCA National Quality Power Project National Quality Award 4 Silver Award Evaluation Commission National May 1st Labor Award 8 ACFTU National Youth Safety CYLC, State Administration 2 Production Demonstration Post of Work Safety National Pioneer of Youth Civilization 1 CYLC National Women Civilization Post 3 All-China Women’s Federation National Women Pace-setter Unit 2 All-China Women’s Federation Society Special Award of Golden Bee 2009 Best Women Staff Establishment Building Energy Chemical Labor Union Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3 Pace-setter Post About Us 18 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Power Supply Safety and Operation Emergency Response Management Reliable Power Supply Technology Innovation Quality Service Management Innovation Grid Construction 19 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Major Grid Failure Annual SAIDI 11.12 hours, Grid Construction Major Equipment Failure Investment reached Major Fatal Injury 13.6% 91.5 0 lowered than the same period of year 2008. billion RMB. Providing safe, reliable and high quality electricity for the sustainable economic and social development is CSG’s core responsibility. CSG’s lifeline is grid safety and stability and we are committed to meeting customers’needs and delivering quality service. It is imperative for us to reduce customer outage duration. Power Supply 20 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Magnetic Loop Circuits work in Guangdong and Guangxi and Safety and Operation improved power grid safety and stability. We greatly optimized safety and stability system, newly added Year 2009 was the hardest year for CSG, we faced a 23 safety and stability station, and put multi HVDC coordinated lot of difficulties and experienced the most complicated control system into operation situation and the biggest pressure on safety production. We promoted “Systematic, Standardized andIndexation” We strengthened risk analysis on operation, new equipment management on safety production, implemented various startup, typhoon, thunderstorm and high temperature. We also risk control measures, so far there had been no severe performed natural disaster pre-warning, established short-term production safety accidents. As the major econo-technical operation pattern strategy, and actively prevented power grid indicators went up, we successfully completed various operation risks. tasks, and ensured the safe and stable operation of the grid and power supply in the service area. CSG Power Generation Company played an important role in peak shaving and valley filling. There were 13 times of emergency response to grid faults, and there were 52 times of equipment Stable Grid Operation emergency response startup, with a 100% successful startup rate. CSG has formed the main network framework including Healthy Operation of Equipments ±800kV UHVDC and 500kV AC/DC, and realized long distance, bulk capacity and EHV power transmission. CSG We enhanced equipment defect management, promoted is one of the most complicated in structure and technology condition maintenance of equipments and enhanced healthy advanced power grid in the world, and it is difficult to level of equipment. control safety risk and manage the operation. We enhance the management on safety operation and advance the We performed special operation maintenance on 23 key control on safety risk. power transmission and transformation equipments and 68 important power transmission and transformation equipments, We strengthened large power grid operation and finished pretests and regular checks on major equipments characteristics analysis, to ensure the safety operation after as schedule. the Yunnan-Guangdong UHVDC transmission project and Hainan Interconnection project were put into operation. We strengthened the rebuilding of equipments, and the 5 500kV substations in Guangdong changed the switches and Power Grid Safety Risk Management Regulation and relevant equipments. The short circuit current withstanding Quantization Evaluation Methods was established, and put ability rose to 63kA, the safety operation ability was greatly forward 10 key risks and 25 key methods in grid operation. enhanced. We highlighted technical analysis, and implemented antiWe improved EHVDC control and protection. Bipolar accident measures. We spotted 12005 safety risks in 2009, blocks were successfully avoided and the times of single and 10568 were modified, the modification rate reached 88%. pole blocks were greatly reduced, the system reliability was greatly improved. We performed timely simulation analysis on the problems met during operation of equipments, the 220kV-and-above faults We optimized power grid structure, realized Electrorapid removal rate reached 100% 21 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Promote Safety and Operation Risk Management System safety operation responsibility system Based on 15 pilot units review and experiences, CSG rolls 4 level out the Safety and Operation Risk Management System in 76 primary operation units. CSG raises staffs awareness CSG Provincial Grid Power Supply County Supply by risk accessment and control, standard formulation and Headquarter Company Bureau Bureau implementation, inspection, verification. The practice fosters a safety culture of self-discipline, and facilitates a controllable and sustainable Safety and Operation Management System. Safety and Operation Risk Management System 4 types safety and responsibility system safety and accountability system Inspection and Operation Management Occupational Health Ability Requirement Risk Assessment Emergency and Tools Safety Management Working Environment safety and incentive system Verification and Control 9 Management System and Training Accident Management Units safety and accessment system safety responsibility delivery 12 Management 6 Management 2 Management 9 Management 7 Management 9 Management 2 Management 2 Management 2 Management 51 Management Elements Elements Elements Elements Elements Elements Elements Elements Elements Elements Power Facilites Protection 159 Management Management Node Nodes CSG formulates Power Facilites Protection regulation, 480 Management completes and revises the internal security system, 480 Management Sub-standard Sub-standard reinforces electricity equipment patrol and protection system, cooperates with local police force and invest more in technical security, publicity and education. Safety and Operation Management Standardization We work closely with local police forces to crack down crimes, for instances, vandalism, theft on electricity, CSG incorporates Safety and Operation Risk System telecommunication and radio equipments and has into major business procedures, and always optimizess established a long-term electricity equipments protection production and management regulations and technical system. standards. CSG achieved standardized management of 1024 Power Equipment Stolen and Damaged and substations (110kv and above) and 34 transmission Economic Loss operation units, standardization rate reached 84% and 47% respectively. Standardized pilot projects successfully concluded in 10 operation groups, and 34 certificates of operation capability training were awarded . Safety and Operation Responsibility Implementation CSG establishes four systems, namely, safety responsibility system, safety accountability system, safety incentive system, safety accessment system. We ensure effective ( year ) safety and operation reponsibility implementation at all levels by position defining responsibility, standardized accessment Cases Direct Economic Loss (in million) management, stringent accident accountability system and enforcement of supervision and inspection. Power Supply 22 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Power Supply Reliability CSG regards improving power supply reliability as the top SAIDI in major cities priority, and views ensuring the continous power supply to clients to the fullest extent as a key indicator of improving City 2009 2008 SAIDI Reduction (hour) management level and practicing social responsibility Guangzhou We compared the SAIDI with international advanced Shenzhen power utilities, systematically analyzed our own work Naning flows, spotted weak points, and formed a whole-process Guilin management system covering planning, construction, Kunming production, technology, service and information with Guiyang CSG characteristics. By integrating methods including Haikou improving power grid structure, enhancing automation level, power supply transfer, condition based maintenance and emergency response diesel generator storage, we tried our best to reduce customer outage time. Build A Strong Distribution Network The urban power supply reliability rate of CSG was Reflecting on successful experiences of distribution network 99.87%, despite the influence caused by the upgrading management in developed countries, CSG analyses factors of of urban and rural grid, the number could reach 99.92%, power supply reliability, identifies weak links and addresses them a 0.07 percentage point increase year-on-year. The rural one by one. power supply reliability rate reached a new height in recent years, the number was 99.74%. The average outage New York, London, United time for urban users was 11.22 hours/household, a 1.66 Paris, France Tokyo, Japan Singapore United States Kingdom hours/household derease year-on-year; the average outage was 2.546 times/household, a 0.183 times/ Outage Outage duration: Outage Outage Outage household decrease year-on-year. duration: 57 3 mins Voltage level: duration: 0.69 min duration: 119 mins duration: 38 mins mins Voltage 275/22/6.6 Voltage level: Voltage level: Voltage level: Wiring: block 230/66/22 138/27/13.6/4 132/66/11 Power Supply Reliability Rate in Urban Areas (%) level:225/20 welding Wiring: looped Wiring: 4x6 Wiring: Wiring: single connected to the network network sectional loop network major back up distribution 99.90 99.91 Voltage level optimization ri 99.87 Expe en Simple and clear wiring of International 99.85 ce middle-voltage grid High power Lear ning Reasonable line sectioning development supply reliability and communication goals 99.78 Realization of distribution automation We studied and established Guiding Principles on CSG 110kV-and-below Urban and Rural Distribution Grid Planning, ( year ) Guilines on Typical Line-wiring and Distribution Grid Technical Equipment, Management Methods on Urban Distribution Grid Power Supply Reliability Rate in Rural Areas (%) Construction and Rebuilding and so on to optimize urban power grid. 99.74 We analyzed the shortages in fundamental management, 99.68 equipments and facilities management, operation management, 99.67 on spot operation management, DSM and emergency response management. 99.59 Analyze the distance in automation level, on spot working 99.52 technical level, equipment and facility level and lighting-proof and contamination preventing technology level between CSG and world-advance power companies. In 2009, we invested 21.66 billion RMB on grid upgrading, ( year ) a 25% increase year-on-year. We implemented specific NOTE: The Snow and Ice Sleet disaster in 2008, and suburban grid management on 15 major city-level grids, and it was the first upgrading in 2009 slightly lowered the power supply reliability rate. time to decide a 35 billion RMB investment on major city-level power grid construction. 23 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Comprehensive Outage Management Express Supply Restoration CSG continues to strengthen Comprehensive Outage CSG improves real-time monitoring and automatic operation Management, adopts “pre-planning, and forecast” as of distribution network and supply restoration, we are proud the major principle in outage management, and provides to achive express reaction, express arrival, express repair and coordinated effective assessment on maintenance, express restoration. infrastructure construction, major technical upgrading and new electricity access application. We arrange reasonable We are committed to our pledge that is the arrival time of outage plan and strictly control temperary outage. maintenance team to urban areas in 45 minutes and to rural areas in 90 minutes. CSG ensures the pre-arranged outage of each customer under three times or 24 hours in a year. Reduces mainteance arrival time by 10%, and the average fault outage duration is shortened by 36%. Outage notice will be issued to VIP customers and customers of special transformers outage. On-load Exercises Power Supply Guarantee to Significant Events CSG promotes on-load exercises, reduces outage duration Secure Supply for Significant Events in 2009 and frequency, and try its best to realize zero interruption to the customers during repair and fault checking. No. Events Location Time China‘s 60th National We adopt on-load exercises on distribution lines in 24 whole grid Sep. 30th,Oct.6th Day Celebration power supply bureaus , in total , 6695 times of on-load 10th Year anniversary Zhuhai, exercises in 2009. of Restoration of Zhongshan, Dec.20th Macao’s Sovereignty Jiangmen Guang Zhou Power Supply Bureau realizes on-load Boao Forum for Asia Boao April.17th-19th exercises, with 2229 times of on-load exercisesin 2009. It successfully establishes itself as largest training base in 10th Hainan Joy Festival Danzhou Dec.11th Guangdong Province. Kun Ming Power Supply Bureau increases on-load execises in a prudent manner, with 1259 Pan-Pearl River Delta, times of on-load exercises annually. the Beibu Gulf economic Nanding Jun.10th cooperation forum Hypernormal Load Transfer Rush Repair The 220kV Gongming Substation of Shenzhen Power Supply In the past, when there were faults in transmission lines, Bureau needed to perform interruption rebuild. If we followed Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau would consider to adopt the normal working precedure, it would have to cut the power interruption maintenance. After regardin improving power supply for 35 days, staggered about 500MW and influenced supply reliability as the first task, the bureau changed its 1,639,440 hour households, and it would make the rural thinking. The rush repair work flow changed from “fault power supply reliability rate drop by 0.44 percentage points, spotting, fault segregation, rush repair and power supply and we would lose 230GWh of power. recover” to “fault segregation, temporary power supply transfer, fault spotting and rush repair”, to try their best to Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau established a hypernormal maintain power supply. In July 2009, the 220kV Fulintian load transfer plan, and greatly adjusted the operation patterns B line, which is major transmission line in middle and east of 10 substations and 19 110kV transmission lines, the load Guangzhou, tripped. It took 8 days for Guangzhou Power transfer range was enlarged from 2 network district to 4, yet Supply Bureau to repair, but there was no influence to the there was no client influenced by the rebuild. users, and there was not a single complaint by customers Power Supply 24 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Quality Service Convenient Tariff Pay-in CSG commits itself to Endless Service. By listening to Provide customer-oriented quality service with a number of paycustomers’ needs, we strive to meet customers’demand, in options to strive for an open and convenient tariff payment. deliver quality and convenient services and share mutual Offers convenient tariff pay-in options , such as ATM pay-in development with our customers. machines, charge cards, IC card payment and on-line payment. CSG promotes brand building for quality service, improves Provides tariff information system to solve customer’s doubts services that aim at rapid reaction, convenient tariff payand worries. int, reliable tariff calculation, efficient hotline service and considerate services. We will further our work in establishing Provides safety pre-warning services to protect customer’s a marketing service culture. asset safety. Rapid Reaction Reliable Tariff Calculation CSG establishes model design standardization of Strictly follow the Meter Reading Table System . new access application, to better and simplify relevant procedures, reinforce time limitation control and reduce Inform customers relevant tariff information on-time through application waiting time. staff delivery, mail delivery, SMS, email or digital TV service. Adopts Guaranteed satisfactory solution system , Run regular metre check, control miscalculating rate under meaning whoever taking the first enquiry must be 0.8%, 0.2 percentage point lower than the industry level. responsible for a guaranteed satisfactory solution. Provides counter, telephone, internet, on spot and interEfficient Hotline Service city service. Releases procedures to the public and provide multiple Promotes one-stop service, formulates 95598 call center channels for information access. operation and management standard, further advances brand building of 95598 hotline, and provides 24 hour on-duty The power supply scheme reply will be responded in 2.5 consulting services, new access application and fault repair working days, 47% faster than the national level. service. Rolls out standardization management, reinforces complaint The auditing of access project information takes 3.8 management. Every complaint should be answered and solved working days, 56% faster than the national level. within specific time frame. Complaint solution rate was 100%, satisfaction rate of The electricity meter installation and power access takes complain solution is 96.1%. 2.2 working days, 35% faster than the national level. Annual accepted cases reached 17.248 million. The rate of manual answered hotline reached 88.5%. 60.76 million text messages sent to customers annually.. Average waiting time before the hotline being answered by an operator was 8.35 sec/time. 25 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Considerate Services CSG provides a wide range of fair and open services . Framework of Marketing Service Culture List We formulate the Construction and Management Standard of Power Supply Bureau Business Branch to promote business Input: Customer Needs counter service standarization. Besides, CSG actively carries out doortodoor visits to our customers and provides effective solution to their difficulties. Continuous improvement: endless service Priority : Core capability: behavior improve power management, supply reliability procedure review Core value: customer-oriented 3 level implementation, Idea: service idea and value Cognition: customer value and service guide line including: Marketing Service Culture Building Behavior: service standard CSG released Marketing Service Culture Brochure. The brochure summarized experiences drawn from marketing service culture building. We formulated Marketing Service Culture Building and Transformation Working Plans, and launched a pilot work on it. The pilot project incorporates market service culture with specific business and promotes integration of service culture Output: Customers Satisfaction and corporate management. 2009 Marketing Service Innovation Achievements Promotion List Number Achievement Promotion Area Finish Time Guangdong Power Grid Company: Ranked Top for 4 Consecutive Years Construct and Promote The whole The end “Client-centered” Value CSG of 2009 System For four consecutive years, Guangdong Power Grid Company supply service ranked 1st in the comprehensive Marketing Inspection The whole September, Sampling Analysis and CSG 2009 evaluation conducted by Guangdong Provincial Survey Decision Support System and Research Center. The evaluation looks at supply service,telecommunications, civil aviation,traffic, postal service, Exploration and Practice 10 city-level The end of Power Supply power supply of 2009 bank service, water supplly, oil supply and travel service. Companies Contractual bureaus in Energy Management Guangdong Established Marketing The whole September, Service Accidents CSG 2009 Investigation and Teatment System Power Supply 26 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Cooperate with Local Governments and Grid Construction. Facilitate Grid Construction CSG completed permanent asset investment of 105.1 billion RMB, among it, grid construction investment was 91.5 billion RMB increased by 91.5%. CSG built 9,174 km transmission lines (220kv and above), and the newly added transform capacity amounted to 51.97GVA. CSG increased investment in 15 selected major cities, completed the 5-year grid planning of 62 cities. CSG completed the study and evaluation of its “12th-Five-Year” Plan on National Economy and Social Development and mid-and-long term development plan, and completed the Application on ratification of Xiluodu and Nuozhadu Power Plants to Guangdong DC Transmission. CSG comprehensively arranged and established power grid technology principle and construction standards. The upgrading of urban and rural grid was integrated in the company’s key projects management. CSG also promoted project construction coordination regionalization management. We actively worked with regulation departments to inspect the implementation of domestic demand expansion investment projects and the urban and rural grid upgrading projects 18 key projects were put into operation and the westtoeast power transmission has formed the structure of “8 ACs, 5 DCs”, with total transmission capacity over 23GW. CSG completed the study on CSG Power Supply Plan to Macao: 2010 to 2020. Seven programs have been awarded China power quality engineering award, four of which won Silver Award of State Quality Project. CSG awards in 2009 China Quality Power Project Award in 2009 Program Awards Guizhou-Guangzhou II ±500kV China Quality Power Project Award, National DC Transmission Quality Power Project Silver Award 500kV Yanshan China Quality Power Project Award, National Substation Project Quality Power Project Silver Award 500kV Jiaying Substation China Quality Power Project Award, National Project Quality Power Project Silver Award 500kV Jiaying Substation China Quality Power Project Award, National Project Quality Power Project Silver Award 500kV Luobai II Power Transmission China Quality Power and Transformantion Project Project Award 500kV Yafu II Transmission Line China Quality Power CSG establishes cooperation mechanisms with local Project Project Award governments in the five provinces. These mechanisms coordinate and address grid construction challenges and 500kV Xianlingshan Substation Project China Quality Power difficulites. So far, 48 out of 62 cities have been awarded direct in Guangdong Province Project Award approval from the government in grid construction. 27 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Emergency Response CSG further improves the Emergency Response System, including the Emergency Response Command System, the Emergency Response Comprehensive Plan System, the Emergency Response Security System and the Emergency Response Operation Mechanism. CSG builds Emergency Response Command Platform in three levels, namely grid level, provincial level and city level. CSG has revised the Emergency Response Comprehensive Plans, has standardized the Emergency Response Procedure, has launched relevant rehearsals which ensure the effective operation of the Emergency Response System. CSG makes timely pre-warning and pre-arrangement, achieving effective and rapid response to emergencies, power supply restoration, lost and negative effect minimization. Established Emergency Response Command Command 3 level command system, 3 System and management office under the level command platform plus system, System information network set a 24-hour Duty Room Emergency General Plan of 140 Response 3 level, 4 types, 4 grades Special Plan of 1893 Comprehensive Emergency Response System On-spot Trouble-shooting Plan of 8238 In 2008, CSG Plan Launched 445 Emergency Response to Major times of emergency 920 Emergency Response Teams with a total response plans, 34,226 members successfully fighting The Headquarters decides the types, number against the sleet and and storage regional distribution of large snowstorm, Guarantee Emergency Response Teams+Materials+ Unified Action emergency materials. System All the units established emergency materials earthquake disaster Support+Technical Support in Chuxiong,Yunnan, Accidents and Disasters machine accounts and filed in the Emergency Response Offices at all levels. Meanwhile, all the tropical units signed contracts with manufacturers on storms -Storm emergency materials storage and manufacture. Nangka,Storm Macanese and typhoons-ly Established CSG Meteorological Information Typhoon Molave, Service Platform Typhoon Crater The Provincial Companies established work and Typhoon Kay contacts with local governments Rosana. Established work conference mechanism with Operation Regulations+Emergency Response Work power generation companies Flows+Information Dissemination Work Signed Emergency Response Support Mechanism Flows+Exercises+Inspection Agreement with construction enterprises Signed Emergency Response Material Supply Agreement with equipment manufacturers and suppliers Established work contact channels with key users and high risk users. Timely Power Supply Restoration in Earthquake-struck Area Emergengy Response to Typhoon Crater A Magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck Yao An Town, Xiongzhou, Typhoon Crater landed in Guangdong, Taishan on September Yunnan Province. 18 units and 3017 staffs in Yunnan Power 15th 2009, causing severe damages to Guangdong power Grid Company were involoved in the disaster relief work. Power grid. 46 110kV-and-above lines tripped, and 738 low voltage supply to the first temporary shelter was recovered just 8 hours distribution transformers were out of power. Guangdong Power Grid Company rapidly implemented the emergency response, after the earthquake strike. 25 hours after the earthquake, and the power supply bureaus in Jiangmen, Yangjiang, power supply to 2616 households and 95 tents in Mayou, Maoming, Zhanjiang and Shanwei made urgent assemblings Putao and Huangnitang village was recovered. and organized disaster relief materials allocation to recover the damaged equipments at the fastest speed. Such emergency response ensured the orderly power supply. Power Supply 28 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Technology Innovation Smart Grid Research CSG is dedicated to technology investment and grid CSG has established Smart Grid Technology Research technology upgrading. Taskforce with the mission to promote research on smarter distribution network,end-side load management, new We progress innovation enterprise with solid measures and energy utilization,digital substation construction, distributed commit ourself to safe, reliable and quality power supply. generation and storage technology. CSG introduces technology in ±800kV UHV DC CSG’s priority on Smart Grid Construction is to improve transmission and DC transmission. Based on grid technology, improve the ability in grid operation and existing technologies, we make innovations on them. power supply reliability. We shall protactively promote Breakthroughs are made in stable operation technology energy-saving and emission-reduction technologies, and simultation of AC and DC hybrid operation technology. establish research test units in hydro power utilization, energy-saving dispatching, loss-reduction technology, In 2009, CSG technical investment reached 1.3 billion distributed generation integration, smart metering and RMB. storage technology. In addition, we shall further promote construction of telecommunication and information CSG was awarded historic high 83 technical programs . platforms, standardize digital substation construction to lay CSG has newly added 100 programs for patent a solid foundation for future smart grid construction. application and 32 approved new patent. CSG met the target of 30% increase in patent Construction of National Key application. Laboratories CSG Scientific Technology Awards Power Grid Simulation Laboratory The National Energy Administration granted CSG Power Years Award First prize Grid Simulation Laboratory the title of “National Energy Second Prize Third Prize Amount Large Power Grid Technology Research and Development 2005 39 2 13 24 (Experiment) Center”. 2006 37 2 15 20 CSG Power Grid Simulation Laboratory can realize four 2007 44 2 17 25 functions, including the real-time closed-loop test of power 2008 73 3 26 44 grid control and protection devices, AC/DC power system 2009 83 4 29 50 research, DC control and protection system characteristics research and accident analysis, senior traning on AC/DC power system. The scale, function and application of realCSG Scientific Project Approval Investment time simulation experiment enjoy the leading position in the unit: RMB 10 thousand world, and it has become a national key laboratory with international influence. National Engineering Laboratory for UHV Engineering Technology Appoved by the NDRC, the National Engineering Laboratory for UHV Engineering Technology (Kunming) became one of the first six National Engineering Laboratories. The establishment of the Laboratory filled the gaps in researches on UHV AC and UHV DC transmission and transformation technology at high altitude and under ( year ) strong ultraviolet rays. The Laboratory became the worldadvanced UHVDC transmission technology R&D platform. 29 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Management Innovation Power Supply Reliability Further TOTOP Programme The average outage time of urban and rural users were 7.71 hours and 20.02 hours respectively, 46% and CSG redoubled its effort to establish itself as an 56% reduction compared to those of 2008, the biggest internationally advanced Power Supply provider. The decreases in recent years. pilot units should stick to customer-oriented principle, and enforce internationally advanced standards and Work Flow Modification requirements internally. Significant improvement has been We have modified 570 work flow models, and completed achieved. the stabilization of 237 work flows. We have modified and replaced the irrational and unnecessary work flows to Management Innovation improve efficiency. CSG reorganized major business procedures, such as network planning, construction, operation, technology, Life Cycle Management of Assets management and service, etc. The efforts are designed to We established 19 assets management strategies establish close contact with our business and to reduce covering 5 aspects: planning and design, equipment customer outage . CSG initially established customer procurement, project construction, operation and demand-driven business process and management system, retirement. We also modified 28 key business resolutions, realizing fundamental change from the device-driven to and designed 721 system summary function points. customer demand-driven . These efforts set the asset value management chain as the foundation of the Life Cycle Management of Assets Outage Duration Reduction management system. Guangzhou, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau reduced customer outage duration from 24.5 hours, 26.2 hours in year 2006 to 5.8 hours, 2.8 hour respectively. The two Held the First Management Forum bureaus successfully improved power supply reliability under the context of large-scale grid construction.. Nanning, CSG always attaches great importance to management Kunming, Guiyang, Haikou Power Supply Bureau achieved innovation. In 2007, the CSG headquarters launched outage reduction. soft subject research a iming to encourage reforms, development and harmony of CSG. The soft subject Improvement of customer service research was gradually implemented within the whole ShenZhen Power Supply Bureau received 19.92 times organization, the achievements were put into actual per million customer complaints, reaching the international practice, and good results were achieved. The soft advanced level and was awarded the Star Quality Service subject research became an important way to build CSG Award of Central Enterprise . According to Gallup survey, into a learning and innovative company, and to improve the Customer Satisfaction Rate towards Guangzhou Power the level of scientific management and decision-making. Supply Bureau reached 77.1%, ranking the top 30% of During the 3 years, the headquarters was responsible international advanced list. for 66 subjects, and the wholly-owned subsidiaries and branch companies carried out 239 subjects. Key Indices of Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau TOTOP Programme In 2009, CSG held the first Management Forum. National Management of functional departments and the Items Number subordinate units attended the forum and delivered Advanced Safety Production Risk Management reports. The management forum established itself as a 3 System (unit: in Diamond) high-end platform for the company to exchange research Annual Average Outage of Urban achievements, broaden horizon, encourage staffs to 200 Users (unit: Minutes) think out of the box and management innovation. The Labor Productivity per capita (unit: Technology Forum and the Management Forum serve Over 1,000 10,000kWh/people*year) as the “two driving forces” for CSG’s stable scientific Annual Complaints Per Million Clients development 100 (unit: Times) Clients Satisfaction by the Third Party 75-80 Survey Line-loss Rate (unit: %) About 5 Performance Concept Survey 3.8 Comprehensively Launched the TOTOP Programme Guangdong Power Grid Company strives to be innovative and views innovation as a process of constant improvement. They spare no effort to provide high quality power service for clients. Power Supply 30 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Economic Performance Operation Performance Serve the Development of Low-carbon Industries Operation in Strict Accordance with Law and Regulation Encourage Economic Growth of the Five Provinces/Regions Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Strengthen Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macao Boost the Development of Power Market Boost the GMS Power Cooperation Encourage Supply Chain Development 31 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Sales of Electricity: Main Operation 523.9TWh, a Revenue: Total Pretax Profits 6.2% 310.8 20.8 year-on-year billion RMB billion RMB increase It is CSG’s fundamental responsibility to strictly implement the state’s tariff policy, boost management and operation level, lower cost and improve efficiency, ensure the preservation and add value to state-owned assets and create more value for stakeholders. Economic Performance 32 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Operation Performance CSG optimized power resource allocation, and provided The rankings of CSG among the Fortune 500 economic value created by power service. The value is not only reflected in CSG’s own financial performance, but also in encouraging low-carbon industry development, as well as encouraging regional economic development. We stick to the operation concept of “improving benefits and attaching priority to social benefit”, CSG strictly operates the nation’s tariff policy to meet the customers’ needs; even affected by the mark up thermal power, we enhanced foundamental management, reduced cost, enhanced efficiency, innovated management methods and ensured the preservation and ( year ) appreciation of state-owned assets. Sales of Electricity 523.9TWh, an 8.6% year-on-year increase Main Operation Revenue 310.8 billion RMB, a 9.4% year-on-year increase 3108 ( year ) ( year ) Total Pretax Profits 20.8 billion RMB, a 29.5% year-on-year * decrease Total Assets 440.4 billion RMB, a 14.8% year-on-year increase 4404 208 ( year ) ( year ) Notes: The total pretax profits of year 2008 and 2009 were effected by the ice storm, the thermal power price increase and desulfurization cost increase. 33 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Operate Strictly in Accordance with Law and Regulation To ensure normal operation and sustainable development of CSG, we have been reinforcing legal compliances, and fight against unfair competitions and bribery. In year 2009, there was no substantial law infringement or tax-evasion, tax-fraud in CSG. The 2009 credit rating of CSG was AAA. Legal Risk Management CSG strictly implemented the 3-Year-Plan of Legal Governance, and strengthened the management of legal risk and contracts. All economic contracts and important regulations are reviewed and the contract compliance rate was 100%. Supervision on Major Decision-Making Internal Control Improvement Process CSG further improved its internal control system including the We carried out supervision on “Three Majors and One Large” following 6 key aspects: material procurement, project contract management (namely, major decisions made on collective award, assets transfer, capital management, buy and sale of basis, on major issues, appointment and dismissal of major power and foreign investment. management staff, arrangement of major projects and use of large amount of funds). In total, we checked 8838 najor We standardized the key field work flow management and decisions made on collective basis, and so far have not identified standards in headquarters and wholly-owned companies and any infringement. branch companies. In 2009, we established 1435 regulations, and modified 1283. By promoting a universal management, risks were efficiently controlled. Clean Education 251 supervision groups were established to carry out So far, 838 clean education were organized, and in total, 30820 comprehensive supervision, to ensure 100% implementation staff attended the education programme. 2514 management of delivery, capital availability and trouble-shooting for projects staffs delivered lectures and anti-corruption reports. under the Central Government Stimulus Package. The supervision groups are charged with the mission to deliver high Performance Inspection quality of projects, safe construction , and clean staff. We carried our performance inspections on key projects and key According to Measures for Preliminary Work of Overseas components of operation. In total, 680 performance inspections Power Project Investment Management, we have gradually were carried out, and 1268 pieces of inspection suggestion were standardized preliminary management on overseas power put forward, 36.72 billion RMB of materials procurement bidding project to lower overseas investment risks. and 22.36 billion RMB were supervised. Economic Performance 34 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement CSG actively promotes intensive financial management, and implements comprehensive budget management, so as to improve management and better budget control on operation. CSG implements strict cost inspection to lower power purchase cost and power supply cost. The controllable power supply unit cost was 4.9 percentage points lower than the budget; we optimize power purchase structure, and lowered the power purchase cost by 200 million RMB. CSG reinforced tariff risk management and control. The account receivables at the end of 2009 were 200 million RMB less than that of 2008. CSG has improved comprehensive management on financing, conferences, networking and foreign affairs were controlled, with construction fund raising is made through multi channels and at zero increase compared to the previous year. low cost. We have successfully issued 10 billion RMB mid-term notes. CSG has enhanced capital regulation and control, and has improved fund utilization efficiency. The 2009 loan-deposit ratio Encourage Power Market was 73%, and 720 million RMB revenue was achieved from fund Development operation. CSG effectively controlled capital-liability ratio. The fixed assets By adopting market-oriented measures, CSG has actively investment in 2009 was 105.1 billion RMB, representing a coordinated the relationship between the thermal power in 56.4% year-on-year increase, the capital-liability ratio increased 3 the East and the West, and the relation between power plants percentage only. and power grids. These approaches gained supports from the government, companies and clients, and encouraged harmonious CSG’s expenses including overheads, business travel, development of power market. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau: Cost Breakdown to Enhance Operation Performance Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau changed its budget management from a percentage management based one to an activity-based management based one , and has established standards for budget planning on cost and expense to enable Whole Process Control on costs. They has analyzed and established cost budget model and budgeting standard, and break the controllable cost budget down to five categories: remuneration, market and client service, power business operation, supporting business, and general management business. Each category will be divided into parts so as to strictly control cost . Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau enjoyed the overall improvement of Business Operation and Management Performance, the 2009 Unit Controllable Power Supply Cost was 65.41 RMB/MW, compared to their performance in 2008 (66.60 RMB/MW), achieving 1.19 RMB/MW year on year reduction. 35 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Encourage Supply Chain Development CSG’s business operation brings economic benefit to supply chain companies. In 2009, CSG enjoyed a rapid increase of power sales and the fixed assets investment. In particular, power grid construction investment increased to 91.5 billion RMB, recording a 91.5% year-on-year increase. Investment increases has brought business opportunities for power plants, power construction companies, power equipment manufacturer, logistics companies and financial institutes, and greatly supported the development of supply chain companies. Serve Low-carbon Economy Development It is the consensus of the whole world to develop lowcarbon economy and low-carbon industry. We strive to make accomplishments in low-carbon economy. CSG has established the Low-carbon Development Support Taskforce, and has launched a series of low carbon initiatives. CSG takes its own initiative to research updates on construction of low-carbon society at home and abroad and renewable energy development and application. We compiled Renewable Energy Power Generation Development and Planning in Southern China and formulated CSG’s measures to Suppor Renewable Energy Development. into operation.The charging station is a cooperation project CSG proactively facilitated new technologies development, between CSG and Shenzhen Municipal Government. The first such as Electric Vehicles, and supported R&D of power storage phase consists of 2 EV charging stations and 134 charging technology, grid control technology for large-scale EV charging. spots. The charging-spot-mode helped the citizens to charge At the end of 2009, the largest EV charging station in China went their EVs at night when the charging tariff was low. Construction of Renewable Energy Application Experimental Base The first renewable energy application experimental base in CSG was put into operation in Longgang, Shenzhen. The base integrated various renewable energy technologies including solar power generation, wind power application, battery power storage and EV charging. A solar power panel was built in the base which can generate power and function as a parking-lot. The panel is 50m in length, 5.5m in width, with maximum power generation capability of 30WP. It is estimated that the panel can generate about 40,000KWh a year. So far, the solar power EV charging technology has been improving, it might emerge as the mainstream in the future. Economic Performance 36 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Serve the Development of the Five Provinces (Regions) 78% of developable water resources and 95% of coal reserve in CSG’s service area were in Yunnan and Guizhou Province. Guangdong’s economic aggregate account for 70% of the five provinces and regions, and its total power consumption is 1.5 times of the total of the other 4 provinces (regions). Social economy and resource of the five provinces and regions are imbalanced. The West-to-East Power Transmission Program effectively solved this problem, and the program has emerged as an important platform for regional resource optimization. By the end of 2009, the West-to-East Power Transmission has formed “8 ACs, 5 DCs” transmission channels, each channel with 1000km lines in length, with total transmission ability Yunnan: In 2009, the power transmitted from Yunnan exceeding 23GW. In total, power transmitted amounted to to Guangdong reached 23.98TWh. During the recent 10 497TWh. The West-to-East Transmission provides Guangdong years, the power transmitted to Guangzhou has increased with clean power, and helps the development of the West. by more than 200 times. Yunnan-Guangdong Power Transmission offers opportunity for Yunnan Province Power industry becomes the key supporting industry of Yunnan, development, and hydropower has emerged as the Guizhou and Guangxi. backbone industry of the province. Guangdong: Clean, cheap, reliable and high quality Guizhou: In total, 167.6TWh of power was transmitted power from the West has become an indispensable part of to other provinces. Power industry has emerged as the Guangdong’s energy mix. By the end of 2009, Guangdong most important supporting industry of Guizhou. During the received 441.2TWh of power from the West. In year past 10 years, power industry contributed the most to the 2009, one-third of Guangdong’s total power consumption provinces’ economic growth. The value-added of industry was transmitted from the West. The West-to-East of the West-East Power Transmission in 2009 was 11.8 Hydropower Transmission significantly reduced coal and billion RMB, and the power industry contributed over 20% gas consumption, which effectively saved energy, improved of the industrial growth. resource utilization, and reduced pollution. Guangxi: Power industry has become Guangxi’s Hainan: The province proactively integrates itself in the supporting industry. By the end of 2009, Guangxi received Pan-Pearl River Delta energy cooperation. The Hainan 55.7TWh in total. During the Eleventh-Five-Year Plan Power Interconnection Project helps to create a good period, Guangxi met its own power consumption needs, business opportunity for the power export of the power and transmitted 1 GW seasonal power to Guangdong. transmitted from the West and Hainan itself, and boost the development of International Tourism Island. 37 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Enhance Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macao CSG actively strengthens its cooperation with Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR, and expands power exchange volumne with the two regions. Bought 2.951TWh from Hong Kong Supplied 2.227TWh power to Macao, accounting for 61% of the total social power consumption of Macao. Boost GMS Cooperation CSG is the Chinese Executor in Greater Mekong Sub-region (GMS) power cooperation authorized by the Chinese Government, and has been playing an active role in regional power grid interconnection, power trade, power grid and power source projects, construction and operation among GMS countries. Myanmar: CSG signed the Chinese United Body Framework Agreement of the Ta Sang Project; and purchased 1.528TWh power from Shweli I Hydropower Station in Myanmar. China Vietnam: CSG supplied 4.14TWh to Vietnam in 2009, representing a 26.6% yearon-year increase. Vietnam Myanmar Laos Laos: The 115kV Mengla (Yunnan, China) to Namo (Laos) Interconnection Project was put into operation. Thailand By the end of 2009, CSG had supplied 1.17GWh to Laos; Early-stage work of Nam Tha I Hydropower Station Project was basically compelted. Cambodia Economic Performance 38 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Environmental Protection Consume Green Energy Synergy with Customers to Facilitate Energy Conservation Build Green Power Grid Energy Conservation Publicity Energy Efficient Operation Energy Conservation in Offices 39 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 The 2009 West-to-East Assisted Customers Line-loss reduction is Power Transmission Saved equivalent to 115.6 TWh 1 TWh 4.85 TWh It is CSG’s responsibility to build a Green Grid, facilitate energy conservation , emission reduction, and sustainable and coordinated development among companies, the society and the environment. Environmental Protection 40 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Chinese Government has always attached great importance We are improving our environmental management system. to tackling climate change, and has made the solemn pledge Taking into the feature of power industry and our own in Cop15:to “by year 2020, fossil energy will account for responsibility into consideration , we have built a energy15% of the primary energy consumption, and unit GDP CO2 resource transformation and transmission optimization emission will be reduced by 40%-45% than that of 2005”. allocation platform.The platform is designed to to implement green concept in generation, transmission, distribution In 2008, coal used for power generation account for 45% and consumption, and encourage green development of of the total coal consumption, the emission of CO2, SO2, companies and communities. nitrogen oxides and smoke and dust in power consumption amounted to 40%, 53%, 50% and 42% respectively of the nation’s total emission. According to our research, the annual average Energy Saving and Emission Reduction potential (ESER)of power generation and consumption in the five provinces (regions) is as follows: 53% on the demand side , 39% on the generation side,8% on the power grid. In line with our service principle, CSG launched the Green Action under the theme of “Scientific Power Consumption, ESER”, to achieve energy conservation and actively shoulder the responsibility of ESER as the power source side and demand side. CSG implement ESER in three aspects: power source side, power grid side and demand side. Consume Green Energy Construct Green Grid Energy Efficient Operation Help Customers to Save Energy Provide Comprehensive Energy Conservation Service Make Full Use of Optimize Land Energy Saving Power Hydropower Utilization Generation and Dispatching Energy Conservation Publicity Energy Conservation Demonstration Center Construction Energy Conservation Publicity Material Publication ESER Lecture Organization Encourage the Development of Clean Thermal Power Protect Biodiversity Lower Line-loss Reduce Noise Energy Conservation in Offices Power and Water Saving Video Meeting Promotion Support Development of Afforestation of Workplace Renewable Energy Power Protect Biodiversity Deal with Wastes Source Side. Power Source Side Power Grid Side Demand Side 41 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Consume Green Energy CSG has redoubled its efforts to practice energy saving power generation and dispatching, give priority to hydropower, arrange the coal-fired units to generate power based on its own energy consumption level, and support renewable energy to be The 2009 Installed Capacity Structure of China included in energy mix. CSG has always taken its own initiatives to support energy mix optimization, with an aim to realize coordinated development of large scale coal-fired power and clean energy. 22.51% Make Full Use of Hydropower Hydro China’s developable hydro power resources amounts to 400 Thermal million KW, 60% of them (240 million KW) are located in Yunnan Wind and Guizhou Province. Only 24.9% of the resources were Others developed by the end of 2009. There is a great development potential for hydropower in the southwest provinces. The 2009 Installed Capacity Structure of CSG On one hand, there is rich hydro power resources in the five provinces and regions, on the other hand, Guangdong’s primary energy reserve only account for 3.5% of the total. CSG makes full use of the abundant hydro power resource in the West, and encourages the hydropower installation in the total installed capacity. The approach is of great significance to low-carbon Hydro economy development. CSG’s installed capacity of hydropower Pumped-storage amounted to 36.72%, higher than nation’s average-22.51%. Thermal Meanwhile, the installed capacity of thermal power account for Nuclear 58.13%, lower than the nationa’s average-74.6% . Wind Others In the past seven years, West-to-East Programme transmitted 399.2TWh power in total, equivalent to savings of 127.35 million tons of standard coal, 2.46 million tons of CO2 emission reduction and 1.27 million tons of smoke and dust emission reduction. The 2009 Green Performance of West-East In 2009, CSG’s total hydropower generated amounted to Hydropower Transmission 135TWh. By adopting scientific dispatching, CSG consumed 3.4TWh of Saved Reduced redundant hydropower, equivalent to savings of 1.07 million tons of standard coal, 21 thousand tons of SO2 emission reduction, Standard CO2 2.36 million tons of CO2 emission reduction and 11,000 tons of Coal smoke and dust emission reduction . 36.876 million tons 81.128 tons Reduced Reduced Smoke and SO2 Dust 708 thousand tons 369 thousand tons Environmental Protection 42 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Encourage Clean Thermal Power Development CSG adopted a number of measures to encourage the development of Large Capacity, Efficient and Low Emission Thermal Power projects. CSG arrange power generation of coal-fired units according to their energy consumption level, so as to improve power generation rate of coal-fired units. In 2009, CSG’s standard coal consumption was 315g/kWh, representing a 4g/kWh year-on-year decrease; coal consumption in power supply was 336g/kWh, representing a 6g/kWh year-on-year . decrease Replacement of Small sized Units with Big sized Units. In 2009, CSG assisted the government to shut down a total capacity of 6.7GW of small sized coal-fired power generation We vigorously support the development of wind power and units. By the end of 2009, the total capacity shut down solar power generation in areas with aboundant wind and solar amounted to 14.09GW, exceeding the target (13.27GW) set resources (Yunnan and Hainan, for instances) and provide during the Eleventh-Five-Year Plan period. grid access service. The wind power generated in Hainan amounted to 86.8GWh in 2009, 6 times of the number in Promotion of desulfurization of coal-fired units to reduce 2008. SO2 emission. The 65 power plants and 175 coal-fired units centrally dispatched by CSG realized desulfurization real-time monitoring, with 100% monitoring information access rate, “Construction of Solar Power Generation and 90.9% average efficiency of desulfurization devices. Test Platform” Project Research by Yunnan Power Grid Company Support the Development of Renewable Energy Yunnan Power Grid Company launched the “Construction of Solar Power Generation Test Platform” Project Research to support the development of solar power. The first GridCSG encourages power generation from renewable energy, connected Photovoltaic System in Yunnan, Yundian Science and supports the development and utilization of renewable and Technology Park 160kWp Grid-connected Photovoltaic energy (solar, wind power and so on) power generation System was established. The system successfully realized projects. In CSG’s service area, the wind power installed stable, efficient and standardized operation after the connection capacity increased by 62.87%, and the power generated to the power grid. increased by 62.83%. Lamps that use wind and solar power 43 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Construct Green Grid Land Utilization Optimization We devote ourselves into the construction of Green Grid, During the construction of power transmission and and attach great importance to environmental protection in transformation facilities, we have adopted advanced grid construction. All grid construction projects were granted technologies such as DC transmission, compact environmental protection license in line with relevant laws, transmission, same-tower multi-circuit transmission line, with 100% environmental impact assessment approval etc. Under conext of the same power transmission scale, rate. We perform “simultaneous Design, Construction and we significantly reduce land utilization of substations Operation” management on power construction projects, and circuit corridors , which effectively saved the land to ensure pollution control facilities work efficiently with the resources. projects themselves. We take the initiative to open projects for relevant regulatories’ inspection, we are proud that we have excellent compliance with environment protection. In 2009, Guangxi Power Grid Company invested 88.34 million RMB on environmental protection in their power grid construction projects. In total Hainan Power Grid Company invested 3.76 million RMB to launch environmental impact Assessment of 52 power transmission and transformation projects with the capacity of 110kV or above. Noise Reduction CSG has reinforced sound-proof material in substations, and optimized ventilation system design, and installed separation Biodiversity Protection walls to reactors that cause low-frequency interference to substations. We have attached great attention to biodiversity protection. We have adopted technologies including high-tower CSG invested 22.35 million RMB to launch AC Filter Noise crossing, tension stretching and airship stretching to Control Project in 500kV Zhaoqing Converter Station, and minimize the impact of construction on vegetation as well the day-time and night-time noise level of residential sensitive as wildlife when transmission lines passed across forests, spots reached Level 1 Standard (day-time≤55dB(A) nightnatural habitats, wetlands and wild animal corridors. time ≤45dB(A)) DC Converter Station Noise Separation Airship Stretching to Reduce Impact on Vegetation Environmental Protection 44 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Energy Efficient Operation Energy Saving Power Generation and Total Line-loss Rate (%) Dispatching 8.00 7.38 7.08 6.90 6.68 7.00 By giving priority to hydropower, and arrange power generation of thermal power units based on their energy consumption levels, 5.81 6.00 in total, we saved 2.43 million tons of standard coal, equivalent to reduction of 47 thousand tons of SO2 emission. 5.00 4.00 The Guizhou and Guangdong Power Grid Company had made energy saving power generation and dispatching a daily, 3.00 standardized and systematic practice. Guangxi, Yunnan and Hainan Power Grid Company are ready to perform trial-operation 2.00 of the energy saving power generation and dispatching. 1.00 On Dec. 27th 2009, CSG shared its experience at the National 0.00 Energy Workshop, titled Implement the National Low-carbon 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (year) Economy Strategy, Actively Promote Energy Saving Power P.S. Line-loss means the power depletion and loss during power transmission and marketing process of power grid companies. Generation and Dispatching. Grid Equipment Energy Conservation Modification List Lower Line-loss Project Number/Range Price/Notes CSG launched a comprehensive line-loss reduction evaluation Install Low Voltage Reactive Guizhou Power 695 million RMB campaign which aims at lowering power loss in power Power Compensation Grid Company transmission and transformation. By the end of 2009, 57 power Equipment to Distribution Network supply companies of CSG had practiced and promoted the lineReplacement and 9565(CSG) 119% Completed loss management. Modification of High-loss Distribution Transformers Meanwhile, we encourage the utilization of energy efficient 10kV line high voltage reactive 10 companies 3.2 million RMB equipments, including amorphous alloy distribution transformers; compensatior and low voltage including Chengmai distribution transformer reactive (Hainan) we have completed technical upgrading on high-loss distribution compensatior transformers. Type S11 Amorphous Alloy 300 43250kVA 21.49 million RMB Distribution Transformers Transformers 492 Transformers (CSG) In 2009, the total line-loss rate was lowered to 5.81%, representing a 0.87% year-on-year decrease , and 4.85TWh of power was saved, equivalent to 1.63 million tons of standard coal, 30 thousand tons of SO2, 3.86 million tons of CO2 and 16 thousand tons of smoke and dust reduction. What is SF6? Wastes Disposal SF6 has excellent insulation and blowout ability, and is widely used in power system. SF6 is a kind of greenhouse CSG always takes its own initiative to purchase environmentgas, it can stably exist in air for 3,200 years decomposed. friendly power equipments. Our switch equipments are 100% oil Its greenhouse effect is 24,900 times of CO2. Therefore, less of. We have enhanced oil treatment in substations, and have SF6 recovery is CSG’s important measure to tackle climate achieved recycling of oil in transformer maintenances. change and shoulder its social responsibility. We try every means to avoid pollution caused by waste leak. By the end of 2009, the reclamation rate of SF6 of basic units reached 67%. 45 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Help Customers to Save Energy CSG has signed the MOU on Establishing Power DSM Long-term System to Promote ESER with the local Demand Side Management (DSM) governments in the five provinces/regions. The MOU specifies a long-term Demand Side Management (DSM) system in which stakeholders play different roles: the Demand Side Management (DSM) : Incentive measures taken governments as the leading driving force, power grid to guide customers to change their way of power consumption. companies as the implementation equity, clients and DSM helps to improve end-user efficiency, optimize resources energy intermediary institutions as participants. The MOU is allocation, protect environment and minimize power service designed to promote end-user energy conservation. costs. DSM is a systematic project to facilitate coordinated development of power industry and the national economy. We proactively provide energy saving diagnoses, suggestions and project construction services for CSG initiated the “Three Transforamtions” concept in DSM, customers, and encourage them to use energy efficient encouraging transformation from peak shaving to end-user equipments. efficiency inprovement, transformation from power consumption management to energy saving service, and tranformation from By the end of 2009, we had organized 560 energy saving administrative measures to economic and technical measures. and loss reducing seminars, relevant trainings to 40,642 companies, and about 103 thousand management staff. CSG carrys on its Green Action practice with the theme “Scientific Power Consumption, Energy Saving and Emission Reduction”. CSG made 26,000 energy saving diagnoses for its The Green Action, including working mechanism construction, customers, and assisted customers to save 2.4TWh of energy saving technology promotion, marketing mechanism power. exploration, energy saving publicity and organization structure improvement. We formulated the Implementation Plan of CSG CSG offered a specific power consumption optimization Green Action and Key Points for Implementation of CSG Green plan to Liuzhou Iron & Steel Company, helping them to save Action to facilitate the DSM. about 100 million RMB. Combined Cool and Power in Foshan, Greatly Enhanced Primary Energy Efficiency The demonstration project of Foshan CCP Distributed Energy Supply System was put into operation in 2009. The project success symbolizes an important phased research achievement made by the Distributed Energy Supply Subject under the National 863 Plan. Currently, coal-fired primary energy efficiency in China is about 40%, and gas-fired primary energy efficiency is about 50%. The primary energy efficiency of CCP Distributed Energy Supply System exceeds 75%, it efficiently reduces pollution, and it is conducive to the development of distributed energy and to realize ESER target. Grid Company Buys Power Generation Refrigeration Laboratory Air Conditioner Building Central Air Refrigeration Multifunctional Conditioner Building Central Air Refrigeration Conditioner New Building Purchase Natural Gas Heat Recovery Refrigeration Gas Turbine Refrigeration Equipment Smoke Evacuation Note: Distributed Generation (DG) refers to power generation facilities that are directly deployed in power distribution network or near load centers. DG helps to encourage economic, efficient and reliable power generation. Environmental Protection 46 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Energy Conservation Publicity CSG adopts a variety of measures to promote energy conservation in communities. We published brochures such as Tips for Residential Power Conservation and Tips for Commercial Power Conservation, and distributed to public free of charge. So far, over 800 thousand brochures were distributed. Tips: Residential Power Conservation Tips: Commercial Power Conservation In selection of electric light source and lighting Steel Industry: To adopt technologies such as: Dry Coke products, we recommend energy efficient lighting Quenching Technology, Top Gas Pressure Recovery Turbine products and bulbs. Technology (TRT), Blast Furnace Gas-fired Boiler, Low Heat Make full use of natural light and the reflection on Value Gas Turbine, Converter Steel-making with Negative Energy light-light. It is recommended to use light color paints Consumption and Regenerative Mill Furnace. for ceilings and walls. Making use of wall reflection can Nonferrous Metal Industry: To use equipments such as Flue Gas Waste Heat Boiler, Radiation Preheator, Waste Gas Heat improve 20% of illumination. Exchangers, to collect the waste heat to generate power The luminous efficiency of CFLs is 6-7 times than that Coal Industry: To adopt gas extraction technology and gas of ordinary bulbs; also, CFLs excel in illumination and utilization technology lifetime. Chemical Industry: To adopt Energy saving sodium hydroxide Reduces times you turn on and off lights. When you manufacturing, Waste Heat Generation of sodium carbonate, leave the room, remember to turn off the lights closed carbide furnace, Waste Heat Generation of Sulfuric Acid. CSG held the Second ESER Campus Campaign To arouse public awareness on environmental jointly with South China University of Technology. protection, in particular, the awareness of and With the theme of “ESER, Green Energy”, campaign the primary and middle school students, CSG events include: ESER Lectures, CSG Cup ESER established Energy Conservation Demonstration Social Practice and Scientific Competition, and CSG Centers in 12 cities including Guangzhou and Cup ESER Publicity Design. Shenzhen. By the end of 2009, the centers had already attracted over 2 million citizens. 47 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Energy Conservation in Offices CSG advocates Energy Conservation in offices; we encourage We achieved zero power consumption increase under the context employees to save water, electricity and paper, to reduce of employee increase and power supply system modification energy loss caused by standby mode of office equipments, to project. In 2009, the headquarters consumed 40,538 tons of promote video meetings. By the end of 2009, energy saving water, representing a 5.6% year on year decrease; meetings of all lighting modification have been completed all offices and 2,195 kinds decreased, a 25% year on year decrease, equivalent to 960 outlets. thousand kilometers of business flights saving; 1,639 batteries were reclaimed; and 12,518 plants were planted. 2009 CSG ESER Performance Power or Equivalent to Standard Equivalent to SO2 Equivalent to CO2 Equivalent to Smoke and Contents Power Saved Coal Saving (thousand Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Dust Emission Reduction (TWh) tons) (thousand tons) (thousand tons) (thousand tons) West-East Hydropower 1156.0 Transmission Hydropower 34.0 107.0 235.5 Lower Line-loss 163.0 358.5 1.6 Customer Side Energy 10.0 Conservation ESER Performance in the Past 7 Years Power or Equivalent to Standard Equivalent to SO2 Equivalent to CO2 Equivalent to Smoke and Contents Power Saved Coal Saving (thousand Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Dust Emission Reduction (TWh) tons) (thousand tons) (thousand tons) (thousand tons) West-East Hydropower 3992.0 28015.9 127.3 Transmission Hydropower Lower Line-loss West-East Hydropower 24.0 82.1 1.6 180.6 0.8 Transmission Environmental Protection 48 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Harmonious Society Employee Development Win-Win Cooperation Serve Agriculture, Rural Areas and Farmers Charity 49 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Employees Participated Invested 26 Billion RMB Donated 12.39 Million RMB in Trainings on Rural Grid Construction to the Typhoon Morakot and Upgrading Struck Taiwan 96.4% 26 Billion RMB 12.39 Million RMB Under the human-oriented concept, CSG is committed to power sercive, the coordinated development of urban and rural areas, friendly communication with stakeholders for a harmonious society Harmonious Society 50 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Employee Development We encourage mutual development, meaning company development with employees’ development. We have tried every means to create sound career prospects for employees’ growth. We advocate “happy working” philosophy, and actively build a company of harmony. By the end of 2009, we have 303,498 employees; female employees accounted for 22.9%, and minority nationality employees accounted for 14.6%. We are an equal employers, providing equal job opportunities to disabled people.We are expanding our R& D team and increasing the proportion of female managing staffs. Employee Interests We act in accordance with the Labor Law and relevant regulations. We are enrolled in all kinds of social security systems and pay social security fees according to laws and Employee Education Structure regulations. The labor contract signing rate reached 100%, and employee social security participation rate also reached 100%, with no substantial labor disputes. According to a 2009 sampling survey, the general employee satisfaction was 97.4%. We practice fair employment system and equal Master Degree and above remuneration differences between male and female Bachelor Degree employees. There is no racial discrimination or child labor in Associate Degree CSG. Vocational-technical Education We actively promote employee localization. Preferences High School and below will be given to qualified local citizens to do power grid construction and maintenance. We follow the SASAC requirement on total wage control, and have implemented total wage budget management to standardize payroll distribution. Employee Age Structure We practice in strict accordance with Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees Employee Turnover Rate: 0.46% 29 and below 30-39 30-49 50 and above 51 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Employee Occupational Safety and Health We implement with strict accordance with National Occupational Safety and Health Regulation. We pay great attention to employees’ occupational health, in particular, health conditions of workers of special trades. The employee heath examination rate reached 100%. We launched campaigns against safety: breach of regulations, Carelessness and negligence. We have adopted solide measures to reinforce staffs’ awareness on safety and compliance, and have improved employee safety equipments and facilities, to ensure employees’ safety. CSG has standardized rural grid construction safety management, and has established safety risks prevention and inspection mechanism. CSG perform inspection and examinations at regular intervals to ensure rural power workers’ safety. Employee Training CSG has launched Care Employee Campaign to relief their pressure. We practiced employee mental health instruction CSG have practiced and furthered a Learning Enterprise plan in 18 pilot units, and performed 319 tutorials , 305 case construction. We are working with employees to improve instructiosn. In total, 2083 people received instruction. their qualification and caliber.We always hold systematic, speicified, human-oriented and differentiated trainings. We reinforce training to our backbone workers, countyDemocratic Management level power supply company workers, and allocate more training resources to frontline workers. CSG strictly follows policies to facilitate democratic We organized long-distance training on National Group management. A munber of practices like, Employee Leader Management Proficiency Qualification certification, representative conference, business open and democratic evaluation are adopted to timely update employees, 1167 group leaders were trained in the first session. collect and implement suggestions put forward by the We held professional knowledge and skill enhancement representatives. We respect and guarantee employees’s right trainings for county-level power supply company staffs. to know, to participate, to supervise and to express. We also have enhanced education and trainings of rural power staffs, with the aim to improve their skills and We actively support lbour union’s independent work. Labor qualifications. We provided coordinated trainings for the union establishment rate and the member rate reached 100%. 3640 newly recruits We involve employees’ participation in orporate management by adopting questionnaire, seminars, and oneThe 2009 CSG Training toone interviews. We have collect employees’ constructive suggestions, 10,319 pieces of suggestion in total.Our Training Number of Training Involvement employee review and corporate culture establishment survey index Trainees Sessions (%) helped us to identify 1692 problems. Total Frontline staffs Group Leaders County-level Power Supply Companies Managing Staff Harmonious Society 52 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Care Staffs The company provides care and support to staffs with singing competition, speech contest, games and a number financial difficulties, visiting their family on important festivals of recreational activities to enrich staff’s leisure time. such as spring festival and the mid-autumn festival, sending greetings to model workers’ family and family members of The company pays special attention to female staff’s those who sacrified their lives for grid construction. welfare, organizing lectures on female health, etiquette and personal image design. The Labor’s Union organizes performances, evening party, Fund Provided to Staff with Financial Difficulties in 2009 Amount Unit Content Person/time (unit:thousand RMB) CSG Headquarter grants Guangdong grants Guangxi grants Yunnan grants Guizhou grants Hainan grants Honor and Awards Honors in 2009 Honor Winners Awarded By National Labor Medal SUN Yanxi and other 10 staffs ACFTU National Outstanding League CHEN Hengqing and other 2 staffs CYLCC Member, National Outstanding League Leader, ZHAO Wei and other 8 staffs SASAC National Young Professional Model Labor of CE’s National Female Pioneers of ECU TANG Li and other 5 staffs Energy and Chemical Industry Outstanding Provincial/Regional PYLCC MAO Cui and other 9 staffs League Member,Outstanding League Leader Outstanding League Member, Outstanding League Leader LV Zhi and other 6 CEWCG of CE’s, 2008 Young Professionals of CE’s Guangxi Provincial Labor Medal GAO Wenjian and 9 other staffs GPFTU Guizhou Provincial Labor Medal CHEN Dequan and other 8 staffs GPFTU Outstanding Party Member, PAN Shan and other 5 staffs Party SASAC Outstanding Party Leader Committee of Hainan Province Yunnan Provincial Labor Medal YANG Min, LI Tianquan YPFTU Guangdong Model Labor XIAO Tiesheng and other 8 staffs GPPG 53 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Win-Win Cooperation CSG insists on mutual-beneficial and all-win cooperation strategy, it is committed to economic development and social progress. CSG is ready to meet challenges and opportunities with stakeholders. Support Asian Games and Universiade Guarantee Supplier’s Interests CSG‘s bidding process are conducted in the “Sunshine Purchasing System”. To guarantee rights and interests of both parties, CSG has introduced separate recommendation, bid evaluation and biddeciding making process. CSG improves its Accountability purchasing system, cooperates with suppliers on the principles of honesty, and increases the proportion of accountability purchase. CSG is the Prestige Partner of Guangzhou 2010 Asian Games and the Partner of Shenzhen 2012 26th Universiade. CSG increase the proportion of domestic materials and CSG is dedicated to delivering full support and ensuring goods, and facilitate growth of local suppliers. power supply to the two sport events. Under CSG’s centralized and standardized deployment, Strengthen Contractors’ Ability to Fulfill Guangdong Power Grid Corporation has launched all-around Obligations power supply program for Asian Games, including key transmission lines and substations construction; supporting distribution network construction and underground projects The company compiled and distributed 3000 video teaching ( referring to electric and power transmission line, water and material on “Grid Construction Worker Safe Behavior” to heat supply lines,and gas supply lines); supporting system contractors. Video highlighted risks and precautions to be optimization of emergency commanding center. Shenzhen noted during site works, and urged contractors to implement Power Supply Bureau has set up emergency power supply social responsibility. commanding center, upgraded T&D lines and stations, and devoted a lot of time and effort to ensure safe and security power supply for the Universiade. Enhance Cooperation with Power Generation Company CSG has signed “Grid Integration and Dispatching Agreement” with power generation companies, and has always acted in compliance with “Electricity Purchase and Sale Contract”. CSG’s power dispatching is open, fair, and impartial. Harmonious Society 54 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society International Cooperation CSG has established cooperative relationship with a large number of world renowned power utilities and international Participate Industrial Exchange organizations, and has carried out in-depth technical exchanges and cooperations with them. In 2009, CSG CSG attaches great importance to communication signed the cooperation framework agreements with with industrial peers, supports industrial associations Singapore and TEPCO and several fruitful trainings ensued development, and takes part in a large number of exchange under the agreement. and communication activities. CSG actively takes part in important international CSG jointly organized “2009 China Power Enterprise meetings and professional symposiums. In 2009, CSG Management Forum” with the China Electricity Council. sent delegations to Cross-straight Power Industry CEO The theme of the Forum is “Process Optimization and Roundtable Forum, International Power Industry Technology Reengineering in Power Enterprises”. It provides a platform and Equipment Exhibition(Vietnam), International Electricity for management experience sharing and is conducive for Research Exchange Association(IERE), International power industry management level. Symposium on Electromagnetic Compatibility, 16th International EHV Technical Seminar and CIGRE, etc. CSG’s Role in Major Social Organizations Social Organization Function China Electricity Council Vice Chairman Power Branch, China Institute Vice Director of Internal Auditors CSG signed the Cooperation Framework Agreement with Singapore Energy Company Power Branch, China Inspection Vice Chairman and Supervision Society CEPSI Member Japan-Sino Science and Member Technology Association CSG signed the Memorandum of Understanding with TEPCO Support Wuhan-Guangzhou Express Railway Guangdong Power Grid Corporation works closely with railway authority in Wuhan-Guangzhou express railway construction and played a crucial role in the express operation and 2009 spring festival peak transportation period. To provide walk-way for Wuhan-Guangzhou express railway, 15 110kV and above OHL has to be relocated or upgraded in Guangzhou. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau made risk analysis and control, scheduled proper progress for each line, and facilitated the operation of Wuhan-Guangzhou express railway on Dec.26th, 2009. 55 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, and Rural Population Power Supply to Households Which Had No Access to Power in the Past (10 thousand household) Strengthen power networks construction at county level; 160 promote identical management and service in urban and rural 140 136.2 125.6 area; try our best to serve the construction of socialist new 120 countryside. 95.4 100 Increase Investment in Rural Network 80 60 CSG completed investment of 26 billion RMB in county 40 level network construction, representing a 91.2% year-on20 year increase. We built and upgraded 10kv lines of 36011 0 kilometers, 33690 rural distribution transformers, and low 2006 2007 2008 2009 (year) voltage lines of 46347 kilometers. Electricity to Every Rural Household Relieve Rural Population’s Burden We have made extra efforts to implement “Electricity to Every By implementing “one meter one household” project, Rural Household” program, put 1 billion RMBinto a special 390,000 new meters were installed in Yunnan. The fund to supply electricity to 106 thousand people. The target project helped peasants to reduce 30 million RMB plus was accomplished in Guangdong, Guangxi , Guizhou and electricity expenses. 217,000 new meters were installed Hainan provinces. In the supply area of southern power in Guizhou, 88.8% of the customers have their own grid, electricity accessibility in administrative villages reaches meters; in Hainan, “one meter on household” is realized 99.95%, household electricity accessibility reaches 99.71%. in rural areas. Guangdong Power Grid Company completed the takeover of 50 county-level power supply companies, which realized the same tariff policy in both urban and rural areas, and saved 1.7 billion RMB for the farmers. Improve Rural Power Service CSG improves base management in county level power supply entities, bring rural power service in line with the company’s standard level. 210 county level power supply entities maintained or newly acquired the title “CSG Standard Power Supply Entity”. We strengthened standard management of service counter in rural areas. 3172 out of 3242 service counters reached CSG standard, at a rate of 98%. Service hot-line Facilitate “Appliances to Countryside” covers 100% of rural area. We actively assisted and facilitated for “Appliances to Countryside” Campaign. We organized service teams based on rural power supply institutions to better our understanding on rural consumption. We provide coordinated service to facilitate “Appliances to Countryside” Campaign , expand electricity market in rural areas, and promote electrification in rural families. In 2009, rural electricity sales in five provinces recorded a 11.2% year –onyear increase; rural residential consumption increased 18.7%, evidently higher than the increase of the overall consumption Harmonious Society 56 Power Supply Economic Performance Environmental Protection Harmonious Society Social Welfare The company gives full support to the development of welfare services, such as education, healthcare, culture etc.; Donation to Disaster-affected Area commits itself to poverty-relief and disaster-relief activities; gradually perfects donation system, encourages staffs to make donation and to take part in volunteer activities. Poverty-Relief Make substantial efforts to revive economy in remote areas and to increase local residents’ income; establish “one-toone” special poverty-relief fund for infrastructure construction in under-developed areas; pay annual support visits to the designated under-developed areas. Disaster-Relief Aug.5th, 2009, typhoon Morakot hit Taiwan. CSG staff donated 12.39 million RMB for the disaster-stricken area voluntarily. When natural disasters such as earthquake, typhoon, flooding and ice disaster hit, CSG makes utmost efforts to restore power supply and donate materials and money to effected areas We support disaster-relief efforts and postdisaster reconstruction, delivering warm regards and care to thousands of households. Jul. 9th, 2009, Yaoan county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture was stricken by M6.0 earthquake. Staff of Yunnan Power Grid Corporation donated 104.7 thousand RMB. Donations in 2009 Nature of Donation Amount Nature of Donation Amount ( Unit: Thousand RMB) ( Unit: Thousand RMB) 1.Relief Donation 14045.7 2.Social Welfare Donation 43221.9 (1) Donation to disaster-effected area 5407.2 (1) donation to education, science, 40935.5 culture, healthcare and sports (2) Donation to designated under924.2 (2) donation to environment protection 120 developed area (3) donation to energy conservation (3) Donation to disabled people Fund 30.7 － and emission reducing (4) Donation to designated regions 6119.3 (4) donation to public facility 687.1 construction Among which: donation to Xinjiang 57000 (4) other social welfare donation 1479.3 donation to Tibet 376.7 2.other donation 9852.8 (5) other relief donation 1564.3 Total amount 67120.4 57 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Support Xinjiang Since 2005, CSG has sent six staffs to work in Maigaiti county, the Kashi region of Xinjiang ygur Autonomous Region; and in total , we raised 18.15 million RMB fund for education, medicare, and people’s livelihood. We assisted local government to attract investment, we facilitated over 20 enterprises to Maigaiti county for cooperation; We invested more than 800 thousand RMB in talents training, so as to nurture sustainable growth impetus for the region. Cares for Residents’ Health Volunteers CSG always attaches great importance to community CSG volunteers visit schools, villages, and underprivileged residents’ health. To eliminate residents’ misunderstanding families. 16780 people participated in 1047 organized of electromagnetic radiation, the company conducted joint programs. examinations with local environment protection bureau and other third party organizations at outdoor/indoor substations and around high voltage lines, all examinations results are far below the national standard index. The company released all examination results to the public. Besides, CSG makes full use of bus ads, subway ads, radio programmes, site visits and exchanges to communicate with the public, better their understandings of power facilities. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau organized mutal visits of citizen representitives from Guangzhou and Hong Kong through the massmedia. By visiting the substations closed to households and schools in Hong Kong, to help Guangzhou citizens to experience the integration of urban substations and communities, and to effectively relief the citizens’ misunderstanding of substation electromagnetic radiation. Visit to Wenchuan Earthquake-stricken Area From Jun. 20th to Jun.23rd, 2009, volunteers from Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau and Chengdu Power Industry Bureau visited Yinxiu county and Longchi county, the two counties severely damaged by the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008. The volunteers donated digital cameras to local residents, educating them safe electricity utilization knowledge, and played short videos and films made by themselves. Harmonious Society 58 Outlook 2010 Year 2010 will be a year of more complications, with many uncertainties. Based on experiences and lessons learnt from efforts tackling global financial crisis in 2009, we will implement central government’s strategy, playing the demonstration role of a central enterprise, and take the initiative to shoulder social responsibility, provide quality power supply service for the stable economic development in five provinces. Ensure Grid Safety: spare no effort to ensure safe and stable grid operation, enhance employees’ awareness of safety and regulation, enhance management and control over defects and weak links, so as to ensure safe operation and power supply during Guangzhou Asian Games. Optimize Grid: optimize power network structure at different level; improve organization of grid planning, design, engineering; increase investment for 110kV-and-below project; promote urban network retrofitting and rural network upgrading. More Green: To contribute to the economic development mode transition and the economic structure adjustment, CSG is striving to establish itself as the Green Platform serving scientific development of the five provinces. We will make in-depth research on grid enterprise’s responsibility in developing low-carbon economy, expand CSG Green Action, take substantial steps in energy-efficient generation dispatching, line loss management, and demand side energy conservation. Solidify Foundation: CSG improves company management and have made new progress in strengthening development basis. We keep on implementing To-Top program, actively promote management innovation and standardize our management basis, and bring our practice in line with international practice; We standardize five core business processes(T&D equipment management, dispatching operation, marketing and sales, capital management and grid construction) in accordance with the company’s centralized management strategy. Harmonious Environment: We create sound internal and external environment for a stable, harmonious and green development, and make our due contribution to the stability and harmony of the whole society. We properly coordinate relationship between all stakeholders, company, employee, generation companies, community and government of different levels. Looking into the future, CSG will continue to implement scientific development concept, incorporate social responsibility into development strategy and company business, establish corporate social responsibility management system, speed up our efforts for a “domestically leading, internationally famous” enterprise, and make greater contribution to the economic and social development of the five provinces and regions! 59 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Rating Report Entrusted by CSG, the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department selected experts from the China Corporate Social Responsibility Report Rating Panel to chair the “ Rating Panel of 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.”. The rating panel rated the “2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.(hereinafter referred to as Report)” in accordance with the standards of CASS-CSR 1.0. I. Rating Basis CASS-CSR 1.0 jointly released by China Corporate Citizen Committee, WTO Tribune, and the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department. II. Rating Conclusion Comprehensiveness The Report made a full and accurate disclosure of responsibility management, market responsibility, social responsibility and environment responsibility, covered core indices of power supply industry and all stakeholders. It is of good integrity. Substantiveness The Report disclosed actions and effectivenss of CSG’s practice in ensuring power supply, corporate operation performance, and energy conservation and emission reduction. It fully demonstrates key responsibilities of power supply industry and the key responsibility of year 2009. Balance The Report disclosed “data of power facility theft”, “major grid accidents”, “major equipment accident”, “major personal injury and accidents”, and the “decreased total profits and taxes in 2009”.It reflects a complete and balanced picture of the company. Comparability The Report demonstrates sound longitudinal comparability by releasing key performance index of 5 consecutive years. Readability The Report is of good readability. It comprises “Responsibility Column”, “About Us”, “Power Supply”, “Economic Performance”, “Green Environment” and “Harmonious Society” five chapters, with clear structure, easy language and exquisite layout design. Innovativeness The Report is of sound innovativeness. It gives the key performance of implementing responsibility in the title page, evidently displayed the key figures of each chapter in the over pages, and adopts a map to show the major company events of 2009. Comprehensive Rating The 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. was rated four and a half star by the panel. It should be regarded as a leading corporate social responsibility report. III. Suggestions i. to disclose more facts in relation to core performance indices in responsibility management, social harmony, etc.. ii. to add more comparable key performance data regarding other enterprises of the same industry, so as to improve horizontal comparability. iii. to identify future goal for social responsibility in “Outlook” . IV. Rating Panel Panel leader: PENG Huagang, Vice Consul, Director of SASAC Research Institute Panel Member: HU Xiaozheng, Director of Power Reliability Management Center, SERC CHEN Yuanqiao, Secretary General of China ISO Social Responsibility Special Workforce YIN Gefei, Vice President of WTO Tribune ZHONG Hongwu, Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department CHEN Jiagui Consul PENG Huagang Member of NPC Standing Committee Team Leader of Rating Panel Executive Chairman of the Chairman Panel of Chinese Vice Consul, Director of SASAC Research Institute Academy of Social Sciences Rating Report 60 Third-party Evaluation CHU Xuping Deputy Director of SASAC Research Institute We should take current economic and social development into consideration. To evaluate the social responsibility performance of a public utility, we should focus on its efforts on technological progress, quality services, and transformation of development approach. The 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. Provided a satisfactory answer for communities I. Progress in Technological Advancement The company completed the 500kV Hainan cross-straight interconnection project, where the submarine cable adopted is the longest in Asia, and the second largest in the world. In particular, the company constructed the world’s first ±800kV UHV DC transmission project----Yunnan-Guangdong UHV DC project, and has started single pole operation. Over 60% of the project was domestically manufactured, bringing China’s power technology and equipment manufacturing to the world-leading level. The company now plays a leading role in the world’s transmission and transformation field. II. Achievement in Quality Service The company identifies its core responsibility as delivery of safe, stable, reliable, and quality power supply for the sustainable development of the economy and the society. Southern power grid maintained safe and stable in 2009. There was no major grid accident, major equipment accident, or major personal injury. The reduction of customer outage time is set as a compulsory requirement. Urban power reliability was 99.87%,the annual average outage time was cut down by 13.6%. According to the third-party customer satisfaction survey on utility industries, the company’s power supply service ( based on survey conducted in Guangdong, Yunnan) ranked No. 1 for 4 consecutive years. In the fight against ice disaster and the rare drought, CSG demonstrated that it deserves the title of being “the most admirable people in the new age”, and set up a model of quality service for the public industry. III. Improvement in Green Growth Grid is the hub of power industry, it plays a crucial role in energy conservation and emission reducing. By implementing energy efficient generation dispatching, prioritizing hydro generation, queuing generation of coal-fired units in accordance with their energy-intensity, supporting integration and generation of new energy, optimizing generation structure, CSG is one step closer to a true green company. In the past seven years, 399.3TWh of hydro electricity were transmitted from west to east, equivalent to saving of 127 million tons of standard coal, 2.45 million tons of SO2 emission reduction. In the year of 2009, the company assisted local governments in shutting-down 6700MW small coal-fired units. By the end of 2009, the total shut-down capacity aggregated to 14090MW, exceeding 13270MW, the target set for the 11th five-year plan period. By scientific generation allocation of coal-fired units in accordance with their energy-intensity, the generation coal consumption in southern China was 315g/kwh in 2009, representing a 4g/kwh yearonyear decrease. The company also provided energy conservation diagnosis and suggestion for customers, helping them to save 1 TWh of electricity on the demand side. All the above substantial efforts shall be deemed as an outstanding contribution to the transformation of economic growth approach. The Report and the practices of CSG in 2009 highlighted central enterprise’s mission, namely, to create value for the nation, to provide quality service for customer, and to work for the welfare of the whole society. 61 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 HU Xiaozheng Director of Electricity Reliability Management Center SERC The Report highlighted the core social responsibility of power utility as a central enterprise, that is , to provide safe, reliable and quality power supply guarantee for the sustainable development of the economy and the society. With substantial amount of cases and data, the Report summarized and reviewed the company’s efforts in implementing social responsibility in 2009, stressed the achievement in increasing supply and expanding sales, and in constructing a strong large grid. The Report is of clear structure, objective content, accurate data, and strong credibility. SHA Yiqiang Director of Research office, China Electricity Council There are different interpretations about corporate social responsibility. A central enterprise, should take on responsibility to promote economic and social development on one hand and achieve business target on the other hand. 2009 CSG report provides a very good illustration of a company’s development concept and its outstanding contribution to the regional development. Readers are impressed by CSG’s outstanding achievement made since its foundation. ZHANG Chengfu Chairman of China Energy and Chemistry Union This year’s Report maintains the consistent style---highlighted theme, concise language, comprehensive and accurate data, and convincing cases. It reflects CSG’s remarkable performance in its social responsibility commitment. In the recent 3 years, the company took initiative to issue annual corporate social responsibility report, and invite public supervision. The company attaches great priority to the Report, continues to strengthen management and implementation of social responsibility. Third-party Evaluation 62 Performance of the United National Global Compact Ten Principles Reflected in the Implementation report as Human Businesses should Social Harmony/ Comply with laws and support and respect Employee Development/ regulations, implement labor Rights the protection of Employee Rights law and rules. internationally proclaimed human rights. Pay full respect to and guarantee employees’ right Make sure that they are Social Harmony/Employee to know, right to participate, not complicit in human Development/Employee Rights right to supervise and right to rights abuses. Social Harmony/Employee express. Development/Democratic Management Labor Businesses should Social Harmony/ Strictly abide by regulations, uphold the freedom of Employee Development/ for instances, employee association and the Democratic Management representative conference, effective recognition of information transparency, the right to collective democratic evaluation, etc. bargaining. Make timely update to staffs on business operation and other relevant information. The elimination of all Social Harmony/ forms of forced and Employee Development/ Stick to a fair employer compulsory labor. Employee Interests system, male and demale staffs receive same salary The effective abolition of Social Harmony/ for same job with no racial child labor. Employee Development/ discrimination and no child Employee Interests labor. The elimination of Social Harmony/ discrimination in respect Employee Development/ of employment and Employee Interests occupation. Environment Businesses are Green and Environment Carry out “Green Action” asked to support a Protection with the theme of “Scientific precautionary approach Utilization of Electricity, Energy to environmental Conservation and Emission challenges. Reducing”; substantially save energy and reduce loss in the Undertake initiatives Green and Environment company’s own businesses; to promote greater Protection take the initiative to help environmental generation side and demand responsibility. side to save energy and cut down emission. Encourage the Green and Environment development Protection/Make full use of and diffusion of Green Power environmentally friendly Green and Environment technologies. Protection/Energy Efficient Operation Anti-corruption Businesses should work Compliance clean business education against corruption in and anti-corruption lectures for all its forms, including management team. extortion and bribery. Performance monitoring, paying special attention to key focus and key links. 63 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Report Index Report Directory GRI CASS-CSR Cover 2.1 P2.3 Inside Front Cover P4.2 Board Chairman Speech 1.1/1.2/4.8/EC4 P2.1/P2.2/G1.1/G1.2 Responsibility Framework P2.1 Responsibility Column/Increase Supply and Expand Sales EC8 ESM2.1/ESS4.1/ESE2.1 Responsibility Column/the World' s First±800kV UHV DC Transmission Project EC8 ESE2.5/ESE2.7 Responsibility Column/500kV Hainan Interconnection Project EC8 ESM2.1 About Us 2.2/2.5/2.6/2.7/2.8 P3.2/P4.1/P4.2/G1.1/M1.2 About Us/Company Leaders S2.10 About Us/Corporate Governance 2.6/4.9 P3.5/P3.6 About Us/Organization Structure 2.3/4.1 G3.1/P3.3/ P3.4 About Us/Introduction to Secondary Units 2.2/2.3/2.8/3.6 P3.2/P3.4 About Us/Responsibility Management/Social Responsibility Working System 4.8 G1.4/G2.1/G2.2/G2.3/G2.4/G3.3 About Us/Responsibility Management/Social Responsibility Index System 4.9 About Us/Responsibility Management/Stakeholder Communication and Participation 4.4/4.14/4.15/4.16/4.17/S05 G2.4/G2.5/G3.1/G3.2/G3.3/G3.4/ About Us/Responsibility Management/Social Responsibility Exchange and Training EC8 G3.5/M2.1/M3.1/M3.2 About Us/Responsibility Management/Responsibility Honor 2.10 G3.5 Power Supply 4.8 P4.3/M2.14 Power Supply/Safe Production/ Stable Operation of the Grid EC2/M2.5/ESM2.2/ESM2.3 Power Supply/Safe Production/Sound Operation of the Facility S3.1/S3.2 Power Supply/Safe Production/Roll out Safe Production Risk Management System PR2 ESS3.2 /ESM2.7 Power Supply/Safe Production/Standard Management of Safe Production S3.1 Power Supply/Safe Production/Implementation of Safe Production Responsibility S3.1 Power Supply/Safe Production/Protection of Power Facility PR2 S3.1 Power Supply/Reliable Supply ESS3.2 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Strong Distribution Grid ESM2.1/ESM2.2/ESM2.3 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Comprehensive Outage Management EC8/PR2 ESM2.1 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Live Work EC8/PR2 ESM2.1 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Rapid Restoration of Supply EC8/PR2 ESM2.1 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Secure Supply for Important Events ESM2.1 Power Supply/Quality Service/Happy to Use EC8/PR5/PR6 Power Supply/Quality Service/Easy to Pay EC8/PR3/PR5/PR6 M2.1/ M2.2 Power Supply/Quality Service/Accurate Metering EC8/PR3/ PR5/PR6 M2.1/ ESM2.8 Power Supply/Quality Service/Good Hot Line Service EC8/PR5/PR6 M2.1/M2.2/ESM2.8 Power Supply/Quality Service/Personalized Service EC8/PR5/PR6 M2.1/M2.2/M2.3 Power Supply/Quality Service/Marketing Service Culture EC8/PR1/PR5/PR6 M2.1/M2.2 Power Supply/Grid Construction EC8/PR2 M2.1/M2.2 Power Supply/Emergency Management 4.11/PR2 ESM2.1/S4.1 Power Supply/Technological Innovation ESM2.7/S3.2 Power Supply/Technological Innovation/Smart Grid Research M2.9/M2.10//M2.12/M2.14 Power Supply/Technological Innovation/National Key Lab M2.9 Power Supply/Management Innovation/In-depth To-Top Program PR5/PR6 M2.14 Power Supply/Management Innovation/Launch To-Top Program in Provincial Grid Corporations PR3/PR6 ESM2.3/M2.3/M2.5/ESE2.2 Power Supply/Management Innovation/the First CSG Management Forum ESM2.2 Economic Performance 4.8 G3.4/G3.5 Economic Performance/Operation Performance 2.8/4.8/EC1 Economic Performance/Law Compliance S08 P4.1/P4.2/S1.2 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Legal Risk Management G4.1/G4.4 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Strengthened Internal Control S04 G4.1/G4.2 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Supervision on Major Decisions S04 G4.2/M3.4/M3.7 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Clean Business S03 G4.2 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Performance Supervision S04 G4.3 Economic Performance/Reduce Cost and Enhance Performance EN5 G4.2 Economic Performance/Promote Development of Electricity Market EC9 M1.4 Economic Performance/Development of Service Chain EC9 Report Index 64 Report Index Report Directory GRI CASS-CSR Economic Performance/Development of Low-carbon Industry EC2/EC8/EC9 E3.8 Economic Performance/Serve the Economic Development in Five Provinces EC8/EC9/S05 S4.1/S4.2 Economic Performance/Strengthen Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macau EC9 S4.1/S4.2 Economic Performance/Promote GMS Cooperation EC9 S4.2 Environment Protection 4.8/EC2/EN5/EN18/EN20 S1.1/E1.1/ E1.10/E2.1/E2.4/ESE2.2 Environment Protection/Make Full Use of Green Power/Full Utilization of Hydro Power EN5/EN7/EN8/EN18/ E2.5/E2.6/ESE2.5/ ESE2.7/E3.8/E3.9 Environment Protection/ Make Full Use of Green Power/Promote Development of Clean Fossil-Fired Generation EN5/EN7/EN18/SO5 E2.4/ESE2.5/ESE2.6/（E3）/E3.8/E3.9 Environment Protection/ Make Full Use of Green Power/Support Development of New Energy EN5/EN7/EN18/SO5 E2.5/E2.6/ESE2.5/ESE2.7/（E3）/E3.8 Environment Protection/Construct Green Grid/ Noise Reduction S4.1 Environment Protection/Construct Green Grid/Save Land EN7/EN11 E1.4/S4.1/E1.8 Environment Protection/Construct Green Grid/Protect Biodiversity EN12 E1.7/S4.1 Environment Protection/Energy Efficient Operation/Energy Efficient Generation Dispatching EN7/EN18 E2.1/ESE2.3 Environment Protection/Energy Efficient Operation/Reduce Line Loss EN5/EN7/EN18 E1.6/E2.1/ESE2.1/ESE2.2 /E3.9 Environment Protection/Energy Efficient Operation/Proper Disposal of Waste EN27 E1.3/E1.6/E2.8/（E3） Environment Protection/Facilitate Customer Energy-saving EN6 E1.2/E1.6/E2.1/E2.8/ESE2.3 Environment Protection/Promote Energy Conservation EN6 E1.2/E1.9 Environment Protection/Green Office EN6/EN18 S4.1/E1.9/ESE2.10/ESE2.11/ESE2.12/ESE2.13/（E3） Social Harmony 4.8/EC1 S4.7/ESM2.4 Social Harmony/Employee Development 4.4/LA1/LA2/LA13 S2.11/S2.21/S4.3 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Interests EC3/LA4/LA14/HR6/HR7 M3.6/S2.1/S2.2 /S2.3/S2.5/S2.6/S2.8/S2.22 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Professional Safety and Health EC3/LA8/LA9 S2.12/S2.13/S2.14/S2.15/ESS3.1 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Democratic Management S2.4/S2.20 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Training EC3/LA10/LA11 S2.17/S2.18/S2.19/ESS2.1 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Care for Employee S2.23 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Honor P4.3 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Support Asian Games and Universiade S05 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Strengthen Cooperation with Power Plants M3.1/M3.7 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Guarantee Supplier' s Interests EC6 M3.1/M3.2/M3.3/M3.4 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Improve Contractor' s Ability to Implement Obligations EC6/HR3 M3.1/G2.5 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/International Communication and Exchange Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Industrial Exchange 4.13 M3.1 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population /Expand Investment in Rural Network S05 ESM2.4/S1.1/ESS4.1 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population /Electricity to Every Rural Household S05 ESM2.4/ESM2.5/ S1.1/ESS4.1 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population/Appliance to Countryside S05 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population/Reduce Rural Population' s Burden S05 ESM2.4/S1.1/ESS4.1 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population/ Improve Rural Power Service S05 ESM2.4/S1.1/ESS4.1 Social Harmony/Social Welfare S4.5/S4.9/S4.5 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Poverty-Relief EC1 S4.6 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Disaster-Relief EC1 S4.7/S4.8 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Support Xinjiang EC1 S4.2/S4.10 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Cares Residents' Health S4.1/E1.9 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Volunteer Activity EC1 S4.9/S4.10 Outlook 2010 4.8 P2.2/G1.1/G1.2/（A1） Rating Report Third Part Evaluation 3.13 （A2） Performance of the United Nations Global Compact Report Index 3.12 （A3） About the Report 3.3/3.5/3.11 P1.4/ P1.5 About the Report/Time 3.1 P1.3 About the Report/Range 3.4/3.7 P1.2 About the Report/Compiling Basis 3.8/4.12 P1.1/P1.7/G1.3 About the Report/Data Source 3.9 P1.1/P1.6 About the Report/Title Description About the Report/Feedback Sheet 3.4 （A4） Back Cover 2.4/3.4 P1.8/P1.9 65 CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 About the Report This Report is the third Social Responsibility Annual Report issued by China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. It is produced in Chinese and English version. Adhering to the principle of objective, standard, transparent, and comprehensive, the Report disclosed the company’s safe and quality power supply, and its performance in economy, environment, and society. Time From Jan.1st, 2009 to Dec.31st, 2009. Part of the content extends before the year of 2009. Range “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is the principle part of the Report, including its subsidiaries, branches and affiliated institutes. Compiling Basis The Report was compiled in accordance with the requirements of SASAC’s “Guidelines---About Central Enterprises’ Implementation of Social Responsibility”. It also referred to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Guidelines, China Federation of Industrial Economics’s “China Industrial Enterprise and Industrial Association Social Responsibility Guidelines”, and the CASS-CSR 1.0 of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Data Source Data adopted in the Report is from the company’s official documentations and statistics reports. Title Description In the Report, “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is also referred to as “southern power grid company(CSG)”, “the company”, or “we”. Feedback Sheet To help us improve our social responsibility, your comments are welcomed. Wwe treasure your feedback: 1. Your overall comment on the Report is : very good good Ok poor very poor 2. The quality of information disclosed is: very good good Ok poor very poor Address: 3. The structure of the Report is: Strategy Planning Department, China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. very good good Ok poor very poor No.6 Huasui Rd, Zhujiang Xincheng, Guangzhou Postal Code:510623 4. The graphic design and layout design of the Report is: Tel: 86-20-38121093 Fax: 86-20-38122187 very good good Ok poor very poor E-mail:csr@csg.cn 5. Your suggestions regarding our social responsibility, please specify: About the Report 66
