2007 ANNUAL REPORT Disclaimer It is expressly left on record that this document is merely for information and it has no legal purpose. Hence, it does not contain or intend to contain all the information included in the 2007 Annual Report of Masisa S.A. MASISA is the Leader in Latin America in the production and commercialization of wood boards for furniture and interior architecture. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 3 index 4 ASPECTS REGARDING THIS ANNUAL REPORT 6 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 9 ABOUT MASISA 10 VISION, MISSION, bUSSINES PRINcIPLES, VALUES – bRANd Of LEAdERShIP 11 AcTIVITIES ANd bUSINESSES 18 cORPORATE GOVERNMENT 21 GOVERNANcE ANd TRANSPARENcy PRAcTIcES 22 MAIN ShAREhOLdERS 23 cORPORATE STRUcTURE 25 BUSINESS STRATEGY 27 PILLARS Of ThE bUSINESS STRATEGy 27 VALUE PROPOSAL: MASISA IS MORE RELIAbLE 29 MANAGEMENT REPORT 30 fINANcIAL RESULTS 33 bRANd MANAGEMENT MASISA IS MORE RELIAbLE 43 MANAGEMENT Of hUMAN cAPITAL 50 INTERNAL cOMMUNIcATIONS 51 PROdUcTIVE PROcESSES 54 SUSTAINAbLE dEVELOPMENT 65 EXTERNAL VERIFICATION 69 CONSISTENCY WITH GRI INDICATORS 75 GENERAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION 91 RELATED COMPANIES 107 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 149 INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 | MASISA About tHIS ANNu ANNuAL REPo REPoRt This year MASISA’s Annual Report includes This Annual Report also had the backing of the information regarding the company’s perforWWF (World Wildlife Fund), organization that mance during 2007 both in the financial and offered a complete and useful critical analysis sustainable development areas. of the content of 2005-2006 Sustainability Report. Representatives from the WWF visited This new publication seeks to respond to the our operations in Chile and presented imporinterest of those who follow MASISA’s perfortant suggestions for this new Annual Report mance in its different aspects, assuring to in(Their travel report and their evaluation of the clude topics demanded by current legislation prior report are available at www.masisa.com). and matters relevant to all stakeholders. It additionally reflects the importance of integrating The external verification of the Annual Report social and environmental issues in the comwas entrusted to Ernst & Young in the financial pany management. area and by a “Citizens’ Verification Panel”. The results of both processes can be inquired In the past MASISA published its Annual Rein the respective reports published in this Anport in a separate manner, following the stannual Report (The complete report of the Citidards of Chilean legislation and a biannual zens’ Panel is available at www.masisa.com). Sustainability Report. This Annual Report includes both documents. Information regarding our actions and management results of the Triple Bottom Line in 2007 MASISA’s report on social and environmental is presented around the fundamental axis of issues follows the guideline of the “Global Rethe company strategy: the creation of financial porting Initiative”-GRI-G3 (www.globalreporting. value, the value proposal for our clients and org) and the guideline (in its draft form) of WWF stakeholders, developments in human capital “Guidelines on Corporate Responsibility Reportand improvements in productive processes. ing for the Forest Industry” (www.wwf.org). 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 5 For the WWF it is a pleasure to see the results of our collaboration with MASISA, and the future perspectives regarding such collaboration. This year we were invited to give our opinion regarding the Sustainability Report 2004-2005, seeking to have the 2007 Annual Report improve its content according to the definition of the WWF of an “ideal corporate report”. Information on the social and environmental This work did not constitute an assessment on MASISA’s performance performance of all the companies controlled by per say in itself, although the general conclusion is that MASISA takes MASISA is included herein, i.e., either through its social and environmental responsibilities very seriously. Its Annual shareholding control or in those in which MAReport is very complete and the level of detail offered regarding the imSISA has administrative control. Similarly, inforpacts is, in its most part, very good. MASISA achieved compliance of mation is offered regarding the management 76% in reference to the WWF guidelines. If such result is compared focus in relations where MASISA exercises a with the European pulp and paper industry (the 49 largest companies significant influence, but does not have control, according to their sales, analyzed by the WWF), MASISA would rank in mainly its service suppliers and neighboring the top 5%. Initial reviews regarding the MASISA competitors in the communities to its industrial operations, as well lumber/board products sector suggests that MASISA is also a leader in as those where it does not have any significant this industry sector in terms of its reports. influence but mean important challenges for the company, as well as relations with the MaThe scope of the external certifications of MASISA’s activities is parpuche communities in Chile. ticularly impressive, including the FSC certification for forestry handling and custody chain, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. The detailed reference to the GRI and WWF guidelines is also relevant as CONTACT well as the fact that it is the only company in Latin America that offers 100% of its boards under the E-1 European Standard relative to low In order to obtain greater information on the 2007 formaldehyde emissions. Annual Report or regarding MASISA’s performance, please contact us. MASISA received the award “Leaders for a Living Planet 2006” from the WWF for its serious commitment to identify and protect High Value Eugenio Arteaga I. Preservation Forests in Chile and develop mechanisms to improve the Chief Financial Officer benefits of local communities in its operation areas certified by the FSC. Ignacio González G. Chief Communications and Corporate Affairs We hope that in this and future reports we will see more information María Emilia Correa P. regarding the progress and the milestones reached. WWF will closely Chief Sustainable Development Officerl work with MASISA in order to assure the achievement of these commitments and thus maintain MASISA’s involvement in leadership initiaAddress tives in Latin America; we hope to jointly build a future where we can Av. Apoquindo 3650 10th floor Las Condes, Santiago all live in harmony with nature. Telephones (56 2) 707 88 00 – (56 2) 350 60 00 E-mail info@masisa.com Daniel Arancibia LAC Forest Coordinator Latin America & Caribbean Programme World Wildlife Fund 6 | MASISA MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2007 was a year of important achievements for proved the construction of an MDP board plant MASISA within a growth scenario for most of in Brazil, which will have a production capacity the countries in Latin America, notwithstanding of 750.000 m3 annually and a line of melamine the symptoms of a recession in the US econothat will have the capacity to coat or overlay my – particularly in the construction sector and 300,000 m3 annually of boards. the financing of housing for the low income sectors -, the successive weakening of the US MASISA has decided to focus on its main busidollar with its effects in the exports of Latin ness, the production and commercialization of American countries, and the increase in costs, lumber boards for furniture and interior archimainly in energy and power. Within this outtecture, which in December 2007 subscribed a look, I have accepted the immense challenge binding agreement for the sale to Louisianaof succeeding Julio Moura, who was the comPacific South America S.A. (LP) of 75% of the pany’s Chairman of the Board of Directors until board plant Oriented Strand Board (OSB) of mid December 2007, having built along with the industrial complex of Ponta Grossa, Brazil, the MASISA team, an extraordinary platform to whose capacity is of 300,000 m3 annually. face with solvency and capacity the opportuniThe definite closing of this transaction is subties and challenges of the near future. ject to normal commercial conditions for this type of events and verifications. It is expected Financial results show a positive and significant to happen during the first months of 2008. progress: the net goals up to 2007 increased 8.9% in comparison to 2006, reaching US$ Similarly, and with the objective of continuing 965.8 million. The Company’s net profit grew to reinforce our presence in Brazil, in January 39.3% reaching US$ 41.1 million. The good 2008 MASISA and Brascan Brasil Ltda., subperformance of the Boards Business Unit offscribed a shares purchase-sales contract set lower sales and results of the MDF moldthrough which MASISA acquired an indirect ings, finger joint moldings and sawed lumber. shareholding participation in the Brazilian affiliated company of Tafibrás called Tafisa Brasil MASISA was able to offset the decrease in S.A., controlled by the Sonae Group. The opsales in the US market with important growth eration reached US$ 70 million. in volume and prices in the board business in Latin American countries. In addition, Sonae Industry and MASISA have taken on the commitment of working during It is worth underscoring the start-up of the new the next months in the implementation of a MDF boards plan located in the city of Cabrero, combination of the businesses of Tafisa Brasil Chile, with an annual production capacity of and MASISA’s Brazilian affiliate called MASISA 340,000 m3 of boards. Investment in this comdo Brasil, whether through the merger of the plex was of more than US$ 90 million, of which aforementioned companies or through another almost US$ 6 million were invested in state-oflegal structure of these characteristics, in order the-art technology in order to minimize the imto position the new merged entity as a leading pacts on air, water and soil, allowing a cleaner company in the Brazilian market. environment, free from contamination. In September 2007, MASISA’s Board of Directors ap2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 7 Quality, closeness to our customers and innovation, added to the company’s good environmental and social performance, are the pillars supporting the commitment towards trust, which differentiate us as a company. The company strategy defines a priority conMASISA is committed to the principles of the and enthusiasm shown by our employees, solidating a customer focused culture, with a United Nations Global Agreement. It is a chalmain characters behind these initiatives that I solid brand in the different markets where it is lenge to communicate the best manner poscan personally give witness of. Work has been present, aspect that sets the grounds and sible, both within the company; as well in to all performed in all the countries where MASISA is backing in building trust and in the quality of society, what we are doing in order to place present, developing different programs, from products and services that we offer. The “MAsuch precepts into practice. the formation of carpenters and micro-entreSISA más confianza” (MASISA more trust) preneurs in the Placacentros, up to the develcampaign that we launched this year, conveys All industrial plants operate under the ISO opment of basic furniture for social housing. the attributes of the MASISA brand to our dif14001 certifications in environmental manageferent stakeholders. ment and under OHSAS 18001 certification for A good Corporate Government generates value industrial health and safety, while the overall for the company and it is an essential requireQuality, closeness to the client and innovation, number of forestry plantations is certified unment to assure compliance with the company’s added to the company’s good environmental der the Forest Stewardship Council FSC. vision and commitment, since it allows its interand social performance are the pillars behind ested publics to have confidence in the comthe commitment of trust that differentiate us as 100% of the board production produced by pany management and the seriousness behind a company. These pillars must be aligned in a MASISA complies with the European Standard its control environment. Thus, in October, the zealous manner with internal processes and E-1, which identifies products that have low Corporate Governance Code was made know, the training of employees in order to be more emissions of formaldehyde, thus assuring the making formal the business practices of MAconsistent with the goal of consolidating our well-being and health of people. This certificaSISA and its affiliates, which is based in the Latin American leadership in the production tion was backed after a complex research was highest standard of control, ethics and entreand commercialization of lumber boards for carried out in 2007, which included an audit of preneurial transparency. furniture and interior architecture. all the company’s board plants. Definitely, 2007 was a year of important chalIn this respect, the Placacentros network is beMASISA wants to be a positive player in the lenges that have been confronted in a correct ing strengthened throughout the region by societies in which it operates. In this respect, manner, offsetting in a timely manner negative means of initiatives such as the implementation a special commitment has been acquired that impacts versus the positive ones, which had of a contract migration process from brand licommits the company in reference to the clibeen started in advance. I am convinced that censes to franchise-type contracts. At the closmate change and poverty in our region, two thanks to the excellent corporate governance ing of 2007 we have 324 outlets in all of Latin problems affecting the societies, and markets platform of the company, its excellent relations America. and that in addition mean a business opportuwith different stakeholders, and particularly, nity for the company. the capacity of its team led under the direction Our employees are the most important link in of Enrique Cibié, and understanding the great the MASISA chain of trust, which is why enorIn 2007 we were the first Chilean company in opportunities offered by the industry, we will mous progress has been made with different becoming a part of the Chicago Climate Excontinue walking on a path of important initiatives, such as the formalization of policies change, committing towards the reduction of achievements. in the talent management area, the implemenour CO2 emissions in 6% by 2010. tation of strategic projects including surveys and commitment actions in the performance In reference to the problem pertaining to povmanagement system, and the compensations erty in the region, we are progressing towards program. On the other hand, we continue makthe generation of businesses that include the ing important efforts to create a zero accident people located in the lower income sectors, culture and maintain a healthy and safe labor incorporating them in a systematic manner to Roberto Salas environment for all of our employees. MASISA’s value chain, with the great creativity Chairman 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 9 ABOUT MASISA Trade Name MASISA S.A. Address Av. Apoquindo 3650, 10th floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile RUT 96.802.690-9 Inscription Number in the Securities Register No. 825 Telephone 56 (2) 350 6000 Fax 56 (2) 350 6001 E-mail info@masisa.com Type of entity Publicly-traded corporation External Auditors Ernst & Young MASISA S.A., hereinafter “MASISA”, or the “Company” MASISA | 10 vision VALUES – LEADERSHIP BRAND Being acknowledged as a leading company in Latin America in the proThe company has identified certain attributes that it wants its leaders to duction and trade of wood boards for furniture and interior architecture. be most recognized for. These attributes, which it is promoting through This is achieved by trying hard to be the best choice for our customers different efforts, form the MASISA Leadership Brand and are: and by creating economic value within ethical as well as social and enviMotivation ronmental responsibility principles, thus, achieving the greatest profitAgility ability in industry. Service Innovation Sustainability mission Accountability Creating value for our shareholders, customers and society through commitment and team work, along with sustainable and efficient manDECLARATION OF BUSSINES PRINCIPLES agement of our forests and productive processes, and through nearness and transparency regarding our customers, communities and suppliers. Set of values and principles that guide the action of all employees and serve as a framework of reference for decision making in all the differDeveloping a reliable trademark which predicts the markets needs ent business scopes. These are communicated and reinforced in a through innovation in products and services, which responsibly works in periodic manner to all the company employees. These are available at favor of environment and society, and also guarantees the sustainable www.masisa.com and include the following: development of business and creates a better lifestyle for present gen1. Economic results erations and those to come. 2. Corporate behavior 3. Individual conduct 4. Relations with our customers 5. Relations with our employees 6. Relations with our communities 7. Relations with our associates, suppliers and third parties 8. Open and transparent dialogue 9. Health, safety and the environment 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 11 The company’s main business is the production and commercialization of wood boards for furniture UCED AND R OD EC PR and interior architecture, which represents more MAS ISA BOARDS OM EN D than two thirds of its sales and is managed through the Wood Boards Business Unit. The other comEUROPEAN STANDARD pany Business Units are considered to be synergic to the Wood Boards Business Unit. ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESSES WOOD BOARDS BUSINESS UNIT All the MASISA wood boards have the European E-1 being a relevant player the MDF moldings, fincertification for the low emission of formaldehyde. ger joint moldings and solid wood doors. The Wood Boards Business Unit is MASISA’s main business and commercializes wood boards in Latin RETAIL BUSINESS UNIT The Company has a sawing capacity of America as well as in different countries in the rest of 700.000 m³ annually for the production of the world. Its main products are: MDF wood board, In Latin America, MASISA has a competitive sawn wood, in 3 complexes in Brazil, Chile particle wood board and OSB wood boards. key advantage: its important distribution netand Venezuela. In addition, it has re-manufacwork configured through the local sales outlets turing plants in which value is added to the The company has an installed capacity of called Placacentros MASISA. sawn wood and MDF wood board from our 2.6 million m3 annually for the production of Wood Boards Business Unit. wood boards.1 The Placacentros have been an innovative and successful format, with a strategic importance All the plants and industrial complexes have MASISA has 9 wood board industrial complexes for MASISA. They have the mission of being the ISO 14.001 and OHSAS 18.001 certifications. in Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela and Mexico, specialized chain store for the small and meall of which have ISO 14.001 and OHSAS 18.001 dium size furniture manufacturer, preferred by MASISA strengthens its market position and certifications. Similarly, the company has the ISO its customers and suppliers in all Latin America. its industrial assets through the intermediation 9.001 certification –or it is undergoing the process of sawn wood products, being one of the main to obtain it – in all its markets. The Placacentros are commercial outlets that players in this business sector in Chile. form a distribution network that operate under a During 2007 an MDF line was added in Cabrero, similar concept to a franchise with the same Chile, with an annual capacity of 340,000 m3 and it brand format. As of December 31, 2007, the is mainly focused on the external market. company had a network of 324 Placacentros outlets distributed in 10 countries in Latin America. SOLID WOOD BUSINESS UNIT Sale Of boards (US$Millions) 700 OSB The strategic role of the Solid Wood Business 52 MDF Unit is to add value to forest products, gener600 PB ating residues, which is the main factor of pro48 500 1. In December 2007, MASISA and Louisiana-Pacific South 60 duction of the wood board business. This América S.A. (LP) – Chilean company related to the US Company 398 400 53 guarantees competitive supply to our plants Louisiana-Pacific Corporation – subscribed a binding agreement 320 tending to the sale by MASISA to LP of 75% of the Oriented Strand 300 and generates synergies for the joint operation Board structural wood board plant (OSB) located in the industrial 250 216 and administration of industrial complexes. complex of Ponta Grossa, Brasil. The decision to sell the OSB plant, 200 which has a production capacity of 300.000 m³ annually, is due to MASISA’s intention on concentrating in its core business. The 208 100 125 154 187 MASISA commercializes sawn wood products definite closing of the aforementioned purchase – sale is subject to normal business conditions for this type of transaction and to 0 supplied from pine and eucalyptus plantathe verifications that are expected to conclude during the first few 2004 2005 2006 2007 tions, and high quality value added products, months of 2008. 12 | MASISA FORESTRY BUSINESS UNIT The strategic role of the Forestry Business Unit to the type of species, different qualities or the Uses of the tree is to supply the MASISA’s industrial Business size of lumber pieces, etc. This portfolio of highBoards and Lumber Pieces Units – on the short and long-term – an adely demanded forestry species (Pine and EucaThat Can Become Pulp quate fiber balance, at a competitive cost and lyptus), added to the application strategy of difmaximizing the company’s economic value of ferent handling schemes in order to produce Sawn Wood and Moldings forestry investments. This Unit is focused on dedifferent types and quality of lumber pieces, alChips veloping and maintaining forests with quick low strongly decreasing the market risk of the for Board growth species under economic, social and enassets of the Forestry Business Unit. Doors vironmental sustainability criteria. On its on-going search for generating value, the The Forestry Business Unit administrates equity company has started small-scale pioneer projAll plantations have the Forest Stewardship of 243,000 hectares of pine and eucalyptus ects for the sustainable handling and use of the Council (FSC), ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, plantations, distributed in Chile, Brazil, Argentina native forest in association with third parties. certifications with the exception of the plantaand Venezuela. It has 64,000 hectares of reThis allowed the handling operation to be selftions of Forestal Argentina whose renewal is curserve and protection areas of natural forests. financed. As a result of this action, this equity rently pending. increased its economic value. The company will The forestry handling of plantations is carried continue to classify, within its native forest equity, The percentages to take advantage of the tree out under a diversification strategy. Thus, this the surfaces that are susceptible to continue beand the use given to each one of its parts deUnit has generated a forestry mass of first qualing handled in the manner described above. pend on the particular characteristics of the ity genetic material, whose products are focused handling of the forest from which it is extracted. on different industries and markets, whether due PRODUCTS MIX MASISA has an extensive mix of products for factures particle wood board with different MOLDINGS the furniture industries and interior architeccharacteristics, formats and thicknesses, and ture, which are manufactured by following strict commercializes them as rough finished board Moldings are commercialized in different proquality controls and the highest environmental or board coated with foil or melamine. files and thicknesses. They are mainly used to and social standards, in line with our commitcarry out terminations in wall-floor, wall-roof ment towards sustainable development. MELAMINE COATED WOOD BOARDS combinations, and in door and window frames, by means of thresholds, ledges and opposing MDF These are re-coated wood boards on both sides frames, respectively. with decorated sheets impregnated with MDF are fiber wood boards. They are characmelamine-type resins, which grants a totally MASISA produces MDF moldings and Fingerterized by the excellent terminations that are closed surface, free from pores, hard and resisJoint Moldings. achieved, a lower wear and tear of tools and an tant to superficial wear and tear. An extensive arimportant savings in paint on comparing it with ray of colors and textures allows offering the marSAWN WOOD other types of wood boards. MASISA manufacket the best variety in wood designs and colors. tures the MDF wood board with different charMASISA produces sawn dry wood, it is comacteristics, formats and thicknesses, which are OSB WOOD BOARDS mercialized in several thicknesses and lengths commercialized as rough finished board or and it is fundamentally used in the manufacturcoated with foil or melamine. It is a structural wood board manufactured ing of packing or pallets, furniture and in the from wood chips or shavings, oriented in construction industry. PARTICLE WOOD BOARD crossed layers in order to increase their strength and rigidity. Its mechanical resistance, SOLID wood DOORS Particle wood boards are manufactured with insulation and capacity to absorb different rechips, wood shavings and saw dust. They are quests can be underscored, being considered These are doors manufactured in pine in different characterized for being resistant and light. as an excellent construction material. On being designs, formats and sizes, which are used as enThese wood boards are used in furniture mana wood board that is also light weighted, it is trance doors, in interior hallways and closets. ufacturing, mainly in those applications where used for the manufacturing of packing and flat terminations are required. MASISA manustructuring furniture. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 13 MASISA | 14 MARKETS The largest market for MASISA is Latin America, which represents 76.8% of the total company sales, while the United States represents 17.8%. As of December 31, 2007, Brazil represents 19.7% of sales. In this country, despite facing strong local competition, MASISA has reached an important position as an MDF wood board supplier for the furniture industry in the southern region. MASISA United States, which represents 17.8% of the company sales, mainly commercializes MDF moldings, finger joint moldings and solid wood doors. Most of the company products are sold through intermediaries that amount to close to 40, which mainly service the residential construction industry and large distributors of the home center-type. Venezuela represents 15.1% of the company sales, and mainly commercializes its products through the Placacentros network. Chile represents 15.0% of the company sales up to December 2007 and it is the fourth most important market for the company. The commercialization of wood boards in Chile is mainly carried out through the independent distributors’ network who service the furniture industry, within which the Placacentros network is included. Mexico represents 10.5% of MASISA’s sales. This country, strictly an importer of forestry products, is the main sawn wood market for the company. Other important products for MASISA in this country are the MDF wood boards and the particle wood boards. MASISA Argentina is one of the most important manufacturers of MDF wood board and particle wood board. This country represents 9.4% of the overall company sales up to December 2007. Colombia is a market in which special emphasis has been placed in terms of its growth perspective up to December 2007 and its represents 3.0% of the company consolidated sales, which are distributed in their most part through the Placacentros present in such market. Peru and Ecuador are today 2.8% and 1.3% of the consolidated sales Markets Diversification up to December 2007, respectively, which are distributed in their most part through the Placacentros network. Venezuela Chile 15.1% 15.0% USA 2007 2006 17.8% Mexico Million of US$ % Million of US$ % 10.5% Brazil 190.4 19.7% 145.7 16.4% USA 172.3 17.8% 230.2 26.0% Venezuela 146.3 15.1% 92.4 10.4% Chile 144.6 15.0% 144.3 16.3% Argentina 9.4% Mexico 101.6 10.5% 117.2 13.2% Argentina 90.9 9.4% 69.6 7.9% Brazil Colombia 28.8 3.0% 25.2 2.8% 19.7% Others 5.4% Peru 26.7 2.8% 21.0 2.4% Colombia Ecuador Peru 3.0% Ecuador 12.4 1.3% 10.0 1.1% 1.3% 2.8% Others 51.8 5.4% 30.8 3.5% Total 965.8 100.0% 886.5 100.0% 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 15 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 2006 WWF “Líderes por un planeta vivo” (“Leaders for a Living Planet”) This Best of the Best in Germany. Bausch Decor, manufacturer of decorative award, granted for the first time in Chile, recognized MASISA for its compapers, received the Interzum Best of the BestAward, with the MASISA mitment with the community and for strengthening and intensifying the nature wood board, produced in the MASISA Brazil factory, in Ponta FSC certification system and for its commitment on identifying the high Grossa. The product is among the eight most innovative, establishing value forests in order to preserve the existing ones within its patrimony MASISA as the first company in the world in manufacturing wood and thus create a portfolio of protected areas. boards with the Syncrone Pore Technology for furniture, which assures the perfect synchronicity between the design and the wood grains. Exports Award. MASISA Argentina, leader in exports for the seventh consecutive year. Granted by the Ministries of the Economy and Foreign Premio Bravo de Negocios (Bravo Business Award). Enrique Cibié, Chief Affairs, Argentina. Executive Officer of MASISA was elected as the best Chief Executive Officer of the year in Latin America for a company having up to US$1,000 Environmental Accountability Fritz Müller Award. MASISA Rio Negrinho, million annually in sales. The Category was Entrepreneurial Leader of the Brasil. Gobierno del Estado de Santa Catarina y Fundación para el AmbiYear. Latin Trade Magazine. ente (FATMA) (Government of the State of Santa Catarina and the Foundation for the Environment). One of the best companies in which to work. MASISA Argentina received this award from the Magazine Apertura. 2007 Instituto Argentino de Normalización y Certificación (Argentinean NorRainforest Alliance “Precursor de Prácticas Sustentables” (“Corporate malization and Certification Institute). MASISA Argentina has the pride Sustainable Standard-Setter”). This is a business strategy based on the of being one of the few companies in Argentina that has been certified following entrepreneurial practices that have made MASISA the winner for its Integrated Management System, which considers objectives relaof this award: sustainable development, dialogues with the communities, tive to Quality, Safety and Occupational Health and the Environment. commitment with the environment, ethical and responsible businesses, development of human capital and businesses that improve the quality Premio Paranaense de Calidad en Gestión (PPQG, Parana Award for of life of people. Quality in Management). MASISA Brazil received the distinction granted by the Brazilian Institute of Quality and Productivity. IR Global Ranking. One of the companies that has the best Corporate Government within Latin America. MASISA was acknowledged for having Premio Innovación Social 2007 (2007 Social Innovation Award). This one of the best entrepreneurial corporate governments in Latin America, award is granted by EUREKA, civil non-profit association, which distinresulting from the ranking carried out by the by the US financial consultguishes the Easy Assembly Project of MASISA Venezuela. This contest ing that also deals with investors, MZ Consult. This recognition to MAhas the objective of recognizing initiatives of individuals, organizations SISA’s corporate government was delivered within the framework of and entrepreneurial foundations focused on producing positive modifi2007 version of the “IR Global Ranking” (Global Ranking of Relations cations to the different problems suffered by society. The MASISA with Investors) and made reference to the good company practices adProyecto Armefácil (MASISA Easy Assembly) was granted the award in opted by MASISA. These practices are based in structured processes, the category Entrepreneurial Foundations, applied to the Revenue Genprinciples of individual and corporate principles, by-laws, and the definieration line. tion of instances and independent and supplementary channels, such as the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors and the Board of DiAward for Exports. Masisa Chile received the award “Excelencia Exporrectors’ Committees (Audit, Directors, Compensation and Disclosure tadora de Manufacturas y Servicios” (Exporting Excellence in ManufacCommittees). Jointly, these practices contribute towards the sustainable turing and Services) by the Asociación de Exportadores de Manufactura development of the company, its employees and society, as a whole. (ASEXMA, Association of Manufacturing Exporters). Top Móbile. MASISA Brazil was awarded for the second consecutive Case Studies on MASISA: year, the award in the category of Suppliers of the Furniture Industry as the manufacturer of MDF wood board most recognized in Brasil. Businesses in the Pyramid Base: • University of California Berkeley, Hass School of Business Empresa Familiarmente Responsable (Familiarly Responsible Company). • World Resources Institute MASISA Mexico received this award granted by the Labor and Social Se• SEKN curity Secretariat of Durango (STPS). It additionally received the award • IESE Barcelona for the 2007 Ecological Merit (Mérito Ecológico 2007) delivered by the Natural Resources and the Environment Secretariat of Durango, Mexico. Sustainability Management: • Professor Pablo Rodrigo, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez (Chile). PhD Thesis: ESADE, Barcelona. 16 | MASISA 965.8 886.5 SALES (US$ Millions) 743.4 5,240 5,234 4,782 EMPLOYEES 324 300 274 PLACACENTROS 2005 2006 2007 HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 2007 2005 2003 A binding agreement is signed to sell 90% of its In November Masisa increased its participation in ForThe company Terranova S.A. becomes the legal conshareholding participation in Forestal Argentina S.A., estal Tornagaleones S.A., from 60.45% to 94.91%. tinuation of the companies Forestal Terranova S.A., 80% to Los Boldos S.A. and 10% to GrupoNueva In October Forestal Tornagaleones increased its Andinos S.A., and Sociedad Forestal Millalemu S.A. S.A. Masisa places bonds for UF 2,500,000. shareholding participation in Forestal Argentina S.A., Masisa takes on the management of the operations In September, the Board of Directors approved the from 50.10% to 98.68% through the purchase of an of Fibranova C.A., Venezuelan affiliate of Terranova, construction of a Medium Density Particleboard accrued shareholding minority interest of 48.58% for which own a particle wood board plant and an MDF (MDP) wood boards plant in Montenegro, in the approximately US$24.3 million. Masisa successfully Plant in Puerto Ordaz. state of Rio Grande do Sul, (Brazil). The industrial finalized a capital increase implying the issue of Masisa starts its operations of an MDF moldings line investment is of US$119 million. The start-up of the 622.5 million new shares that allowed collecting in Argentina. MDF Plant is initiated in Cabrero (Chile), which has funds for US$ 117.37 million. an annual capacity of 340 thousand m³. 2002 In December, Masisa and Louisiana-Pacific South Terranova and Masisa Forestal Terranova S.A. sells to Masonite InternaAmerica S.A., subscribed a binding agreement tendIn May the shareholders of Terranova S.A. and those tional Corporation the overall total of its shareholding ing towards the sale of part of Masisa to LP of the of the old Masisa S.A approve the merger of both participation in its related company Fibermold S.A. 75% of the Oriented Strand Board (“OSB”) struccompanies by means of the incorporation of the old Simultaneously, Terranova Internacional S.A. sold to tural wood board plant located in the industrial comMasisa S.A in and with Terranova S.A.. Similarly, the the same company, the overall total of its shareholdplex of Ponta Grossa, (Brazil). change of name of the merged company is approved ing participation in its related company Premdor from Terranova S.A. to Masisa S.A. México S.A. de C.V. 2006 Terranova S.A. inscribes its ADR program in the SeTerranova acquires the total number of shares that Masisa places bonds in the market local for UF curities and Exchange Commission of the United Maspanel S.A. owned in Masisa S.A., equal to the 4,750,000. States (SEC). 43.16% of the shareholding equity, with which ForThe company’s new strategic plan that will be develestal Terranova increased its participation in Masisa oped in the next few years is approved. The main 2004 from 8.7% to 51.9%, going on to become the conpoints agreed to are the definition of the main busiThe Boards of Directors of Terranova S.A. and Matrolling shareholder of Masisa S.A. ness, the establishment of a new competitive stratsisa S.A. agree to propose to their respective shareMasisa acquires an agglomerate wood boards plant egy, and a financial and investment plan according holders the merger by means of incorporation of Main Durango, Mexico. Masisa Ecuador S.A. and Mato the established plans and objectives. sisa S.A. in and with Terranova S.A. sisa Partes y Piezas Ltda. are also created. Masisa duplicates the capacity of MDF moldings in Argentina. In Chile operations start for an MDF moldings line with a capacity of 36,000 m3 annually. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 17 2001 In Venezuela the affiliates Andinos C.A. and Fibra1993 Terranova Venezuela finishes its construction, beginnova C.A. were incorporated. The first one starts Masisa begins to be quoted in the New York Stock ning the sawmill start-up and the wood boards plant. with the construction of a sawmill and a drying plant. Exchange (hereinafter NYSE), through its ADR proTerranova Brazil starts its activities and Terranova In December, the Canadian company Premdor, Inc., gram. Internacional S.A. materializes the purchase of its became part of the ownership of Fibermold S.A., forestry assets in Venezuela to the company Manuthrough its Chilean affiliate Premdor S.A. 1992 facturas de Papel S.A. In addition, it incorporates Commercial affiliates were incorporated in Mexico, The international expansion plan of Masisa begins, Forestal Terranova Guatemala S.A., CommercializaCosta Rica and Colombia. with the creation of Masisa Argentina. dora T&T C.A. and Masnova de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Masisa Argentina starts the operations of its thin 1997 1989 MDF plant, with a capacity of 120,000 m³/year. MaMaderas y Sintéticos del Peru S.A.C., is created in The affiliate Químicos Coronel is created for the supsisa do Brazil begins its operations of the OSB plant order to commercialize Masisa’s products. ply of adhesive resins. in Latin America, with an annual capacity of The companies Terranova de Venezuela C.A. and 300,000 m³/year. Terranova Brazil Ltda., are incorporated through 1984 which the forest plantations are acquired and the Masisa acquires Maderas y Paneles S.A., producer 2000 development of the industrial projects begins. of agglomerate wood boards, leader at the time in MASISA ends the construction of the Terranova BraChile. zil plant and the moldings plant of Terranova Forest 1996 Products, Inc., beginning its start-up process. ForMasisa starts the production of MDF in Chile in the 1970 estal Terranova S.A. sells to Masisa S.A. the overall industrial complex of Mapal. The affiliate Terranova Masisa starts to be traded in the Santiago, Chile total of its shareholding participation in its affiliate Forest Products, Inc., is created and Terranova InterStock Exchange. Fibranova S.A., located in Cabrero. nacional S.A. is incorporated in order to develop inIn January 2001, Forestal Terranova S.A. has access dustrial projects related to the exploitation and com1968 to a participation of 8.798% of the above company. mercialization of products derived from the forestry Masisa acquires its competitor Maderas AglomeraMasisa acquires Fibranova S.A., Chilean competitor business. das Pinihue S.A. in MDF (actual Cabrero Plant). Masisa Brazil starts the operations of its MDF plant, with an annual ca1995 1967 pacity of 240,000 m³, in the new industrial complex Continuing on with the expansion in Latin America, MaThe affiliate Forestal Tornagaleones is created, dediof Ponta Grossa. sisa do Brazil Ltda., as well as Forestal Argentina S.A., cated to the sowing and administration of forest affiliate of Forestal Tornagaleones S.A. are created. plantations. 1999 Through its affiliate Terranova Internacional S.A., the 1994 1965 company acquired 50% of the Mexican company Masisa Argentina starts the operations of its agglomThe operation of the plant in Valdivia starts, producPremdor Mexico S.A. de C.V., in order to have acerate wood board plant, becoming the pioneers in ing veneer, doors and tulip wood. cess to the Latin American doors market. that country. One year later operations of its MDF In September Oxinova C.A., in Venezuela was incorplant start. 1960 porated. Similarly, the construction of the new sawForestal Terranova S.A. becomes the parent comThe company “Maderas Aglomeradas Ltda.” was mill of Andinos S.A. was started in Cabrero, Chile. pany for the three forestry companies, exercising the incorporated, which later became Masisa, the first administration of Sociedad Forestal Millalemu S.A., producer of agglomerate wood boards in Chile. 1998 Andinos S.A. and Fibranova S.A. Masisa acquires from its Chilean competitor of agAt the end of this year, Compañía de Inversiones glomerate wood boards, Tableros Nobel S.A., affiliate Suizandina S.A. reached a 45% shareholding parof its competitor Infodema S.A. ticipation of Terranova. In Charleston, South Carolina, United States, the molding plant and a distribution center started being developed. MASISA operates under alignments that govern the relations with its shareholders, and stakeholders, through practices of equity, accountability and integrity in order to promote compliance of the company’s Vision, bussines Principles and its Triple Result Strategy. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Counting on a good Corporate Government for MASISA promotes the DIRECTORS efficient and effective management of its resources in order to maximize value for its shareholders and stakeholders long-term. Roberto Salas Guzmán, Chairman1 Economist, Universidad Católica de Guayaquil, Ecuador Programa de Desarrollo Gerencial Kellogg (Ecuador Management Development Program), cORPORATE GOVERNMENT Business School Program of Advanced Management Wharton Business School STRUcTURE Passport: 080051385-5 Ronald Jean Degen, Vice-Chairman Electric Engineer BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mauá School of Engineering, Sao Paulo Brasil Post-graduate degree in Automation, ETHZ, Zürich, Suiza The Board of Directors was appointed on June 6, 2005 for a statutory three-year MBA, University of Michigan, United States period, and is the highest administrating entity of the company and represents RUT: 21.727.243-2 the interests of all the shareholders and stakeholders, independently from who chose its members. Antonio Tuset Jorratt, Director – Business Administration Greater and Auditing Accountant, Universidad de Chile The Board of Directors is formed by seven members appointed by the Regular Post-graduate Degree in Philosophy, Universidad of the Andes, Chile Shareholders’ Meeting, of which five board members, including the Chairman or RUT: 4.566.169-5 Vice-Chairman were appointed with the votes of the controlling shareholder GrupoNueva and the two independent board members were appointed with the Carlos Marín Olalla, Director2 votes of the minority shareholders (Enrique Seguel and Antonio Tuset), fundaBusiness Administration Mayor, School of Business of Valparaíso, mentally the Chilean Pension Fund Administrating Companies. Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, Chile MBA, Stanford University, United States RUT: 8.412.209-2 For MASISA the independent board members have a very relevant role. They form part with the absolute majority the Board of Directors Committee, entity that Enrique Seguel Morel, Director has the faculties of control and they participate in the Audit and Compensations Chilean Army General (r) Committee. MBA, ESADE, Barcelona, Spain RUT: 3.116.588-1 The MASISA General Manager is appointed by the Board of Directors. The fundamental role of the Board of Directors is to approve the company strategy and Jorge Carey Tagle, Director monitor its compliance. No member of Board of Directors holds positions in the Attorney, Universidad Católica de Chile, operational administration of the company. Master of Comparative Jurisprudence, New York University, United States RUT: 4.103.027-5 Juan Carlos Méndez González, Director Agronomist Engineer, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile (PUC) Masters in Agricultural Economy PUC, Chile. Master of Arts in Economics, University of Chicago, United States RUT: 4.402.519-1 First Row: Enrique Seguel Morel, Jorge Carey Tagle, Antonio Tuset Jorratt, Ronald Jean Degen Bottom Row: Carlos Marín Olalla, Enrique Cibié Bluth, Roberto Salas Guzmán, Juan Carlos Méndez González COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE This committee was created in April 2001, and its Created in June 2005 it is formed by Antonio This committee is formed by Enrique Seguel members are as follows: Enrique Seguel (ChairTuset (Chairman), Enrique Seguel, Ronald (Chairman), Antonio Tuset, Ronald Jean Degen man), Antonio Tuset and Juan Carlos Méndez Jean Degen and Carlos Marín³. Among other and Carlos Marín³. Its functions are listed as (the first two are Board Members appointed with functions, the Audit Committee is responsible follows: approve the compensation paid to the the votes of the minority shareholders). This comfor assuring the integrity of the financial stateMASISA General Manager, review the level of mittee reviews the financial statements and the ments, it reviews the accounting policies, safewages of each second line executive along with external audit reports, proposes the external auguards the legal compliance of the company, the composition of the compensations strucditors and the risk rating agencies – which are evaluates annually the external auditor in its ture, criteria for the payment of variable bonusappointed annually in the Shareholders’ Meeting function, its fees, independence and qualificaes, benefits associated to the job position and -, its evaluates transactions with related parties tions, evaluates possible claims and lawsuits other retention strategies for key personnel. and the transactions in which a director, comand the strategies in order to manage such pany manager or main executive has interests, risks. This committee is the one in charge of REVIEW COMMITTEE and advises regarding the compensations paid to supervising and managing the Chief Auditing the top company executives. Officer. This committee is formed MASISA’s corporate executives: Enrique Cibié (Chief Executive Officer, who chairs the committee), Eugenio Arteaga (Chief Financial Officer), Patricio Reyes (General Counsel), Juan Carlos Araya 1. In Board of Directors Session No. 156, dated November 28, 2007 the Director Julio Moura presented his resignation, effective and in (Corporate Controller) and Luis Zúñiga (Chief force starting from December 19, 2007. Julio Moura was also serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the company. At that same Auditing Officer). This committee is responinstance Roberto Salas was appointed as Director, effective and in force starting from December 19, 2007. Afterwards, at Board of Directors Session No. 157 dated December 19, 2007, Roberto Salas was appointed as Chairman of the Board of Directors. sible for supporting the General Manager and the Chief Financial Officer, regarding the issue 2. In Board of Directors Session No. 156 dated November 28, 2007 the Director Patrick Nielson, presented his resignation effective and in force starting from December 19, 2007. At that same instance Carlos Marín Olalla was appointed as Director, effective and in force starting of information that the companies makes pubfrom December 19, 2007 lic to the market and its public stakeholders. 3. Starting December 19, 2007. 20 | MASISA SELF-EVALUATION PROCESS OF RISK MANAGEMENT THE DIRECTORS MASISA has a formal risk management process Each year a self-evaluation performance proas support for complying with its strategic obcess is carried out by the Board of Directors as jectives. The management and risk evaluation the directing entity of the company. The selfprocess is led by the Corporate Internal Audit evaluation is backed by formal processes with Unit, through a methodology and support tool scopes and manner of qualification that have called “Risk Management System” (“SAR”, acbeen previously defined. The Chairman of the cording to its acronym in Spanish for Sistema Board of Directors is responsible for leading the de Administración de Riesgos), which provides self-evaluation process. a common focus, structured and based on prevention, in order to back and support ManageMANAGEMENT ment in its decision making process. Management has the primary responsibility for This process comprises all the business risks, the design, dissemination, follow-up, effectiveamong them, risk evaluation for the social and ness and updating of the Corporate Governenvironmental dimension completely aligned ment Strategy. It is assisted by the corporate with the Company’s Triple Bottom Line Strategy. functional and operational levels and provides leadership and establishes the necessary paThe risk management methodology and its rameters in order to assure an adequate and monitoring is the accountability of the Comeffective control environment at all levels, being pany’s Board of Directors, supported by the directly involved in order to achieve the planned Audit Committee, to which the Internal Corpoobjectives. The compliance of such roles is carrate Audit Unit reports in order to assure inderied out through adequate internal control propendence in its evaluations. cesses that include periodic meetings with the key teams and visits to the countries and business units where MASISA has operations. The level of authority exercised by Management is the one formally delegated by the Board of Directors through the Authority Delegation Policy. In order to support the board members and the Audit Committee in the complete, timely and adequate issue of the company’s financial information towards its public stakeholders, the company instituted the aforementioned Disclosure Committee. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 21 GOVERNANCE AND TRANSPARENCY PRACTICES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE USE OF PRIVILEGED CLAIMS CHANNEL INFORMATION In November 2007, MASISA become the first MASISA has communication channels for diChilean company to issue its Corporate GoverMASISA has a formal policy and procedures for rect or anonymous claims related with the obnance Code formally approved by the Compahandling and publishing information that could servation of its Entrepreneurial Principles, Ethiny’s Board of Directors. The objective of this affect the price of the shares, as well as also for cal Conduct Code, Conflicts of Interest and any Code is to formalize the governance practices information regarding the transactions of finanother related topic that entails a possible reguand validate compliance with all applicable lecial instruments carried out by people who latory non-compliance, in its internal control gal requirements in matters pertaining to good have privileged information. In such policy, environment, its financial statements and situagovernance. MASISA limits the number of people having tions or facts that require the attention of Manaccess to privileged information and minimizes agement and/or the Board of Directors. HANDLING OF CONFLICT OF the time that elapses between the generation INTERESTS and the disclosure of such information. A timely, independent, confidential analysis is assured for all claims filed without any reperMASISA has a formal process for the handling RELATIONS WITH INVESTORS (IR) cussions for the parties issuing such claims of situations which could involve a potential through structured and monitored processes conflict between the interests of its employees MASISA has taken on the commitment of delivby the company’s Audit Committee. and those of the company. Any potential conering to the investors community all relevant flict is channeled through the Legal Corporate information, in the quickest and most transparCounsel for its adequate treatment according to ent manner possible, always taking care to Claims received during 2007 the internal company alignments and legislation maintain the highest levels of integrity and comStatus Number in force. plying with the Corporate Governance goals1. Received 24 In order to guarantee the adequate knowledge Solved 21 and administration of matters that could origiIm process 3 nate conflict of interests, the Board Members and employees annually subscribe – or every 1. On February 20, 2008 and in order to reduce its operational time any change is produced related to what expenses, the Board of Directors of MASISA decided to delist from the New York Stock Exchange its American Deposit Shares has been previously informed -, regarding their (hereinafter “ADSs”), terminate its ADR’s program and seek to deregister its securities before the US SEC (“Securities and External Channels Available: businesses, activities, or main investments in Exchange Commission”). which they have interests, whether directly or In writing addressed in a confidential envelope through any of their related people. It is important to underscore that MASISA will maintain the high to: The Secretary of the Audit Committee, at the Corporate Governance Standards that characterize the company. Corporate Offices of MASISA S.A. Similarly, the relations and communications with investors and Av. Apoquindo 3650, 10th floor, Las Condes, other stakeholders will continue to be in charge of the professional Santiago, Chile. team of MASISA’s Investor Relations in a systematic and transparent manner. The Quarterly Telephone Conferences on Results, Press Through Internet: Releases on Quarterly Results and the Press Releases of a general nature will be maintained in English. E-mail addressed to: principios@masisa.com MASISA | 22 MAIN ShAREhOLdERS MASISA’s shares are trade in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Stock Exchange of Santiago Chile, the Stock Exchange of Valparaiso and the Electronic Stock Exchange of Chile. As of December 31, 2007 the corporate equity of MASISA S.A. was divided into 5,667,750,881 shares. The main shareholders are GrupoNueva S.A., investment companies, Pension Fund Administrating Companies (AFP), foreign investors through the ADRs system and investment funds. The controlling shareholder of MASISA S.A. is the Chilean company GrupoNueva S.A., owner of 53.31% of the shareholding equity of MASISA (31.10% in a direct manner and 22.21% indirectly through of its Chilean affiliate Inversiones Forestales Los Andes S.A.)¹. The main 12 shareholders of the subscribed and paid-in capital having Main Shareholders the right to vote up to December 31, 2007, are as follows: Chilean Pension Name or Trade Name N° of Shares Participation GRUPONUEVA Fund Companies 53.3% (AFPs) GRUPO NUEVA S.A. 1,762,466,482 31.10% 24.5% INVERSIONES FORESTALES LOS ANDES S.A. 1,258,801,116 22.21% AFP PROVIDA S.A.² 399,585,981 7.05% AFP HABITAT S.A.² 367,291,423 6.48% Citibank Chile Cta.de Terceros Cap.XIV Res 318,301,309 5.62% AFP CUPRUM S.A.² 303,956,792 5.36% The Bank of New York according to newsletter No 1375 of the SVS 259,556,782 4.58% Others 12.0% AFP SANTA MARÍA S.A.² 142,430,233 2.51% AFP BANSANDER S.A.² 120,196,769 2.12% Others AFP PLANVITAL S.A.² 52,906,887 0.93% International ADRs 5.6% MONEDA SA AFI PARA PIONERO FONDO DE INVERSION 50,043,000 0.88% 4.6% COMGEST GROWTH PLC-COMGEST GROWTH EMERGI 50,000,000 0.88% 1. Dated March 20, 2008, GN Inversiones Limitada, a company related with GrupoNueva, acquired 700 million shares of MASISA, with which GrupoNueva increased its participation as a company controller in 65%. 2. AFP includes the A, B, C and D Funds. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 23 cORPORATE STRUcTURE Inversiones Inversiones Internacionales Calle-Calle S.A. (Chile) Terranova S.A. (Chile) 50.00% 60.00% 25.12% 94.91% 100.00% 74.88% Masisa Masisa USA, Inc. Forestal Overseas Ltd. Tornagaleones S.A. (Chile) (Cayman Island) 98.68% 1.32% 99.99% Masisa Madeiras Ltda. Forestal 98.00% Masisa 2.00% (Brasil) Argentina S.A. Argentina S.A. 1.6093% 80.71% Masisa Colombia S.A. 98.3907% 19.28% Masisa do Brazil Ltda. 100.00% Fibranova C.A. (Venezuela) 99.90% 0.10% Masisa Ecuador S.A. 100.00% Corporación Forestal 99.80% Masisa Partes y 0.20% Imataca C.A. (Venezuela) Piezas Ltda. (Chile) 100.00% Andinos C.A. (Venezuela) 99.11% Maderas y Sintéticos 0.89% del Perú S.A.C. 85.00% Corporación Forestal 99.00% Maderas y Sintéticos 1.00% Guayamure C.A. (Venezuela) Servicios S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) 99.99% Forestal Terranova 99.9999% 0.0001% México S.A. de C.V. 0.01% Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de C.V. 0.01% 100.00% Terranova Terranova de Panamá S.A. Venezuela S.A. 99.99% 100.00% C.C Mas S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) 99.95% 49.00% Oxinova C.A.* (Venezuela) Consorcio Forestal Venezolano S.A. (Coforven) 50.00% Masnova de México 50.00% S.A. de C.V. * Dated January 31, 2008, Fibranova C.A. acquired from Oxiquim Inversiones Internacionales Limitada 51% of the shareholding participation that the last mentioned company had in Oxinova, Masisa S.A. then going on to control 100% of Oxinova C.A. 24 | MASISA MASISA | 24 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 25 BUSINESS STRATEGY 26 | MASISA BUSINESS STRATEGY The main business is the production and 64,960 ha. native forests commercialization of wood boards for furniture. Other Business Units are 48,622 ha. lands to be planted considered to be synergic to the central business unit. Forestry 23,257 ha. other lands 241,685 hectares planted Secu re wood fiber supply Solid Wood3 Wood byproducts Wood Board FJ Mouldings 168,000 m³ MDF Mouldings 168,400 m³ Doors 42,000 m³ Sawnwood 707,000 m³ Particle Board 871,500 m³ (1) OSB 300,000 m³ (2) MDF 1,440,000 m³ Retail Dema P ri nd g cing ene n& (1) Does not incluye the new plant announced that will produce tor o ati ra 750,000 m³ annually of PB in Brazil (Montenegro). IP osit ment ions eg MASISA brand I S (2) In December 2007 a sales agreement was signed for 75% of the OSB plant of 300,000 m³ annually in Brazil, with Louisiana Pacific. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 27 BUSINESS STRATEGY VALUE PROPOSAL: MASISA is MORE REALIABLE QUALITY, INNOVATION AND CLOSENESS TO THE CLIENT trust MASISA has demonstrated the capacity to quickly generate trust in the market it services. Despite existing opportunities for improvement, the market recognizes MASISA the best service alternative and, differently from its competitors, MASISA is distinguished for the way it relates to brand value its customers. The company develops innovative products in wood board designs and colors and this offer allows creating customer loyalty and increasing their interest, making greater the consumption of the MASISA products. The enviromental social channels strategy focuses on developing new sales points (Placacenresponsibility responsibility tros), which allows the company to develop the market, break out sales and generate loyalty by a significant number of customers. corporate culture CAPITALIZE THE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES IN LATIN AMERICA The company deems that the growing use of wood boards in the furnicloseness innovation quality ture industry in Latin America, in combination with the unsatisfied housto clients ing demand in the countries of the region, will be a source of growth in the future. Based in these growth perspectives, MASISA is evaluating the construction of new industrial plants and consolidation opportunities basic pillars of the industry. The company plans to capture the growth opportunities in the region through its differentiation strategy and its Placacentros netMASISA’s value proposal is to become a reliable brand, close to work to consolidate its leadership position in the wood boards industry all its public, which anticipates market needs by means of for furniture in Latin America. innovation in products and services and that operates in a responsible manner with society and the environment. EXPAND AND STRENGTHEN THE DISTRIBUTION CHAIN MASISA works close to its customers to offer them solutions and satisfy their needs. The company attempts to continue developing the MASISA COMMITMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Placacentros program in Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay, Colombia, Venezuela and Uruguay, and extend the PlacacenMASISA seeks to also be differentiated in the market starting from leadtro center to new countries. In addition, the company plans to strengthership in adequate social and environmental management, MASISA en the products mix offered in its Placacentros network through the inwants to be reliable for all its stakeholders, and has the inspiration that corporation of solid wood products, sawn wood and other products and its operations and businesses will positively impact the communities and services related with the furniture industry. The MASISA USA Inc. distridirect and indirect employees where it operates. bution channels in the United States will also be used to sell MDF moldings, finger joint moldings, OSB wood boards and solid wood doors. MASISA 28 | MASISA | 28 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 29 MANAGEMENT REPORT MASISA | 30 The consolidated revenue of the company as of december 31, 2007 amounted to US$ 965.8 million, 8.9% greater than the prior year. fINANcIAL RESULTS Balance Sheet OPERATING RESULTS (US$ MILLIONS) US$ Millions 2007 2006 2007 2006 Variance % Current Assets 500.2 475.4 Revenues 965.8 886.5 8.9% Cash and Cash Equivalents 38.0 47.0 Operating Costs (722.5) (679.0) 6.4% Accounts Receivable from Third Parties 164.8 154.1 Operating Margin 243.3 207.6 17.2% Accounts Receivable from Related Companies 7.3 7.4 % over sales 25.19% 23.41% Inventory 212.5 185.8 Overhead and Sales Expenses (136.5) (124.0) 10.1% Other Current Assets 77.6 81.1 % over sales -14.14% -13.98% Fixed Assets 1,702.4 1,557.3 Operating Results 106.8 83.6 27.7% Lands 165.1 142.8 Profit for the Period 41,1 29,5 39.3% Machinery and Equipment 857.5 849.3 Depreciation + Amortization 51.3 51.0 0.7% Other Fixed Assets (includes plantations) 1,144.0 984.8 Consumption own Raw Material (1) 18.4 19.2 -3.8% Accrued Depreciation (464.2) (419.5) Generation of Operating Cash Flow (GCO) (2) 176.6 153.7 14.8% Other Assets 8.9 (16.4) % over sales 18.28% 17.34% TOTAL ASSETS 2,211.5 2,016.3 Profit per Share (US$) 0.0072 0.0052 39.3% Current Liabilities 387.3 267.3 Profit per ADS (US$) 0 0.36 0.26 39.3% Financial Debt 221.4 151.3 (1) CMPP: Correspond to the costs per forestry assets recognized during the year and that were disbursed in prior years (activated). Accounts Payable from Third Parties 77.2 55.0 (2) Generation of Operating Cash Flow = Operating Revenue + Depreciation + Amortization + CMPP Accounts Payable from Related Companies 7.5 5.5 Others Short-Term 81.3 55.6 Long-Term 537.3 542.1 Financial Debt 423.2 445.1 Others Long-Term 114.1 97.0 Minority Interest 14.8 20.6 cONSOLIdATEd SALES (US$MILLIONS) Equity 1,272.0 1,186.4 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,211.5 2,016.3 965.8 te 14 % 886.5 ro wth ra CONSOLIDATED SALES PER PRODUCT nual g 743.5 und an Compo 651.0 Sales Sales US$ Millions Thousands of M3 480.1 2007 2006 Variance % 2007 2006 Variance % Wood Boards 656.8 555.4 18.3% 1,927.7 1,961.8 -1.7% Moldings, sawn wood and doors 225.3 271.7 -17.1% 602.0 734.3 -18.0% 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Wood chips 48.9 42.7 14.6% 1,448.2 1,426.4 1.5% Others 34.9 16.7 108.5% 718.1 995.3 -27.8% 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 31 CONSOLIDATED SALES OPERATING RESULTS lower performance in the Solid Wood Business Unit, affected by the contraction of the conThe consolidated revenue of the company Operating results increased approximately struction sector in the United States, main taras of December 31, 2007 amounted to 27.7% in comparison to 2006, totaling get market for the products pertaining to this US$ 965.8 million, 8.9% greater than the US$ 106.8 million as of December 31, 2007. Business Unit. prior year. This better operating result is mainly explained by the following: NON-OPERATING RESULT The main factors that explain this growth in • Greater sales levels, mainly fostered by the sales are as follows: growth in MDF wood board sales and agThe non-operating result showed a decline of • Growth of 24.4% in MDF wood board sales. glomerate, which observed an increase in US$ 10.3 million. The main factors that explain We underscore the positive performance in their prices (23.0% and 17.4% respectively), the change in non-operating results are as folsales terms in practically all the Latin Amerikeeping their volumes relative stable. lows: can markets, with the exception of Mexico • Greater gross margin as a percentage of • Reduction of the financial revenue of and Chile, where there was a decline obsales due to the success of the commercial US$ 4.4 million, due to the lower level of served mainly related to the lack of availabilstrategies adopted by the company, which short-term financial investments kept during ity of wood boards in the first case, and with allowed more than transferring to prices the 2007 in comparison to 2006. lower sales to molding customers due to the increase in costs, both in the production of • Increase of other non-operating disbursecrisis in the real estate sector in the United wood boards (mainly resin and wood), as ments for US$ 4.4 million mainly explained States, in the second. The increase in MDF well as in the production of solid wood prodby the closing of the Charleston Plant (United wood board sales can be underlined in Brazil ucts (mainly wood and personnel expenses States) and by the expenses associated to and Venezuela, where sales grew 27.5% and due to the appreciation of local currencies). reductions in the production levels in the Sol77.8%, respectively. • Overhead expenses and sales that were id Wood Business Unit in Chile. • Increase in sales of particle wood board in all kept stable at levels of 14% as the proporthe Latin American markets, with the only tion of sales. NET PROFIT exception of Mexico. We can underline the growth in sales in Chile, Venezuela and ArGENERATION OF OPERATING CASH FLOW The net profit reached US$ 41.1 million, 39.3% gentina, where there was a growth of 12.7%, greater than the US$ 29.5 million of 2006, funda23.3% and 19.0%, respectively. During 2007, the generation operating cash mentally due to the good performance of the main • Decline in the sales of our solid wood prodflow reached US$ 176.6 million, 14.8% greater business, i.e. the Wood Boards Business Unit. ucts in the United States, with the exception than what was generated during the prior year. of solid wood doors, due to the strong conThe greater generation of cash flow is mainly traction of the construction sector in such due to the excellent performance of the Wood market. Boards Business Unit, the main company business, which allowed more than offsetting the MASISA | 32 DIRECT AND INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS POLICY, PRACTICES AND PROPORTION OF EXPENSES CORRESPONDING TO LOCAL SUPPLIERS LOCALES IN PLACES MASISA generated direct employment for a total of 5,074 people in WHERE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS ARE DEVELOPED 2007 and 5,241 people in 2006. The total payment for wages and benefits in 2006 was of US$ 58.6 million and of US$ 64.5 million in 2007. MASISA seeks that contracting, sub-contracting companies and suppliIn 2006 and 2007 we paid approximately US$ 995 million and US$ 912 ers comply with all the labor and legal norms in administrating their conmillion to our suppliers, respectively. tracts, particularly in what refers to the people who work on their own in the company installations. The profits of MASISA in 2006 and 2007 were of US$ 29.5 million and US$ 41.1 million, respectively and as a whole the set of governments in The activities involved in the management of contractors are as follows: the countries where MASISA has operations, received contributions in a) Application of the MASISA’s Vision, Mission, Values, Leadership Brand taxes for US$ 31.3 million in 2006 and US$ 67.6 million in 2007. and Entrepreneurial Principles. b) Compliance of labor and environmental legislation, as well as financial MASISA’s social accountability is not philanthropic or donation-type acand taxing control. tivities, but rather they form part of the normal cost of operations. Howc) Control of information, roles and responsibilities of the parties that inever, we do maintain some philanthropic activities that received donateract with contractors, evaluation, training and development of the tions in money and / or products for US$ 320,660 in 2006 and US$ contract administrators, audit, commercial ethics, commitment and 266,309 in 2007. labor relations with contractors. d) Optimizing the management of contracting companies through the resolution of conflicts, complaints, awards and fines. DIRECT AND INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS US$ Millions DESCRIPTION 2006 2007 2007 BILLING AND COLLECTION SALES DEBTORS $ 1,230.899 $ 1,188.447 Country % of expense corresponding to local suppliers PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS $ 995.161 $911.903 Venezuela 96.89% TOTAL PERSONNEL EXPENSES $ 58.6 $ 64.5 Brazil 94.50% MONETARY FLOWS TO CAPITAL SUPPLIERS CREDITORS – INTERESTS(*) $ 554.5 $ 397.6 Chile 89.44% MONETARY FLOW TO CAPITAL SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS $ 11.5 $ 12.4 Argentina 84.86% TAXES PAID (**) $ 31.3 $ 67.6 SUBSIDIES $0 $ 0.028 Mexico 44.48% DONATIONS CARRIED OUT $ 0.320 $ 0.266 Colombia 40.73% TOTAL Employees 10,247 9,913 Ecuador 25.45% DIRECT Employees 5,241 5,074 Peru 21.02% INDIRECT employees 5,006 4,679 USA 10.76% (*)They correspond to the interests paid + the payment of loans and obligations with the pubic + the payment of capitalized interests. (**)They correspond to paid income taxes + value added taxes and other similar taxes paid. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 33 BRAND MANAGEMENT MASISA is MORE RELIABLE CLOSENESS TO CUSTOMERS We seek to anticipate service and satisfy the needs of our customers in MASISA’s BRAND IMAGE ACCORDING TO MOST VALUED ATTRIBUTES BY CUSTOMERS line with a long-term commercial strategy. Masisa Main competitor level of excellence During 2007 MASISA developed different value proposals for its direct customers -Placacentros, furniture industrial clients, large stores and Argentina surfaces within the framework of a channel strategy that will be the base for its commercial activities during the coming future. Brazil This segment-type focus privileges better customer service and a greater approach to the reality of the company’s customers, as well as greater Chile and quicker understanding of their expectations and needs. Colombia A recent brand image study performed in December 2007, confirmed that MASISA is the leader manufacturer of wood boards in terms of Ecuador brand recognition in Latin America. The graph shows a comparison of MASISA with the main competitor for each market. The variables meaMexico sured are the most valued attributes for customers, such as closeness, quality, innovation and responsibility towards the environment. Peru The preference of our end customers due to environmental issues was Venezuela reflected in surveys in all countries and in the United States, in addition special interest was expressed for FSC certified products. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Source: Penta Research 2006/2007 The result shows that MASISA’s position is of excellence in some markets and being ahead of the competition within most markets. The diagnosis at the end of 2006 is that MASISA shows gaps in some markets in comparison with the equivalent benchmark levels of other industries. In wood board producers industry, which at a general level shows a medium to low perception of satisfaction, MASISA reaches good relative rankings. Therefore, the challenge is to position MASISA as a brand of excellence in achieving its commitments and in continuing to generate trust and closeness to its customers. 34 | MASISA In the above respect, and under the Perfect number OF PLACACENTROS Order Project, several initiatives are being de325 Other Countries veloped: 300 Venezuela • Selection of the metrix OTIF as one of the 275 Colombia customer service indicators. It measures the 250 Ecuador compliance of the commercial commitments 225 Peru in terms of deadlines and volume. The sales, 200 production and dispatch and support areas 175 Argentina such as finance and planning participate 150 directly. Brazil 125 • Product Quality Project, which comprises 100 five relevant topics: Mexico 75 Technical Specifications 50 Standards 25 Chile Measurement and Control Methodology 0 Packing 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Management Analysis • Standardized complaints management system for the customers of the Wood boards The owners and operators of these stores • New contract similar to a franchise. In order and Retail Business Units in the eight counreceive training and technical assistance to approach in a more efficient and integrattries that commercialize MASISA’s wood from MASISA, both in terms of products and ed manner challenges and future opportuniboards. Currently the complaints procedure applications, as well as in the handling of the ties, MASISA and the Placacentros started in is successfully implemented and operating sales point and commercialization tech2007, signing a new contract that leads toin Argentina and Chile. It is expected that it niques, thus increasing the business result wards a renewed value proposal that will rewill be executed at the start of 2008 in Braand maximizing the productivity of carpeninforce the positioning of the Placacentros zil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Mexico and ters and small contractors. Network as “one-stop shopping fitting all the Venezuela. needs of the furniture maker”. This new busiDuring 2007 the following initiatives were started ness model sets forth the grounds for the In reference to the Placacentros, which are in order to achieve closeness to our customers: future development of the network. mainly focused towards the small and mid-size • Development of the Network and Format: • Placacentro Operations Manual: The manual furniture manufacturers, they offer an extensive Opening of new stores and the rationalization was implemented in 2007 in the network variety of wood boards, solid wood, accessories of stores that have low potential. In order to stores, adhering to the new franchise conand services. A key aspect has been the includevelop the best format of sales outlets in the tract. It is a training and control tool for the sion of services related with furniture manufacbest locations, during 2007 MASISA continbest management practices when operating turing, such as the Design Centers, the optiued to develop its distribution network Placaa Placacentro, collected throughout our opmized cutting of wood boards, placement of centro, present in ten countries of Latin erations in Latin America and comprises all border covers (moldings) and hinges, home America. The network began in 1992 with business aspects. The implementation of dispatch, accessories and technical talks, the opening of seven stores in Chile. At the the Operations Manual seeks to provide valamong others. end of 2006 the Placacentros network was ue added to the franchise owner in pursuit formed by 300 outlets in 10 countries, and as of commercial and operational objectives of December 31, 2007 that was a total of 324 –sales /profitability and image-, obtaining stores. The company will increase its network the ISO 9001 certification of the Placacenin approximately 20 new outlets during 2008. tros which require so, as well as improve2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 35 STRUCTURE OF PLACACENTROS centros, implemented per country and ad• New Offer Mix for the Products and Services ministrated in a centralized manner by Goal: In order to maximize the sale of the MASISA, has the support of a central comPlacacentros Network through a speciallicense similar to a franchise mittee formed by a group of representatives ized, complete, competitive and innovative of the Placacentros owners. The Central Puroffer, during 2007 the implementation of a 348 chasing Unit supplies supplementary prodCategory Management process was started: 324 21% ucts for the furniture industry in a competiSystematic definition and review of the tive manner, enriching the offer through the products offer 49% on-going incorporation of the most and best Evaluation of the performance of each catproducts such as paints and lacquers, locks, egory and product (SKU) brackets and ironworks, tools and adhesives. Planning and definition of procurement and During 2007, the central purchasing units suppliers. During 2007, the methodology 79% were started-up in Mexico, Chile, Brazil, was applied to define the new “Goal Offer” 51% Peru, Ecuador and Colombia and its impleat the SKU level in all countries and it was mentation was started in Venezuela. extended to the rest of the channels, aligning its action plans to the Value Proposals. 2007 2008 Goal New Extranet Placacentros. This is the official • Supervision of the Placacentros “Welcome communications channel between MASISA and Clients”: During 2008, this tool will be apments in the quality and savings in times its Placacentros network. In 2007 commercial plied that seeks to increase and sustain at and costs, in addition to external training and operational management tools were incorthe individual level and throughout the netboth to the Placacentros personnel as well porated, as well as local and corporate news, work, compliance of critical operational stanas for the MASISA employees, focused on information on allied suppliers, and integration dards that determine the satisfaction of Cussales and marketing, in order to reinforce with external systems, among others. tomers in order to improve sales and the retail competencies. The implementation profitability. follows a standardized program to all Latin • Furniture Makers’ Training and Certification America and is, in turn, adapted to the realProgram: In order to develop demand, foster ity of each Placacentro and country. Excelsocial development and create customer lent reception was verified by Placacentro’s loyalty towards the network, during 2007 a owners and personnel, identifying improvetotal of 11,292 carpenters were trained. ments in their processes and a market par• Renewed Advertising and Promotions Proticipation and commitment of MASISA’s pergram: The Placacentros are a key piece in sonnel. The implementation of the MASISA’s marketing strategy which seeks to Operations Manual will continue during increase consumption per capita of its prod2008, covering 50% of the network. ucts, position its brand and create competi• Central Purchasing Unit: It seeks to increase tive advantages. In 2007 the wood board the offer potential of the Placacentros tosales through this channel represented apwards its customers, through the incorporaproximately 30.4% of the wood board contion of a great variety of products that are solidated sales (excluding wood boards exsupplementary to wood board in furniture ports), in comparison to the goral which was manufacturing, thus backing the commitof 26.8%. ment of having “one-stop shopping fitting all the needs of the furniture maker”. This consolidated purchasing network for the PlacaMASISA | 36 QUALITY ISO 9001 CERTIFICATIONS DESIGN AWARD: FURNITURE FOR SOCIAL During 2007 the MASISA companies have been dedicated towards obINTEREST HOUSES taining certification for its Quality Management Systems (SGC, according to its acronym in Spanish) under the ISO 9001:2000 Standard, which MASISA’s Design Contest seeks to empower the managehad been achieved by the affiliates of Argentina in 2001 and Brazil in ment of young future professionals and the development of 2006. These systems favor the definition, communication and underthe furniture industry among young talents. standing of the Quality Policy and the alignment of objectives, identification and management of key processes for the organization, and the orIn its 2007 version the additional challenge was included of dering and reliability of documentation. It will aid the company to generating innovative proposals for furniture that contribgenerate trust in terms of the conformance of commercialized products utes, through its design, the well-being of lower income famand improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its processes. ilies that live in social houses. In November 2007, MASISA Chile achieved the above certification, and The projects received from all Latin America were over 600, the affiliates of Ecuador, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela have started their demonstrating the great commitment of design and archiprior work in order to obtain their certification during 2008. tecture students, who, through their creativity and innovation contribute to the well-being of lower income families. Responsibility for the use of products: ED AND O DU C RE The international conclusion of the con con100% E-1 wood boards PR C E test was held under the framework of MAS BOARDS OM I SA ND the FOA House (Casa FOA), in Buenos MASISA only produces wood boards that Aires, Argentina, where the have low emissions of formaldehyde and winner was the has the Class E-1 certification according to EUROPEAN STANDARD “Kit Studio” Projthe European Standard granted by the Gerect from Chile. man Institute Entwicklungsund Prüflabor Holztechnologie GMBH – EPH, European notified Body 0766. Compliance with this standard is audited every six months in all the company plants and allows having the MASISA products comply with the demands of the State of California, United States, which will start to govern in January 2009. The formaldehyde resins (mainly ureaformaldehyde, phenol formaldehyde, only for outdoors wood boards) are used as adhesives to glue together the wood fiber and provide consistency to the wood board. In 2001 MASISA carried out a life cycle analysis of the wood board production with the collaboration of international experts such as the Institute GREENHOMETM of Occupational Medicine of Great Britain (http://www.iom-world.org/) and defined the control of formaldehyde emissions as the most relevant topic, Interior moldings manufactured with MASISA’s MDF were both in production as well as in the use of wood boards . chosen by the “National Mainstream GreenHomeTM” built by Cherokee Investments Partners in Raleigh, NC, MASISA controls compliance with the most demanding international stanfor having the SCS recycled content certification and for dards pertaining to the protection of its workers, and with the E-1 certificacomplying with the E1 low formaldehyde standard. tion, MASISA provides its customers with the confidence they need to use its products. A house was built to underscore adequate environmental practices for construction in the United States and demonstrate how traditional design can be integrated attracting a wide array of buyers and house builders in the States. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 37 MASISA’s customers have been informed on the benefits of using low ACKNOWLEDGING OUR CUSTOMERS formaldehyde emission wood boards, and many of them, such as Sony in Mexico and Todeschini in Brazil, preferably acquire MASISA’s prodMASISA USA worked in 2007 not only in its commitment ucts in order to assure their own customers’ trust. towards the Triple Bottom Line, but also on promoting environmental and social excellence in its customers. The Similarly, MASISA started efforts to achieve having all countries where MASISAGREENTM award was given in November 2007 to they operate count at least with technical standards that assure that the Alexandria Moulding, acknowledging the Canadian comproduction of wood boards is according to demanding international stanpany as an example of environmental and social practices. dards in terms of their emissions. During the last five years, a single Alexandria Moulding was the first international company complaint has been received from a client regarding the content of formon bringing FSC moldings to the Canadian Retail Market aldehyde in their wood boards. and shares with MASISA is commitment towards sustainable business practices. INNOVATION PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT INNOVATION AWARD MASISA is continuously being aware of the market’s opinion in order to During 2007, the contest “At MASISA we are creating valdevelop innovative and quality products. The commitment to be leadue” was developed, an initiative to detect innovative proers in the markets where it operates and of anticipating their needs by posals from MASISA’s ownemployees in order to generate means of the innovation in products and services, backs its vocation company value. for product development. Multi-tasking teams were formed for months who In 2007 corporate policies and procedures were developed and impleworked on drafting different projects, which totaled mented in the eight countries where MASISA is present for the good over 60 initiatives. handling and development of wood board products. At the beginning of 2008 all countries will be operating under this standardized framework. “The projects that have been selected for their implementation within the organization, add additional earnings for Under this innovation policy are the new developments that MASISA the company, for an approximate total of US$ 5 million anhas recently implemented. nually. These initiatives generate EVA hand in hand with • MASISA Brazil won the award “Best of the Best” for its innovation in the Triple Bottom Line, which is in line with our way of dothe development of highly technified products. Underscoring MAing business, that is why I invite you to continue being SISA’s product nature primer wood melamine covered board for furleaders in your own organizational and believing in the valniture manufacturing in the world that exactly copies the wood grain. ue of your ideas, in order to develop new businesses and • Continuing with its commitment of manufacturing products that are profitable projects for the company”, stated Enrique Cibié friendly to the environment, under the highest quality standards, during the award ceremony for the above activity. MASISA is developing native melamine inspired in the autochthonous trees of each country. Brazil and Chile are the first markets that The group of six employees of the Forestal and Tableros have in their products portfolio the offer of melamine coated wood de MASISA Chile Business Units, were the contest winboards that replicate native species. Jacaranda o Imbuia in Brazil ners, which is why they enjoyed the great first prize of a and Lenga o Raulí in Chile are some of the products that MASISA is trip aboard the Princess Cruiser, where they visited Italy, already commercializing, thinking in its customer needs, thus conGreece and Croatia, along with their spouses. tributing to the decrease of the indiscriminate exploitation of native forests. Following with this trend and considering the importance that has meant the creation of responsible and innovative products, the countries where MASISA is present are developing their own product lines with native melamines. • 3D wood boards: This line shows the wood grain as if they were real, delivering a state of the art alternative on choosing the perfect design. 1. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC http://www.iarc.fr/) of the World Health Organization (WHO http://www.who.int) has indicated that exposure to formaldehyde can cause irritation to the eyes, nose, throat and mucose, and it can eventually affect the skin and the respiratory system. It considers that formaldehyde can probably be a cancer agent for humans, which is why its use can be subject to rigorous controls in order to assure exposure at the lowest possible level (Please refer to International Agency for Research on Cancer, World Health Organization, Wood Dust and Formaldehyde, Monograph No. 62). Award ceremony of “At MASISA we are create value” contest 38 | MASISA LEADERSHIP IN CLIMATE CHANGE CO2 EMISSION IN DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (Tons of CO2/m2 of product) MASISA has decided to take a leadership posFiber board ture in the region on touching head on the Sawed wood problem behind the Climate Change as a busiEvery m3 of wood that replaces Particles board ness opportunity, for which in 2006, it defined another construction material Laminated wood a policy regarding the issue. avoids the emission of 2 tons of Conifer coated board CO2 average. Given the nature of its business, MASISA is Insulating board (Tackle Climate Change Use Wood, 2996, Euromaking a positive contribution towards the sopean Parliament) Abedul coated board lution of the climate change problem on: • Capturing and setting carbon dioxide (CO2) Standard concrete in wood, which is the main greenhouse gas Limestone effect produced by man. Through photosynPlaster plates thesis, trees absorb the carbon dioxide of Bricks the atmosphere and replace it with oxygen, thus mitigating the greenhouse gases emissions. Façade aluminum elements • Offering products that allow customers to Steel plates and rolls substitute other construction materials that have greater energy consumption and CO2 Steel pipes emissions. Steel beams • Replacing the use of fossil fuels by means of using wood and increasing energy efficiency. -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 When wood cannot be re-used or re-cycled, it serves as fuel. Possible Impacts of Climate Change on the Business Change in the forests of the southern region of Positive Balance of Carbon Latin America. Work was carried out, with the In 2007, MASISA participated in an effort led above purpose in mind, on identifying the variMASISA has a positive carbon balance. Howby the World Resources Institute –WRI (www. ables that will be affected by Climate Change, ever, it has decided to become committed towri.org) and GrupoNueva to analyze and unthe expected range of its variation and its qualiwards reducing its emissions in 6% by 2010 in derstand the possible impacts of the Climate tative impact on forests. comparison to the base line 1998-2002 on beChange in the forestry sector. coming part of the Carbon Voluntary Market During 2008, it is expected that work will con“Chicago Climate Exchange” CCX. The goal for The work focus of the WRI was to understand, tinue to be more in depth understanding the 2008 is of 4.5%. with a holistic view, the main implications of issue in order to identify measures to protect the Climate Change over all the forests related the company’s forestry equity long-term and In this first stage, our balance includes the industry. In turn, the work developed by the finding new and more attractive investment emissions directly generated by MASISA for the MASISA-GrupoNueva team was focused on alternatives. use of fossil fuels and electricity, and considers understanding the possible impact of Climate capturing plantations according to the stock level (net from harvest / use). The balance was drafted according to the international methodology (CCX) and has been submitted to external verification. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 39 MASISA was the first cO ² EMISSIONS ANd cAPUTREd, PER cOUNTRy chilean company in 3,000,000 becoming part of the 2,500,000 Equivalent capture of CO² Equivalent emissions of CO² chicago climate Exchange 2,000,000 1,500,000 (ccX), committing to 1,000,000 reduce its emissions in 500,000 0 6% by 2010. Argentina Brazil Chile Venezuela Mexico USA Compliance of Goals According to the Chicago Climate Exchange CCX¹ Ton CO² eq/year* Base Line 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2010 (1) Reduction Goal 273,958 271,191 268,424 265,657 264,965 Goal -1% -2% -3% -4% -4,25% -6% (2) MASISA Emissions 276,726 197,307 216,167 205,863 200,994 204,906 (3) Net Position: (1)-(2) 76,652 55,024 62,561 64,663 60,059 * CO² – equivalent includes all the greenhouse effect gases taken to CO² Direct Emissions¹ The CO² direct emissions are derived from the Evolution of Capture and Emission versus and also due to the irregularity of the age strucuse of fossil fuels and electric energy in indusProduction between 2003 and 2007 ture of the plantations. Mexico and the US do trial plants; 66% of the energy in the MASISA not have any capture since MASISA does not plants comes from the use of biomass as fuel, Emissions have been maintained pretty stable have any forests in these countries. 21% from electric energy and 12% from fossil in the period, despite the fact that production fuels. In particular, in the Solid Wood Business has shown a significant increase. The capture Emissions Indicator per Production Unit, this percentage varies to 83% biomass, of emissions has been positive and greater than 14% electric and 4% fossil. the emissions throughout all the period. This This indicator has shown a decrease through has resulted in a positive balance of 3,021,712 time since emissions have been kept stable, Unfortunately, the energy matrixes of the countons of CO² eq. despite the fact that production has increased. tries where MASISA is present are focused towards fossil fuels, which will also affect the CO² Balance Analysis per Country 1. This is preliminary information, because the facts are submitted to external verification. company’s CO² emissions. Chile has a greater capture of emission for the On the other hand, MASISA’s forestry expanperiod. Brazil does not report any emission sion plan has assured an increase in capturing capture due to the fact that the harvest of adult such emissions. forests has been replaced by young plantations MASISA | 40 Indirect Emissions The emissions generated by transportation in MASISA’s value chain have not been included in the initial balance, however in 2008 we started the process of their valuation to be later included in the balance. The initial estimate is based in multiple assumptions that will be validated during the year, and do not include the consumption of fuel for cranes in the distribution centers and ports, the consumption variances of trucks in rural or urban routes, or specific conditions pertaining to speed, tires and other trucks. Movement Diesel Ton CO² Consumption Ton year Ton/year Year Freight Raw Materials 5,985,512 14,380 38,827 Land Freight Finished Products 1,414,384 14,855 40,109 Maritime Freight Finished Products 494,008 22,368 60,393 Total 51,603 139,329 Considerations: CLIMATE CHANGE IN PLACACENTROS CO² Emission Factor 0.0027 Metric tons CO²/liter Fuel Consumption per Break Bulk Vessel 25 Ton / day MASISA fosters an Energy Efficiency Program in the PlaFuel Consumption per Container Vessel 70 Ton /day cacentros, in order to disseminate the Triple Bottom Line Trip of container vessel at full capacity 2,500 TEUS / trip management in all its value chain. Fuel Consumption per Truck 2.5 Km / lt It is expected that the program will generate the following Trip by truck at capacity 25 Ton / trip benefits for our stores network: The calculations are based on average maritime freight transit times. • Decrease of the greenhouse effect gases caused by the Calculations are based on average distances by truck for the countries of which we do not have any register decrease in energy consumption. • Generation of savings in energy consumption. In addition, in 2007 we started to measure the emissions generated • Progress towards positioning the Placacentros brand, as starting from airline trips for the operations in Brazil, Chile and Argen“environmentally responsible”. tina, giving a total of 3,959 ton CO² eq. During 2007, an energy efficiency improvement study was carried out in a sample of Placacentros representative of Actions in the Value Chain different development levels, identifying the potential savings in the main sources of energy consumption such as: We have started to reduce emissions in all of our value chain: Through machinery, lighting, IT equipment/fax and printers and energy efficiency actions both in industrial production as well as in the other sources such as air conditioning equipment and Placacentros, and the replacement of fossil fuels for biomass. kitchen appliances. The new Cogeneration Plant in Chile, with an investment of US$ 17 It was confirmed that there is an electric savings potential million will allow having greater energy independence and substitute of at least 10% in the Placacentros, if better resource close to 30,000 tons annually of CO². management is implemented through a series of easily applicable concrete actions. In 2006, a research project was started with the Universidad de Concepción (Chile) that will have five-year duration to development protoThis Energy Efficiency Program in the Placacentros will be cols for the production of biomass from forestry species having quick implemented in the network during 2008. growth and short turn-over, for the generation of lignocelluloses bio(Please refer to the article in Harvard Business Review, October 2007, Page 40 mass both for energy production and for the production processes. “Leading Change in Latin America”) Similarly, the research will include studies on the same species for the production of ethanol for energy consumption. In 2007 test farms were established that will allow evaluating the species, density, ground and soil characteristics and irrigation. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 41 MASISA ACQUIRED FIVE HYBRID CARS, FOR THE COMPANY’S TRANSFERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEALINGS On 2007, an energy savings program was started based in everyday actions with the MASISA employees. During 2008, progress will be Under the motto “MASISA and Honda together towards made until including customers with energy efficiency proposals. achieving clean energy”, the companies subscribed an agreement that seeks to contribute towards reducing the BUSINESSES THAT OFFER OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE contaminating indexes, as well as saving fuel. THE QUALITY OF LIFE Thus, there are three cars in Santiago and two in ConcepMASISA seeks to promote businesses that offer opportunities to imcion circulating with clean technology, since the hybrid car prove the quality of life of low income sectors, and that, in turn, allow combines a gasoline engine with another electric one, thus improving the company profitability. achieving the maximum performance and efficiency. In addition, its internal combustion engine stops automatiWe have gone in depth to define and provide the scope of the initiacally on detaining the car, which considerably reduces the tives in this area, expanding the inclusive business concepts. Therefore consumption of fuel, the emission of polluting gases and the following conceptual definition has been made: the noise levels. The inclusive businesses are economically profitable initiatives, which are environmentally / socially accountable, using market mechanisms to improve the quality of life of low income people, on allowing the following: • Their participation in the value chain as suppliers of raw material, agents that add value or goods or services, or sales persons /distributors of goods or services, and / or • Their access to basic essential services of better quality or at a lower cost, and / or • Their access to products or services that will allow them to get into a “virtuous circle” of opportunities to make businesses or improve their social-economic situation. (Source: Avina, 2006) ENTREPRENEURIAL FORUM “GLOBAL WARMING: ENTREPRENEURIAL CHALLENGES” On the other hand, the learning of the pilot projects and others that have already been developed have clearly indicated that the maturity Representatives of the entrepreneurial, academic and trade periods of the inclusive business initiatives are long and take several association world met in the Entrepreneurial Forum “Global years. In addition, the challenge of taking them to a massive scale is Warming: Entrepreneurial Challenges” held on April 25, 2007 important and requires building complex alliances. and organized by MASISA, ICARE, Avina and Viva Trust. Considering this new focus and scope and the learning of the prior The summit had the participation of Stephan Schmidheiyears, MASISA reformulated, in accordance with the alignments of ny, Founder of the World Business Council for Sustainable GrupoNueva, the goal of achieving 10% sales in this segment up to Development, Fundación Avina and GrupoNueva and cre2008, defining a new goal to achieve 10% of inclusive businesses up to ator of Viva Trust, in addition to Jonathan Lash and Jona2010. This new goal is an important challenge and it is worth noting that than Pershing, Chairman and Researcher of the World Rethe result reported in 2007 was of around 4% in terms of local sales. sources Institute, respectively. At that time, a conversation panel was generated formed by Enrique Cibié, Chief Executive Officer of MASISA; Humberto Fuenzalida, Professor of the School of Physical and Mathematical Sciences of the Universidad de Chile and Javier Hurtado, Chairman of the Commission of the Environment of the Confederation of the Production and Trade, in addition to the speakers mentioned herein above. The panel considered the questions of the attendants and a debate was generated regarding the challenges and risks that companies must take on in order to face this issue, and the competitive advantages that they could generate in the future. MASISA | 42 FOSTERING INTEREST FOR Training of Carpenters and Furniture Manufacturers INCLUSIVE BUSINESSES MASISA develops technical and commercial training programs through In November 2007, the Entrepreneurial Forum on Inclusive the Placacentros. Other methodologies have been applied to execute Businesses was held, organized by MASISA, Avina and them in a massive manner, such as on-line training by satellite (Brazil), Fundes, with the collaboration of the World Resources e-learning (Chile) or through alliances with educational institutions. In Institute, Ashoka and SEKN. 2007, 11.292 people were trained in eight countries where MASISA operates. The seminar had the participation of close to 300 people from the private and public sector, and from civil society, The challenges for 2008 are as follows: who were informed on inclusive business cases and per• Change the focus of training in order to teach the basics and the carspectives in different parts of the world. penter trade to unemployed and sub-employed individuals, in order to thus focus the effort of helping countries eradicate poverty The congress was inaugurated by Jaime Valenzuela, • Make massive and scale these programs MASISA’s Chief Wood Board Business Unit Officer, who • Standardize tools, methodologies and measurement systems stated “the problem of poverty in Latin America is our com• Seek allies, ideally regional in order to execute this training in a stanmitment, since the base segment of the pyramid represents dardized and consistent manner in Latin America an extensive potential and unexplored market, in addition towards seeking an on-going search to help improve the soDevelopment of New Inclusive Business Models cieties in which we are inserted”. or at the Base of the Pyramid During the event different initiatives that MASISA has started During 2007 work was carried out to scale the pilot experiences held in in the pyramid base were presented, such as the formation Chile tending to offer basic furniture for popular houses in the lower inof carpenters and micro-entrepreneurs, in addition to the come sectors. development of basic furniture for social housing, among other projects. Below is a summary of the work carried out and the main projects developed in 2007: Outstanding international guests participated in the forum, Argentina such as Jim Austin, professor of the University of Harvard; • Sale of modular assembly-type furniture (“Enkastrable”) in store chains Al Hammond, Vice President for Innovation and Special Brazil: Projects from the World Resources Institute; and Valeria Bu• “Workshop-school” project in order to grant professional qualification dinich, Founder and Chief Entrepreneur, from the Full Econin economically needy neighborhoods of Ponta Grossa omy Citizens Global Initiative, from Ashoka. • “Do it yourself” KIT with OSB wood board, for self-construction in social housing Chile: • Basic furniture project for social housing; sale per catalogue of assembled-type furniture, through the sales force formed by entrepreneurial women • CRA Libraries: basic furniture for libraries in elementary public schools and high schools in popular sectors Venezuela: • “Armefácil MASISA” Project (Easy Assembly Project); multi-functional furniture to be assembled, produced by cooperatives of carpenters and commercializers sold through the entrepreneurial women’s network in popular neighborhoods with the ALBA cooperative. Work has been carried out with associates and allies in these projects, some of them local and others international, among them: AVINA, FUNDES, SNV and FOMIN from IDB. MASISA Venezuela “Armefácil” Project Training of Carpenters in MASISA Mexico. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 43 MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN CAPITAL Starting from the new definition of the business The participation of women in management poLABOR REINSERTION PROGRAMS strategy in 2006, MASISA decided to migrate sitions and in proportion to total staffing of our In case that labor discontinuity is consideto a people management level of the adminisemployees still seems scarce. MASISA continred for a group of employees (just as what trative-transactional type to a strategic model ues to promote the participation of women in happened in December 2007 in the Solid servicing the business. internal and external recruitment processes, Wood Unit in Cabrero, Chile), it is MASISA’s processes pertaining to merit and career develpolicy to openly and effectively commuSTANDARDS, LABOR PRACTICES opment and we are getting ahead in Chile, along nicate measures that will be taken to the AND WORK ETHICS with the National Women’s Service, SERNAM, affected employees, giving them support on conducting a diagnosis to design better proand, particularly, treating them with respect MASISA complies with the labor legislation of cesses and improve the company’s diversity. and dignity. It is worth noting that, in the each one of the countries where it operates case of the dismissal of 254 people from the and respects the rights of its direct and indirect Contractor’s MANAGEMENT Cabrero Plant in 2007, the company went workers, within the framework of its declaration beyond the compulsory requirements of the of Entrepreneurial Principles and the Global The contracting companies and their employees labor law, developing a Labor Reinsertion Agreement of the United Nations. are strategic associates for MASISA. The relation Plan, which included the following support between internal and external employees has a measures: In response to the commitment taken on, MAproportion of close to 1:1 at the regional level SISA developed during 2006 a Human Capital regional. • Training to Supervisors on handling of the disPolicies Manual, which incorporates best pracmissal situation. tices and policies as a way to act in the scopes Depending on the type of activity and duration • One-to-one detailed conversations, with the of recruitment-selection, contracting, perforof the contract, MASISA demands that its conaffected employees. mance evaluation, safety and occupational tractor associates be familiar with the Declara• Outplacement: Workshops including 12 peohealth, compensations, benefits and training, tion of Entrepreneurial Principles and its proceple for 8 hours, directed by psychologists, among others. dures, safeguard the safety and personal where emotional and psychological contention protection conditions of their employees and rewas considered, as well as the re-definition of A dissemination plan of the Manual was carspect the labor and contractual conditions of labor achievements, preparation of résumés, ried out however greater effort must be made each country’s legislation. Despite the fact that planning the search for employment and trainto disclose its content, particularly in terms of not all companies that provide services to MAing on how to handle interviews. the Entrepreneurial Conduct Guidelines. SISA have ISO or OHSAS certifications, MASISA • Search for labor sources by means of conshares and delivers guidelines to its contractors tacts with other companies. The management of the Human Capital Proin order to have them adapt their own proce• Trade Course Program: New formation and cesses is geared by the Equal Opportunity dures to those demanded by the quality, safety training which allowed the affected employees Principle. Under this concept people recruitand environmental certifications of the company. to extend their options on seeing for new labor ment, selection, contracting and career develsources. opment are based on criteria of competencies, MASISA applies internal audits to all contract• Extension of life, health and catastrophic inknowledge and merit no employees can be dising companies. surance, for a period of six months. criminated based on gender, race, color, ethnic • Increase of severance payments due to reorigin, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, However, there are still challenges that have to structuring for the affected people. marital status, parental responsibilities, age be faced today, such as the implementation of • Emotional Reconstruction Workshops: Psychoand creed in maters pertaining to region and a comprehensive management and control syslogical support for employees and supervisors policies. tem for contractors grouping all countries directly related with the affected employees. where MASISA is present both commercially In regards to the issue pertaining to diversity, we and in terms of production. are still satisfied with the progress achieved. 44 | MASISA HEALTH AND SAFETY: IMPLEMENTATION OF WORLD CLASS STANDARDS MASISA recognizes that health and safety are Accidents Severity Index (ISAT) MOST FREQUENT CAUSES OF fundamental values as well as basic condition ACCIDENTS WITH LOST TIME of the well-being and employability of its em(Number of lost time accidents per 200,000 ployees. Our goal is to consolidate a healthy man/hours worked) The most frequent accidents in our operations and safe company culture with world-class are being trapped when intervening in moving safety standards, and thus achieve zero acciDirect and Indirect Employees equipment and contact with cutting elements, dents. Business 2004 2005 2006 2007 GOAL specially affecting hands and legs. Unit 2008 DESCRIPTION OF THE SITUATION Forestry 70.44 309.04 978.26 43.7 18.6 OF THE ACCIDENT RATE FOR Woods 75.85 205.94 68.60 58.8 28.3 THE 2006-2007 PERIOD LABOR AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Wood boards 316.19 194.67 80.35 257 17.8 WORLD CLASS STANDARDS During 2007, the frequency of lost time accidents (number of lost time accidents per The Forestry Business Unit was the one which Safety Management Based on Conduct 200,000 man/hours worked) decreased 34% showed the greatest decrease in lost time acin comparison to the prior year. We have procidents during the 2006-2007 period. The opStarting in 2005 MASISA began the implemengressed on further decreasing the number of erations in Chile and Argentina specially tation of a safety program based on the obserlost time accidents. However, the seriousness achieved a decrease of 70% and 38% respecvation of the behavior of its employees at work factor of the occurring accidents is of concern. tively, thanks to an intensive program developed (using the STOP methodology, of the DuPont During 2007, an accident produced the death jointly with the contracting companies collabocompany). of one of our direct employees form the wood rating in their operations. boards Puschmann Plant (Chile), while the perDuring 2007 its implementation was completed son was carrying out the maintenance of a grid ABSENTEEISM INDEX in all the company’s operations, reaching 376 system of the thermal plant The causes of this supervisors and executives trained in this Direct and Indirect Employees accident were investigated and analyzed in all methodology. In 2007 more than 19,000 safety of MASISA’s operations in order to adopt the Business Unit 2006 2007 contacts were accounted to correct unsafe bemeasures that impede the occurrence of simihavior or to congratulate and reinforce safe Forestry 4.50 0.61 lar situations. conduct at work. Woods 2.68 2.74 Frequency of Accidents Index (IFAT) Wood boards 1.72 1.3 Training in Safety and Occupational Health Total MASISA 2.79 1.58 (Number of lost time accidents per 200,000 In 2007, 74,000 man/hours were invested in man/hours worked) training in topics pertaining to Safety and OcBENCHMARKING cupational Health, 35% more than in 2006, Direct and Indirect Employees specially focusing in acknowledging risks and We use a study performed with a group of their control measures. During 2008, training Business 2004 2005 2006 2007 GOAL Unit 2008 companies belonging to “The Pulp and Paper will be intensified, focused on identifying and Safety Association” of the United States to controlling risk behaviors at work. Forestry 4.01 5.27 5.41 2.92 2.61 compare MASISA’s results in accident frequenWoods 5.46 3.74 2.14 1.99 1.8 cy: MASISA’s Solid Wood Business Unit has Wood boards 4.3 3.18 2.68 1.76 1.32 achieved a result of 9.5% greater than the companies in this sector, and Wood Boards Business Unit of MASISA 3.2% lower. The frequency of accidents of the Forestry Business Unit is 3.8 times greater than the companies in this association, however it is necessary to take into account the processes mechanization differences. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 45 Ceferino Sanhueza Indirect Employee -Forestal MASISA Chile. Electric saw operator 18 years of experience Safety and Occupational Health Management System: OHSAS 18.001 “I have been an electric saw operator for 18 years and during the last two I have been an electric saw instructor. Throughout this time I have noticed very relevant The Safety and Occupational Health managechanges in relation to Safety in forestry operations, especially in terms of the bement system of all operations has as grounds havior of my workmates, who have taken up in a better manner, greater accountthe international standard OHSAS 18,001, ability and commitment. I believe that this is the result of the seriousness with which has allowed maintaining a continuous which the company has taken issues pertaining to health and the environment”. process of identifying dangers and evaluating risks in operations, defining control objectives, goals and programs. All operations are externally certified under OHSAS 18.001, and keep their certification in force, with the exception of Forestal Argentina, Accidents with lost time: whose re-certification is pending. Parts of body affected Legs Foot Safety Committees: Management – 14% 14% Employees All the operations have constituted joint Hygiene Arm and Safety Committees, formed by representa11% tives of management and employees, in order to detect, evaluate and propose control measures in reference to work accidents and professional Multiple 6% illnesses. These committees are additionally Hands Back instances of communication and feedback be38% 6% tween management and employees and develop Tórax an on-going surveillance task on checking comHead 4% pliance of risk prevention and safety measures Eyes Face 3% 1% 3% at work. In 2007, the Management Safety and Occupational Health Committee, formed by the General Management and the top management line Accidents with lost time: Types of accidents Trapped of the country, whose main objective is to ana17% lyze in a periodic manner the company performance in matters pertaining to Safety and OcFalls from a minimum cupational Health. Contact with level 13% cutting elements 22% Over effort 7% Falls from a different level 6% Hit by / against 22% Contact with hot element or surface 5% Sudden movements 3% Being run over Others Proyección of particles or fluids 1% 2% 2% MASISA MASISA | 46 | 46 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Gabriel Cardozo Indirect Employee Forestal MASISA Argentina Occupational Health refers to the identification, Forestry Technician evaluation, control and surveillance behind the 3 years of experience risk of professional illnesses generated by the environmental agents present in work places. “I have noticed changes in the way of facing Safety at Work. Safety has takMASISA keeps all its operations in Occupaen on the same importance as production, at the time of planning and cartional Health Programs that assure that the rying out a task. In time having all acknowledge Safety in Operations has risks are characterized and controlled within improved. Little by little a Safety culture has been generated. It is a process acceptable limits, considered as the most dethat takes time, however you can see the results last year. We will continue manding according to the standards in force, to work so that they can be even better”. where they are carried out. We will carry out monitoring in order to determine the exposure of our employee to risk agents, such as noise, formaldehyde, wood dust and others present in work places. Jointly with these evaluations, medical surveillance programs are developed involving our exposed personnel in order to determine the potential adverse effects along with a rigorous training plan in order to make known such risks and the correct use of personal protection equipment, both for direct and indirect employees. Convinced that Safety is a shared responsibility, we offer permanent training to our workers on prevention and health. In addition, we place at their availability preventive health programs and we control muscular-skeleton disorders produced by repetitive movements and habitual illnesses such as cardiovascular risk and HIV-AIDS, among others. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 47 OUR employees: WORKING TOWARDS CREATING THE BEST PLACE TO WORK Local origin employees placed in management MASISA BRAND OF LEADERSHIP FORMATION IN COMPETENCIES positions COMMERCIAL Country 2006 2007 The Leadership Model has six attributes that are focused on: Top Management, Middle The Commercial Competencies Model develArgentina 67% 67% Management / heads and employees in genoped jointly between the Human Capital ManBrazil 71% 88% eral. The program objective is to develop leadagement and the Business Units in 2007, Chile 87% 86% ership competencies related to a superior perseeks to define the commercial competencies Colombia 100% 100% formance as a employee, as a team and as the framework (marketing & sales). The model decompany. September 2007 marked the start fines generic or common competencies for the Ecuador 0% 60% of the Program “MASISA Leadership Brand”. four company’s Business Units and specific United States 14% 22% During 2008 the program will reach the recompetencies for each business in particular. Mexico 57% 57% gional level, when the participation of the emPeru 50% 94% ployees from all Latin America starts, hand in The program still in its design phase considers Venezuela 44% 50% hand with prestigious local universities. Due to a pilot test during 2008 and for 2009 its rethe fact that the program started recently, the gional dissemination has been planned involvproportional participation of the employees is ing the participation of close to 200 professionSKILL MANAGEMENT AND CONTINUOUS small and limited. During 2008, the program als from the marketing and sales area. FORMATION PROGRAMS will be made extensive to the employees in general. In order to do so, in 2007 we acAn outstanding point during 2007 is the quired the license for 5 Leadership Workshops MASISA CAMPUS source of investment in formation programs of which will be given in all countries key and strategic competencies for the busiThe Blended Learning Program combines the ness that are relevant for the development of advantages of remote education (Internet Classprofessional employees. Percentage of participation in Leadership es) with final seminars including actual presCompetencies Formation Programs (Consolidated, ence of participants. We expect to use this per Category) In 2007 the training budget for employees “Virtual University” both, in order to supplement amounted to US$ 1,181,330. Category % Participation (Consolidated) the formation programs as well as to deepen the studies of our employees in different business These programs have been well-accepted by Top Management 100% areas. Investments made in 2007 were of our employees and respond to the organizaMiddle US$ 22,000 and it is expected that during 20% 2007 Managements tion’s strategic needs, but are not tied to a for74% Forecasted 2008 2008, a similar figure will be invested. Medias mal career planning process. This is an on2% 2007 going challenge and we propose connecting Employees Projection of 2008 participations in the formation of our employees, career planthe process of each country ning the performance evaluation. 48 | MASISA INTRODUCTION PROGRAM AND ATTRACTION AND RETENTION Comparison of Commitment Response Rate 2004/2006 bussines PRINCIPLES WORKSHOP OF TALENTS Response Rate 2004 2006 Direct Employyes 72% 91% The new introduction program created in 2007 Commitment and Turn-Over Indexes seeks having new employees experience dynamIndirect Employees 67% 78% ic training sessions pertaining to the MASISA culThe Organizational Commitment surveys provide Total 69% 84% ture, understanding its strategy and become valuable opportunities so that our employees committed with its values and principles. This can state what they think and how they see the program also serves for the re-induction of emcompany management. Starting from the sysIn 2007, we developed a disclosure plan of ployees who wish to update their knowledge and tematic use of these surveys, the Human Capital these results and organized work teams of em/ or require learning more in depth the organizaUnit has established strategic priorities and acployees to propose initiatives and action plans in tion’s contents, values and standards. tion plans to be pro-active in its efforts to retain order to improve the level of commitment. our employees. These plans are currently in their implementaThe Entrepreneurial Principles Workshops were tion phase in the different countries and comdesigned with the objective of generating a In terms of results, it is important to note that prise dimensions such as the following: Developshared experience reflecting on MASISA’s Enthe level of commitment and the participation ment Opportunities, Communication, Balance in trepreneurial Principles, Values and Brand rate of the research, particularly from the diLife / Work and Human Capital Practices. Leadership, in order to have its new employees rect employees, increased in a significant live in a practical manner their impact in day to manner in comparison to the results shown in In 2007, we conducted a “Commitment Pulse” day activities. 2004. The Commitment Study, which is taken study, which is a dedication study at a lower twice a year will be carried out once again in scale in order to monitor the perception of our September 2008. employees. Some initiatives have been implemented related Comparative Chart of Commitment Scores 2004/2006 with the “Life – Work Balance”. However, we have still not developed a career planning sys2004 2006 tem, but it is within the Human Capital plans for Country Direct Indirect Direct Indirect 2009. Employees Employees Employees Employees Corporate 55% Attraction and Talent Retention Programs Chile 63% 61% 69% 63% In order to allow greater interaction and comBrazil 52% 72% 62% 71% munication with all employees, the Human Argentina 40% 84% 50% 70% Capital Portal offers the Performance ManageVenezuela 53% 63% 77% 70% ment Automated System (SGD) and the InterMexico 73% 78% 72% 74% nal Recruitment Portal. During 2008, the automation of the Compensations System, the data USA 42% 47% entry and processing of the Human Capital Colombia-Peru-Ecuador 90% Scorecard Information, the Personnel Health Consolidated 58% 66% 67% 66% and Safety has been programmed. The company is also considering the development of the local Human Capital Portals with contents of interest for each country. MASISA’s succession plans seek the growth and development of the com2007 COMMITMENT PULSE: LISTENING TO pany’s employees and consist in a diagnosis of the availability of key talTHE OPINION OF OUR employees ents and competencies within the organization. Underscored Positive Aspects: This exercise is updated annually. In 2006. it included the first level posi• Greater interest of the company for its employees and tions in the company: the direct reports of the Chief Executive Officer and people management. Greater dynamism in this area is the General Managers of each country, in order to identify potential short, observed. mid and long-term candidates for critical positions. In 2008, this process • Development and disclosure of Human Capital tools such will be extended to the local management teams and the second level of as the Performance Management System, Compensation the corporate structure positions. Workshops, Bussines Principles, etc. • Increase of professional development opportunities Succession Plans: Percentage of successors Percentage of Employyes with Formal Perforthrough workshops and formation courses (MASISA identified in the short, medium and long-term mance Evaluation (consolidate, per year) Brand of Leadership) and Internal Recruitment Portal. Year Available Available Year % of Formal performance evaluation replacement in replacement employees the short-term in the mid and Aspects to Improve: long-term 2006 100% Employees in supervision positions • Excess work load and difficulties to reach a life-work 2006 56% 44% 2007 100% of MASISA Corporate employbalance. ees and 100% of employees with • Despite the fact that the new initiatives are valued, emsupervision positions. 2007 58% 100% ployees fear that they may just fall into good intentions Goal 2008 100% of MASISA Professional employees. and are not translated into concrete actions.. • Lack of career planning for employees. Management Performance System (Source: Corporate Results) The purpose of the Performance Management System is to make forma the evaluation process that allows a correct administration of the intellectual capital of our company and align the human talent with the business strategy, organizational objectives and economic, social and environmental results. It seeks to foster a participative management and administration style that fosters communication and commitment by means of recognizing work that is well done. The result of this evaluation is relevant for the definition of incentives, wages, promotions, learning and succession plans. The philosophy, methodology and impacts of the system are communicated in a regular manner by Human Capital through training workshops and internal communiqués, with the direct intervention and active participation of the management and supervisory line. The employees of the different levels of the organization have been incorporated to this system in a time lapsed manner. The system is currently applied to the non-trade union employees, given that they are governed under salary conditions that are negotiated in the respective contracts and group bargaining agreements. The goal for 2008 is to include 100% of the non-trade union employees. 50 | MASISA Internal Recruitment Portal Management of Compensation and Benefits It is important for MASISA to have tools that fosThe company’s Compensations Model has This model has been designed for those emter and contribute to the self-management of been developed to attract, develop and retain ployees who are not subject to a group bargaincareer development, giving its employees the employees who have the competencies and ing contract that regulates their wages and option of knowing and applying to internal job the knowledge necessary to comply with the benefits. openings. In August 2007 the Internal Recruitbusiness strategic objectives, fostering, in turn, ment Portal was launched to give priority to give a high performance culture that rewards on Once the standardization process and the impriority to internal candidates when seeking apmerits. (meritocracia). plementation of compensation management plicants for openings where we have the most tools have been standardized, workshops to adequate resources within our organization. The compensations model considers individual disseminate the model were held in all the performance as the key indicator on determincountries. In general terms, the reception of The countries have stated making progressive ing compensations and it is grounded on three the model by the employees was better than use of this tool since its launching, having pubpillars: internal equity, external competitiveness expected. lished up to December 2007 a total of 33 job and the systematization of the company’s Compositions. pensation Policy. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION In 2006 within the commitment surveys it was 2007 that is a digital communications tool (Intraed a program to sensitize and inform employees detected that there was a need to strengthen the net), where information of interest, company on how to mitigate the effects of Climate Change company’s internal communications. The Comnews and Human Capital tools in the Human through the modification of their habits and conmunications Policy has given the alignments to Capital Portal can be found, among others. ducts. This initiative is being replicated in the create an internal culture focused on the transThese communications channels are supplePlacacentros, where we seek to reach the end parency, timeliness and opportunity of the informented with news published in bulletin boards consumer. Initiatives regarding these actions will mation in a transversal manner throughout all and sent electronically throughout the company be analyzed in depth during 2008. the organization. Communications is cascaded by means of Masisanews, our digital media, down from the general manager of each country which informs all the company regarding internal In regards to other internal campaigns, it is and is supplemented with the internal tools and topics of interest. worth underscoring the one held in 2006 to channels defined in order to align the employees make the EVA System known to all the emwith the company strategy. The communications programs to familiarize the ployees, a tool chosen by the company to company regarding the new value proposal, measure its economic performance. This iniAn example was the consolidation of internal “MASISA is more reliable” seeks to motivate the tiative was supplemented in 2007 with the bulletins under the magazine “The Triple Bottom employee’s commitment towards this brand contest “At MASISA we are creating value”, Line”, a publication edited twice a month that promise. from which projects and innovative ideas started to be distributed in 2006, with the same emerged representing new opportunities for structure and combination of both corporate and Similarly, work was carried out to disseminate the company. local contents. MASISA’s commitment towards Climate Change and inclusive businesses by holding entrepreUnder a similar scheme, the Informative Space neurial forums on the topic and the publication MASISA fosters an (Espacio Informativo) was implemented during of related information in internal media. We startinternal culture focused on transparency and timeliness of the information in a transversal manner throughout all the organization. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 51 PRODUCTIVE PROCESSES annual wood boards production ( miles m3) Co-Generation Plant Cabrero, Chile 1200 MDF 1100 PB 1003 1070 This plant has implied an investment of US$ 17 1000 OSB million and a capacity of 9.6 MW and 65 T/H in 800 760 757 steam generation, which will allow us to have 708 600 greater energy independence and substitute 400 C0 ² emissions. 262 227 200 190 Extension of the MDF Moldings Production 0 Capacity Cabrero, Chile 2005 2006 2007 MASISA decided to extend the production installations MDF moldings in Chile, by using the INDUSTRIAL UNITS NEW INVESTMENT PROJECTS equipment that was previously located in Charleston, South Carolina, United States and The Wood Boards Business Unit of MASISA The new investment projects approved by the Venezuela, thus reaching a capacity of 62,700 has an installed capacity of 2,612,000 m³ anBoard of Directors of MASISA seek to signifim³ annually. This project contributes by increasnually for the manufacturing of wood boards, cantly improve the efficiency in production and ing 25% of its original production capacity, with with industrial units in Chile, Argentina, Brazil, assure a more effective control of operational an investment of US$ 1 million and will start its Venezuela and Mexico. It also has an installed impacts on health and our natural environment. operations in the second semester of 2008. capacity of 852,000 m³ annually to cover wood boards with melamine-type papers and MDP Plant Brazil Modification of Sawmill Cabrero, Chile foils. In September 2007 a new line of MDF of 340.000 m³ annually was started in the localWe started in Montenegro, Rio Grande do Sul, MASISA will invest US$ 3.9 million in 2008 to ity of Cabrero, Chile. This project represented Brasil, the construction of a plant with a capacimprove the production efficiency of the plant. an investment of US$ 98 million. ity for 750,000 m3 annually of MDP wood boards (Medium Density Particleboard) and a Operational Improvements On the other hand, the company’s Solid Wood melamine line with a capacity of 300,000 m3 Business Unit has four industrial plants, two annually. The project will represent an approxiImprovement of the operational efficiency located in Chile, one in Brazil and the other in mate investment of US$ 119 million. which will allow reaching the maximum perforVenezuela, with a total annual capacity of mance of the current industrial installations, 700,000 m³ of sawn wood, where in addition New Melamine Line Mapal, Chile optimizing quality, technical operations factors re-manufacturing processes, pre-painted MDF and specific consumption in order to reach the moldings and the manufacturing of solid wood This new plant with a capacity of 150,000 m3 best international standard of the industry. doors is located. annually, starts operations in the thirth quarter of 2008. Logistics Optimization All the plants are certified under ISO 14,001 and OHSAS 18,001. In order to comply with the commitment made to customers in terms of delivery time for products optimizing service costs, in 2008 we implemented a planning, follow-up and control system for the delivery of each order, seeking the best economic alternatives to provide such service. 52 | MASISA MASISA’s Forestry Equity as of December 2007 (hectares) Chile Brazil Argentina Venezuela Total Pine Plantations 82,202.6 17,885.7 12,582.4 100,501.7 213,172.4 Eucalyptus Plantations 3,777.5 1,372.1 22,661.2 27,810.8 Plantations of Other Species 682.0 21.4 703.4 Forestry Lands 8,320.0 1,598.3 2,553.6 36,150.0 48,621.9 Native Forest and Other 44,153.0 14,551.4 4,191.0 2,064.7 64,960.1 Reserves Other Lands 6,238.2 1,124.9 7,188.8 8,705.4 23,257.3 Total 145,373.3 36,532.4 49,177.0 147,443.2 378,525.9 RAW MATERIALS their control and register systems and incorpoIn both bases, the FSC Custody Chain criteria rating in the purchase contracts our entrepreare as follows: MASISA uses wood derived from pine and euneurial code of conduct. calyptus plantations. In 2007, the consumption The purchase of wood derived from the followof other species such as acacia and poplar In 2007 a first diagnosis was carried out and ing sources is excluded: were increased, in addition to using residues work started to be carried out with suppliers, • Wood that has been taken from forestry arfrom forestry harvests, sawdust sub-products communicating the fiber purchase criteria of eas in which the traditional or civil rights and wood re-manufacturing. the company, visiting its installations to observe have been violated; their control and register systems and incorpo• Wood that has been taken from forestry arIn MASISA Mexico supply is derived from naturating in our purchase contracts our entrepreeas or that have not been certified by FSC ral pine forests and the production of this plant neurial behavior code. that have high preservation values and where corresponds to at least 6% of MASISA’s total these are threatened; wood boards production. In 2008, our goal is to assure that at least 80% • Wood from genetically modified trees; of the total fiber not covered by the FSC Cus• Wood that has been harvested in an illegal Custody Chain tody Chain complies with the requirements demanner; manded and has audited records. We consider • Natural forests that have been converted into The following industrial operations of MASISA non-controversial origin fiber or wood to be the plantations or in non-forestry uses. have certified their Custody Chain (CoC) with following: the FSC credit system: a) Fiber/wood derived from plantations that: FORESTRY UNIT • Have legal extraction and transportation per• Venezuela: mits CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PORTFOLIO 100% of the total wood boards and • Have external forestry certification, ideally solid wood production FSC certified, when possible. When facing The Forestry Business Unit of MASISA has its • Brazil: equal price and quality conditions we prefer plantations located in some of the areas of betMDF: 15.7% of the total production acquiring fiber with a certified origin ter growth in the world: the Central South Zone OSB: 26.7% of the total production • Control the use of child labor of Chile, the Mesopotamia of Argentina and Solid wood: 71% of the total production Southern Brazil. In the case of Venezuela, it • Chile: b) Fiber/wood derived from native forests that: has a forestry base that allows assuring susSolid wood: 92% of the total production • Have legal extraction and transportation pertainable supply for MASISA’s industrial units in mits a mid and long-term horizon. The production of wood boards in Chile, Argen• Is not derived from high value conservation tina and Mexico (which entails close to half the forests or zones that have a special biological The geographical diversification, combination total production of MASISA’s wood boards) value of good areas and selection of adequate spedoes not have the FSC custody chain, since • Have external forestry certification, ideally cies allows having this forestry mass ranked there are not enough certified FSC suppliers in FSC certified, when possible. When facing among the best in terms of productivity. Locathe region. In order to assure the reliability of equal price and quality conditions we prefer tion is also adequate within a global and Latin the wood fiber supply in these countries, we acquiring fiber with a certified origin American context, given the proximity to indusdefined a non-controversial sources control • Have been harvested from forests that are trial centers and markets, next to MASISA’s procedure, with special supply controls in Mexnot later converted into agricultural lands or own forestry industrial developments and those ico. In 2007, a first diagnosis was carried out lands used for cattle of third parties. and work was started with suppliers, communi• Control the use of child labor cating the company’s fiber purchase criteria, visiting their installations in order to observe 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 53 FIBER SUPPLY IN MEXICO Mexico does not have any artificial plantations and the wood industry is supplied with native forests owned by properties (ejidos), or by imports. MASISA Mexico worked in 2005 and 2006 with the Ecology Institute (Instituto de Ecología), and based on information from CONABIO – WWF, we identified biological value areas and High Value Forests for Preservation – Priority Land Region, Hydrological Priority Region or Area of Importance for the Preservation of Birds in Durango, around 300 kilometers from the surroundings of the industrial plant of Durango, are from which MASISA obtains its supply. All the fiber acquired by MASISA Mexico has the legal authorizations from SEMARNAT. However, some of our suppliers use wood derived from high value biDuring 2007 the growth of total equity was of ological areas, therefore, we promote their FSC certification. The suppliers that 30,000 useable hectares. These purchases do not provide information regarding the origin of the wood are mainly distribuwere carried out in Brazil, Chile and Argentina. tors and industrial businesses. We will continue working with them and seeking Part of these hectares were purchased with the to increase production in the collection center of Monterrey and the new collecpurpose of generating projects in association tion center(s) that will be initiated during this year, i.e. 2008. Currently, 10% of with third parties. the total of the fiber consumed comes from urban wastes that are burned or deposited in the city sanitary filling dump site. Forestry investments were characterized for being low risk investments in which MASISA has obtained average profitability within business adequate ranges. Its unique profitability/ risk characteristics make this type of asset an excellent protection when facing market fluctuations. Therefore, there inclusion in investment portfolios has been strongly developed during the recent past. In addition, they show additional advantages in a world that is ever more demanding of wood and fiber, added to the excellent characteristics of being a material with which environment friendly products are manufactured. Forestry investments have a very important role on mitigating the greenhouse effect through capturing carbon and substituting more contaminating materials. The aforementioned makes this time of investment an attractive asset in terms of its demand and the services its supplies to society, which reflects the growing value of forestry plantations in the world. CURRENT EQUITY FLOWS GIVING SUSTAINABILITY TO INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION The added volume flows per country show the trend of the increasing offer in the near future, with a relevant improvement in terms of the quality and struclture of products given the characteristics of the species, handling and distribution of the ages of the equity. This assures MASISA’s growth of the wood board business and the supply to other own industrial units and those of third parties. 54 | MASISA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MASISA has a strong commitment towards susMASISA seeks to build a competitive advantage that we support voluntary work activities pertainable development, and in addition, seeks to starting from the company differences when formed by our employees and we make some achieve a market differentiation starting from facing their competitors, differences that are donations, specially in products, the scope of its responsible handling of social and environperceived by customers and valued by the marthe commitment strategy with sustainable develmental issues. ket with their preference. Despite the fact that opment is much more extensive and not philaneach one of the actions developed by MASISA thropic. This is totally integrated in the company Such leadership requires identifying risks and could be replicated by its competition, it is their businesses and seeks to add value to all its operational impacts, detecting future trends, ascombination and their interrelations which forms stakeholders. suring internal consistency to build a Triple Botthe entrance barriers and makes difficult having tom Line business culture, and searching for them imitated by its competitors. Environmental investments Values in US$ opportunities starting from solving social and 2005 2006 2007 environmental problems. The company’s “inwards outwards” manageInvested (investment and 3,596 5,062 4,186 ment philosophy allows keeping the social liexpenses) The identification of social, economic and envicense to operate however, it is the “outwards ronmental impacts (the “inwards outwards” inwards” work, which allows achieving a position The environmental investments have been analysis) requires an effective and continuous of leadership. MASISA considers strategic mainly addressed on controlling impacts in wacommunication with the five stakeholders conachieving a position of leadership in two issues: ter, air and the management of solid residues. sidered strategic: customers, shareholders, Climate Change and businesses that seek to suppliers, employees and neighboring commucontribute to the reduction of poverty or incluRESPONSIBILITIES nities (including NGOs and local authorities). sive businesses. The responsibility for social and environmental Each MASISA company carries out their own MASISA understands the social responsibility of responsibility in MASISA is a line responsibility, identification of stakeholders and identifies companies at the basic administration level as which begins with the instructions imparted by their respective aspects and impacts, risks and the management of the company’s operations the Board of Directors to the Chief Executive dangers, and manages them in order to assure positive or negative effects over the interested Officer and, by the same to the managers of the process of building credibility and reputapublic all along their value chain. each one of the country Business Units. In gention that allows obtaining the social license to eral, the principle of whoever has the responsioperate. MASISA has developed its own methMASISA‘s social management requires having bility and control for this function is accountable odology to carry out this process, which has the company establish adequate processes in for social and environmental issues as part of been applied since 2003. (In order to see order to assure their social license to operate their functions. This allocation of functions is greater detail of this process, please refer to and have its operational impacts controlled. made effective through the company’s matrix of www.masisa.com). Once this stage is assured, the local company Roles and Responsibilities. can decide to start “leadership actions” that The external certifications and the use of the seeks offering new standards for the industry In addition to the responsibility of all its managSustainability Scorecard (SSC) – which is the and for society. ers in the achievement of the Triple Bottom Line application of the Balanced Scorecard tool to the objectives, 31 people at MASISA have specific Triple Bottom Line Strategy – allow handling The social and environmental management is functions in areas pertaining to the environment, these topics in a systematic manner and intepart of the business and searches to identify health and safety and in community and busigrating social and environmental issues in the and implement opportunities that add financial ness relations based on the pyramid. business strategy, in performance evaluation value for the company. The social and environand in new investment projects. mental actions are not considered as voluntary MASISA additionally has a Corporate Sustainor philanthropic actions. Thus, despite the fact able Development Management that reports to 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 55 the Chief Executive Officer. This management COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW plan based on the five-year business plan, over seeks to make the sustainable development which the strategic communities are defined. commitment strategy a reality, adding value to The managers of each country annually review The company with this vision seeks to establish all publics, and making MASISA a company that the exhaustive compliance of the environmental dialogues in order to assure that the tasks of is recognized for its leadership in environmental legislation, which is included within the Legal planting, handling and harvesting are carried out and social matters. The Sustainable DevelopPolicy, in all of MASISA’s operations. by reducing the operational impacts over the ment Management seeks to contribute and incommunities and without any interruptions. crease the company’s Economic Value Added During 2007, the company was the object of two (EVA), supporting the General Manager and the administrative sanctions, the first due to the work This process has been the source of great management team, coordinating actions and accident and the second applied to the affiliate learnings for MASISA, which as led towards reassuring that the company strategy is reached. Forestal Tornagaleones for its indirect responsiformulating in a significant manner the control bility on the lease management of the farm La and environmental follow-up process. (In order POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND Quila, which is currently being objected by the to obtain greater information regarding this proMANUALS company. MASISA does not have any pending cess please refer to www.masisa.com). • Sustainable Development Policy, Sustainenvironmental trials. ability Scorecard of the area, and its reRELATIONS WITH INDIGENOUS spective indicators CLOSING OF ENVIRONMENTAL PEOPLES • Legal Policy: includes the demand towards TRIALS IN ARGENTINA local managers to annually certify compliMASISA recognizes and respects the existence ance of applicable legal, local or internaThe courts of law gave their opinion regarding of different social logics and seeks to establish tional standards the claims filed due to environmental contamidialogues that allow a peaceful co-existence of • Policy on facing Genetically Modified nation filed by the neighbors of the MASISA Armutual benefit in the same territory, supporting Organisms gentina Plant in 2003 with a positive sentence the recovery and maintenance of cultural tradi• Policy on Climate Change in favor of the company on determining the foltions, along with organization and referent play• Policy on the Purchase of Land for lowing: ers. We maintain work relations with the Kariña Forestry Activities • The solid, liquid and gas effluents generated community in Venezuela and Mapuche in Chile. • Procedure for the Control of the Origin in the productive process of the plant indusof Fiber trial MASISA Argentina has in the Parque InRelations with the Mapuche People in Chile • Environmental Management Manual: industrial de Concordia do not generate negacludes the concept of co-efficiency – adtive impacts to the environment. During 2006 and 2007 we intensified dialogues equate environmental management that al• Damages to health produced by the MASISA with different sectors in order to exchange conlows cost savings, e.g. through loser activity have not been demonstrated. cepts pertaining to the indigenous issue, createxpenses in the elimination of residues, ef• It has not been verified that there is a suping a climate of trust with the communities with ficiency on the use of natural resources posed degradation of the property as has which the companies can carry out proposal of such as water and energy and recycling, been alleged by the plaintiffs. models of co-existence, supporting investigawhich allows generating additional economtions and participating in scenarios in relevant ic results RELATIONS WITH THE issues. We seek to have continuous contacts • Health and Safety Manual (undergoing COMMUNITY IN THE AREA OF with leaders and organizations to close in ideas, review) INFLUENCE know their expectations and assure a more qual• Manual on Relations with Public Stakeholdified proximity. Dialogues and institutional acers (undergoing review) Starting 2003, MASISA started a process to companiment have been fostered with functional identify strategic stakeholders: employees, and traditional representatives of the communineighboring communities, customers, suppliers ties – with the National Indigenous Development and shareholders, with which dialogue and inCorporation– CONADI and other institutions – in quiry processes were established. The Forestry order to strengthen ties with organizations and Business Unit additionally develops its relations the community. 56 | MASISA RELATIONS WITH THE COMMUNITY IN CABRERO, CHILE Cabrero is a district of 25,000 people, 28% of them in a rural sector. There are located the board, molding and the saw mill plants of MASISA. In 2005, it was evident that there was disagreement with out neighbors due to the unloading of effluents into the Cohiuico Brook and the air emission of the plant, which generated discomfort to the community. We have kept on-going contact and open communications with the community and the neighbors, in some cases represented by the Neighborhood associations, who have visited our industrial installations, have held meetings with management and have been informed on our processes and they have set forth their concerns. With the Committee of the Micro-Basin of the Coihuico Brook (Comité de la Microcuenca del Estero Coihuico) we have maintained special coordination, since all of them have work together to solve the discomfort generated by the effluents of the saw mill logs yard. MASISA has invested more than de million dollars to solve the unloading of organic matter that have affected the water way, producing bad smell and causing detriment to the quality of life of this old recreational area for the population. Currently, 100% of the effluents are re-circulated, and the quality of the water has been improved in a significant manner, eliminating the smells and organic contents. In 2008, the construction of a containing pool will be concluded that will avoid having the rain waters, mixed with the waters used to irrigate trunks can reach the Coihuico Brook. In October 2006 we will develop an Environmental Seminar between the Comité de la Microcuenca, the Municipality and the company. EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT MASISA is a part of the District Social and Economic Council (Consejo Económico Social Comunal) (CESCO), consulting entity of the Mayor, and we keep an open dialogue with the local authorities. In this process we finds points of common interest, in order to improve the educational level of the district, which is why the project I KNOW HOW TO READ (YA SE LEER) has started. With the effective collaboration of the Primary Instruction Society (Sociedad de Instrucción Primaria) (SIP), five schools in the district have been supported, training the teachers and directive teams. Monthly the SIP experts visit the schools in order to accompany the teachers and evaluate the project progress. The results have been auspicious: before the project 24% of the first grade children did not learn how to read and in 2007 this figure has decreased to 8%. To date work has been carried out with first and second grades of elementary school and in 2008 the third and fourth grades will be added. MASISA also participates in the Entrepreneurial Advisory Councils (Consejos Asesores Empresariales) of the High Schools Monte-Aguila and Yumbel Estación, in order to connect education with the company and thus help to develop a more relevant education. The teachers have participated in visits to the plant and the school students of the lumber specialty courses carry out their practices in the company. The company installations in Cabrero, and the San Isidro Community Center (Centro Comunitario San Isidro), are at the service of the neighbors and the municipality. There training initiatives fostered by the municipality are developed as well as those of other government agencies such as SENCE, FOSIS, CHILE-BARRIO, through social scholarships has trained more than 600 people in digital training, bakery, furniture making, sanitary repairs, and aluminum structures. In addition, there are classes to level off studies for close to 350 adults, who attend classes weekly to conclude their Elementary or High School education. 60% of them are MASISA employees. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 57 Reclaiming of Lands is kept at the local level in the management of Energy consumption between 2003 and 2007 In Chile, the relation with indigenous communieach industrial plant, which have the support of shows a stable situation, despite the fact that proties and the forestry companies have been unthe Environmental Coordinators, Risk Prevenduction has increased close to 30%. The effider the framework of reclaiming lands, some tion Experts and the People in Charge of Relaciency of energy consumption has improved 6% times in situations of regrettable conflict. In tions with the Community. (energy/production consumption). reference to ownership rights and / or the longterm use of the land and the forestry resources CERTIFICATIONS The goal for 2008 is an improvement of 5.8% in for local or indigenous communities, MASISA the efficiency indicator (MWh/m3). respects the rights of the indigenous communiAll the MASISA plants have the ISO 14001 and ties under the framework of applicable legislaOHSAS 18001 certifications and the wood boards ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS tion and is available to collaborate with the have the E-1 certification, specifying the low formcommunities, whether through local work, acaldehyde content and SCS of recycled content. Atmospheric emissions are derived from particucess to other forestry products or services or late material (raw material that is accumulated in other alternatives that do not affect the exercise All the operations annually define their managethe company lands without being covered and of its legitimate economic activity. ment priorities and update their management emissions from cyclons), and from fossil fuel system in order to achieve such objectives. combustion. We comply with local legislation in all MASISA has always kept its intention to maintain our plants, however it has been a matter of cona dialogue when any community has set forth REDUCTION OF THE USE OF NATURAL cern for our neighbors in Mexico, Chile and Aracquiring lands owned by the company, respectRESOURCES IN INDUSTRIAL PLANTS gentina. All our plants, specially in Cabrero and ing institutional instances, and in order to do so, (Reduction of the Environmental Chiguayante in Chile, Argentina and Mexico have it has instituted the National Indigenous DevelFootprint) taken measures to reduce problems, which are opment Corporation (Corporación Nacional de evaluated with the neighbors to asses results. Desarrollo Indígena CONADI), stating that MAEvery MASISA industrial plant measures its water, SISA does not have as an entrepreneurial objecwood fiber and energy consumption as well as We developed a new systems protocol and best tive of its activity the sale of land but rather the generation of wastes to be finally eliminated practices measurement and transference progrowth through the formation of forests and foron a monthly basis, and annually establishes cesses that will be implemented in 2008. estry development. MASISA’s willingness tomore demanding goals. In addition, the CO emisWhen a new national more demanding stanwards having dialogue is grounded in actions of sions are measured every two months. The atdard is established, it will be applied. (For more mutual respect, however when it faces actions mospheric emissions and liquid industrial and information regarding the emissions of greenthat attempt against the company’s rights, it will liquid residues and wastes are measured every house effect gasses, please refer to Carbon exercise all its legal rights. (In order to see greattwo months, and measurements are taken when Balance at www.masisa.com) er details please refer to www.masisa.com.) there are significant technological changes, or according to what has been established by naFINAL ELIMINATION OF WASTES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT tional applicable regulations. IN THE SECTOR In 2006 and 2007 we improved the handling of We carry out monthly benchmarks among the wastes in all plants through optimizing processes, The objectives of entrepreneurial management different company plants, in which differences of recycling of residual waters and the selection of are as follows: performance are analyzed and corrective measupplies in order to minimize solid wastes. In par• Comply 100% with the requirements of local sures and new projects are implemented. Given ticular, the introduction of state-of-the-art technolenvironmental legislation. the complexity of the productive processes and ogy can be underscored in the treatment of wa• Obtain the most demanding external certifitechnological differences among plants, there is ters derived from effluents along with investment cations. no public reference in the market, to which our in the new MDF plant in Cabrero, Chile, where • Reduce the use of natural resources in inperformance can be compared. Starting 2008, the evaporator system has been implemented. dustrial plants (reduction of the environmenwe initiated formal benchmark agreements with tal footprint) at least in 5% during 2008, in German companies in the wood board sector to Starting from 2008, we will implement a new line with the best efficiency improvements. compare and seek improvements in production Residues Management Protocol. The most sig• Control the operational impacts that affect the efficiency and environmental management when nificant problem continues to be the handling of neighboring communities of the operations. facing the best technology available. wood wastes in the plant in Venezuela, where the absence of a more developed forestry industry ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ENERGY CONSUMPTION limits the re-use of wood residues. MASISA’s Operations and Environment Man66% of the energy consumed directly by MASISA Considering that the production has increased in agement has the responsibility of assuring the is derived from the use of biomass as fuel, 21% in 30%, the efficiency in the reduction of residues is implementation of environmental issues, Induselectric energy and 12% from fossil fuels. In parimportant, which was of 22% from 2003 (generatrial Safety and relation with neighboring comticular, in the Solid Wood Business Unit this pertion of wastes / production). munities, with the support of the Sustainable centage varies to 83% biomass, 14% electricity Development Management. Such responsibility and 4% fossil fuels. 58 | MASISA The goal for 2008 is an improvement of 8.7% in EVOLUTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MW/H) and production (M3) Unities the efficiency indicator (ton/m³). 2,881,857 2,867,967 3,000,000 2,753,809 2,677,596 2,508,090 Wastes for final elimination refer to the following: 2,500,000 2,712,060 2,762,800 2,455,920 2,468,230 • Non-dangerous, domestic or industrial 2,000,000 2,132,010 wastes, which are recycled or are eliminated 1,500,000 in sanitary dump sites. In Venezuela, wastes 1,000,000 from bark and wood residues are included Total consumption of energy (MWh) Production (Boards + Wood) m3 that do not have any alternative use (of close 500,000 to 36,000 ton. in 2007). 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Years • Dangerous wastes that are handled and eliminated by authorized companies. EVOLUTION OF EFFICIENCY IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MW/h/ M3 of production) Dangerous issues are as follows: used oils and 1.40 grease, materials impregnated with oils and 1.19 1.12 1.06 grease, fluorescent lamps, hospital wastes, ex1.05 0.98 1.04 0.98 pired medication or drugs, vehicle batteries, radios and cell phones, obsolete pesticides, empty 0.70 packages of chemical products, waste solvents, resin residues and waxes and sludge or mud de0.35 rived from traps. Some wastes, such as used tires, scrap metal, impregnated paper or toner 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Goal 2008 from printers are considered dangerous only in some countries and their local handling complies with legislation in force. The goal for 2008 is to have an improvement of establishment of protected areas, restoration of CONTROL OF TOXIC RESIDUES 7.8% in the efficiency indicator (m³/m³). forests, when necessary, the non-conversion of biological value to plantations and the non-comThe residues of formaldehyde resins and other INDUSTRIAL AND SANITARY mercial use of Genetically Modified Organisms. chemical products used in lower quantities are EFFLUENTS withdrawn from the plants by the suppliers for CERTIFICATIONS their treatment and final elimination. The MASISA plants have carried out important efforts to close the process water circuits and All the MASISA plantations have the Forest We control the possible presence of Polychlorithe new plants have been designed in order Stewardship Council – FSC certification, connated Biphenyls (PCB) in the transformers of not to have industrial effluents. All industrial sidered worldwide as the highest standard, with all plants, and we only found one in the Argenplants have identified all possible effluent outsignificant differences in reference to other certinean Plant with 183 ppm de PCB in the siliputs to the environment.* tification schemes. cone used as a refrigerating liquid. Although in Argentina there are service companies that deFORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL Starting from MASISA Chile’s recertification in contaminate polluted oils, the silicones with MANAGEMENT 2006, all equity was included. Previously the PCB are not treated in the country, so that we surfaced considered in conflict with the indighad the transformer and the resulting dirty At MASISA, it is our hope that the forestry acenous communities had been excluded from cloths from the cleaning operation, along with tivity will not place in danger the integrity of the the first certification. the silicone kept in drums that are certified by systems required to support the forestry hanthe UN in a special facility, while we process dling itself (water, soil and biodiversity). The 2007 surveillance audit incorporated all the their export to Belgium for treatment. equity of Forestal Tornagaleones, with which the POLICY current certification coverall all the property of WATER CONSUMPTION the Forestry Business Unit of MASISA. In VenThe company has management policies and ezuela, the farm Coloradito having 4,534 hectThe analysis for the 2003 to 2007 period shows a systems that seek to minimize the negative imares (5.3% of the total surface of MASISA Vensignificant decrease of 60% in water consumppacts of forestry operations, controlling compliezuela) is not included in the FSC certification, tion. Additionally considering that production has ance of the legislation inforce, the protection of since once the farm is harvested, it must be reincreased 30%, efficiency in consumption has forests having a high level of conservation, the turned to its owner, and MASISA does not have improved 66% from 2003 (water / production the possibility of reforesting the land. consumption). 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 59 ENERGY ORIGIN ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 800,000 700,000 The Forestry Business Unit management of each country, under the administration of the 600,000 Business Unit manager, has the responsibility Fossil (MWh) Electric (MWh) of assuring the implementation of topics per500,000 Biomass (MWh) taining to the environment, industrial safety and relations with the neighboring communities. 400,000 300,000 SUPPORT TO INVESTIGATION 200,000 In order to know the best possible impact on soil, water and the biodiversity of plantations on 100,000 soil, water and biodiversity of plantations in the countries of the sourthern cone of South Amer0 Chile Chile Argentina Mexico Brazil Brazil Venezuela Venezuela ica, along with the CORMA – the industrial Wood Board Board Board Board Wood Board Wood Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Division trade association of wood in ChileMASISA supports since 2007 research activities with international consultants. EVOLUTION OF EFFICIENCY IN GENERATION OF WASTES FOR FINAL ELIMINATION (Kg /M3 of production) 25 This effort seeks to integrate the concerns of 21.76 22.8 stakeholders, such as the possible loss of soil 19.93 20 17.85 and nutrients, the vulnerability of plagues, pos16.29 15 sible impacts on availability and quality of water, connectivity and biological corridors, pos10 sible invasion of exotic species, vegetation and native wildlife in in lands. 5 0 The results of these investigations and research 2004 2005 2006 2007 Goal 2008 will be integrated to the company’s management systems. EVOLUTION OF TOTAL CONSUMPTION OF WATER AND PRODUCTION 8,000,000 SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY MANAGEMENT total water consumption m3 7,000,000 6,164,359 production (boards + lumber) m3 6,000,000 6,801,112 5,405,424 The Company bases its handling strategy in 5,000,000 intensive and specific silviculture to each land, 3,898,660 4,000,000 under two lines: intensive and structural han2,683,680 3,000,000 dling. In both cases, it seeks to empower the 2,712,060 2,762,800 2,000,000 2,132,010 2,455,920 2,468,230 growth of the forest according to the quality of 1,000,000 the site of the temporary and physical distribu0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 tion of trees, combining the pruning and trimming schemes according to age and site. The concept of intensive handling is not used. EVOLUTION OF EFFICIENCY IN WATER CONSUMPTION (m3/m3 of production) IMPACTS OVER THE SOIL 4 3.19 3 The soil is an essential resource for the forestry 2.51 activity, being the natural element that sustains 2.19 2 wood production. Its interaction with other nat1.44 ural elements allows the existence of planta1.03 0.95 1 tions and the presence of life in different levels, forms and expressions. Its deterioration and 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Goal 2008 * The information presented does not include the start-up of the new wood board’s line in Cabrero Chile. 60 | MASISA loss is translated in minor productions, greater costs in new rotations, the loss of the natural ECO EFficiency cases habitat for other species and the negative influence in distant areas due to the drag out of maMAPAL, Chile terials in water. Reduction in water consumption of close to 50% 2004-2006 and total elimination of liquid industrial residues. The above topic is the most significant for MATotal investment: USD 46,650 SISA in Chile, where we have plantations in Annual savings: USD 371,850 zones with different land slopes. The plantations must be harvested seeking the optimum CONCORDIA, Argentina cutting moment, which forces the construction Reduction of the final elimination of Residues: 90% of roads and wood production lands for their 2003 Annual savings: U$S 440,000 exploitation. This restriction demands the movement of the soil according to the land. Reduction of natural gas consumption in MDF 2004 During the next years, it is expected that interlines: 75% vention will be carried out in zones having lowAnnual savings: U$S 108,000 er slopes, which will produce a decrease in the 2005 Sustitution of fossil fuel (natural gas) for biomass. movement of the soil. In order to minimize the Greater reduction up to 80% erosion and / or contamination of hydric reAnnual savings: U$S 108,000 sources, there is a surface of approximately 27,000 hectares in Chile catalogued as PermaDURANGO, Mexico nent Protection surfaces. Reduction of water consumption from 32,847 m3 2006 to 19,079 m3 IMPACTS OVER THE QUALITY OR Annual savings: U$S 9,000 PRODUCTIVITY OF THE SOIL RIO NEGRINHO, Brazil The company has available a site productivity Reduction in the consumption of water due to imline and manages its plantations according to 2006 – 2007 provements in managing the yard of irrigated logs and the quality of each site. In order to do so, it has treatment of residual waters of the lumber drying available a quality evaluation guideline for its chambers. equity, with information on soil pits, physical 22% de Reduction in consumption of water /m3 and chemical analysis of soils, measurement 33% de Reduction in consumption total water lots associated to the growth model (even in Argentina, there are 7 years of measurement of PONTA GROSSA, Brazil permanent lots evaluating the growth of the Reduction of 20.5% of natural gas consumption pine and eucalyptus plantations), without find2006 – 2007 Annual savings: US$ 89,670 (despite increase in proing significant differences in the quatity of acid duction of 9.72 % in 2007) or loss of nutrients. PPilot project for compost of organic residues 2007 IMPACTS OVER WATER and ashes to be used as organic fertilizer Reduction of 60% of the treatment cost of ashes Construction of roads and land, and forestry harvesting over the quality of surface water Investigations developed in 2006 and 2007 in the sourthern zone of MASISA in Chile show that the construction activities of roads, fields and forestry harvest alter the quality of surface waters, mainly where these activities are developed close to water ways. Soil movements, spillages of roads and fields and the tracks of tree dragging favor the contribution of solids in suspension to water ways. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 61 The waste ordering tasks in the level curve, the shafts during the collection of wood with skidwere carried out in order to determine the effect construction of areas where the deep layers are ders when harvesting, the channeling of waters of different elements on landscape (strips of removed without damaging the land and reforin roads, due to the movement of land during pine, protection zones, native forest, continuous esting in the least possible time period minithe construction of roads and fields with bullpine plantations, harvested zones, etc.) in the mize the later contribution of sediments. The dozers and back hoe excavating machinery movement of different types of organisms. impact varies according to the characteristics and the maintenance of dirt roads with motor of the soils and the rain patterns in zones with graders, or due to the construction of cortafuThe effect of the non-harvested radiate pine plantations, which is why these factors are imegos when battling forest fires). strips were evaluated (or of delayed harvest) portant when deciding the acquisition of lands such as biological corridors, finding that these for new plantations. Genetically Modified Organisms strips can be useful for some species of forest vertebrates allowing the increase of the biological (The results of water monitoring in microbasins Our policy in reference to genetic engineering, connectivity. In addition, the role of biological in farm lands can be seen in www.masisa.com) passed in November 2005, indicates that MAcorridors was evaluated on native forest protecSISA will not make commercial or experimental tion zones (mainly canyons) within the pine planUSE OF CHEMICAL PRODUCTS use of the transgenetic trees fields until it is provtations, verifying that these areas comply with a FOR FERTILIZING, PLAGUE en that their use is safe. In order to understand fundamental role as refuge zones for birds after CONTROL AND THE REMOVAL OF better and evaluate the risks and benefits of the the harvesting tasks are carried out. WEEDS forestry bio-technology, we have decided to monitor very closely key forestry biotechnology With this data and with the information obtained MASISA only uses chemical products authorized developments around the world, and thus particifrom other smaller experiments, a mechanistic by the FSC and we carry out the biological conpate in investigation and research activities withmodel was created to simulate changes in the trol of plagues. We evaluate consumption and out freeing into the environment genetically modconnectivity of a land submitted to different hanthe dosing of herbicides, and the water from ified trees either experimentally or commercially. dling schemes, in order to estimate a cost – bencreeks is monitored after herbicides are applied, efit cost, estimating that the incorooration of without having detected the presence of chemiBIODIVERSITY some corridors in particular situations significantcal products in the water. ly increases the degree of connectivity at the 2007 was a year of important progress in the farm land level. Fire Control diagnosis of biodiversity in the MASISA plantations, a key step towards the adequate manageThe results of this project were presented by the Fire control is a relevant topic for the company in ment of conservation areas. In addition, all the investigators Dr. Cristian Estades and Mr. Martín its risk control policy. MASISA has risk prevencountries worked on disseminating environmenEscobar from the Forestry Resources Handling tion, protection and fire handling programs, and tal information to communities and schools. Department from the Universidad de Chile in a actively promotes the association with state compublic event in May 2006, with the participation panies or organizations, and carries out continuBiological Corridores in Plantations of the Forestry Institute, CONAMA Bío Bío, Avina, ous training and dissemination programs with the Procer, Forestal Tierra Chile and employees from communities where it operates. MASISA carries Investigations in Chile show a positive impact in MASISA’s Forestry Business Unit. out investments in these programs and keeps the biological corridors due to changes in the risk coverage by means of fire insurance policies, handling and harvesting patterns and the conwhen it is considered justified. servation of protected areas. Transportation We have progressed since 2003, with the Universidad de Chile – FIA – MASISA Project: “HanIn order to mitigate the possible impacts of dling of Biological Connectivity in Forestry Lands transportation on communities, MASISA’s and Dominated by Radiata Pine Plantations 2003its service companies’ Environmental Manage2007 (Manejo of the conectividad biológica in ment System include special instructions repredios forestales dominados por plantaciones garding the compacting of soil, soil contaminade Pino Radiata 20032007)” in two farms: tion, and erosion (during the preparation of Guanaco, in the district of Quirihue and Trehualsoils for plantations, by eliminating the tree covemu, in the district of Pelluhue. Experiments erage after harvesting, due to the dragging of 62 | MASISA Protected Areas MASISA collaborated and participated for such Sustainable Handling of Renewable Native effect in a workshop organized by the WWF Forests: MASISA, Forest Ethics and Eco MASISA has 14 protected areas: and in which the company facilitated land for Management & Trading an on-site visit, as well as relevant information Chile regarding its technical work. The “Sustainable Handling Fund for the Renewal of Native Forest”, whose pilot plan startJointly with the WWF three farm lands were iniPayments for the service of ecosystems and ed in February 2007, seeks to contribute totially identified (7,800 hectares) whose strucsustainable use of native forest forestry wards the creation of value for the company ture of species, surface, associated slopes and resources through the handling of the renewal of native geographical location have defined them as forests (second growth native forests), transHigh Value Preservation Forests. Two of these The forestry ecosystems, both natural as well forming it in equity handled in a sustainable are located in the Cordillera de la Costa (Coastas those established due to forestation or remanner. This fund will allow handling the real Mountain Range), area defined worldwide as forestation are an important supplier of fundanewable forests with greater productive potenof “high preservation value” given the richness mental services for life on earth. The Evalutial, generating employment for the neighboring and characteristic of the natural species and ación de los Ecosystems del Milenio del communities and re-investing the resources those in danger of extinction. Programa de Naciones Unidas para el Ambiobtained in the handling of the native forest in ente – PNUMA (Evaluation of the Millenium different development stages. The coastal forests of the X th Region of Chile Ecosystems of the United Nations Environment comprise unique ecosystems that host a great Program), recognizes four service groups: supThe program considers activities in lands with diversity of flora and fauna, but only 50,000 ply (foods, wood and fibers); regulation (of cliadvantages from the operating point of view, hectares of the 1.4 million hectares of Valdivian mate, floods, illnesses, and water quality); culsuch as the good quality of renewable forests forest that are not currently protected. Chile has tural (spiritual, aesthetic, recreation and and an adequate roadway infrastructure. more than a third part of the little altered temeducational values), and pertaining to support perate forests that currently exist in the world, (formation of soils, primary production and reThus, the initial resources were generated, dyclassified as Bordering Forests. cycling of nutrients). namism is given to the activity and a sustainable offer is generated that allows improving Among the emblematic species in the zone is Unfortunately, the protected areas have a great the current price of products derived from the the larch tree (Fitzroya cupressoides), the largvalue for life, but they do not have any financial handling of the native forest and develop supest conifer of the Southern Cone and the secvalue on not generating money flows. At MApliers in the sector, with the highest environond oldest in the world (it can live more than SISA we have set forth the challenge in 2008 to mental and social standards. This will allow 3,000 years). In addition to the ecological imgenerate revenues of at least US$ 10,000 anmaking more viable less advantageous situaportance of these forests, in the zone In addinually in the protected areas starting from actions of renewable forests in the short-term. tion to the ecological importance of this forests, tivities that allow their sustainable use and their in this zone the Network of Community Parks better preservation. The revenues generated by this project will be Mapu Lahual (Red de Parques Comunitarios invested in the recovery and handling of areas Mapu Lahual (Land of Larches (Tierra de AlUse of Non-Wood Resources with native forests of less development and in erces)) is developed, an initiative of preservathe restoration and preservation of high value tion and ecotourism of the WWF under the In Brazil, we have advanced the project “Nonconservation forests. This will allow demonframeowk of a comprehensive development Wood Forestry Products”, jointly with the Brastrating in practice the economic and ecologic strategy that seeks the preservation of the larch zilean Foundation for Sustainable Development, viability of the handling of renewable native fortree and the coastal olivillo (Aextoxicon puncin order to identify the potential of MASISA’s ests with the highest environmental and social tatum) native forests and that is led by the innatural forests of offering species that can be standards, without their execution demanding digenous communities themselves. used in fitotherapy, in addition to researching financial resources from other business lines of the possibility of cultivating these species in ruthe Forestry Business Unit. MASISA and the WWF worked in 2007 to genral alliance programs (lease and /or promotion erate the necessary information to apply the development units). Nine (9) commercial speThis joint initiative between MASISA, Forest methodology to spatially define the High Value cies have been identified and we are evaluating Ethics and Eco Management & Trading constiPreservation Forests. MASISA is committed to business plans for their commercialization. tutes a unique example, where a forestry comcontinue working in the topic, including work pany in Chile that centers its activity in quick with other stakeholders for a better undergrowth plantations, maintains an actual constanding and use of the concept in Chile. cern regarding native forests, its relations with the community and with regional sustainable development. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 63 SANTA HERMINIA, A CASE OF indexes, 11% illiteracy (National 1992 Census), Cypress of the Guaitecas (Pilgerodendrum uvHIGH PRESERVATION VALUE and with the worst human development index iferum), without discarding the possible presFORESTS IN CHILE (IDH) in the country. Eight indigenous commuence of Larches and midget Cypress in areas nities live in the zone. that have still not been explored. The farm Santa Herminia, located in San Juan de la Costa, coastal sector of the Province of The farm limits it overall total with farming and HANDLING PLAN Osorno, Region of Los Lagos, is in the zone of indigenous communities, an enormous cultural the Rainy Valdiviano Forests, part of the coastal asset, particularly relevant given their unique Seeking the adequate handling, use and proecosystems of the Osorno Mountain Range. knowledge generated through their tight relatection of the different resources of the land During the last glacial era, this region was the tionship with the environment. A very important and its surroundings, the plan is focused on refuge for an important number of species, beaspect of this initiative is the rescue of the anassuring the conservation, preservation and coming a place for a great number of important cestry relation of the Mapuche-Huilliche people protection of natural patrimony, the sustainable endemic species in Chile. The district of San with their forest through participative work with use of resources, research in natural environJuan de la Costa represents enormous natural the 6 indigenous communities who form it. ments and the education and dissemination wealth, 70% of its territory corresponding to based on the different zones of the land. rainy temperate forests, unique in the world and FLORA, FAUNA AND SCENIC QUALITY bordering forests. (Activities in Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela One of the main attractions of this land is its are available at www.masisa.com ) NEIGHBORING COMMUNITIES AND Always Green Forests, a sub-type of the Chiloé HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL VALUES Coigue, which is characterized by adult plants of Nothofagus dombeyi, Laurelia philippiana, 80% of the population is declared to belong to Saxeghotaea conspicua and Podocarpus nubísampling the Mapuche – Huilliche ethnic group. It is one gena. A scenery of high singularity are the bogs 88 species of native plants identified 24 of endemic species of the poorest regions in Chile, with low school areas given their high flower diversity, under(27% of the total land, 1.2% of the priority area scoring young plants of the threatened conifer of the Valdivian rainy forests) 36 genders, 8 endemic 22% genders in the country HIGH VALUE PRESERVATION FORESTS IN THE TENTH REGION, CHILE Identified Flora Bush, trees and herbaceous species. World Context National Context Species 29 bushes 26 tree species 14 herbaceous San Félix and 8 species epiphytes San Ambrosio Islands 7 climbing 2 land ferns ARGENTINA 2 parasite species CHILE PERCENTAGE OF REPRESENTATIVES Juán Fernandez Islands tree Rainy Valdiviano bush forests epiphytes World Biodiversity Priority Area Protected area of the herbaceous 1.000 endemic species Valdiviano rainy forests Bio Geographic Island (International Preservation) climbing 3.892 species of plants (1,957 are endemic) 6 threatened endemic birds fern 5 threatened endemic mammals. (International Conservation) parasite habitat 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 64 | MASISA MASISA | 64 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 65 EXTERNAL VERIFICATION 66 | MASISA EXTERNAL VERIFICATION This external verification process of the materiality, relevance and integrity of the information systems of social and environmental issues was carried out by a “Citizens’ Panel” coordinated by the House of Peace (Casa de la Paz) (www.casadelapaz.org) following the AA1000 standard that facilitates the alignment between the information published and the concerns of stakeholders (www.accountability.org.uk). This Panel had the participation of representatives of the academic world, organized civil society, and in what we believe is a sample of trust and transparency that we appreciate significantly, we also had the presence of representatives from the communities that are impacted by the company operation, particularly, the Mapuche people and the neighbors of the Cabrero Plant in Chile. This Panel focused its task in this occasion in the company operations in Chile, and its recommendations respond to the reality of such focus. In the future we hope to extend this process to the other MASISA companies. Although we are conscious that there is still a long path to walk through, we feel especially satisfied with the effort carried out in this verification process and appreciate the suggestions received from the Panel. REPORT FROM THE VERIFICATION CITIZENS’ PANEL CHILE, FEBRUARY 1, 2008 The company MASISA requested the Fundación Its members freely agreed to the process and Casa of the Paz for the design, organization and jointly defined the visits and interview program, facilitation of a Citizens’ Panel that World verify both in person as well as on the telephone. In the social and environmental aspects of the that same instance, MASISA delivered the pre2007 Annual Report in Chile through of its Chairliminary document of the 2007 Annual Report woman, Ximena Abogabir S., and upon her inviand other matters, and received new information tation the panel was formed as follows: Miguel requirements and contacts. The members of the Bahamondes P., anthropologist, from the Grupo Panel visited during January 2008 the forestry de Investigaciones Agrarias (GIA) (Agricultural and industrial operations of MASISA Chile and Investigations Group); on the Industrial Sub-Panrequested to later contact certain key players. el: Dr. Oscar Parra B., Director of the Centro de Afterwards, the Panel met to draft their report, Ciencias Ambientales EULA (Environmental Sciwhich was presented to MASISA with the purences Center) from the Universidad de Conceppose of having the company contribute with new ción; Digna Sandoval S., Chairwoman of the Codata. Starting from this information, the Panel mité de la Microcuenca de Coihuico (Comité for issued in an absolutely independent manner its the Micro-Basin of Coihuico); on the Forestry final report, many of whose recommendations Sub-Panel: Armando Cristo Marileo L., ancestral were able to be incorporated to the definite text elder authority, Director of the School of Philosoof the 2007 Annual Report. phy and Ancestral Mapuche Wisdom (Escuela de Filosofía and Sabiduría Ancestral Mapuche) The panel also presented suggestions to improve and Dr. Oscar Thiers E., professor and researchthis verification process in the future, for examer of the Silvicultura Institute, School of Forestry ple, revealing that the time provided to carry out Sciences, Universidad Austral de Chile. this type of work was brief, which attempts against the depth of treatment of certain issues. 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 67 OBSERVATIONS REGARDING THE APPLICATION OF THE THREE (3) PRINCIPLES OF VERIFICATION IN THE MASISA 2007 ANNUAL REPORT IN ITS PRELIMINARY DOCUMENT: Materiality: The preliminary version of the Annual Report does not consider relevant information in matters pertaining to land transportation, both in terms of its environmental impacts as well as in reference to the community, despite having carried out an important effort in this scope and having great progress. This topic precisely grounds the most recurrent complaints made by the community. Similarly, it does not sufficiently reveal the effort made in the scope of the safety of its employees. It does not fully touch on the labor issue, specially the situations derived from the dismissal of 250 employees of the Solid Wood Business Unit. Integrity: The company has communication channels to collect the concerns of the community, both internal and external, it participates in instances where incipient topics can be identified (work tables at the local, regional, national and global level) and has expedite spokes people channels with the neighboring communities. In the Annual Report reference is made to the dismissals of employees of the Cabrero Plant, but it does not give account of the climate that is generated by these dismissals or the reaction of the community when facing this particular situation. There is the perception that the company does not promote the formation of local contracting companies. Response Capacity: The company has mechanisms for the call to instances of dialogue, however, there is no clarity perceived referring to what greater strategy they are inscribed to. The company has demonstrated agility to service the concerns of the community, execute remedial actions and communicate the management measures implemented. The construction of the effluent plant to avoid the contamination of the Coihuico Brook is a demonstration of the above. Instead, the information that is channeled through the forest rangers is not processed with the necessary effectiveness and timeliness. The people interviewed by this Panel do not know the “following step” of the company social initiatives, generating uncertainty regarding the same. The Panel identifies the absence in the Annual Report of positive and negative testimonies of relevant players. (The complete text of the suggestions of the Citizens’ Panel is available at www.masisa.com) Members of the Verification citizen’s panel in MASISA. MASISA 68 | MASISA | 68 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 69 CONSISTENCY WITH GRI INDICATORS 70 | MASISA PENDING COMMITMENTS FROM PRIOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS Commitment Section Status Goal Accountable We hope to obtain 75% during 2008 with which we will be in a superior standard Inquiries and Dialogues 2008 Human Capital worldwide in terms of the commitment of the employees with their company. We are still not satisfied in terms of diversity in the company, e.g. we have not Our Stakeholders: carried out sufficient efforts to promote women to management positions. This 2008 Human Capital Non-Discriminated Employees topic will be during 2006 Commitment partially complied with CONSISTENCY WITH GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Economic performance Indicator Page Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenue, exploitation costs, retribution to employees, donation and other Main EC1 32 investments to the community, non-distributed benefits and capital payments to suppliers and governments Main EC2 Financial consequences and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activity due to the Climate Change 38 Main EC3 Coverage of the organization’s obligations due to social benefit programs 54 Main EC4 Significant financial help received from governments 32 Aspect: Market presence Main EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of expenses corresponding to local suppliers locales in places where significant relations are developed 32 Procedures for local contracting and proportion of top management derived from the local community in places where significant relations are Main EC7 47 developed Aspect: Direct economic impacts Development and impact of investments in infrastructure and services mainly provided for public benefits by means of commercial Main EC7 N/A agreements, pro bono or in products ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Materials Main EN1 Materials used, per weight or volume 52 Main EN2 Percentage of the materials used that are valued materials N/D Aspect: Energy Main EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources 59 Main EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary sources 40 Additional EN5 Energy savings due to the conservation and improvements in efficiency 57 Initiatives to provide efficient products and services in energy consumption or based in renewable energies, and reductions in energy Additional EN6 40 consumption as the result of these initiatives Additional EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions achieved with such initiatives 40 Aspect: Water Main EN8 Total capturing of water per sources 58 Additional EN9 Water sources that have been significantly affected by water capturing 61 Additional EN10 Percentage and total volume of recycled and re-used water 58 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 71 Aspect: Biodiversity Description of the adjacent land or located within natural protected spaces or in areas of non-protected high biodiversity. Indicate the location Main EN11 62 and size of owned land, or leased or that are managed with high biodiversity in zones that are different from protected areas Description of the most significant impacts in biodiversity in natural protected spaces or in areas of non-protected high biodiversity, derived from Main EN12 61 activities, products and services in protected areas or in areas that have high biodiversity value in zones that are different from protected areas Additional EN13 Protected or restored habitats 62 Additional EN14 Strategies and actions implemented and planned for the management of impacts over biodiversity 62 Number of species, broken down according to their danger of extinction, included in the IUCN Red List and in national lists and whose Additional EN15 63 habitats are found in the areas affected by the company’s operations according to the threat of the species Aspect: Emissions, dump sites and residues Main EN16 Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse effect gases, in peso 39 Main EN17 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse effect gases, in weight 40 Additional EN18 Initiatives to reduce the emissions greenhouse effect gases and the reductions achieved 40 Main EN19 Emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer, in weight N/A Main EN20 NO, SO and other significant emissions in the atmosphere per type and weight 57 Main EN21 Total dumping of residual waters according to their nature and destination 58 Main EN22 Total weight of managed residues, according to type and treatment method 57 Main EN23 Total number and volume of most significant accidental spills 55 Identification, size, status of protection and value of biodiversity of water resources and related habitats, significantly affected by water 60 Additional EN25 dumping and run-off waters form the informing organization 61 Aspect: Products and services Main EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of the products and services, and the degree of reduction of such impact 36 Main EN27 Percentage of sold products, and their assembly materials, which are recovered at the end of their service life, per product category N/D Aspect: Regulatory compliance Main EN28 Cost of the most significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions passed due to the non-compliance of environmental regulations 55 Aspect: Transportation Significant environmental impacts of the transportation of products and other goods and materials used by the activities of the organization, 40 Main EN29 as well as the transportation of personnel 61 Aspect: General Main EN30 Break-down per type of total expenses and environmental investments 54 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF LABOR PRACTICES AND WORK ETHICS Aspect: Employment Main LA1 Break-down of the group of workers per type of employment contract and per region 90 90 Main LA2 Total number of employees and their average turn-over, broken down per age group, sex and region Web Social benefits for the employees that have complete work days, which are not offered to part-time employees or employees who work half Additional LA3 Web days, broken-down by main activity Aspect: Company / Workers Relations Main LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a group bargaining agreement Web Main LA5 Minimum pre-notification period (s) relative to organizational changes, including if these notices are specified in the group bargaining agreements N/D 72 | MASISA Aspect: Health and safety at work Percentage of the total number of workers who are represented in health and safety committees and safety groups of management Additional LA6 45 –employees, established to help control and advice regarding health and safety programs at work Main LA7 Absenteeism rates, professional illnesses, lost days and number of mortal victims related to work per region 44 Education, formation, advise, prevention and control programs that are applied to workers, to their families or to members of the community Main LA8 46 in relation to serious illnesses Aspect: Formation and education Main LA10 Average number of hours of training per year, per employee, per employee category Web Management programs of skills and continuous formation that foster the employment quality of employees and that support them in the final Additional LA11 48 management of their professional careers Additional LA12 Percentage of employees who receive regular performance evaluations and of professional development 49 Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities Main LA13 Structure of the corporate governance entities and payroll, broken-down by sex, age group, belonging to minorities and other diversity indicators Web Main LA14 Relation between the base salary of men in comparison to women, broken-down by professional career N/D HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Practices of investment and procurement Percentage and total number according to significant investment that include human rights clauses or that have been the object of analysis Main HR1 43 in matters pertaining to human rights Percentage of the main distributors and contractors that have been the object of analysis in matters pertaining to human rights, and the Main HR2 43 consequent means adopted Total number of training hours of the employees regarding policies and procedures related with those aspects of human rights relevant to their Additional HR3 48 activities, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination Main HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and measures adopted 21 Aspect: Freedom of association and group bargaining agreements Activities of the company in which the right to freedom of association and of being covered under group bargaining agreements can run Main HR5 Web important risks, and the measures adopted to back such rights Aspect: Exploitation of children Activities identified that lead to the potential risk of incidents pertaining to the exploitation of children and measures adopted to contribute to Main HR6 NA their elimination Aspect: Forced labor Operations identified as areas of significant risk of being the origin of episodes of forced or non-conscentual work, and the measures adopted Main HR7 N/A to contribute to their elimination Aspect: Safety practices Percentage of the safety personnel who have been trained in the policies or procedures of the organization in aspects pertaining to human Additional HR8 48 rights that are relevant to activities 2007 ANNUAL REPORT MASISA | 73 Aspect: Rights of indigenous peoples Additional HR9 Total number of incidents related with violations to the rights of indigenous peoples and measures adopted 55 SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Community Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices to evaluate and manage the impacts of the operations in the communities, Main SO1 55 including the entrance, operation and exit of the company Aspect: Corruption Main SO2 Percentage and total number of the Business Units analyzed in comparison to the risk related to corruption 21 Main SO3 Percentage of employees formed in the anti-corruption policies and procedures of the organization 21 Main SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents 21 Aspect: Public policy Main SO5 Position in public policies and participation in their development and “lobbying” activities 21 Aspect: Regulatory compliance Additional SO8 Monetary value of significant sanctions and fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions derived from the non-compliance of laws and regulations 55 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON OUR RESPONSIBILITY OVER PRODUCTS Aspect: Client’s health and safety Phases of the life cycle of products and services in which they are evaluated, so that in their case they can be improved, their impact the Main PR1 36 health and safety of customers, and the percentage of categories of significant products and services subject to such evaluation procedures Total number of incidents derived from the non-compliance of legal regulations or of the voluntary codes relative to the impacts of products Additional PR2 37 and services in health and safety during their life cycle, distributed according to the type of result of such incidents Aspect: Labeling of products and services All types of information on products and services that are required by the procedures in force and regulations, and the percentage of products Main PR3 36 and services subject to such informative requirements Total number of non-compliance of regulations and of the voluntary codes relative to the information and labeling of products and services, Additional PR4 37 distributed according to the type of result of such incidents Additional PR5 Practices according to customer satisfaction, including the results of customer satisfaction studies 33 Aspect: Marketing communication Compliance programs of laws or upholding the voluntary standards and codes mentioned in the marketing communications, including Main PR6 34 advertising, other promotional activities and sponsors Aspect: Regulatory compliance Main PR9 Cost of significant fines resulting from non-compliance of regulations in relation to supply and the use of products and services of the organization 55 Web: Information available at www.masisa.com N/D: Not available N/A: Does not aply MASISA | 74 GENERAL bAcKGROUNd INfORMATION MASISA | 75 General BackG BackGround InformatI InformatIon MASISA | 76 INCORPORATION DOCUMENTS Chief Solid Wood Business Unit Officer Claudio Cerda Herreros ¹ Masisa S.A., previously Terranova S.A., is, as the result of different divisions and Civil Industrial Engineer, Universidad Católica de Chile mergers, the legal continuation of the closely-held stock company Terranova InMSC in Management, Stanford University ternacional S.A. (hereinafter “TISA”). RUT: 10.514.213-7 Terranova Internacional S.A., (today Masisa S.A.) was incorporated by public deed Chief Forestry Business Unit Officer dated July 17, 1996, granted in the Public Notary of Santiago of Mr. Félix Jara CaJorge Correa Drubi dot. An extract of such public deed was inscribed on page 19,525 No. 15,190 in Forestry Engineer, Universidad de Chile the Trade Register of the Registrar of Real Estate of Santiago corresponding to RUT: 5.545.576-7 1996, and was published in the Official Gazette dated August 10, 1996, then becoming the affiliate company of the parent company Forestal Terranova S.A. Chief Financial Officer Eugenio Arteaga Infante Dated September 30, 2003, TISA, was divided into two companies, Terranova Business Administration Mayor and Auditor Accountant, S.A. and Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. (hereinafter the “Division”). Universidad Católica de Chile MBA Universidad Católica de Chile Afterwards, dated October 31, 2003, the company Terranova S.A., the result of RUT: 6.374.575-8 the Division, absorbed by merger its parent company Forestal Terranova S.A., going on to become incorporated in its legal continuation, in the openly-held comChief Sustainable Development Officer pany, and in the parent company of the group of companies called “Terranova”. María Emilia Correa Pérez Attorney, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia. Finally, dated May 31, 2005, Terranova S.A. absorbed by merger the old comMaster in Sociology (MA), The New School for Social Research, pany Masisa S.A., time upon which it changed its trade name to Masisa S.A. New York, United States. RUT: 21.667.056-6 MASISA S.A.’s COMPANY OBJECTIVE • Forestation or reforestation of land and the handling, cutting and exploitation Chief Business Development Officer of natural and / or artificial forests. Matías Mackenna García-Huidobro • Industrialization and commercialization in Chile and / or abroad of all types of Civil Engineer, Universidad Católica de Chile forestry and lumber products, cattle raising and agricultural and all types of MBA Babson College, Estados Unidos machineries and vehicles. RUT: 10.579.653-6 • Capital investment in forestry or agricultural businesses, administrating, incorporating or participating in companies created for such purpose. General Counsel and Secretary of the Board of Directors • Supply of technical, financial and / or legal consulting management services. Patricio Reyes Urrutia Attorney, Universidad Católica de Chile RUT: 10.740.512-7 Chief Communications and Corporate Affairs MAIN EXECUTIVES Ignacio González Guzmán Business Administrator, Universidad de Chile Chief Executive Officer Specialization in Marketing, Universidad de San Andrés, Argentina Enrique Cibié Bluth RUT: 9.424.121-9 Business Administration Mayor, Universidad Católica de Chile MBA Stanford University, United States. Chief Human Capital Officer RUT: 6.027.149-6 Ana María Rabagliti Grünwald² Business Administration Mayor, Universidad Católica de Chile Chief Wood Board Business Unit Officer RUT: 7.765.339-2 Jaime Valenzuela Fernández Business Administration Mayor, Auditor Accountant and Statistics Technician, Chief Auditing Officer U. de Chile. Luis Zúñiga Medina Advanced Management Program, The Wharton School, Univ. of Pennsylvania Business Administrator, Universidad de Santiago de Chile RUT: 6.773.073-0 Post Graduate Degree in Finance U. de Chile. MBA USACH RUT: 8.752.932-0 Chief Retail Business Unit Officer and Word Board Business Unit Commercial Manager ARGENTINA Alejandro Espinosa Carey Civil Electrical Engineer, Universidad de Chile. General Manager DPA – Business Administration, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez. Alfredo Gili Canadell RUT: 7.481.963-K Forestry Engineer, Universidad Austral de Chile RUT: 8.519.945-5 General Background Informations MASISA | 77 BRAzIL ADDRESSES General Manager ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES Jorge Hillmann Metallurgic Engineer, Universidad Federal do Río Grande do Sul. Argentina Post-graduate Degree in Marketing, ESPM. Buenos Aires Post-graduate B.A. in Public Administration, U. Federal do Río Grande do Sul. 25 de Mayo 359 Piso N° 15 MBA in Finance IBEMEC (C1002ABG) Capital Federal, Buenos Aires RG: 800.052.345-9 Telephone (54-11) 5550 6000 Fax (54-11) 5550 6402 CHILE Brazil General Manager Curitiba Gastón Urmeneta Krarup Avenida João Gualberto nº 1259 Mechanical Naval Engineer, Academia Politécnica Naval, Chile. 23º andar Masters in Economy and Business Administration, ESEADE Bairro Alto da Glória RUT: 8.816.997-2 Curitiba, Paraná, CEP: 80.030-001 Telephone (55-41) 3219 1850 COLOMBIA Fax (55-41) 3219 1870 Bento Gonçalves General Manager Rua Dez de Novembro, nr. 697 Luis Guillermo Velásquez Botero 2º andar/sala 11/13 Business Administrator (BA), Specializing in Finance and Marketing, Bairro: Botafogo Universidad EAFIT, Colombia Bento Gonçalves, Rio Grande do Sul, RG: 8.311.018 CEP: 95.700-000 Telephone (55-54) 3453 1095 United States Rio de Janeiro Praia do Flamengo, nr. 66, General Manager Bloco B, salas 719 e 720, Dan Schmidt3 Bairro Flamengo Graduate in Business Administration and Economy, Rio de Janeiro – Rio de Janeiro Northeastern University, United States CEP: 22.210-030 Telephone (55-21) 2005-5253 MeXICO São Paulo Avenida Brigadeiro Luis Antonio, nr. 2729 General Manager 11º andar/ salas 1105 e 1106 Leonardo Schlesinger Grandi4 Bairro: Bela Vista Psychologist, Universidad Gabriela Mistral, Chile, Masters in Business São Paulo – São Paulo, CEP: 01401-000 Administration (MBA), London Business School, London, UK. Telephone (55-11) 3051 3355 RUT: 11.741.889-8 Chile Peru/ECUADOR Santiago Av. Apoquindo 3650, Piso 10 General Manager Las Condes, Santiago Roberto Heskia Tornquist Telephone (56-2) 350 6000 Business Administration Mayor, Universidad Católica de Chile Fax (56-2) 350 6001 RUT: 10.978.789-2 Colombia VENEZUELA Bogotá Calle 72 No. 5 – 83, General Manager Edificio Avda. Chile, Piso 4, Oficina 402 Miguel Oneto Rosales Telephone (57-1) 325 8700 Business Administrator, Universidad de Santiago, Chile Fax (57-1) 325 87 24 Post-graduate Degree in Human Relations and Labor Psychology, U. Católica de Chile. RUT: 7.411.246-3 Ecuador Guayaquil Av. Víctor Emilio Estrada nº 1021 entre Hilanes y Jiguas 1 Replaced Tomás Morales as Chief Solid Wood Business Unit Officer in October 2007 2 Replaced Leonardo Schlesinger Grandi in October 2007 Guayaquil Ecuador 3 Replaced George Mac Connell in February 2007 Telephone (593 4) 2888244 / 2888249 / 2888248 4 Replaced Claudio Cerda Herreros in October 2007 MASISA | 78 United States Chile Telephone (54-345) 429 0100 / Atlanta Planta Cabrero Div. Tablero (54-345) 429 0136 /0326 900 Circle 75 Parkway, Suite 720 Tucapel s/n, Cabrero Fax (54-345) 429 0357 Atlanta GA, 30339 Telephone (56-43) 400 800 Telephone (1-770) 405-2600 Fax (56-43) 404 199 Brazil Fax (1-770) 405-2601 Planta Cabrero Div. Maderas Ponta Grossa Ruta Q-50 Km. 2,15 Rodovia BR 376 Km. 503 N°1690, Mexico Telephone (56-43) 400 800 Bairro: Distrito Industrial Mexico, D.F. Fax (56-43) 404 199 Ponta Grossa, Paraná, CEP 84045-610 Jaime Balmes #8, 2° piso, desp. 202, Col. Planta Chillán Telephone (55-42) 3219 1500 Los Morales. Deleg. Miguel Hidalgo Panamericana Norte Km. 5, Chillán Fax (55-42) 3219 1600 Mexico, D.F. C.P. 11510 Telephone (56-42) 207 300 Porto Alegre Telephone (52 55) 91382300 Fax (56-42) 207 399 Rua Dona Teodora, 1306 Fax (52 55) 91382308 Planta Ranco Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, J.M. Balmaceda 8050, Valdivia Barrio: Navegantes Peru Telephone (56-63) 214 451 CEP 90240-300 Lima Fax (56-63) 216 945 Telephone (55-51) 3362 3611 Av. Víctor Andrés Belaunde 147 Planta Carlos Puschmann Fax (55-51) 3362 5807 Edificio Torre Real 12 , Oficina 103 Av. España 1060, Valdivia Recife San Isidro, Lima-Peru Telephone (56-63) 341 010 Avenida Alfredo Lisboa, s/n Telephone 0051-17061400 Fax (56-63) 341 017 Armazém 18, sala 09 Planta Chiguayante Bairro: Recife Venezuela Manuel Rodríguez 1045, Chiguayante, Concepción Recife, Pernambuco, CEP: 50.030-150 Caracas Telephone (56-41) 236 2123 Telephone (5581) 3424-7000 Avenida Francisco de Miranda, Fax (56-41) 236 2339 Rio Negrinho Edif. Parque Cristal Planta Mapal Rodovia BR 280, número 4116 Torre Oeste, Piso 3, Oficina 3-3 Camino a Coronel Km. 10 Bairro: Industrial Sul Los Palos Grandes Caracas Coronel, Concepción Rio Negrinho – Santa Catarina Telephone (58-212) 6207011 Telephone (56-41) 244 5200 CEP 89295-000 Fax (58-212) 2854217 Fax (56-41) 239 0028 Telephone: (55 47) 3646-3000 Fax: (55 47) 3646-3039 Puerto Ordaz United States São Paulo Calle Cuchiveros, Torre Balear, Wando1 Rua Jussara, nr. 1250, Sala 06 Piso 2, Oficina 21y 23 2440 Clements Ferry Road Bairro: Santa Cecília Piso 5, Oficina 52 Wando, SC 29492 Barueri – São Paulo, CEP: 06465-070 Alta Vista Norte Telephone (1-843) 216 2100 Telephone (55-11) 3382-2229 Puerto Ordaz, Estado Bolívar Fax (1-843) 216 21 Telephone (58-286) 965 1011 Chile Fax (58-286) 965 1040 Mexico Antofagasta Planta Durango Calle 5 Norte s/n, Sector La Chimba, INDUSTRIAL PLANTS Carretera Panamericana Km. 959 Telephone (56-55) 211 465 Durango Dgo. Fax (56-55) 211 316 Argentina C.P. 34304 Santiago Planta Concordia Telephone (52-618) 813 7544 Camino Lo Ruiz 3200, Renca, Parque Industrial de Concordia Telephone (56-43) 400 800 Telephone (56-2) 646 4179 Concordia, Provincia de Entre Ríos Fax (56-43) 400 801 Concepción Telephone (54-345) 429 0100 Camino a Coronel Km.10, Coronel, Fax (54-345) 429 0110 Venezuela Telephone (41) 239 168 Fax (41) 239 170 Macapaima Valdivia Brazil Carretera Nacional Los Barrancos, Vía Palital, J.M. Balmaceda 6555, Planta Ponta Grossa Zona Industrial Macapaima, Telephone (63) 217 885 Fax (63) 217 862 Rodovia BR 376, N° 1690, Servidão A Municipio Independencia. Estado Anzoátegui Ponta Grossa, Paraná, CEP 84045-610 Telephone (58-286) 920 3032 Colombia Telephone (55-42) 3219-1500 Fax (58-286) 920 3030 Cúcuta FAX: (55-42) 3219-1600 Bodega Merco Cargo Ltda. Planta Rio Negrinho DISTRIBUTION CENTERS / WAREHOUSES Av. 4ª A No. 7N-60, Cúcuta Rodovia BR-280, N° 4116, Bairro Industrial Sul Telephone (57-7) 578 25 09 – 568 12 69 Río Negrinho, Santa Catarina, CEP 89295-000 Argentina Almagran S.A. Telephone (55-47) 3641-3000 Parque Industrial de Concordia, Diagonal 18 No. 37-63, Cúcuta Fax (55-47) 3641-3038 Concordia, Entre Ríos Telephone (57-1) 269 4687 General Background Information MASISA | 79 Almagran S.A. Baltimore, MD 21225 Mexico, D.F. Cra. 50 # 17 – 89 Telephone (1-410) 354 9501 Poniente 140 #840, Parque Industrial, Col. Telephone (57 1) 261 7804 Pasadena Industrial Vallejo, Bodega No. 10, Mexico, D.F. Buenaventura Bryan Logistics Company, LL C C.P. 02300 Calle 6 # 21 A – 16, Barrio Paloseco 9600 New Century Drive, Texas Telephone (52-55) 53680497 Telephone (57 1) 243 4310 Pasadena TX 77507 Endecolsa Telephone (1-281) 872 7771 Peru Autopista Norte Km 44 Vía Gachancipa Oakland Outsourcing Peru SAC Telephone (57 1) 857 8235 PCC Logistics Av. Los Materiales 3049. Lima. Avenida 4A # 7N – 65, Zona Industrial 2099 Seventh Street Nestor Gambetta Km 14.1, Carretera a Ventanilla. Funza Oakland, Ca 94607 Callao. Bodega 8 Manzana A Parque Industrial Galicia, Via 510-763-8991 Telephone: 0051-1705 3030 de Funza a Sibéria Kilómetro 3 Port Wentworth Telephone (57 1) 8266541 Ocean Link 1080 Godley Road Venezuela Port Wentworth, Ga 31407 Macapaima Ecuador 912-963-9898 Carretera Nacional Los Barrancos, Vía Palital, Outsourcing Integración Logística del Ecuador S.A. Compton Zona Industrial Macapaima, Km. 11.5 Vía a Daule, PLAZA SAI BABA II, ubicado Pacer Distribution Municipio Independencia. Estado Anzoátegui en Lot. Inmaconsa Mz. 21 SL. 08 AV. A O Calle No. 220 West Manville Street Telephone (58-286) 920 3125 32C y Calle Cedros AV. No. 42ª Guayaquil-Ecuador Compton, Ca 90220 Fax (58-286) 920 3058 Telephone: 09-9696900 310-518-8888 Puerto Cabello Avenida Andrés Eloy Blanco, cruce con Autopista United States Mexico IDASA Wando1 Tamaulipas Puerto Cabello, Estado de Carabobo 2440 Clements Ferry Road, Charleston Boulevard de los Ríos Km. 4,06 Telephone (58-414) 871 0286 Wando, SC 29492 Puerto Industrial Altamira, Altamira, Mariara Telephone (1-843) 216 2100 Tamaulipas Calle Diego Tovar Fax (1-843) 216 2160 CP 89608 Sector Grupo Covenal Charleston Telephone (52-833) 260 2550 Mariara International Transloaders Durango Estado Carabobo 137 Hodge Rd. Carretera Panamericana Km. 959 Telephone (58-414) 871 0286 Summerville, SC 29483 Durango, Dgo. Telephone 843-851-7660 CP 34304 Baltimore Telephone (52-618) 829 9600 Kramer Logistics, Inc. Fax (52-618) 829 9618 CONTRACTS 1100 E. Patapsco Ave. 1. During February 2007 and in order to better its costs structure, the company determined the closing of its moldings plant in the USA. The most outstanding contracts that the company INSURANCE has entered into is the contract of Fibranova C.A. with Oxinova C.A., subscribed for 15 years in order The company recognizes the importance of adminiscaused by the detention of machinery, damages to to supply and procure resin for the Fibranova Plant in trating and minimizing the risk to which all its assets machines and losses of benefits. Venezuela. Additionally, both companies have subhave been exposed to, both in terms of materials as scribed three contracts, where Fibranova C.A. prowell as human resources. Due to this, it is continuously In reference to human resources, there is a significant vides administration and finance, human resources concerned to carry out the identification, evaluation, level of personnel that have life insurance policies, and and legal consulting services to Oxinova C.A. control and transfer of risks. the risk of personal accidents has also been covered for executives transferred abroad. Other contracts of importance held by the group in MASISA S.A., its affiliates and related companies have Venezuela are the contracts subscribed with CVG insurance that cover different types of risks, such as: The amounts of the main items insured, per country and CVG Proforca, being the most important the insurance that cover damages caused by fire, damare provided in the chart below. wood sales contract that, through the legal figure of ages due to phenomenon caused by nature, detriment usufruct, provides raw material to the companies in ThUS$ Venezuela, allowing the normal development of industrial operations. Concept Chile Argentina Brazil Mexico Venezuela USA Whereas, within the main contracts that MASISA Plantations 462.2 54.2 102.3 has, the one to be underscored is the one signed Physical Goods 461.1 220.0 276.6 58.9 281.3 25.2 with Georgia Pacific Corp. in 1998, in order to supply Civil Liability 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 the productive plants with chemical resins for a 20 year period, defining quality standards and costs Total 923.8 274.7 379.4 59.4 281.8 25.7 within the contract. Amount assured for Physical Goods, includes Detriment Caused due to the Paralyzing of Works. In Venezuela, this type of insurance does not exist, whereas in Mexico and in the United States MASISA does not have any plantations. MASISA | 80 REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MAIN EXECUTIVES In the Regular Shareholders’ Meeting of MASISA S.A 5 times what corresponds to each director. In case MASISA as of December 31, 2007 have been sent to dated April 27, 2007 it was agreed to set an annual that a director, including the Chairman and the Vicethe Superintendence of Securities and Insurance. remuneration for the Members of the Board for the president, were to present his resignation or were to The remunerations that are received by the board period comprising from May 2007 to April 2008, exercise the position during the 2007 accounting members are expressed in US dollars, and will be both months included amounting to US$ 60,000 for period, they will have the right to their part of the paid in Pesos, the national legal currency, at the rate each one of the directors US$ 120,000 for the Viceaforementioned variable remuneration only in a proof exchange of the Observed Dollar published in the president and US$ 180,000 for the Chairman. This portion equal to the number of days of the 2007 acOfficial Gazette on the day prior to its payment. remuneration will be paid per due month, within the counting period in which they were to have perfirst 5 working days of each month. Similarly, and in formed their office. If the Board of Directors were to During the 2007 accounting period, the Board of addition to the above, a variable remuneration was appoint an alternate member, such alternate memDirectors did not incur in consulting or other expensproposed corresponding to 1.5% of the consolidated ber will have the right to receive the corresponding es. The remunerations received by the directors durnet profits of the company up to December 31, 2007 variable remuneration, applied in the same proporing 2006 and 2007, resulting from fees paid are deto be distributed in equal proportions between the tion, i.e. the number of days in 2007 in which the tailed in the following table, expressed in US dollars directors, with the exception of the Vice-president alternate member has performed the office. This as of December 31, of each year: who will have double the amount corresponding to remuneration will be paid only once the individual each director and for the Chairman who will receive and consolidated audited Financial Statements of Values in US$ Attendance Participation Attendance fee to the Board Audit Compensations fee on profits of Directors Committee committee fee committee fee Director 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Julio Moura 180,000 180,000 155,836 143,643 Ronald Jean Degen 120,000 120,000 62,335 57,457 4,800 3,600 400 400 Patrick Nielson 60,000 60,000 31,167 28,729 4,800 3,600 400 400 Juan Carlos Méndez 60,000 60,000 31,167 28,729 4,800 4,800 Jorge Carey Tagle 60,000 60,000 31,167 28,729 Enrique Seguel Morel 60,000 60,000 31,167 28,729 9,600 8,400 4,800 3,600 400 400 Antonio Tuset Jorratt 60,000 60,000 31,167 28,729 4,800 4,800 9,600 7,200 400 400 Total 600,000 600,000 374,007 344,745 19,200 18,000 24,000 18,000 1,600 1,600 The new directors Messrs. Roberto Salas and Carlos Marín did not receive fees during 2007; the remunerations accrued during December 2007 were paid during January 2008. The total amount of the remunerations received by the demandable for their participation. This system variable nature, which is allocated based on the demain MASISA managers and executives during the seeks to motivate the employee through an incentive gree of compliance of individual and corporate goals accounting period, amounting to ThUS$ 9,280.5. system that awards both individual performance as taking into consideration the results of the accountwell as the generation of economic value added ing period. The company’s directors and main executives who (EVA) in a sustainable and permanent manner hold office as directors and administrators of the through time. On the other hand, the Board of Directors is curMASISA affiliates do not receive any remuneration rently analyzing a long-term incentive system, apfor this concept. The fundamental aspects that influence this type of plicable to main executives, which will be impleinstrument are the company results and the mented during 2008. The payments for severance received during 2007 by achievements of objectives and individual performanagers and main executives were of ThUS$ 213.3. mance whose calculation and evaluation is carried out annually through MASISA’s Performance ManMASISA operates with a short-term incentive system agement System. (annual bonus), applicable to the positions of the main executives and employees and pays for such Through the above instrument, the company grants bonus according to the company criteria and are an annual bonus of a facultative, discretional and General Background Informations MASISA | 81 STAFFING Distribution of the contracted personnel who work in MASISA S.A. and its affiliates as of December 31, 2007 according to the different organizational levels: Executives Professionals Workers Total Masisa United States 4 12 11 27 Masisa Venezuela 22 99 317 438 Masisa Chile 32 367 2,153 2,552 Masisa Argentina 9 94 427 530 Masisa Brazil 10 242 1,009 1,261 Masisa Peru/Ecuador 3 13 14 30 Masisa Mexico 13 46 164 223 Masisa Colombia 3 6 4 13 Total 96 879 4,099 5,074 MAIN SUPPLIERS OF MASISA S.A. ARGENTINA Colombia FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER Warehousing Coexport Ltda. Maritime agency MSC Almagran S.A. Polishing conveyor belts SIA Ltda. Logistics Cronos S.A. Kerosene emulsion Isogama Industria Química Ltda. Carriers Transportes Sánchez Polos S.A. Paper Schattdecor Servitransa Impress Diseño Iberia S.A. Cordicargas Lamigraf S.A. Customs brokerage company Merco Representaciones S.A. SIA MD Papéis Ltda. Resins Resinas Concórdia S.A. CHILE Port Terminal Terminal Zárate S.A. FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER BRAZIL Energy Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A. Soc. Austral de Electricidad S.A. FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER Raw material woods Forestal Mininco S.A. Adhesives and Resins Hexion Química Indústria e Comércio Aserraderos Arauco S.A. Synteko Produtos Químicos S/A Forestal Celco S.A. Dynea Brasil S/A Soc. Forestal Opazo S.A. Resinas Internacionais Ltda. Forestal del Sur S.A. Bayer S/A Promasa S.A. Cleaning Tsg Ltda Tecnologia em Serviços CMPC Maderas S.A. Kerosene emulsions Isogama Indústria Química Ltda. Raw material chemical products Derquim S.A. Freight Gordo Transportes Ltda. Machinery and spare parts Metso Panelboard AB Impregnated/soaked sheets Dynea Brasil S/A. Siempelkamp Maschinen Coveright Surfaces Do Brasil Kontra Anlagentechnik GmbH Logistics Rodo Mar Veículos e Máquinas Ltda. Anthon GmbH Maschinen & AnImbau Transportes e Serviços Ltda. lagenbau Internal wood movement Rafter Serviços Ltda. Paper Lamigraf S.A. Paper Md Papeis Ltda. Technocell Dekor Lamigraf S.A. Resins Georgia Pacific Resinas Ltda. Schattdecor do Brasil Industria Engineering and construction Quezada y Boetsch S.A. e Comércio Ltda. service Health plan Unimed Machinery services Servicios Forestales El Bosque S.A. Assembly services Empresa Constructora Tecsa S.A. Te.Nac.Serv.Ing. y Construcciones S.A. MASISA | 82 Ecuador PERU FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER Logistic services Outsourcing Integración LogísLogistic services Outsourcing Peru S.A.C. tica del Ecuador S.A. Advertising materials Aza Graphic Peru SAC Commercial services Hermaprove S.A. Advertising services Diseint E.I.R.L. Transportation and logistics Empresa Administrative services Espinoza & Asociados S.C. Naviera Greenandes Ecuador Administrative services Management & Goods S.A. VENEZUELA UNITED STATES FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER Lease of equipment Servicios y Mantenimiento FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER Macapaima, C.A. Customs agent Samuel Sharipo Co. Lease of cranes de Grúas Serviequipos Roraima, C.A. Insurance Broker Marsh EEUU, Inc. Harvesting and loading of forests Consulta Forestal, C.A. Logistic dispatch and storage Kramer Logistics, Inc. Harvesting and loading of forests Asefor, C.A. MDF Paint Valspar Industries, Inc. Harvesting, plant productiona Asepro Ambientales, C.A. General Transport Freight Services, Inc. and loading of forests Lowcountr y Car tage Co. Outsourcing personnel Servicios madereros Kramer Logistics, Inc. CARMEN, C.A. Construcciones 2e-b, C.A. Order, cleaning and maintenance Servisuministros Macapaima 20 06, C.A. MEXICO Telecommunications CANT V Wood transportation Transpor te el Pinar, C.A. FACTOR OF PRODUCTION OR SERVICE SUPPLIER Wood transportation and loading of forests Foresta Bolívar, C.A. Customs agent Despachos Aduanales Methane gas PDVSA GAS Castañeda S.C. Electric energy CVG EDELCA Logistic dispatch and storage Alta Cargo S.A. de C.V. Protection against fires Consuauto Forestal, C.A. Maritime freight Naviera Chilena del Pacífico Transportation of merchandize Transpor te Sánchez Polo, C.A. Electric energy Comisión Federal de Paper MD PAPEIS Electricidad SCHATTDECOR Sawn Word Productos Forestales S.A. de C.V. IMPRESS DECOR Juan Balerio S.A. Wax ISOGAMA Forestal Tromen S.A. Freight GARIBALDI Impregnated/soaked paper Coveright Polyester freight CYKLOP DO BRASIL Resin DYNE A Mexico S.A. DE C.V. Oil and grease for presses KLUBER LUBRICATION MDFwood board Aconcagua Timber Polishing converyor belts SIA ABRASIVES INSERCO GMBH General Background Information MASISA | 83 MASISA’s MAIN CUSTOMERS ARGENTINA CENTRAL DE TRIPLEX LTDA. Unipallet , S.A. de C.V. Cencosud S.A. CENTROLAMINAS S.A. VPT de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Cuyoplacas S.A. COMPAÑIA DE MADERAS LTDA. CODEMA Distribuidora Aglolam S.A. DECOTRIPLEX LTDA. Peru Distribuidora Argentina de Chapas S.A.C.I. DISPANO S.A. Aki Peru Central S.A. Distribuidora Placasur S.A. DIST-PLEX S.A. SOCIEDAD DE Kintos S.A. Dolinsky S.A. ENCHAPADOS DE Colombia S.A. Pisopak Peru SAC Madergold S.A. ESPINOZA PEREZ HEBERT Representaciones Martín SRL NBC Maderas S.R.L. FERNANDEZ & CIA S.A. Sodimac Peru S.A. Sacheco S.A. GUTIERREZ SONIA MIREYA Y/O DISTRIPL Taru Parq S.R.L. M Y M MERCAMADERAS LTDA. VENEZUELA MADERAS Y LAMINAS LTDA. Aserradero El Sol C.A. BRAZIL MADETABLEROS LTDA. Comercializadora Internacional de Madera C.A. Beijing New Building Materials METALES Y MADERAS DEL RISARALDA S. La Casa del Contraenchapado C.A. BERTOLINI S/A RIMAC LTDA. Lamindos JAMX C.A. CHAPECOMP DISTRIBUIDORA DE PRODUTOS SUCESORES DE JORGE ESCOBAR Madenova C.A. EUROTAXPOL” K. POKRZYKOWSKI TM CODEMACO S.A. Maderas del Centro C.A. LEO MADEIRAS, MAQ. E FERRAG. LTDA LUIS RICARDO ALTOE & CIA LTDA ECUADOR MAIN NATIONAL OR MADCENTRO SUPRIM. P/. MOV. LTDA Economía del Maestro FOREIGN BANKS MADEIRAS ALBA LTDA Hermaprove S.A. MOVEIS KAPPESBERG Moduespacio Cia. Ltda. ARGENTINA NORRA TRÄKOMPANIET AB Rodrigo Figueroa ABN Amro Bank (Buenos Aires y New York) RIBERPLAK COM. DE COMPENSADOS LTDA Sergio Augusto Guarnizo Banco de Chile NY ROMANZZA MOVEIS LTDA. BBVA Banco Frances TODESCHINI S/A INDUSTRIA E COMERCIO UNITED STATES BCI Alexandria Moulding, Inc. Rabobank CHILE Blue Linx Corporation Standard Bank Chep EEUU Builders First Source Banco de la Nación Argentina (Sucursal Buenos AiCMPC Celulosa SA Jeld-Wen res y Concordia) Comercial Viñuela S.A. Jim White Lumber Sales, Inc. Banco de Entre Ríos (BERSA) Easy SA Masonite Internacional Co. Electrocom AS Orepac BRAZIL Forestal Mininco SA ABN Amro Bank Forestal Rio Blanco SA MEXICO Banco Bradesco Industria de Molduras GRO Ltda Aglomerados y Triplay Vic, S.A De C Banco do Brasil Losifra S.A. de CV Diego Mariño Morales Banco Itau BBA Maderas Imperial Formosa Prosonic EEUU Inc HSBC Bank Brasil Pallets M3 Sa de CV Grupo Comercial De Maderas Banco Santander Santiago Paneles Arauco SA Grupo Marubher Banco BBVA Polincay Export limitada Grupo Triplay Market Banco Estado Productora de Tarimas del Sur SA de CV Losifra S.A. de C.V. Silva y Cía. Limitada Maderas y Empaques para Cada Uso, CHILE Sodimac Madereria Nasa, S.A. de C.V. ABN-Amro Bank Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co Mexicana Pacific, S.A. De C.V. Banco BBVA Tarimas y Embalajes de Maderas Productora de Tarimas del Sur, Banco BICE Youseff Comercial Limitada Productos Maderables Gole, Banco Crédito e Inversiones Promotora Grocer, S.A. De C.V. Banco de Chile Colombia RAMPE, S.A. de C.V. Banco del Estado de Chile AGLOMERADOS DE Colombia LTDA. Rodríguez Gamboa Francisco Javier Banco Itaú Chile ALMACEN PARIS S.A. Triplay Alameda, S.A De C.V. Banco Santander Santiago ARDISA S.A. Triplay Tableros De Ecatepec, S.A. Banco Security Triplay Y Laminados Pega, MASISA | 84 Citibank Banco del Estado de Chile LEGAL ADVISORS Corpbanca Banco Mercantil HSBC Bank Chile Banco Provincial ARGENTINA Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau Banco Santander Central Hispano Estudio Blardone y Asociados Rabobank Banco Santander-Chile (MASISA Argentina S.A.) Scotiabank Banco Security Estudio Moltedo (Forestal Argentina S.A., WestLB Citibank Venezuela MASISA Argentina S.A.) Corpbanca C.A. COLOMBIA Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau BRAZIL Banco de Bogotá WestLB Xavier, Bernardes, Bragança, Sociedade de Banco de Crédito Advogados. (Assuntos Corporativos) Hapner Kröetz Advogados S/C Ltda. ECUADOR AUDITORS Banco Pichincha CHILE Banco Produbanco MASISA S.A. Carey y Cía. Ernest & Young UNITED STATES ECUADOR Wachovia N.A. Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, United Pérez Bustamante & Ponce States, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela: MEXICO Ernest & Young UNITED STATES Banamex Jones Day, Reavis & Pogue Banco Santander Mexicano Dated March 28, 2007 the Board of Directors Horten CC of MASISA proposed Ernst & Young as the new PERU company of Independent External Auditors GRAN CAYMAN ISLANDS Banco de Crédito del Peru that must report the Balance Sheet and the W.S. Walker & Company Financial Statements of the 2007 Accounting VENEZUELA Period, which was approved by the Regular MEXICO ABN Amro Bank Shareholders’ Meeting, dated April 27, 2002. Estudio Sesma & McNeese, S. C. ABN Amro Bank-Venezuela Banco BBVA (Chile) PERU Banco Crédito e Inversiones Rodrigo Elías & Medrano, Abogados. Banco de Venezuela VENEZUELA Rodner, Martínez & Asociados. BRANDS AND PATENTS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MASISA S.A. has all its brands, labels, adMASISA S.A. concentrates its global developDue to the constant need for innovation, a ver tising sentences and logos, which are disment policy in the areas, activities and provariety of projects have been developed that tinguished in all its products, services and cesses where it has sustainable comparative have consequently brought for th an imporcommercial establishments registered and in advantages, such as the cultivation of fortant grow th in terms of production volume, force both in Chile and abroad. Specially, the estr y plantations, the processing of high valimprovement in the quality and decrease in brands MASISA and PL ACACENTRO MASISA ue added solid woods and taking advantage operating costs. MASISA’s ef for t in research are protected, which along with FACILPL AC, of pulp residues when manufacturing reconand development do not involve material exECOPLUS, ECOPL AC, NATURA, among othstituted wood boards. penses, since they are mainly suppor ted in ers, form their registered brand por t folio, technology and patented equipment or which are inspected and renewed in a peribought from foreign companies. odic manner. General Background Information MASISA | 85 RISK FACTORS Similarly, MASISA has established an expanFINANCING AND INVESTMENT sion strategy of its productive and commerPOLICY Business development brings for th several cial operations in reference to other counrisk factors in the dif ferent scopes in which tries, par ticularly in those where there are The main investments forecasted by the comthe company has its activities, being the competitive advantages or in markets having pany and their possible financing are evalumost relevant as follows: an extensive potential for development. ated by the professionals of each area and are submit ted to the approval of the compaFinancial and rate of exchange risk Risk of procurement ny’s Board of Directors. The company has exposure, both in terms of In order to face the risks implicit in the proThe parent company and / or its af filiates its assets and liabilities, to variances in the curement of raw materials, especially those have guaranteed or have obtained credits values of the currency dif ferent from the US that are essential for the manufacturing of its with dif ferent banks or financial institutions, dollar, currency with which the company products, such as woods, resins, etc., MAwhich consider the compliance of cer tain keeps its accounting. The existence of assets SISA and its af filiates have long-term agreecommitments, which are detailed in the corand liabilities in currencies dif ferent than the ments with the suppliers of the above factors responding notes to the financial statements. US dollar is mainly due to the company opof production. erations abroad, to expor t activities, to investment activities in impor ted assets and Risk of losses obtaining financing abroad. The AdministraDISTRIBUTABLE PROFIT tion establishes policies to manage financial It is the company’s policy to identify the risks 2007 ThUS$ 2006 ThUS$ risk by means of using derivative instruments implicit behind productive and commercial Profit for the period 41,058 29,485 such as swaps, for wards, options or futures, activities – such as losses in the plants, lossin order to cover both risks in the rate of exes in its storage warehouses, damages to Accrued deficit for the change as well as fluctuations in the interest third par ties and legal contingencies, among development period rates. The company does not use derivative others – in order to avoid their occurrence, Amortization of goodwill in -4,586 -4,552 instruments to carr y out speculative-type opminimizing the adverse potential ef fects and investments erations. / or covering the eventual losses that these Sub-total 36,472 24,933 losses cause, by means of insurance. Distributable profits 36,472 24,933 During the 2007 accounting period the amount Risk of interest rate Risk of the competition of ThUS$ 12,467 corresponding to 50% of the distributable net profit of the 2006 accounting period Liabilities due to banking credits, in general, MASISA S.A. deems it has a solid position in was distributed to the shareholders as dividends. . are subject to the risk of the increase in the the markets in which it par ticipates, thus alagreed to interest rates. In order to cover lowing it to keep profitable operations and fluctuations that could generate non-desired sustained grow th. However, the company impacts, Management uses coverage mechacannot assure in the future that these condiDIVIDENDS POLICY nisms such as swaps. tions will not change with the penetration of new par ticipants or the intensification of the Shareholders’ Meeting, held on April 27, 2007, the Risk of market exposure competition in the markets in which it parfollowing dividend policy, a proposal that was apticipates. proved by the aforementioned Shareholders’ Meeting: The possibility of people presenting new offers or that the competition is intensified in In order to face these risks, the company Annually distribute to the shareholders, a sum, to the markets in which the company par ticiconcentrates its ef for ts in actions tending to be defined by the respective Regular Shareholders’ pates is a prevailing latent risk, before which maintaining their leadership in costs, keeping Meeting, no less than 30% or more than 50% of ef for ts have been concentrated in actions a strong distribution chain, consistently imthe net consolidated profit that is specified in the focused towards having greater ef ficiency in proving their of fer in products and maintainannual balance sheet, without the payment of provicosts, improvement in the quality and of fer ing good relations with its customers. sory dividends. of products, and in a distribution chain that makes MASISA as close as possible to end customers. MASISA | 86 Units Amount Average Price Dividends paid per share n the last 5 years (million) (million of CLP$) (CLP$) YEAR Dividend type and number CLP / share US$/ share 2004 First Quarter 7.47 2,340.42 313.15 2001 Eventual definite dividend No. 7 1.00000 0.00169 Second Quarter 30.97 4,740.42 153.05 2002 Compulsory definite minimum dividend No. 8 1.86564 0.00284 Third Quarter 114.51 12,162.76 106.22 2003 In 2003 no dividends were paid Fourth Quarter 63.84 9,011.12 141.13 2004 In 2004 no dividends were paid 2005 2005 Compulsory minimum dividend No. 10 2.37361 0.00409 First Quarter 33.36 4,775.08 143.15 2005 Additional dividend No. 10 0.66193 0.00114 Second Quarter 45.18 6,170.72 136.58 2006 Minimum dividend No. 11 0.62467 0.00121 Third Quarter 266.36 35,796.03 134.39 2006 Additional dividend No. 11 0.41645 0.00081 Fourth Quarter 410.87 43,465.38 105.79 2007 Minimum dividend No. 12 0.68814 0.00132 2006 2007 Additional dividend No. 12 0.45876 0.00088 First Quarter 659.91 68,728.61 104.15 Second Quarter 493.73 45,916.19 93.00 Third Quarter 344.25 29,914.88 86.90 TRANSACTION OF SHARES Fourth Quarter 686.75 67,152.35 97.78 2007 Dated March 7, 2007, Enrique Cibié Bluth, Chief Executive Officer, through the company Asesorías and Inversiones Mater Ltda., transferred one million shares First Quarter 877.78 107,465.50 122.97 of MASISA for a total amount of CH$124.5 million at the unit price of Second Quarter 634.24 87,482.38 138.02 CH$124.5 per share. Third Quarter 370.65 49,641.14 133.62 Dated June 27, 2007, Cristián Valenzuela Rivera, Sales Manager of MASISA Fourth Quarter 459.94 51,333.93 111.84 Chile, transferred 15,360 MASISA shares for a total amount of CH$2.21 million Nota: Due to the merger by incorporation of the old Masisa in Terranova S.A. (currently Masisa S.A.) at the unit price of CH$143.89 per share. occurring in May 2005, an exchange of shares was produced by virtue of which for every share of the old Masisa 2.56 shares of the merged company were given. This exchange was made effective in the stock exchanges on August 6, 2005. There were no Directors, Executives or other people related to the company management with the exception of the aforementioned operations who carried out the transaction of the company shares or from other related companies during the 2007 accounting period. REPORT FROM THE DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEE During the accounting period, the Directors’ Committee carried out its functions 3. Proposal from the external auditors. that establish Article 50 bis of Law No. 18,046 and Newsletter No. 1,526 of the 4. Analysis and exam of the background information relative to the operations Superintendence of Securities and Insurance, and that can be found, in general Article 44 and 89 of the Stock Companies Law, distinguishing among those terms, in the company’s Minutes Ledger: that are recurrent and proper to the company’s trade activity and those that 1. Review of the Financial Statements of the company, both individual and conare not recurrent. solidated, quarterly and particularly as of December 31, 2007. 5. Exam of the remunerations systems and compensation plans for the com2. Review with the external auditors the company audit plans. pany’s managers and main executives. During the 2007 accounting period the Directors’ Committee did not incur in expenses pertaining to consulting expenses or others. REPORT FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE During the accounting period, the Audit Committee held eleven sessions and ance of the company, assure that the Internal Audit Department effectively comcarried out the functions under its accountability, pursuant to the requirements plies with its role, annually evaluate the External Auditor in its function, as well as of the New York Stock Exchange Commission (NYSE), the Securities and Exits fees, independence and qualifications, and assure that Management develops change Commission (SEC) and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. In general terms reliable internal controls, evaluate possible claims and litigation and the stratesuch functions, among others, are to assure the integrity of the financial stategies to administrate such risks. ments, review the financial and accounting policies, safeguard the legal compliGENERAL bAcKGROUNd INfORMATIONS MASISA | 87 REPORT FROM THE COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE The Compensations Committee has as main purpose to assists the Board of Di• Approve the benefits associated to the job position and other retention straterectors that in matters related to the compensations of its main executives and gies for key personnel. its main functions are listed as follows: • Propose to the Board of Directors the approval of policies and the compensaDuring 2007, the Compensations Committee proposed to the Board of Directors tion (salaries and benefits) structure, performance succession and others dithat they approve a Long-Term Incentives Program for the main company execurectly related to the main executives, whether they are corporate of from any tives, which will be implemented during 2008. of the other countries where MASISA has operations. • Approve the performance objectives as grounds for defining the compensation Similarly, the Committee reviewed and updated the succession plan of the posiof the General Manager. tions of the main company executives. • Review the remuneration level of each second line executive along with the compensation structure. • Define the criteria for the payment of variable incentives. REPORT FROM THE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE The committee, during the 2007 accounting period, held sessions in the months of April, August, and October 2007 for the review of the quarterly financial state3. Monitor the model designed by management for the internal financial control ments and in February 2008 for the annual financial statements. that support the prior points, except in those specific aspects related to the accountability that is exclusive to the Audit Committee or any other permanent As the qualified technical entity it is responsible before the Board of Directors entity of the Board of Directors. and the Audit Committee for all material aspects of the company financial re4. State conformance with legal, ethical and applicable regulatory requirements ports. For which it has among its functions: to the significant operations registered in the period. 1. Review and evaluate the annual and intermediate financial statements before 5. Keep an open communications channel with the operations top management, they are made known to the public or are informed (Financial statements, and other key advisors (external and internal auditors). notes and essential facts). 6. Propose and evaluate the changes in important accounting principles and 2. Focus on the qualitative aspects of the reports and over the processes that the their application in the financial reports. entity carries out for their preparation, as well as the management of financial risks. DECLARATION OF ACCOUNTABILITY The undersigned hereby declare under oath that the information contained in this annual report is the faithful expression of the truth, declaration by which we take on the corresponding legal responsibility. Roberto Salas Guzmán Juan Carlos Méndez González Chairman Director Passport: 080051385-5 RUT: 4.402.519-1 Ronald Jean Degen Enrique Seguel Morel Vice-Chairman Director RUT: 21.727.243-2 RUT: 3.116.588-1 Carlos Marín Olalla Antonio Tuset Jorratt Director Director RUT: 8.412.209-2 RUT: 4.566.169-5 Jorge Carey Tagle Enrique Cibié Bluth Director Chief Executive Officer RUT: 4.103.027-5 RUT: 6.027.149-6 MASISA | 88 RELATEd cOMPANIES MASISA | 89 AFFILIATES 1 Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. 2 Forestal Tornagaleones S.A. 3 Masisa Partes y Piezas Ltda. 4 Masisa USA Inc. 5 Masisa Overseas Limited 6 Terranova de Venezuela S.A. 7 Andinos C.A. 8 Fibranova C.A. 9 Consorcio Forestal Venezolano S.A. (Coforven) 10 Corporación Forestal Guayamure C.A. 11 Corporación Forestal Imataca C.A. 12 Masisa Madeiras Ltda. 13 Masisa do Brasil Ltda. 14 Forestal Terranova México S.A. de C.V. 15 Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de C.V. 16 Maderas y Sintéticos Servicios S.A. de C.V. 17 Masnova de México S.A. de C.V. 18 CC MAS S.A. de C.V. 19 Masisa Argentina S.A. 20 Forestal Argentina S.A. 21 Masisa Colombia S.A. 22 Terranova Panamá S.A. 23 Maderas y Sintéticos del Perú S.A.C. 24 Masisa Ecuador S.A. RELATED COMPANIES RELATED COMPANIES 1 Oxinova C.A. 2 Inversiones Calle Calle S.A. Below is a brief description of the affiliates and related companies and a summary of the information contained in their financial statements. It must be underscored that some of the directors or mandataries of these related companies, are in turn directors or perform positions in the administration of the parent company. Information of Affiliates and Related Companies as of December 31, 2007 MASISA | 90 1 INVERSIONES INTERNACIONALES TERRANOVA S.A. 2 FORESTAL TORNAGALEONES S.A. Legal Address: Av. Apoquindo 3650, Piso 10, Legal Address: Av. Apoquindo 3650, Piso 10 Las Condes, Santiago Las Condes, Santiago Rut: 99.537.270‑3 Rut: 81.597.700-8 Telephone: (56-2) 350 6000 Telephone: (56-2) 350 6000 Fax: (56-2) 350 6001 Fax: (56-2) 350 6001 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. is a closely-held Chilean stock Forestal Tornagaleones S.A. is a closely-held stock company, incorporated in company incorporated by public deed dated September 30, 2003, granted in Valdivia by public deed granted on February 20, 1967 before the Notary Public the Public Notary of Santiago of Mr. Félix Jara Cadót, whose extract was Mr. Aurelio Herrera Mardones, alternate of the title holder Mr. Roberto Goldenberg inscribed in the Trade Register of 2003 of the Registrar of Real Estate of Godoy, whose extract was inscribed on page 51 No. 13 of the Trade Register of Santiago on page 32,145 No. 24.205 and was published in the Official Gazette Valdivia of 1967 and published in the Official Gazette on March 3, 1967. dated October 20, 2003. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Forestal Tornagaleones S.A. amounted to The subscribed and paid-in capital of Inversiones Internacionales Terranova ThUS$42,242,416,550 divided in 28,989,000 shares without nominal (par) S.A. is of MUS$ 194,462.08, divided in 87,871,055 shares without nominal value. The accounting capital of the company amounted to ThUS$ 80,208,554. (par) value. Its shareholders are Masisa S.A with 60% of the shares and Its majority shareholder is Masisa S.A., with 94.91% of the shares leaving the GrupoNueva S.A. with the remaining 40%. The accounting capital of the remaining 5.09% in the hands of the minority shareholders. Investment in this company amounted to MUS$ 11,222. Investment in this company represents company represents 6.93% of the total consolidated company assets. 0.30% of the total consolidated company assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE COMPANY OBJECTIVE Administration, handling and exploitation of forests in own lands or lands from Invest capital abroad, being able to do so also in Chile, whether in forestry and third party for the commercialization with third parties, and in turn, for the agricultural businesses and in industrial companies related with these trade procurement of the industrial plants of Masisa and its affiliates, as well as all activities; exploitation, brokerage and commercialization of products derived types of investments in forestry businesses and their administration, supply of from such businesses or from all other related activities whether in the present technical forestry consulting services and the realization of technological or in the future in the forestry trade activity; administrate, promote, organize, transfer operations, all of them within Chile as well as abroad. incorporate and participate in companies or associations that develop the aforementioned production areas; provide management services, services BOARD OF DIRECTORS pertaining to financial, legal technical areas and others necessary for the better Chairman: Enrique Cibié Bluth development of the companies in which it is a shareholder, associate or from Title Holding Board Members: Eduardo Vial Ruiz-Tagle third party companies. Jaime Valenzuela Fernández Jorge Correa Drubi BOARD OF DIRECTORS Patricio Reyes Urrutia Chairman: Roberto Salas Guzmán Ignacio Guerrero Gutiérrez. Directors: Carlos Marín Olalla General Manager: Rodrigo Vicencio Andaur Enrique Cibié Bluth Eugenio Arteaga Infante Patricio Reyes Urrutia General Manager: Enrique Cibié Bluth FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 0 0 Operating revenues 10,876 10,835 Operating results -206 -12 Operating results 1,313 2,235 Non-operating result -22,564 -27,017 Non-operating result 5,840 367 Result of the accounting period -22,609 -26,932 Result of the accounting period 7,550 3,050 Total Assets 378,976 427,802 Total Assets 231,964 199,159 Total liabilities 367,754 401,523 Total liabilities 70,543 60,900 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 11,222 26,279 Equity 161,421 138,259 Net flow for the accounting period 326 -2,540 Net flow for the accounting period 21 -2 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 8 2,548 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2 4 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 334 8 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 23 2 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 91 3 MASISA PARTES Y PIEZAS LTDA. 4 MASISA USA, INC. Legal Address: Av. Apoquindo 3650, Piso 10, Legal Address: 900 Circle 75 Parkway, Suite 720, Las Condes, Santiago Atlanta, GA, Estados Unidos Rut: 77.790-860-K Telephone: (1-770) 405 2600 Telephone: (56-2) 350 6000 Fax: (1-770) 405 2601 Fax: (56-2) 350 6001 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION Masisa USA, Inc. is a closely-held stock company that was incorporated Masisa Partes and Piezas Ltda. was incorporated by public deed granted on originally in 1993 with the name of Fibreform Andinos Corporation. In January June 26, 2002 in the Public Notary of Santiago of Mr. Iván Torrealba Acevedo. 1996, Masisa S.A. acquired 100% of the shareholding participation and went An extract of such deed was inscribed on page 16,508 No. 13,604 of the Trade on to be called Terranova Forest Products, Inc. In October 2005, the Register of the Registrar of Real Estate of Santiago corresponding to 2002, and reincorporation of Terranova Forest Products, Inc., was formalized then published in the Official Gazette on July 8, 2002. becoming a closely-held stock company registered in the State of Washington, to a close-held stock company registered in the State of Delaware. In addition, SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL the name of the company was changed from Terranova Forest Products, Inc. to The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa Partes and Piezas Ltda. is of Masisa USA, Inc. $1,000,000. The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to M$ 1,341,278. As of December 31, 2007, Masisa S.A. owns 99.8% of the SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL company rights, while Masisa Overseas Ltd. owns the remaining 0.2%. The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa USA, Inc. is of MUS$ 25,100, The investment in this company represents 0.0% of the total of the company’s divided in 10,000 shares. Its shareholders are Inversiones Internacionales consolidated assets. Terranova S.A. with 74.88% of the shares and Masisa S.A. with the remaining 25.12%. COMPANY OBJECTIVE The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to MUS$ Design and / or manufacturing of all kinds of parts, pieces and wood articles in 25,809. The investment in this company represents 0.82% of the total of the general for the furniture and construction industry, whether on its own or company’s consolidated assets through third parties, in all technically possible forms, as well as also in the supply of services and consulting to third parties; furniture manufacturing for COMPANY OBJECTIVE exports; the commercialization in the internal and external market of all types of Masisa USA, Inc. is a commercial company that has the purpose of commerwood products and other similar ones, whether manufactured by the company cializing and distributing the products of the Masisa companies in the North or by others, and the import and export of the same; the representation of all American market. Currently, it mainly concentrates its activities in the types of companies, enterprises, individuals or legal entities, both national or promotion, sale and distribution of the industrialized wood products including foreign in any type or business or economic activity in Chile or abroad, whether finger joint moldings and MDF, solid pine doors, and OSB wood boards. as mandatory, trader, agent or distributor, and any other activity related to the company trade activity that the associates can agree to do. BOARD OF DIRECTORS In March, 2007 Masisa S.A. went on to transfer the overall total of the assets Chairman: Roberto Salas Guzmán of Masisa Partes y Piezas Ltda. Directors: Roland Jean Degen Carlos Marín Olalla ADMINISTRATION Enrique Cibié Bluth The administration, representation and use of the trade name correspond to Claudio Cerda Herreros Masisa S.A through the mandataries that it were to appoint by public deed. General Manager: Dan Schmidt (*) (*) In February 2007 Mr. Dan Schmidt took the position as General Manager replacing Mr. George Mac Connell FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 859 3,462 Operating revenues 165,514 211,833 Operating results -133 -985 Operating results 141 3,567 Non-operating result 21 -605 Non-operating result -3,844 266 Result of the accounting period -57 -1,590 Result of the accounting period -2,280 2,368 Total Assets 8,258 1,375 Total Assets 47,544 60,335 Total liabilities 10,967 4,027 Total liabilities 21,735 32,244 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity -2,709 -2,652 Equity 25,809 28,091 Net flow for the accounting period 10 -358 Net flow for the accounting period 4,674 -3,712 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2 360 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2,556 6,268 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 12 2 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 7,230 2,556 MASISA | 92 5 MASISA OVERSEAS LIMITED 6 TERRANOVA DE VENEZUELA S.A. Legal Address: Caledonian House, PO BOX 1043 6T Fiscal Residence: Av. Francisco de Miranda, Dr. Roy´s Drive, George Town, Gran Cayman Edificio Parque Cristal, Islas Cayman Torre Oeste Piso 3, Of. 3-3, Los Palos Grandes, Caracas LEGAL INCORPORATION Telephone: (58-212) 620 70 11 Masisa Overseas Limited was incorporated in 1995 under the laws of the Fax: (58-212) 285 4217 Cayman Islands. Administrative Residence: Calle Cuchiveros, Torre Balear, Piso 2, SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL Alta Vista Norte, Puerto Ordaz, Estado Bolívar The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa Overseas Ltd. is of US$ 50,000 Telephone: (58-286) 965 10 11 divided in 50,000 shares with a nominal (par) value of US$ 1 each. Masisa S.A. Fax: (58-286) 965 1040 is owner of 100% of its shareholding capital. E-mail terranova.venezuela@masisa.com The accounting capital of the company amounted to MUS$ 22,857. The investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total of the company’s LEGAL INCORPORATION consolidated assets. Terranova de Venezuela S.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela dated February 26, COMPANY OBJECTIVE 1997, and is inscribed in the Fifth Trade Register of the Judicial CircumscripThe company has the objective of carrying out all types of businesses or activities tion of the Federal District and State of Miranda, under number 28, volume according to the legislation of the Cayman Islands. Mainly, these activities refer to 96AQto. acting as agent in certain exports of Masisa S.A. and Masisa Argentina S.A., managing financing and investing in productive activities out of Chile. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Terranova de Venezuela S.A. is of BOARD OF DIRECTORS 11,755,120,000 Bolivars, equal to MUS$ 24,248, divided in 11,755,120 shares Enrique Cibié Bluth with a nominal (par) value de .000 Bolivars each. Terranova de Panamá S.A. is Eduardo Vial Ruiz-Tagle owner of 100% of the shareholding equity. Eugenio Arteaga Infante The investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total of the Patricio Reyes Urrutia company’s consolidated assets. Cristián Valenzuela Rivera COMPANY OBJECTIVE The purchase, exploitation and commercialization of wood. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Title Holding Directors: Jaime Valenzuela Fernández (Chairman) Enrique Cibié Bluth Julio Moura Eugenio Arteaga Infante Miguel Oneto Rosales Alternate Directors: Eduardo Vial Ruiz Tagle Patricio Reyes Urrutia Iván Rubio Huerta Tomás Morales Jaureguiberry Jorge Correa Drubi Secretary: Gustavo Malavé General Manager: Miguel Oneto Rosales FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 0 1,212 Operating revenues 18,358 14,253 Operating results 14 -6,707 Operating results -571 -465 Non-operating result 6,553 216 Non-operating result -3,976 -6,232 Result of the accounting period 6,567 -6,491 Result of the accounting period -4,547 -6,697 Total Assets 96,669 112,399 Total Assets 106,321 90,160 Total liabilities 119,526 128,596 Total liabilities 111,422 90,510 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity -22,857 -16,197 Equity -5,101 -350 Net flow for the accounting period 0 -10 Net flow for the accounting period -134 -121 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 11 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 211 332 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 1 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 77 211 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 93 7 ANDINOS C.A. 8 FIBRANOVA C.A. Fiscal Residence: Av. Francisco de Miranda, Fiscal Residence: Av. Francisco de Miranda, Edificio Parque Cristal, Edificio Parque Cristal, Torre Oeste Piso 3, Of. 3-3, Torre Oeste Piso 3, Of. 3-3, Los Palos Grandes, Caracas Los Palos Grandes, Caracas Telephone: (58-212) 620 70 11 Telephone: (58-212) 620 70 11 Fax: (58-212) 285 4217 Fax: (58-212) 285 4217 Administrative Residence: Calle Cuchiveros, Torre Balear, Piso 2, Administrative Residence: Calle Cuchiveros, Torre Balear, Piso 2, Alta Vista Norte,Puerto Ordaz, Estado Bolívar Alta Vista Norte, Puerto Ordaz, Estado Bolívar Telephone: (58-286) 965 1011 Telephone: (58-286) 965 1011 Fax: (58-286) 965 1040 Fax: (58-286) 965 1040 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION Andinos C.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated under the laws of Fibranova C.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela dated January 20, 1999, inscribed in the the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, dated August 12, 1998 inscribed in the Fifth Trade Register of the Judicial Circumscription of the Federal District and Fifth Trade Register of the Judicial Circumscription of the Federal District and State of Miranda, under number 68, volume 276-A-Qto. State of Miranda, under number 39, volume 238-A-Qto. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Andinos C.A. is of 6,867,758,000,00 The subscribed and paid-in capital of Fibranova C.A. is of 44,182,000.000 Bolivars, equal to MUS$ 24,248, divided in 6,867,758 shares with a nominal Bolivars, equal to MUS$ 63,900, divided in 44,182,000 shares with a nominal (par) value de 1,000 Bolivars each. Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. (par) value of one thousand Bolivars each. Inversiones Internacionales is owner of 100% of its shareholding equity. Terranova S.A. is owner of 100% of its shareholding equity. Investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total consolidated Investment in this company represents 2.85% of the total consolidated company assets. company assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE COMPANY OBJECTIVE Carrying out sawing activities and the purchase, exploitation and commercialThe production and commercialization wood products and its derivatives, as ization of wood. well as all other legal trade activity. BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Title Holding Directors: Enrique Cibié Bluth (Chairman) Title Holding Directors: Enrique Cibie Bluth (Chairman) Eduardo Vial Ruiz Tagle Eduardo Vial Ruiz Tagle Patricio Reyes Urrutia Jaime Valenzuela Fernández Jaime Valenzuela Fernández Patricio Reyes Urrutia Miguel Oneto Rosales Miguel Oneto Rosales Alternate Directors: Jorge Correa Drubi Alternate Directors: Luis Guillermo Velásquez B. Tomás Morales Jaureguiberry Tomas Morales Jaureguiberry Iván Rubio Huerta Eugenio Arteaga Infante Luis Guillermo Velázquez Iván Rubio Huerta Eugenio Arteaga Infante Jorge Correa Drubi Secretary: Gustavo Malavé Secretary: Gustavo Malavé General Manager: Miguel Oneto Rosales General Manager: Miguel Oneto Rosales FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 24,877 21,454 Operating revenues 144,495 106,004 Operating results -3,429 -2,274 Operating results 33,493 9,067 Non-operating result -770 -584 Non-operating result 16,151 -16,485 Result of the accounting period -4,199 -2,846 Result of the accounting period 11,078 -5,080 Total Assets 41,850 37,706 Total Assets 300,984 260,188 Total liabilities 59,310 50,968 Total liabilities 195,989 297,619 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity -17,460 -13,262 Equity 104,995 -37,431 Net flow for the accounting period -375 -1,828 Net flow for the accounting period 36 -3,015 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 618 2,446 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 927 3,942 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 243 618 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 963 927 MASISA | 94 9 CONSORCIO FORESTAL VENEZOLANO S.A. (“COFORVEN”) 10 CORPORACIÓN FORESTAL GUAYAMURE C.A. Fiscal Residence: Avda. Francisco de Miranda, Fiscal Residence: Av. Francisco de Miranda, Edificio Parque Cristal, Edificio Parque Cristal, Torre Oeste Piso 3, Of. 3-3, Torre Oeste, Piso 3, Of. 3-3, Los Palos Grandes, Caracas Los Palos Grandes, Caracas Telephone: (58-212) 620 70 11 Telephone: (58-212) 620 70 11 Fax: (58-212) 285 4217 Fax: (58-212) 285 421 LEGAL INCORPORATION Administrative Residence: Calle Cuchiveros, Torre Balear, Piso 2, Corporación Forestal Guayamure C.A. is a closely-held stock company Alta Vista Norte, Puerto Ordaz, Estado Bolívar incorporated under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela dated Telephone: (58-286) 965 1011 Master. December 27, 1976, inscribed in the First Trade Register of the Judicial Fax: (58-286) 965 1040 Circumscription of the Federal District and State of Miranda, under number 8 volume 150-A. LEGAL INCORPORATION COFORVEN is a closely-held stock company incorporated under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela dated August 5, 1991, inscribed before the SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL First Instance Civil, Merchant, Transit and Work Court of Law of the Judicial The subscribed and paid-in capital of Corporación Forestal Guayamure C.A. is Circumscription of the Federal District and State of Monagas, dated August 8, of 11,388,913,000.00 Bolivars, equal to MUS$ 11,095, divided in 11,388,913 1991, under number 194, volume CHAB, and inscribed in the Trade Register shares with a nominal (par) value of one thousand Bolivars, non-convertible to of the Judicial Circumscription of the Capital District and State of Miranda dated the bearer. May 31, 1999, where the register is currently kept. Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. is owner of 85% of the shareholding capital and Corporación Venezolana de Guayana is owner of the remaining 15%. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL Investment in this company represents 0.32% of the total consolidated The subscribed and paid-in capital of COFORVEN is of 2,719,129.000,00 company assets. Bolivars, equal to MUS$ 10,241, divided in 2,465,995 shares. Terranova Venezuela S.A. is owner of 99.95% of the shareholding capital and the balance COMPANY OBJECTIVE of 0.05% corresponding to a minority shareholder. Planting, maintenance, cutting and commercialization of lumber trees; the Investment in this company represents 0.05% of the total consolidated purchase, processing, exploitation and commercialization of wood. company assets. BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMPANY OBJECTIVE Title Holding Directors: Miguel Oneto Rosales (Chairman) The purchase, exploitation and commercialization of wood. Carlos Urdaneta Gustavo Malavé BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ronald Ramirez Title Holding Directors : Jaime Valenzuela Fernández (Chairman) Julissa Balsan Enrique Cibié Bluth Alternate Directors: Enrique Cibié Bluth Julio Moura Marco Brisso Eugenio Arteaga Infante. Mauricio Grillet Miguel Oneto Rosales Iris Bracho Alternate Directors: Eduardo Vial Ruiz Tagle Esther Jhon Patricio Reyes Urrutia Iván Rubio Huerta Tomás Morales Jaureguiberry Jorge Correa Drubi Secretary: Gustavo Malavé General Manager: Miguel Oneto Rosales FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 0 0 Operating revenues 0 0 Operating results -8 -8 Operating results -24 -30 Non-operating result -6 -6 Non-operating result -64 -701 Result of the accounting period -13 -13 Result of the accounting period -87 -731 Total Assets 2,237 2,237 Total Assets 18,405 16,767 Total liabilities 447 433 Total liabilities 4,728 3,679 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 1,790 1,804 Equity 13,677 13,088 Net flow for the accounting period 0 0 Net flow for the accounting period 0 0 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 1 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 1 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 1 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 1 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 95 11 CORPORACIÓN FORESTAL IMATACA C.A. 12 MASISA MADEIRAS LTDA. Fiscal Residence: Avda. Francisco de Miranda, Legal Address: Rodovia BR‑280, N° 4116, Bairro Industrial Sul, Edificio Parque Cristal, Rio Negrinho, Santa Catarina, Brasil. Torre Oeste Piso 3, Of. 3-3, Telephone: (55-47) 3646 3000 Los Palos Grandes, Caracas. Fax: (55‑47) 3646 3039 Telephone: (58-212) 620 70 11 Fax: (58-212) 285 4217 LEGAL INCORPORATION Masisa Madeiras Ltda. is a limited liability company incorporated according to LEGAL INCORPORATION the legislation of the Republic of Brazil, on December 12, 1996. The original Corporación Forestal Imataca C.A. is a closely-held stock company incorponame of the company was Gridom Comercial Limitada, but on May 16, 1997 it rated under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela dated March 21, became Terranova Brasil Limitada. In the same manner, on June 7, 2005 the 1974, inscribed in the First Trade Register of the Judicial Circumscription of the company once again changes its trade name going on to become Masisa Federal District and State of Miranda, under number 77, volume 46 A. Madeiras Limitada, name used by the company to date. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Corporación Forestal Imataca C.A. is SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL of 6,402,068,000.00 Bolivars, equal to MUS$ 19,681, divided in 6,402,068 The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa Madeiras Limitada is of M$ 76,181 shares, of one thousand Bolivars each. Inversiones Internacionales Terranova reals, equal to MUS$ 52,500, divided in 76,180,700 fees. Inversiones S.A. is owner of 100% of the shareholding equity. Internacionales Terranova S.A is owner of 99.99% of the shareholding equity and The investment in this company represents 0.64% of the total of the the remaining 0.01% belongs to a minority shareholder. company’s consolidated assets. The investment in this company represents 2.22% of the total of the company’s consolidated assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE Sowing, maintenance, cutting and commercialization of lumber trees; COMPANY OBJECTIVE purchase, processing, exploitation and commercialization of lumber Commercialization of raw material, products and flora sub-products; consumption of logs, chips and sawdust from lumber; planting, handling, cutting, and BOARD OF DIRECTORS exploration of forestry assets; use of wood; sawmill, lamination, leaf pulling and Title Holding Directors: Jaime Valenzuela Fernández (Chairman) wood processing; production of compensated products and counter-plated Enrique Cibié Bluth products; utilization of wood preservatives; export of flora products and Julio Moura sub-products; production of seeds and forestry changes; participation in other Eugenio Arteaga Infante companies, commercial and civil, as an associate, shareholder or licensee. Miguel Oneto Rosales Alternate Directors: Eduardo Vial Ruiz Tagle FORESTRY AND INDUSTRIAL EQUITY Patricio Reyes Urrutia The company has 13,600 hectares of lands, of which 7,300 are pine Iván Rubio Huerta plantations, most of them already being exploited. Tomás Morales Jaureguiberry Its industrial installations located in 17 hectares of land in Río Negrinho, is Jorge Correa Drubi formed by a 42,000 m2 built plant formed by a sawmill, a thermal plant with Secretary: Gustavo Malavé energy generation and a re-manufacturing plant for the production of blanks General Manager: Miguel Oneto Rosales and moldings. ADMINISTRATION General Manager: Jorge Hillmann FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 0 0 Operating revenues 42,155 44,568 Operating results -22 -29 Operating results 2,828 5,074 Non-operating result -185 -340 Non-operating result -1,109 -1,811 Result of the accounting period -207 -369 Result of the accounting period -894 3.501 Total Assets 29,094 25,395 Total Assets 151,013 148,967 Total liabilities 5,386 4,097 Total liabilities 69,317 70,942 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 23,708 21,298 Equity 81,696 78,025 Net flow for the accounting period -1 1 Net flow for the accounting period -564 1,350 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 3 2 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1,428 78 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2 3 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 864 1,428 MASISA | 96 13 MASISA DO BRASIL LTDA. Fiscal Residence: Rodovia BR-376, KM. 503, Bairro: Distrito Industrial en la ciudad de Ponta Grossa, Paraná. Telephone: (42) 3219.1500 Fax: (42) 3219.1600 LEGAL INCORPORATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE Masisa do Brasil Ltda. is a limited liability company incorporated according to The industry, trade, import and export of wood panels, agricultural activities the laws of the Republic of Brazil, dated May 8, 1995. and exploration of forests and forestation plantations, forest, woods and sub-products trade, administration and execution of forestry projects, on the SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL company’s own account or through third parties, representation of companies, The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa do Brasil Ltda. is of R$ 95,427,456. national and foreign, of the lumber industry, market and marketing research The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to MUS$ 41,843. Its services, among other supplementary services in the wood industry. shareholders are Masisa S.A. with 98.3907% of the shareholding equity and Masisa Argentina S.A. with the remaining 1.6093%. ADMINISTRATION The investment in this company represents 4.31% of the total of the General Manager: Jorge Hillmann company’s consolidated assets. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 177,782 32,294 Operating results 28,617 18,358 Non-operating result -8,009 -4,686 Result of the accounting period 6,945 5,090 Total Assets 328,174 270,798 Total liabilities 231,198 198,054 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 96,976 72,744 Net flow for the accounting period -7,565 -3,691 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 10,314 14,005 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2,749 10,314 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 97 14 FORESTAL TERRANOVA MÉXICO S.A. DE C.V. Legal Address: Calle Jaime Balmes N°8, segundo piso, despacho 202, colonia Los Morales, delegación Miguel Hidalgo, México, Distrito Federal. Telephone: (52-55) 91382300 Fax: (52-55) 91382308 LEGAL INCORPORATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE Forestal Terranova México S.A. de C.V. is a closely-held stock company of The company objective of Forestal Terranova México S.A. de C.V. is the purchase, variable equity incorporated by public deed No. 64,899 dated December 16, import, export, processing, transformation and commercialization of products 1998, granted before the Licenciado Armando Gálvez Pérez Aragón, title holder derived from wood in all its forms and related with the construction market and of Public Notary No. 103 of the Federal District, inscribed in the Public Trade the furniture industry; the purchase, sale, trading, import, export, distribution Register of Mexico, Federal District, under the trade number 244012, dated and, in general the commercialization in the Republic of Mexico and abroad of March 1, 1999, according to the laws of the Republic of Mexico. The incorporamaterials, raw materials, products, sub-products, semi-manufactured, finished or tion of Forestal Terranova México S.A. de C.V. was authorized by the Secretary not, reconstructed, renewed or re-conditioned stated previously; the representaof Foreign Affairs of the Mexican Government dated November 17, 1998, tion and commercial agency of individual, companies or entities of any nature, Permit No. 09038662, File No. 9809037776, with No. 39215. whether national or foreign, which have the purpose of producing or commercializing materials, raw materials, products and goods referred to herein; and the SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL commercialization, distribution and representation, within and outside of Mexico, The subscribed and paid-in capital of Forestal Terranova México S.A. de C.V. is of products, sub-products or derivatives of its industrial activity, whether directly of MX$ 7,191,000.00, divided in 7,191 shares with a value of MX$ 1,000.00 or by means of intermediaries. each. Its shareholders are Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. with 99.99% of the shares and Terranova Panamá S.A. with the remaining 0.01%. COMMERCIAL EQUITY The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to US$ It has a distribution and warehouse center located in Boulevard de los Ríos Km. 201,267. The investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total of the 4.6, Colonia Puerto Industrial, C.P. 89608, Altamira, Tamaulipas. company’s consolidated assets. Administrative Council Title Holding Members: Alternate Members: Enrique Andrés Cibié Bluth Eugenio Arteaga Infante Patricio Reyes Urrutia Carlos Sesma Mauleón Claudio Luis Cerda Herreros General Manager: Leonardo Franco Schlesinger Grandi FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 23,127 45,477 Operating results -3,050 2,221 Non-operating result 79 -115 Result of the accounting period -1,897 1,370 Total Assets 23,722 24,410 Total liabilities 23,923 22,714 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity -201 1,696 Net flow for the accounting period -2,368 1,489 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2,944 1,455 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 576 2,944 MASISA | 98 15 MADERAS Y SINTéTICOS DE MéXICO S.A. DE C.V. 16 MADERAS Y SINTÉTICOS SERVICIOS S.A. DE C.V. Legal Address: Calle Jaime Balmes N°8, segundo piso, despacho 202, Legal Address: Calle Jaime Balmes N°8, segundo piso, despacho 202, colonia Los Morales, delegación Miguel Hidalgo, colonia Los Morales, delegación Miguel Hidalgo, México, Distrito Federal. México, Distrito Federal. Telephone: (52-55) 91382300 Telephone: (52-55) 91382300 Fax: (52-55) 91382308 Fax: (52-55) 91382308 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de C.V. is a closely-held stock company of Maderas y Sintéticos Servicios S.A. de C.V., is a closely-held stock company of variable capital, incorporated by public deed No. 3,776 dated August 23, 2001, variable capital, incorporated by public deed No. 3,775 dated August 23, 2001, granted before the Licenciado Arturo Adolfo Llorente Martínez, title holder of granted before the Licenciado Arturo Adolfo Llorente Martínez, title holding the Public Notary No. 205 of the Federal District, inscribed in the Trade Pubic member of the Public Notary No. 205 of the Federal District, inscribed in the Register of Mexico, Federal District, under the Trade No. 282.079, dated Trade Public Registry of Mexico, Federal District, under trade No. 282.080, November 30, 2001, according to the laws of the Republic of Mexico. The dated November 30, 2001, according to the laws of the Republic of Mexico. incorporation of Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de C.V. was authorized by The incorporation of the company was authorized by the Secretary of Foreign the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Mexican Government dated August 17, Affairs of the Mexican Government dated August 17, 2001, according to permit 2001, according to permit No. 09041700, file No. 0109041700, No. 24453. No. 09041696, file 0109041696, number 24446. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de The subscribed and paid-in capital of Maderas y Sintéticos Servicios S.A. de C.V. is of MX$ 342,422,000.00 divided in 684,844 nominative shares of a C.V. is of MX$ 50,000.00 divided in 100 nominal shares with a nominal (par) nominal (par) value of MX$ 500.00 each. Its shareholders are Masisa S.A. with value of MX$ 500.00 each. Its shareholders are Masisa S.A. with 99.00% and 99.99% of the shares and Masisa Overseas Limited with the remaining 0.01%. Masisa Overseas Limited with the remaining 1.00%. Masisa S.A. is the direct or Masisa S.A. is the direct or indirect owner of 100% of the shareholding equity indirect owner of 100% of the shareholding equity of Maderas y Sintéticos de of Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de C.V. México S.A. de C.V. The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to US$ The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to US$376,525. 24,638,795.47. The investment in this company represents 1.11% of the total The investment in this company represents 0.02% of the total of the company’s of the company’s consolidated assets. consolidated assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE COMPANY OBJECTIVE The company objective of Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de C.V. is the The company objective of Maderas y Sintéticos Servicios S.A. de C.V. is to purchase, sale, import, export and manufacturing of all types of wood boards, provide all types of services, including among others, consulting, administraas well as the distribution and commercialization of the same. The trade activity tive, professional, technical, human resource, operational, management, comprises, among others on the plantation, exploitation and transfer of all types marketing, programming, sales and advisory services. The trade activity of forests, investment in all types of real estate and personal properties and comprises, among others, establishing plants or warehouses, the representation providing related services. of companies, the issue of credit deeds and the credit titles and granting of co-signers. ADMINISTRATION COUNCIL Title Holding Members: Alternate Members: ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL Enrique Andrés Cibié Bluth Sergio Manzanarez Martínez Title Holding Members: Alternate Members: Patricio Reyes Urrutia Silvia Esquivel Rocha Enrique Andrés Cibié Bluth Sergio Manzanarez Martínez Claudio Luis Cerda Herreros Carmen Patricia Rico A. Patricio Reyes Urrutia Silvia Esquivel Rocha Claudio Luis Cerda Herreros Carmen Patricia Rico A. General Manager: Leonardo Franco Schlesinger Grandi General Manager: Leonardo Franco Schlesinger Grandi FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 65,235 73,017 Operating revenues 6,989 6,323 Operating results 638 4,455 Operating results 176 98 Non-operating result -1,123 -1,966 Non-operating result 24 -153 Result of the accounting period -143 1,897 Result of the accounting period 4 -80 Total Assets 55,911 59,275 Total Assets 1,652 990 Total liabilities 31,272 34,490 Total liabilities 1,275 618 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 24,639 24,785 Equity 377 372 Net flow for the accounting period 407 1.995 Net flow for the accounting period 947 101 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 3,304 1,309 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 122 21 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 3,711 3,304 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1,069 122 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 99 17 CC MAS S.A. DE C.V. 18 MASNOVA DE MÉXICO S.A. de C.V. Legal Address: Calle Jaime Balmes N°8, segundo piso, despacho 202, Legal Address: Calle Jaime Balmes N°8, segundo piso, despacho 202, colonia Los Morales, delegación Miguel Hidalgo, colonia Los Morales, delegación Miguel Hidalgo, México, Distrito Federal. México, Distrito Federal. Telephone: (52-55) 91382300 Telephone: (52-55) 91382300 Fax: (52-55) 91382308 Fax: (52-55) 91382308 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION CC Mas S.A. de C.V., is a closely-held stock company of variable capital, Masnova de México S.A. de C.V. is a variable capital closely-held stock incorporated by public deed No. 116,894 dated August 22, 2006, granted before company, incorporated by public deed No. 3.996 dated December 14, 2001, the Notary Public Armando Gálvez Pérez Aragón, title holding member of the granted before the Licenciado Arturo Llorente Martínez, title holding member of Public Notary No. 103 of the Federal District, inscribed in the Trade Public the Public Notary No. 205 of the Federal District, inscribed in the Trade Public Registry of Mexico, Federal District, under trade No. 355042 dated September Registry of Mexico, Federal District, under trade No. 282.672 dated January 7, 26, 2006. The incorporation of CC Mas S.A. de C.V. was authorized by the 2002, according to the laws of the Republic of Mexico. The incorporation of Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Mexican Government dated June 7, 2006, Masnova de México S.A. de C.V. was authorized by the Secretary of Foreign according to permit No. 3702,140, file 200637001956, number A01E1T91. Affairs of the Mexican Government dated August 28, 2001, according to permit No. 09043122, file 0109043122, number 25323. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of CC Mas, S.A. de C.V. is of MX$ SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL 50,000.00, divided in 50,000 nominative shares with a nominal (par) value of The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masnova de México S.A. de C.V. is of MX$ 1.00 each. Its shareholders are Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. de MX$ 50,000.00, divided in 50,000 nominative shares with a nominal (par) C.V. with 99.00% of the shares and Maderas y Sintéticos Servicios S.A. de C.V. value of MX$ 1.00 each. Its shareholders are Inversiones Internacionales with the remaining 1.00%. Terranova S.A. with 50% of the shares and Maderas y Sintéticos de México S.A. The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to US$ 212,252. de C.V with the remaining 50%. The investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total of the company’s The accounting capital as of December 31, 2007 amounted to US$ 1,505,541. consolidated assets. The investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total of the company’s consolidated assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE The company objective of CC Mas S.A. de C.V. is the purchase, sale, import, COMPANY OBJECTIVE export, commercialization, distribution and supply to individuals and The company objective of Masnova de México S.A. de C.V. is the acquisition, companies, national and foreign, through any legal scheme, whether freely or purchase, sale, import, export, storage and distribution of all types of lumber through a franchise scheme or any other similar one, of all types of primary or goods and products or wood boards or any other matter in any of its forms, in a supplementary products with the construction industry and in general with any diect manner or through third parties. type of products. ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL Title Holding Members: Alternate Members: Title Holding Members: Alternate Members: Enrique Cibié Bluth Carlos Sesma Minvielle Alejandro Espinosa Carey Sergio Manzanarez Martinez Patricio Reyes Urrutia Silvia Esquivel Rocha Claudio Cerda Herreros Silvia Esquivel Rocha Claudio Cerda Herreros Carmen Patricia Rico A. Patricio Reyes Urrutia Carmen Patricia Rico Arreola Jaime Valenzuela Fernández Eugenio Arteaga Infante General Manager: General Manager: Leonardo Franco Schlesinger Grandi Leonardo Franco Schlesinger Grandi FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 1,804 16 Operating revenues 0 0 Operating results -218 1 Operating results -8 -3 Non-operating result 1 0 Non-operating result 4 25 Result of the accounting period -218 1 Result of the accounting period -4 22 Total Assets 416 43 Total Assets 244 244 Total liabilities 628 42 Total liabilities 1,750 1,746 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity -212 1 Equity -1,506 -1,502 Net flow for the accounting period 54 0 Net flow for the accounting period 0 0 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 0 0 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 0 0 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 54 0 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 0 0 MASISA | 100 19 MASISA ARGENTINA S.A. 20 FORESTAL ARGENTINA S.A. Legal Address: 25 de Mayo 359, Piso 15 Legal Address: 25 de Mayo 359, Piso 15 Capital Federal, Argentina Capital Federal, Argentina Telephone: (54-11) 5550-6000 Telephone: (54-11)-5550-6000 Fax: (54-11) 5550-6402 LEGAL INCORPORATION Masisa Argentina is a closely-held stock company incorporated in the city of Forestal Argentina S.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated dated Buenos Aires, Republic of Argentina, on July 24, 1992, according to the Notary December 15, 1995, inscribed in the Public Trade Register on February 14, Protocol Subscribed in front of the Notary Public Mr. Álvaro Gutiérrez Zaldívar. 1996, under the register of the General Justice Bureau with No.1.615.432. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa Argentina is of AR$ 119,602,392, The subscribed and paid-in capital of Forestal Argentina S.A. is of MAR$ divided in 119,602,392 shares with a nominal (par) value of AR$ 1.00. As of 131,571, divided in 131,570,778 regular shares having a nominal (par) value December 31, 2007, the accounting capital of the company amounted to of AR$ 1.00 each. MUS$ 139,390.00. As of December 31, 2007, the accounting capital of the company for the The shareholders de Masisa Argentina S.A. are Masisa S.A. is of 98.00% of purpose of the Chilean financial statements amounted to MUS$97,505. the shares and Masisa Overseas Ltd., with the remaining 2.00%. The shareholders of Forestal Argentina S.A. are Forestal Tornagaleones S.A. The investment in this company represents 6.30% of the total of the with 98.68% of the shares and Masisa S.A. with the remaining 1.32%. company’s consolidated assets. The investment in this company represents 4.41% of the total of the company’s consolidated assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE The company objective of Masisa Argentina S.A. is to carry out at is own COMPANY OBJECTIVE account or through third parties, in an independent manner or associated with The company has the objective of forestation, planting of forests and the third parties, within or without the Republic of Argentina, the manufacturing commercialization of its products. and commercialization de particle wood board in all its forms and procedures that techniques allow: to this is added the planting, exploitation and / or ADMINISTRATION purchase-sale of forests, acquisition and transfer at any title, the import and Board of Directors: Jaime Valenzuela Fernández (Chairman) export of manufactured woods or raw woods, elaborated or manufactured and Sergio Boccadoro the industrialization, transformation and commercialization of woods of any type Javier Busch and its derivatives, in addition to any analogous or similar activity to the above Gastón Urmeneta company objective. Jorge Correa ADMINISTRATION Chairman: Aldo Tomás Blardone Executive Director: Jaime Valenzuela Fernández Title Holding Director: Sr. Gerardo Ourracariet General Manager: Sr. Alfredo Gili Candanell FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 136,731 115,629 Operating revenues 8,586 6,791 Operating results 30,366 20,823 Operating results 4,084 2,600 Non-operating result -3,488 -2,653 Non-operating result -101 -82 Result of the accounting period 15,733 9,948 Result of the accounting period 3,034 2,443 Total Assets 190,857 187,689 Total Assets 99,556 84,937 Total liabilities 51,467 47,532 Total liabilities 2,051 6,877 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 139,390 140,157 Equity 97,505 78.060 Net flow for the accounting period -7,287 6,583 Net flow for the accounting period 1,917 -912 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 15,731 9,148 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 84 996 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2,001 84 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 8,444 15,731 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 101 21 MASISA COLOMBIA S.A. 22 TERRANOVA PANAMÁ S.A. Address: Calle 72 No. 5-83 Oficina 402, Legal Address: Calle 50, Edificio Global Plaza Bogotá, Colombia Telephone: (507) 2130033 Telephone: (57-1) 3 25 87 00 Fax: (07) 264 24 98 Fax: (57-1) 3 25 87 24 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION Terranova Panamá S.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated according Masisa Colombia S.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated according to to the legislation of the Republic of Panama dated February 4, 1997, in the the legislation of the Republic of Colombia dated November 20, 1998, by public Fifth Public Notary of the Circuit of Panama of Mr. Mario Velásquez Chizmar, deed No. 5317 of the Public Notary No. 31 of Santa Fe de Bogotá, Colombia. inscribed in the Public Register of Panama on February 6, 1997 under No. 32625 1, rol 52936, image 0075. SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa Colombia S.A. is of M$ 5,761,073 SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL Colombian Pesos, equal to MUS$ 2,139, divided in 5,761,073 shares. The The subscribed and paid-in capital of Terranova Panamá S.A. is of shareholders of Masisa Colombia S.A. are Inversiones Internacionales US$ 24,270,000.00 divided in 242,700 nominative shares with a nominal (par) Terranova S.A. with 80.71% of the shares, Fibranova C.A. with 19.28% minority value of US$ 100.00 each. Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. is owner of shareholders with the remaining 0.01%. 100% of the shares. The investment in this company represents 0.19% of the total of the The investment in this company represents 0.00% of the total of the company’s consolidated assets. company’s consolidated assets. COMPANY OBJECTIVE COMPANY OBJECTIVE Purchase, import, export, processing, transformation and commercialization of Establish, manage and carry out in general the business of financing, products derived from wood in all its forms and related with the construction investments and brokerage in all its fields; participate either directly or market and the furniture industry; the representation and commercial agency of indirectly in the incorporation of other companies, or entities of any type, class, individuals or companies, national or foreign, which have the objective of or species; establish, manage and arry out the export, import business as an producing or commercializing the materials, raw materials, products and goods agent, distributor or agent in all kinds or types of merchandize from and referred to herein; the technical consulting to third parties in the commercialtowards any part of the world. ization, distribution and representation of such products. ADMINISTRATION: ADMINISTRATION Diretor Chairman: Rolando Candanedo Navarro Chairman: Luis Guillermo Velásquez B. Director Secretary: María del Mar Pimentel Title Holding Member: Jaime Valenzuela F. Director Treasurer: Rolando Candanedo Deneken Title Holding Member: Carlos Urdaneta W. Legal Representative: Rolando Candanedo Navarro General Manager: Luis Guillermo Velásquez B. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 28,835 25,218 Operating revenues 0 0 Operating results 2,848 3,371 Operating results 0 0 Non-operating result 55 470 Non-operating result -4,219 -5,936 Result of the accounting period 2,124 2,527 Result of the accounting period -4,219 -5,936 Total Assets 12,929 12,875 Total Assets 711 15,518 Total liabilities 4,033 4,490 Total liabilities 10,518 20,901 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 8,896 8,385 Equity -9,807 -5,383 Net flow for the accounting period -494 1,866 Net flow for the accounting period -1 -1 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 2,310 444 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1 2 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1,816 2,310 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 0 1 MASISA | 102 23 MADERAS Y SINTÉTICOS DEL PERÚ S.A.C. 24 MASISA ECUADOR S.A. Legal Address: Av. Víctor Andrés Belaunde 147, Legal Address: Av. Víctor Emilio Estrada 1021 Edificio Real 12, Of.103 Entre Hilanes y Jiguas San Isidro Lima Guayaquil, Ecuador Telephone: (51-1) 7061400 Telephone: (593-4) 2888244 LEGAL INCORPORATION LEGAL INCORPORATION Maderas y Sintéticos del Peru S.A.C. is a closely-held stock company Masisa Ecuador S.A. is a closely-held company incorporated in the city of incorporated according to the laws of the Republic of Peru, by public deed, Quito, Republic of Ecuador, dated October 23, 2002 by public deed of this date dated July 31, 1997 granted before the Notary Public of the city of Lima Dr. granted before the Notary Public Ramiro Dávila Silva. Ricardo Ortiz de Zevallos Villagrán. By public deed granted on July 22, 1998 before the Notary Public of the city of Lima Dr. Ricardo Ortiz de Zevallos SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL Villagrán, the company by-laws were modified adapting them from the new The subscribed and paid-in capital of Masisa Ecuador S.A is of MUS$ 5,000 provisions of Law 26887, General Companies Law, adopting the structure and divided in 5,000 nominative shares, fully subscribed and paid for in the functioning of a closely-held company (S.A.C.). incorporation act. The shareholders of Masisa Ecuador S.A. are Masisa S.A. with 99.9% of the SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL shares and Masisa Overseas Ltd. with the remaining 0.1%. The subscribed and paid-in capital of Maderas y Sintéticos del Peru S.A.C. is of The investment in this company represents 0.06% of the total of the company’s PE$ 39,450 (New Soles) divided in 39,450 nominal shares with a nominal (par) consolidated assets. value of PE$ 1.00 (New Soles) each. The accounting capital of the company amounted to US$ 4,707,554.66 COMPANY OBJECTIVE The shareholders de Maderas y Sintéticos del Peru S.A.C. are Masisa S.A. with The company objective of Masisa Ecuador S.A. is the manufacturing and 99.11% of the shares and Masisa Overseas Limited with the remaining 0.89%. commercialization of wood boards and wood articles in all its forms and The investment in this company represents 0.21% of the total of the procedures technically possible. These activities comprise planting, exploitation company’s consolidated assets. and / or the purchase-sale of real estate properties, including lands allocated to agricultural use, the acquisition and transfer of any type of goods, the import COMPANY OBJECTIVE and export of processed or manufactured woods, the industrialization, The company has the purpose of manufacturing and commercializing of wood transformation and commercialization of woods of any type and its derivatives. boards and wood articles in all its forms and procedures. The planting and exploiIn order to comply with its objective, the company will be able to intervene as tation of land are comprised within its trade activity allocated to agricultural use, an associate in the formation of all kinds of companies, contribute capital to the for the import and export of processed wood or raw wood, the transformation and same or acquire, have or own on its own the shares, obligations or participacommercialization of woods of any type and its derivatives and the import, export, tions of other companies; in general the company will be able to carry out all manufacturing, fabrication, distribution and commercialization of all kind of kinds of acts, contracts, operations allowed by the Ecuadorian laws, which are chemical products allocated to the industry in general; In addition, the company according to their objective and necessary and convenient for its compliance. will be able to carry out financial investments of any nature. ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATION General Manager: Sr. Roberto Heskia T General Manager: Roberto Heskia T. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Thousands of US Dollars 2007 2006 Operating revenues 26,739 20,992 Operating revenues 12,404 10,011 Operating results 4,247 2,811 Operating results 732 1,319 Non-operating result 46 31 Non-operating result -111 3 Result of the accounting period 2,991 2,046 Result of the accounting period 508 985 Total Assets 9,795 8,130 Total Assets 5,792 5,068 Total liabilities 5,087 3,116 Total liabilities 4,426 4,210 Minority Interest 0 0 Minority Interest 0 0 Equity 4,708 5,014 Equity 1,366 858 Net flow for the accounting period 1,453 127 Net flow for the accounting period 3 -266 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 462 347 INITIAL CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 342 608 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 1,915 462 FINAL BALANCE OF CASH FLOW AND CASH FLOW EQUIVALENTS 345 342 RELATED COMPANIES MASISA | 103 RELATED COMPANIES 1 OXINOVA C.A. 2 INVERSIONES CALLE CALLE S. A. Fiscal Residence: Av. Francisco de Miranda, LEGAL INCORPORATION Edificio Parque Cristal, Inversiones Calle Calle S. A. is a closely-held stock company, incorporated by Torre Oeste Piso 3, Of. 3-3, public deed dated December 9, 2002, granted before Notary Public of Los Palos Grandes, Caracas Santiago, Mr. Iván Torrealba Acevedo. Telephone: (58-212) 620 7011 Fax: (58-212) 285 4217 COMPANY OBJECTIVE The company objective of Inversiones Calle Calle S. A. is the realization of all Administrative Residence: Calle Cuchiveros, Torre Balear, Piso 2, kinds of investments with lease and long-term purposes, including the Alta Vista Norte, Puerto Ordaz, Estado Bolívar purchase, sale, transfer and carrying out of all types of transactions relative to Telephone: (58286) 965 1011 shares, social rights, bonds, debentures, real estate securities and commercial Fax: (58286) 965 1040 instruments in general, and the purchase, sale, transfer and the realization of Email: mreyes@oxinova.com.ve all types of transactions relative to real estate property or to rights over real estate property, both in Chile as abroad; and the investment in all types of LEGAL INCORPORATION companies, whether they are civil or commercial. In order to comply with its Oxinova C.A. is a closely-held stock company incorporated under the laws of corporate objective, the company will be able to act on its own or through third the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, dated October 6, 1999, which are parties, even as an agent or representative, to execute all kinds of acts and inscribed in the Fifth Trade Register of the Judicial Circumscription of the enter into contracts related to the corporate objective and to enter into Federal District and State of Miranda under No. 76, Tomo353 A Qto. association contracts or accounts in participation, incorporate companies or associations of all kinds and acquire rights, shares or participations in currently SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL existing ones, and to take on their management. The subscribed and paid-in capital of Oxinova C.A. is of M$ 4,952.164 Bolivars, equal to 4,952,164 nominative shares with a nominal (par) value of SUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN CAPITAL 1,000 Bolivars each. The subscribed and paid-in capital of Inversiones Calle Calle S.A. is of $ The shareholders de Oxinova C.A. are Oxiquim Inversiones Internacionales 200,000, divided in 200,000 actions of a same and only series and without Limitada with 51% of the shares and Inversiones Internacionales Terranova S.A. nominal (par) value. with the remaining 49%.* The shareholders de Inversiones Calle Calle S.A. are Masisa S.A. with 50% of the shares and Inversiones Industriales S.A. with the remaining 50%. COMPANY OBJECTIVE The construction and operation of a chemical products plant in Venezuela, ADMINISTRATION particularly for the production and commercialization of formaldehyde and resins. Title Holding Directors : Enrique Cibié Bluth Patricio Reyes Urrutia BOARD OF DIRECTORS Eduardo Vial Ruiz-Tagle Title Holding Directors: Enrique Cibié Bluth. General Manager: Eduardo Vial Ruiz-Tagle Miguel Oneto Rosales. Vicente Navarrete. Edmundo Puentes. Alternate Directors: Patricio Reyes Urrutia Eduardo Vial Ruiz Tagle Vicente Navarrete Rolando Pablo Ayala Rolando General Manager: Cristian Roempler * Dated January 31, 2008, Fibranova C.A. acquired from Oxiquim Inversiones Internacionales Limitada 51% of the shareholding participation that the last mentioned had in Oxinova, Masisa S.A. going on to control 100% of Oxinova C.A.
