Sustainable Growth GE 2010 Citizenship Report | www.gecitizenship.com Challenges ENERGY AND CLIMATE FINANCIAL VOLATILITY STRUGGLING CITIES RESOURCE DEPLETION CONFLICT AND CORRUPTION WATER SCARCITY SKILLS GAP CHRONIC DISEASE UNEVEN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IMPROVING EDUCATION PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT REUSE AND DESALINATION CITY PARTNERSHIPS ENERGY INNOVATION PRODUCTIVITY AND COMPETITIVENESS HUMAN RIGHTS AND RULE OF LAW AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE Value GE AROUND THE WORLD* GE (NYSE: GE) is an advanced technology, services and finance company taking on the world’s toughest challenges. Dedicated to innovation in energy, health, transportation and infrastructure, GE operates in more than 100 countries and employs about 300,000 people worldwide. EUROPE UNITED STATES $31.8 billion revenues $70.5 billion revenues 83,000 employees 133,000 employees CANADA & THE AMERICAS (excluding U.S.) $13.4 billion revenues 24,000 employees MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA $9.1 billion revenues 3,000 employees PACIFIC BASIN $21.6 billion revenues 44,000 employees GE World Totals: $150.2 billion** 287,000 employees * These numbers reflect operations of fiscal year 2010, which ended 12/31/2010. ** Includes $3.8 billion from “other Global” areas. GE BUSINESSES* TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE Around the world, GE is helping to build the healthcare, GE Capital offers a broad array of products and services aimed transportation and technology infrastructure of the new at enabling commercial businesses and consumers worldwide century. Many of GE’s fastest-growing businesses are in to achieve their dreams. Services include commercial loans, the Technology Infrastructure segment. operating leases, fleet management, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. PRODUCTS INCLUDE: • Aviation jet engines • Patient monitoring, healthcare PRODUCTS INCLUDE: • Equipment and service for all information technologies and • Loans, leases and other ﬁnancial • Real estate ﬁnancing for categories of commercial and medical diagnostics services to customers for a commercial and industrial military aircraft • Locomotives, gearing technology variety of equipment and major properties • Healthcare products such as MRIs, for wind turbines and stationary capital assets in industries • Private-label credit cards, auto X-rays and ultrasounds power generation such as construction, aviation, and home equity loans • Inspection equipment, security transportation, media, energy and life safety technologies and healthcare REVENUE (in $ billions) PROFIT (in $ billions) REVENUE (in $ billions) PROFIT (in $ billions) 2010 47.0 2010 3.3 2010 37.8 2010 6.3 2009 49.7 2009 1.5 2009 38.5 2009 6.8 2008 67.6 2008 8.1 2008 41.6 2008 7.9 2007 67.2 2007 12.3 2007 38.3 2007 7.2 2006 57.9 2006 10.3 2006 33.7 2006 6.7 ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE MEDIA & ENTERTAINMENT** The Energy Infrastructure segment is leading the field in the NBC Universal is one of the world’s leading media and development, implementation and improvement of the products entertainment companies. It develops, produces and markets and technologies that harness our resources, such as wind, oil, film, television, news, sports and special events to a huge sun, gas and water. global audience. PRODUCTS INCLUDE: PRODUCTS INCLUDE: • Water puriﬁcation equipment, • U.S. network television • Operation of theme parks • Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines mobile treatment systems and • Production and distribution of ﬁlm • Investment activity in digital media desalination processes and television programming and the Internet • Combined cycle systems • Advanced technology equipment • Renewable energy solutions, and services for all segments of REVENUE (in $ billions) PROFIT (in $ billions) including wind turbines and 16.9 2.3 the oil and gas industry 2010 2010 solar technology 2009 15.4 2009 2.3 2008 17.0 2008 3.1 REVENUE (in $ billions) PROFIT (in $ billions) 2007 15.4 2007 3.1 2006 16.2 2006 2.9 2010 37.5 2010 7.3 2009 40.6 2009 7.1 2008 43.0 2008 6.5 2007 34.8 2007 5.2 2006 28.8 2006 3.8 HOME & BUSINESS SOLUTIONS NOTES From the familiar light bulb to the latest advancements in *Effective January 1, 2010, GE reorganized its segments to better align the Consumer & Industrial consumer technology, GE Consumer & Industrial has a long and Energy businesses for growth. Results for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which GE managed the business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 tradition of innovations that have improved the quality of reorganization described above. life for millions of people everywhere. A more complete list of products per business can be found in the 2009 GE Annual Report PRODUCTS INCLUDE: (pages 111–112). • Major appliances such as • Lamps and lighting ﬁxtures refrigerators, freezers, electric and • Electrical equipment and control **On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast gas ranges, clothes washers products transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC (NBCU LLC). In and dryers, and microwave ovens connection with the transaction, we received $6,197 million in cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will REVENUE (in $ billions) PROFIT (in $ billions) account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. As a result of the 2010 8.6 2010 0.4 transaction, we expect to recognize a small after-tax gain in the ﬁrst quarter of 2011. 2009 8.4 2009 0.4 2008 10.1 2008 0.4 Due to this transaction, Media & Entertainment is not included in the priority areas by business 2007 11.0 2007 1.0 2006 11.7 2006 1.0 on pages 20–21. CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT i GE AROUND THE WORLD GE’s approach to citizenship is a full-time commitment with the same goals, strategies and accountabilities that drive business. Our annual ii GE BUSINESSES Citizenship Report complements our Annual Report, as well as the reports 1 INTRODUCTION on our ecomagination and healthymagination strategies. 2 OVERVIEW 2 Overview of Challenges and Value In this year’s report we have sought not only to respond to stakeholders who 5 Creating Sustainable Value want to know what GE is doing on particular issues, but also to demonstrate 6 CHALLENGES to our employees, shareowners, business partners and others in society how 6 Perspective from the Expert helping to solve global challenges is core to GE’s sustainable growth strategy. Advisory Panel: Looking Back and Moving Forward The report traces the source of GE’s long-term value creation, starting with 8 Decade in Review how we understand global challenges, to our strategy to respond to them as 11 Milestones in Citizenship a business—in particular in the areas of energy and climate and sustainable 14 EXPERTISE healthcare—to the processes, actions, commitments and metrics by which 14 A Letter from Jeff Immelt we manage and demonstrate performance and risk. It ends with an essay 15 A Letter from Sam Nunn discussing how these impacts translate into financial performance. 16 A Letter from Brackett Denniston & Bob Corcoran Each year, as our approach to corporate citizenship evolves, we aim to 17 GE & Tax determine and clarify the scope of GE’s material impacts. Our citizenship and 18 Engagement & Decision Making reporting priorities are informed by broad engagement with stakeholders 20 Our Priorities across the GE businesses and the communities where we work. This year we 22 Q&A with John Flannery, India CEO have taken a 10-year retrospective, drawing on perspectives from our expert advisory panel and other thought leaders. These external perspectives 23 Q&A with Bill Cary, COO of GE Capital are complemented by the perspectives of GE CEO Jeff Immelt, Board Member 24 Q&A with Marco Annunziata, GE Chief Economist Sam Nunn, Senior Vice President and General Counsel Brackett Denniston, 25 Global Theme: Vice President of Corporate Citizenship Bob Corcoran and CEO of GE India Energy and Climate Change John Flannery. 28 Global Theme: Sustainable Healthcare A 52-page report, however, can only provide a high-level summary 31 CONTRIBUTION AND IMPACT and introduction to the issues that GE faces, our principles, strategy and 31 2010 Highlights performance. Our Citizenship Web site at www.gecitizenship.com gives a 32 Activities by Commitment Area fuller picture—it includes performance data, stakeholder perspectives, case 34 Performance Against Commitments studies and country fact sheets, which provide further detail on how our 42 Operational Excellence citizenship priorities are put into practice around the world. The site is more interactive than ever before and we will continue to update this information 44 At-a-Glance Metrics throughout the year, to support our ongoing discussion with stakeholders. 48 VALUE CREATION 48 Creating Sustainable Value for Shareowners To assist in navigating the Web site, this report highlights links to relevant additional information on the Web site, including case studies, interviews 50 REFERENCE and videos on key challenges, dilemmas and opportunities. We also include 50 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Content Index interviews and articles by employees, customers and external experts. 51 United Nations Global Compact These perspectives are unedited by GE. 52 GE Awards & Recognition This report is produced for the benefit of all stakeholders, including GE employees—the people whose actions define GE every day. We hope that readers will make use of the information and perspectives, and see them as an invitation to further dialogue with GE. We will continue to WEB SITE LINKS KEY engage in these constructive discussions and seek to adapt and develop solutions based on what we learn in order to contribute to, and succeed FEATURES: longer, deep-dive articles about GE citizenship challenges and opportunities in, sustainable growth and value creation. SCOPE OF REPORT PERSPECTIVES: written contributions from employees, customers and external experts This report, published in July 2011, covers GE’s worldwide operations for the 2010 fiscal year, unless otherwise stated. Our last report was released in July 2010. This is GE’s seventh citizenship report. Reports for previous ACTION POINTS: supportive articles that exemplify key themes years are available at www.gecitizenship.com/reporting/past-reports. CONTACT INFORMATION Corporate citizenship for GE is CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS General Electric Company 3135 Easton Turnpike not just about “giving back” but about Fairfield, CT 06828 (203) 373-2211 INTERNET ADDRESS enabling positive changes around Visit GE online at www.ge.com and www.gecitizenship.com for more information about GE and its citizenship performance. The 2010 GE Annual Report is available online at the world. Being part of the fabric of www.ge.com/ar2010. For detailed news and information regarding GE’s strategy and its businesses, please visit the Press Room online at www.ge.com/news and our Investor self-confident societies is what allows Communications site at www.ge.com/investors. CORPORATE OMBUDSPERSON us to grow our business sustainably. To report concerns related to compliance with the law, GE policies or government contracting requirements, write to: GE Corporate Ombudsperson, P.O. Box 911, Fairfield, CT 06825; or call (800) 227-5003 or (203) 373-2603; or send an e-mail to ombudsperson@corporate.ge.com. GE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For reporting concerns about GE’s financial reporting, internal controls and procedures, auditing matters or other concerns to the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee, write to GE Board of Directors, General Electric Company (W2E), 3135 GE Eastonbusinesses Turnpike, Fairfi depend eld, CT 06828;on or (800) 417-0575 or skills and institutions of stable, prosperous societies callinfrastructure, the and healthyorenvironments. (203) 373-2652; To succeed as a global business, we need to be a part of building send an e-mail to directors@corporate.ge.com. these societies where we operate. We do this through the products and services we create, the FEEDBACK way we work Your feedback with on GE’s employees, progress customers, is appreciated. Please e-mailsuppliers and investors, the public policies we comments or questions to citizenship@ge.com. advocate and the philanthropic partnerships we support. For more information on GE’s citizenship strategy or for stakeholder inquiries, please contact: Gary Sheffer Vice President, Communications & Public Affairs GE Corporation gary.sheffer@ge.com REPORTING PRINCIPLES & FRAMEWORK INCLUSIVENESS Issues raised by stakeholders SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Global social and environmental challenges RELEVANCE/MATERIALITY THIS REPORT: Thematic 1. Prioritize issues influencing discussions for dialogue COMPLETENESS GE’s worldwide operations and stakeholders’ decisions WEB SITE: Performance metrics five businesses 2. Prioritize issues influencing and core activities business success RESPONSIVENESS GE’s response to stakeholder feedback as part www.addison.com Design by Addison of ongoing engagement strategy Printed by Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004-certified plant with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain-ofCustody certification. This report was printed with the use of renewable wind power, purchased from Community Energy, resulting in nearly zero volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. The paper is certified for FSC standards by Bureau Veritas, which promotes environmentally appropriate management of the world’s forests. ge 2010 citizenship Report 1 Overview OVERVIEW OF CHALLENGES and value Energy and climate Water scarcity Resource depletion CHALLENGES Yesterday’s energy and transport Unlike fossil fuel-based energy, there The limits of the planet’s natural systems present countries with are no substitutes or alternatives for resources are already stretched. challenges and risks relating to water. But already around a quarter Continuation of today’s level national security and the of the world’s population lives in of consumption of exhaustible environment, and many people areas of current or developing water resources is unsustainable around the world lack access to scarcity. Another quarter lack for business, society and the modern energy supplies. Over the access to the infrastructure needed environment. The result is next 40 years, global energy to get clean, affordable water to increasing commodity prices demand will double, with their homes. If current rates of and supply constraints. significant challenges as well. freshwater use continue, more than two thirds of people will not have sufficient access to clean water by the year 2025. Energy innovation reuse and desalination Product Life Cycle VALUE GE’s power-generation equipment Membrane filters turn wastewater GE is increasingly working to produces energy from diverse and sea water into reliable, enable its customers to save sources: coal, nuclear, gas, hydrosustainable, clean water. However, natural resources through electric, wind, biogas and solar. these technologies cannot be innovative design, recycling and There are significant opportunities deployed in sufficient quantities as renovation of equipment, and to improve energy systems. Wind and long as withdrawing water from a reduction in materials use. GE’s solar can become affordable and river or a well is less expensive than investments in research and mainstream, gas can become even conserving or reusing it. GE is development are producing more efficient, and carbon dioxide engaged in public policy dialogue to technological advancements to can be captured from burning reform regulations so that supplies reduce dependence on rare gasified coal. Smart grid and can be brought into the market. earth minerals. energy-efficient appliances and buildings can reduce energy use by half. 2 ge 2010 citizenship Report Chronic disease Uneven economic development Skills gap People are living longer and with a Competitive economies create High-value service industries, greater need for healthcare. Chronic rewarding employment, but recent high-tech manufacturing and diseases, such as heart disease, economic events have shaken new green industries require key stroke, cancer and diabetes, are the confidence. Governments around skills, particularly in math, leading cause of mortality in the the world face the common challenge engineering and science. In many world, and represent the largest of creating the conditions for countries, not all boys and girls proportion of healthcare costs. business to grow employment in complete primary schooling, Game-changing innovations are the face of economic volatility, and in others, including the U.S., needed to meet today’s greatest rapidly changing technology and lack of achievement in math global health challenges: cost, competitive pressures. and science poses serious risks to quality and access. future competitiveness. Affordable healthcare Productivity and Improving education GE is helping to improve healthcare competitiveness In the U.S., GE’s Developing Futures™ systems around the world through With nearly 300,000 people working in Education program invests in innovative developments in patient across 100 countries, a skilled and education systems and curriculum monitoring, healthcare information motivated workforce is crucial for GE development to help raise student technologies and medical diagnostics. to create value. Employment in GE’s achievement in math and science. Healthymagination is GE’s $6 billion, infrastructure businesses has grown Around the world, GE partners with six-year commitment to investing in 30% since 2000, and in 2010 and Junior Achievement and the Institute product and service innovation and 2011 GE will add another 16,000 of Higher Education, as well as research and education to improve manufacturing and high-tech service organizations such as UNICEF, the quality of care, reduce costs and jobs in the U.S. alone. We advocate to improve access to education increase access for more people. for open trade because global and employment. competition creates jobs, by driving up productivity, creating export opportunities and reducing costs for consumers. ge 2010 citizenship Report 3 Conflict and corruption Financial volatility Struggling cities CHALLENGES Where corruption, crime and In recent years, the fallout from The world is now more urban conflict undermine justice, law the financial crisis was significant. than rural, and by 2050, 75% of enforcement and delivery of public Access to credit is crucial for people will live in cities, many services, people are unable to business and households, and of which are still being built. Rapidly realize their fundamental human sustainable growth depends on growing cities are threatened by rights to freedom of speech and financial markets investing for scarce resources, environmental belief and freedom from want and the long term. problems, new diseases and fear. Countries with a poor rule transport gridlock. It is estimated of law are bad environments in that by 2020, 1.4 billion people which to do business, investments will be living in slums. are challenging and companies risk becoming complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights and Responsible investment City partnerships VALUE rule of law GE has built a credit business that GE is building new infrastructure GE is committed to promoting is aligned to the Company’s core with the most efficient solutions transparency and supporting competencies in industrial lending. around the world. From clean strong rule of law. Respect for We have established global energy and water, to smart grids, human rights is fundamental to responsible lending standards to to hospitals, to electric vehicles, to the way GE conducts business guide the way we develop and high-speed rail, we are developing around the world. This commitment market financial products to the infrastructure for rapidly reduces our risks, but also helps consumers. When we finance growing cities to become good our host countries and business projects in developing countries, places to live. In cities from partners develop better systems we follow the Equator Principles. Rotterdam in the Netherlands, to and effect wider positive change. These standards and princi­ples Miami, Florida, to Masdar in Abu reduce the risk of our lending and Dhabi, GE is working with city improve its impacts. authorities to enable transformation and growth of smarter cities. And in London, we are helping to power the 2012 Olympic Games with minimal environmental impact. 4 ge 2010 citizenship Report Overview Creating sustainable value GE’s principles for being a good corporate citizen are simple: make money, make it ethically and make a difference. GE’s approach to citizenship is our business. It is through innovating in products and services to solve the world’s biggest challenges that we can make the most difference; by More people, more needs in a doing it ethically, we are able to earn our place in society. global challenges resource-constrained world. GE’s business strategy for achieving sustainable growth and creating value for shareowners, customers and communities recognizes that we are in a world where natural resources are constrained. Fuel, water, food and raw materials are already in short supply for many, yet the needs and aspirations for more and better jobs and opportunities, goods and services will only keep growing. The number one role of business in contributing to society is to meet these needs. This will require innovation at an unprecedented scale and speed to reduce the cost (including the environmental Making products and services that cost) and improve the quality of the products and services meet global challenges and strive to: that people need for a better life, and to make them • Reduce environmental and social accessible to more people. expertise costs and risks • Improve quality, cost and access It is not just natural resources that are in critically • Promote human rights and rule of short supply. Communities, cities and countries need law wherever we operate resilient infrastructure to prosper. This includes the hard infrastructure of roads and railways that get people to work and goods to market, and the networks that carry information and power. It also includes the soft infrastructure of schools and universities that educate, capital markets which direct investment where it is needed, rules which enable free trade, laws that enable ideas to be shared while intellectual property rights are protected, and sound institutions that prevent corruption and create Make money, make it ethically and the basis for collaboration. Developing the policies and make a difference through: institutions of tomorrow requires as much collaboration contribution • Innovator in products and services and innovation as developing the products of the future. and impact • Operational excellence • Public policy advocacy As the examples on the previous page illustrate, it is by • Philanthropy responding to these global challenges that we create value for customers and communities, and ultimately produce returns for our shareowners. Engaged employees • Growing markets solving more problems for more people value creation • Risk reduction • Profitability ge 2010 citizenship Report 5 Challenges Perspective from the Expert Advisory Panel Looking Back and Moving Forward  s a panel, over the past years we have questioned and debated with GE on issues including A human rights, public policy influence, taxation, the rule of law, community investment and climate change. Over this time, we have seen a significant shift in the Company’s thinking and approach, as its view of citizenship has evolved from having a focus primarily on compliance and philanthropy, to becoming part of how the business understands and responds to risks and opportunities. Following the financial crisis, we were pleased to see Jeff Immelt’s emphasis on redefining business for a “reset” world, and we GE’s stakeholder advisory panel supports, challenges and continue to work with GE as it seeks to further integrate social advises the Company on its approach to citizenship. and environmental issues into the business. Evolving the panel Each of us comes from a different perspective—community GE first convened an expert advisory panel in 2007 to help to development, human rights, sustainable investment, climate guide and strengthen the Company’s corporate citizenship change and economic development—but we recognize that the reporting. The panel is convened by Dr. Simon Zadek, issues of climate, energy security, ecosystem destruction, water, independent advisor to GE. The panel’s role has developed health, security and uneven economic growth are linked. The beyond its original mandate of offering year-by-year common challenge we all see is one of sustainable growth; how commentary and guidance on GE’s corporate reporting to to create jobs and widen access to products and services in a engaging with GE to support it in identifying strategic priorities resource-constrained and low-trust world. and achieving goals. Current panel members are Isabel Hilton, Jane Nelson, Valdemar de Oliveira Neto, Nick Robins and Salil Tripathi. Panel members advise GE in a personal capacity. Much remains to be done by businesses as well as by governments and other actors to address the systemic problems behind the world’s environmental, social and financial crises. To address the “What is striking about GE’s approach is how it complex nexus of issues, those in the lead will need to do more has evolved from community engagement or than continue to advance “more of the same.” They will need to corporate philanthropy to really incorporating make a further step-change in ambition and in the way that a conception of citizenship at the heart of they define future products and services, understand risks and strategy. But to really solve systemic challenges pursue innovation and competitive advantage. Three key they will need to take another step up in scale dimensions where the practice of corporate citizenship will need and ambition in the way they collaborate to to be strengthened to achieve this step-change are: address social issues, particularly at a national level. The challenge is to manage their 1. Global—Corporate citizenship has to measure up to the scale engagement on social issues with the same and urgency of global challenges. In developing solutions rigor as their R&D programs; developing and for customers and managing their own impacts, businesses will testing out solutions in country-for country, and need to be clearer about how far their current solutions measure working out how to go from promising up to the objective of providing truly sustainable products and innovations to scalable solutions.” services. However, it is clear that no business, however big, can succeed on its own in addressing the governance gaps and — Valdemar de Oliveira Neto, institutional policy Director, avina foundation market failures that leave needs unmet and create damage to health, communities and the environment. Businesses will need to strengthen their understanding and articulation of global “Responding to the increasingly acute challenges and how they can work to scale up solutions and sustainability imperative depends on companies redefine markets and global rules. Their wider influence through demonstrating to their investors how short-term business alliances, public-private partnerships and public policy returns are connected to long-term challenges. advocacy can be as important to this as their business This year, GE has shown it has grasped this innovation. Over the next year, we look forward to working agenda, pointing to a catalytic role in capital with GE as it develops its contribution to the International markets in the years ahead.” Rio Sustainable Development Summit in 2012. — Nick Robins, head, HSBC Climate Change Centre of Excellence 6 ge 2010 citizenship Report 2. Local—Responsible citizenship has to respond to issues material “Looking back at what companies were doing to each locality and sector where the business operates. on human rights a decade ago, there was less Ensuring that global standards are applied throughout the clarity and a lot of confusion. Companies were business and in supply chains is critical, but is not sufficient. making isolated efforts where they had some Increasingly, we believe the focus of corporate citizenship will influence. Now there has been a generation of need to shift to building the capacities and systems of business partnerships and global efforts to develop units, joint-venture partners, customers and suppliers to be principles and standards for business and able to identify and address issues that pose opportunities and human rights. Now the challenge is achieving risks wherever they arise. This should not undermine global implementation by companies large and small standards, but should allow business to better understand how and all around the world. GE has taken crucial their actions contribute to or undermine national goals, and to steps, adopting the UN ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ develop locally practical solutions. For companies like GE, framework, and developing and implementing organized more around business lines and global value chains, procedures. As it continues to work to fully this is a particular challenge. We believe GE has considerable integrate human rights into all its management potential to strengthen its regional stakeholder engagement systems, it can also help share learning with and reporting and capacity building efforts alongside its joint-venture partners, suppliers and industry corporate-level citizenship activity, and we would like to associations to accelerate wider change.” intensify our contributions in this area. — Salil Tripathi, policy director, institute for 3. Financial—Responsible citizenship should engage with the human rights and business investment community. Despite the progress in mainstreaming socially responsible investment, which is outlined in the essay “Over the past 10 years, there has been more on shareowner value in this report, there remains a large gap focus on measuring and managing the between the importance of environmental, social and governance environmental and social performance by issues to long-term value creation, and the investment business, but we must not forget economic community’s practices for integrating them into investment performance. This includes and goes beyond decision making. Companies should engage with their investors the financial bottom line. One of the most and build a stronger understanding of the linkage between important roles that business plays is in corporate citizenship, value creation and shareowner value. We creating jobs and expanding economic believe that GE has a unique opportunity to help to develop opportunities and resilience. This includes this dialogue with investors, and we hope to support this developing local human capital, building process in the year ahead. physical infrastructure, strengthening institutions and supporting the development of local Overall, as sustainability issues become more material and are enterprises and economic clusters. As GE more closely intertwined and complex, the pressure on risk continues to develop its approach to corporate management and planning tools for companies and for investors citizenship around the world, understanding, will become more acute. Companies need to stress-test whether managing and reporting on its economic they are effectively picking up these issues in the processes they multipliers will be crucial.“ use to drive their business both globally and locally. They will — Jane Nelson, director, corporate social also need to ensure that they develop distributed leadership on responsibility initiative, John F. Kennedy sustainability so that it is not just the domain of either the CEO School of Government, harvard university and leadership team or the specialist teams. “Over the next 10 years, there will be greater We will continue to work with GE to help the Company to scrutiny of how far business is contributing to understand emerging expectations, strengthen its processes and solving the major problems of climate change, be ever more ambitious, creative, effective and open in its energy scarcity, environmental degradation approach to social, environmental and economic challenges. and resource depletion. The business contribution will need to be measured up against the scale of the challenge as consumers, investors, citizens and business partners stop asking, ‘What are you doing?’ on this issue, and start asking, ‘How do you know if it is enough?’” — Isabel Hilton, CEO and founder, China Dialogue ge 2010 citizenship Report 7 Challenges Decade in review The past decade has seen an acceleration in practical action by business. Companies have invested in eco-efficiency to find ways to “do more with less,” they have adopted ambitious environmental and social performance targets and managed them as part of the business, and they have opened up with reporting on performance and collaboration with a broader range of stakeholders, from the UN to local communities. For GE, this is our seventh annual citizenship report, and it has “A Green Race has started not just between been six years since we launched ecomagination, our first companies, but also among the major companywide strategy. Our citizenship reports have charted economies that are becoming the leading our performance each year, reflecting the development of suppliers of resource-efficient, low-polluting increasingly robust internal systems and an evolving shift in products and services. China is already a world thinking from a philanthropic focus to incorporating social and leader in critically important low-carbon environmental issues at the heart of business strategy. This shift technologies, such as solar power, and is has not been cosmetic; over the past decade, GE has repositioned catching up in other areas. The U.S. has its portfolio through divestitures representing 50% of the unparalleled innovation capacity, and when Company to focus on key global themes such as energy, water it fully mobilizes to compete in the Green and healthcare, and to build strength in the core businesses Race it will be a key player.” by providing the infrastructure and financial services needed for growing economies. — BjÖrn Stigson, World Business Council for Sustainable Development It is not a journey that we have taken alone. Accompanied by many other companies, we have collaborated with organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the UN Global Compact and the Business Leaders Initiative on “Corporate social responsibility is becoming an Human Rights. The Milestones in Citizenship timeline in this report expectation for companies doing business in charts some of these developments. China, whether they are multinationals or Chinese enterprises. Following the law and acting responsibly and ethically are the How do public-private partnerships contribute to foundations for business strength, and enable sustainable development/problem solving? businesses to contribute to society …” Public-Private Partnerships: — Liu Donghua, Founder of the China A Critical Tool for Driving Corporate Citizenship Entrepreneur Club www.gecitizenship.com/public-private-partnerships Much has been achieved. There is an increasingly clear recognition that companies have to serve two roles. We have to drive economic growth, but we also have to be a force for change. Leading companies have recognized that they can help to create the world they want to see, not only through community engagement and philanthropy, but through the way they manage their business, the products and services they develop and the public policy positions they advocate. 8 ge 2010 citizenship Report “Today there are over two billion people on the Internet, and some 600 million on Facebook alone. This vast new fabric of social connectivity is not only transforming industries and enterprises, it is reshaping the way we learn, create, govern and even care for one another. In virtually all sectors and human endeavors we see people with drive, passion and expertise taking advantage of new Web-based tools to help make the world more prosperous, just and sustainable. As we look ahead, I believe companies can leverage this new social connectivity to amplify their sustainability and social business efforts.” — ANTHONY D. WILLIAMS, CO-AUTHOR, WIKINOMICS ? Alongside GE’s ecomagination and healthymagination goals, “Many companies have preferred to keep Walmart, Dow Chemical, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and the their sustainability efforts to themselves, Coca-Cola company are just some of the companies that have working quietly to transform their operations, set ambitious targets for energy efficiency, renewable energy, products and services. For years, this was waste and water use, and sustainable products. seen as admirable. Today, customers and stakeholders want to know in great detail what Businesses have come together with governments, investors, companies are doing: how they’re measuring NGOs and other players in collaborations, such as The Global Fund and managing their impacts and making to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria and The Extractive Industry continuous improvement.” Transparency Initiative to solve intractable problems of healthcare, corruption and climate change. — JOEL MAKOWER, EXECUTIVE EDITOR, GREENBIZ.COM The debate about business and human rights has come a long “Businesses need to reframe challenges as way through the work of the UN Secretary General’s special opportunities; recognizing that slum dwellers representative John Ruggie, who has worked to identify and are home-builders, rag pickers are recycling clarify standards of corporate responsibility and accountability workers, and the poor can be customers. regarding human rights. The “protect, respect and remedy” Bringing a better life into reach for more people framework developed through this work have been adopted as will take innovation; creating new systems and part of GE’s own human rights policy. products that solve access, price and quality issues … for this effort to be sustainable, it can’t Experimentation in how to assess and communicate the impacts just be a single leader’s vision. It must be core of products and companies on people, communities and the to the DNA of the business—understood by environment in order to drive better decision making has been shareowners, senior managers and employees critical to the development of corporate responsibility. Key initiatives as the way the Company creates value.” have included the Global Reporting Initiative, the Carbon Disclosure Project and UN Principles on Responsible Investment. We remain a — PAMELA HARTIGAN, DIRECTOR, SKOLL CENTER FOR SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP long way from the ideal of integrated reporting, but it is clear that metrics and measures must continue to improve and show the linkage between social, financial and environmental performance. We have learned many things in our journey so far, not least the importance and difficulty of listening, learning and collaborating with stakeholders. But we have also learned that the challenges are greater, and more fundamental than first imagined. GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 9 “The companies that are at the forefront of social responsibility in Brazil are using their huge power of influence in public policy debates and the media successfully to support public policy development, influence investors and consumers and encourage values that promote sustainable development.” — ODED GRAJEW, CHAIRMAN, INSTITUTO ETHOS, BRAZIL As GE Board member Sam Nunn says of his own work in “In South Africa, measuring and reporting reducing nuclear dangers, the global quest for sustainable on carbon emissions and climate change development is a race between collaboration and catastrophe. adaptation started out as a task assigned Events such as the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, the to the environmental manager. It has Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the financial crisis highlight what graduated to include the portfolios of energy, happens when the problems outrun the solutions. water and risk as the data begins to tell a story of risk opportunities that are material to The urgency of the challenges—innovating products and investors as well as the public. The public is services to enable better lives for more people within the asking tougher questions as consumers and bounds of the earth’s natural resources, creating societies as local community members who are in that protect people from oppression and poverty and enable competition for depleting ecosystems and them to achieve their potential, and creating frameworks of access to basics such as food, water, energy disclosure and regulation which ensure that capital markets and mobility. Stakeholder engagement direct investment for long-term value creation—mean that the cannot be something left to the specialists in corporate response must shift up a gear, to the next level of corporate citizenship—it concerns everyone rigor, ambition and scale. The complexity of the issues, and in the company who communicates with risks, in different regions and sectors means that every part of customers, investors, local communities, a business must become involved in understanding risks and regulators, policy makers and the public.” opportunities related to social and environmental issues. — VALERIE GEEN, DIRECTOR, CLIMATE AND ENERGY, Rachel Kyte, vice president for Business Advisory Services at SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL BUSINESS INITIATIVE the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank, has served on GE’s Citizenship Advisory Panel in recent years. As she puts it, “We are on the edge of something transformative, but we have reached the limits of what can be achieved by continuing on the same path. Businesses will need to be fully Can GE help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions integrated around sustainability, with it driving the innovation through its supply chain? agenda. Key constraints are not just carbon and water but Greenhouse Gases and GE’s Supply Chain accessing talent. Corporate citizenship won’t be about value www.gecitizenship.com/greenhouse-gases-andadd, but creating shared value.” ge-supply-chain In starting to develop our corporate citizenship strategy for the next decade, GE invited practitioners and thought leaders on corporate responsibility to tell us where they think the future is heading. The trends that they highlight are increasing complexity, the need for greater ambition and the continued need for collaboration and transparency. 10 GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT CHALLENGES MILESTONES IN CITIZENSHIP 2002: 2003: France passes NRE 2003: The Equator Principles 1999: (nouvelles régulations Waste Electrical and for managing social Dow Jones Global 2000: économiques) law requiring Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and environmental Sustainability Index United Nations Global corporate social and directive takes effect in EU risk in project launched Compact launched environmental reporting member states finance launched 2000: 2003: 192 countries commit to AccountAbility eight Millennium Development launches AA1000 Goals to eradicate extreme Assurance Standard poverty by 2015 2006: World Bank declares new, 2005: 2006: comprehensive, “long-term” Walmart CEO Lee Scott 2006: G3 guidelines anti-corruption strategy to announces three Enron leaders launched by Global leverage loans to developing ambitious environmental convicted of fraud Reporting Initiative countries sustainability goals 2006: UN Principles for 2006: Responsible Investment 2005: 2007: launched GE issues Statement of GE publishes first Corporate Marks & Spencer launches Principles on Human Citizenship report, detailing Plan A, setting out 100 Rights and subsequently EHS data, ombuds reports and sustainability commitments discusses implementation overall commitment to CSR 2008: of respect for human rights in GE’s operations China’s state-owned enterprises regulator, SASAC issues CSR guidelines 2007: 2007: A proposed buyout by Kohlberg Registration, Evaluation, Kravis Roberts of TXU Corp., Texas’ Authorization and Restriction 2007: 1990–2007: largest electric company, includes of Chemical Substances agreement with an environmental regulation (REACH) takes GE estimates more than GE convenes first expert group for firm to scrap plans to effect in EU member states $1 billion spent on stakeholder report review build most of the planned 11 coal Hudson River panel and series of global plants in the state remediation efforts stakeholder dialogues 2010: 2010: SEC sets Corporate Climate Deepwater Horizon oil spill Change Disclosure in the Gulf of Mexico KEY Peer Company Socially Responsible Accomplishment Investing 2010: 2010: 2010: Citizens United v. Federal SEC mandate on disclosures on UN draft of “Protect, Respect Reporting Sustainability Reporting and Remedy” Guiding Principles 2011: Election Commission Supreme Court 2010: conflict minerals in or near the 2010: Standards Energy and Climate case decides that corporate Democratic Republic of Congo on Human Rights and GE Developing Health™ funding or independent political GE HealthAhead certifies included in 2010 Dodd-Frank GE healthymagination Business released Human Rights Policies program reaches 53 health 17% of eligible GE sites innovates 43 validated broadcasts in candidate Wall Street Reform and centers in 14 cities elections cannot be limited Consumer Protection Act products touching more Environment GE-Specific Event than 234 million lives 11 GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2004: The European Social Investment Forum releases transparency guidelines covering 17 socially responsible 2005: investment practitioners Kyoto Protocol enters into force, setting binding targets for developed countries to reduce GHG emissions on average 5.2% below 1990 levels 2005: GE announces launch of ecomagination 2005: HSBC announces intention to go carbon-neutral 2009: GE Foundation Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) 2008: program reaches 4.8 million Lehman Brothers people in 13 countries declares bankruptcy; financial crisis begins 2009: GE ecomagination innovates 2009: 2009: more than 90 products Cincinnati Public Schools and accomplishes goal of rise in state rankings as a GE announces launch $1.5 billion invested in result of GE Foundation of healthymagination cleaner technologies one year Developing Futures™ in ahead of schedule Education $20 million grant 2009: 2009: 2009: U.S. EPA finds that greenhouse Bloomberg launches Countries representing gases cause a threat to ESG Data Service over 80% of global emissions public health and welfare, make pledges under the taking a step closer to Copenhagen Accord to reduce federal regulation greenhouse gas emissions ge 2010 citizenship Report 13 expertise A Letter from Jeff Immelt In our 2008 citizenship report, I wrote about a “reset world” in which the expectations of peace and unprecedented prosperity with which we started the century had been shattered by volatility in the natural and political world and by the global financial crisis. As the Citizenship Advisory Panel highlights in this report, the As economies renew, both governments and business must tackle challenge of sustainable and resilient growth goes beyond what inequality and widen opportunity. This is an agenda we are can be achieved by individual projects and programs. The key pursuing with governments around the world. In the U.S., I am problem is how to scale up solutions to meet the size and urgency working with other leaders on the President’s Council on Jobs and of global challenges. Competitiveness to tackle the problem of persistent and high unemployment—and the pessimism it breeds. The ability to innovate on a large scale is what defines GE. Over the past 10 years, we have repositioned the Company to focus on The public investments needed for a competitive economy all cost providing the infrastructure and financial services that growing money, and it is part of the corporate responsibility of business to economies depend on, and solving the global challenges of clean contribute a fair share of its profits. energy, affordable healthcare and productivity. We have tripled the amount of revenues invested back into R&D from 2% to 6%. Our approach to citizenship is to take part in conversations on Through local research centers and our ecomagination and issues concerning business and society, to understand and find healthymagination strategies, we have developed products that solutions. Taxation is an important part of the broader relationship are significantly more efficient, and available at lower price points, between business, government and society, and I welcome debate. and we have grown our business outside of the U.S. from 30% to 60% of the Company. We have done this while continuing with a commitment to high standards of integrity and social and environmental performance. But more of the same is not enough. Sustainable growth requires Jeffrey R. Immelt solutions that go beyond the scale of individual companies, even Chairman of the Board those on the scale of GE. Nations around the world will need to and Chief Executive Officer find the resources and confidence to invest in institutions and good governance, training and skills, and infrastructure and research, to enable whole economies to transform to meet the opportunities for cleaner, greener growth. Private capital exists to fund many of these developments, but depends on the investment certainty provided by clear public policy. We are investing in clean technologies like energy efficiency, wind and solar, nuclear, smart grid and electric vehicles, because we believe it is not a question of “if” but “when” the world will shift toward more sustainable growth. We remain committed to nuclear as part of the overall energy mix, and we are committed to learning from all the events created by the horrific earthquake and tsunami in Japan. 14 ge 2010 citizenship Report expertise A Letter from Sam Nunn GE’s Board of Directors holds the Company accountable for delivering long-term shareholder value. Both the Board and management recognize that the long-term interests of shareholders are advanced by responsibly addressing the concerns of other stakeholders and interested parties, including employees, customers, suppliers, GE communities, government officials and the public at large. We believe that stockholders benefit when GE helps solve global and regional challenges with profitable products, services and expertise. The Public Responsibilities Committee, which I chair, considers resources can fuel corruption, economic stagnation and conflict, trends and developments in legislation, regulation, risk management, rather than sustainable economic development. Adopting new and public debate around the world. We encourage and expect technologies brings other concerns about privacy, safety, management to respond to society’s challenges, meet its intellectual properties, and environmental impact. expectations, and help assure that markets reward responsibility. As an important part of our accountability process, this Citizenship We review the key public policies that the Company advocates Report is about specific issues of interest to stakeholders. It is also around the globe, as well as the manner in which it conducts its about how GE’s products, services, and investments address relations with policy makers and regulators. We seek to ensure that global imperatives in a way that sustains growth and long-term the practices the Company demonstrates and the positions the value for shareholders, employees, business partners and society. Company takes are aligned to its legal and ethical commitments. We hope that those who read this report will recognize GE’s commitment and effort, test our thinking, and work with us as we Our committee is reassured by the alignment between GE’s help create a healthy and prosperous society, and improve an strategy for creating sustainable value and its positions as a innovative, creative and profitable GE. contributor to public policy debates. We are also reassured by management’s commitment to ethics, integrity, compliance and sustainability, and by the resources and focus dedicated to implementing these commitments. GE commitments apply everywhere the Company operates, and the performance benchmarks for every GE facility are global best practices and Sam Nunn local legal requirements. Committee Chair, Public Responsibilities Committee and Member, GE Board of Directors Our committee and the Board monitor performance, ask questions, and discuss risks related to the environment and other public policy initiatives. These relate both to GE’s 130-year legacy and to new expectations that the Company must understand as they emerge. Often, the Company operates in dynamic economies where rapid growth is putting extraordinary pressure on institutional frameworks for ensuring responsibility and integrity along supply chains and in product use. Resource-rich countries in particular have their own risks, as an abundance of natural ge 2010 citizenship Report 15 expertise A Letter from Brackett Denniston & Bob Corcoran Citizenship means business at GE. Over the past 10 years, GE has sought to demonstrate and deepen the linkage between our role as a good corporate citizen and how we pursue opportunities to be a successful business. The themes we have been exploring, by convening discussions citizenship approach have focused on three priorities: measuring between GE executives and stakeholders on issues such as the Company’s approach against the scale and urgency of conflict minerals (see page 18), resource scarcity, weak rule of law global challenges, responding to issues material to each locality and a more volatile climate, have now moved from the margins and sector where we operate, and ensuring that investors to the mainstream. understand the link between GE’s strategy for contributing to sustainable development and creating shareowner value. Creating shared value and helping to solve global problems are becoming a core benchmark measure against which businesses This report, and the accompanying country fact sheets, represents are judged. a snapshot of where we are in addressing these challenges. Our approach to citizenship also needs to continue to evolve As a business, GE is developing a more decentralized, faster to ensure that we meet our own ambitions and the expectations and more local approach to its global business, building more of our stakeholders. integrated local teams (such as in India, where we are building “One GE” business—see page 22) and in many cases taking a In particular, we need to continue to ensure that social and “company to country” growth strategy of working directly with environmental issues are fully integrated into the way we plan, governments to meet local needs. Our approach to citizenship build competencies, assess risks, manage performance and must also become more localized, and we will advance this direct investments, in every GE business and in every country through regional dialogues bringing together GE executives where we operate. This also means continuing to deepen the way and stakeholders during 2011 and beyond. we work with suppliers, joint-venture partners, customers, governments and communities to understand and respond to shared challenges. Continuously improving the Company’s response to both global and local issues depends on listening and learning. Consulting Brackett B. Denniston III Bob Corcoran with our Citizenship Advisory Panel is one way we seek to do this. Senior Vice President Vice President, Discussions with the panel about the future of our corporate and General Counsel Corporate Citizenship 16 ge 2010 citizenship Report expertise GE & Tax GE is committed to acting with integrity in relation to our tax obligations wherever we operate. At the same time, we have a responsibility to our shareowners to reduce our tax costs as the law allows. GE has taken criticism recently regarding its U.S. tax obligations. GE favors closing loopholes, a lower corporate rate, and a territorial Like any business or individual, we do like to keep our tax rate tax system where overseas income is subject to tax in the low. But we fully comply with the law and there are no exceptions. country where it is earned. This would put the U.S. in line with GE acts with integrity in relation to our tax obligations wherever every other developed country in the world and encourage us and we operate. At the same time, we have a responsibility to our others to invest more capital and create more jobs in the U.S. shareowners to reduce our tax costs as the law allows. Under any system, GE will comply and pay what we owe. The global economic and financial crisis has intensified the challenge that governments face in balancing the need to finance The reason our tax rate was lower in 2008, 2009 and 2010 is simple: public services with the need to enable enterprises to create We lost $32 billion in GE Capital during this time, as a result of the prosperity and jobs. Contributing to the development of tax global financial crisis. systems that are fair and enable sustainable development is a shared challenge for business, governments and citizens. It Over the past 10 years, GE has paid almost $23 billion of corporate requires an informed and proactive public debate. income taxes to governments around the world, making us one of the highest payers of corporate income taxes. In 2011, we expect a higher U.S. tax rate as GE Capital continues to recover. In addition to corporate income taxes, GE pays many other taxes, including How can the U.S. remain competitive in a property taxes, sales and use and value added taxes. Please see global economy? www.gereports.com/setting-the-record-straight-ge-and-taxes Jobs and Competitiveness and www.gereports.com/more-on-ge-and-taxes for more details. www.gecitizenship.com/jobs-and-competitiveness We also believe in common sense reforms to the U.S. tax code. The U.S. tax system is old, complex and uncompetitive. The purpose of the tax code should be that everyone pays their fair share, including GE. But it should also help to promote jobs and competitiveness. It does the opposite today. ge 2010 citizenship Report 17 expertise EngageMEnt & Decision Making At GE, listening, reflecting and responding to our stakeholders is critical to informing our priorities for citizenship as well as for product development. GE continually engages with customers, suppliers, regulators and collaborators all around the world. This happens in our engagements with industry bodies and high-level summits, in our investor meetings and in our everyday conversations between our sales teams and customers. Citizenship an open call to action for businesses, entrepreneurs, innovators The integration of citizenship priorities into business strategy and students with breakthrough ideas on energy generation, starts at the top. GE’s Board of Directors is responsible for distribution and utilization. Selected ecomagination Challenge overseeing how management serves the interests of shareowners entrants are offered the opportunity to develop a commercial and other stakeholders. The Board and its committees consider relationship with GE. such issues as risk management; environmental, social and regulatory challenges; and global trends. Our corporate citizenship advisory panel plays a key role in providing external advice and Conflict Minerals challenges as we develop our approach to corporate citizenship GE is actively engaged in multistakeholder discussions and to particular issues of concern. To read perspectives from our focused on conflict minerals in a variety of ways. The Company corporate citizenship advisory panel, please see pages 6–7 of this funded the information-sharing and consensus-building efforts report. Additionally, GE engages with a wide range of stakeholders of BSR, a global business network and consultancy focused on on an ongoing basis to seek their insights and opinions, which are sustainability, beginning with an issue report and a conflict often reflected in “Features” and “Perspectives,” some of which are minerals conference in May 2010. These activities set the stage referenced in this report and can be found in full on our citizenship for two rounds of multi-stakeholder commentary on conflict Web site: www.gecitizenship.com/news/features-articles. minerals reporting rules being developed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the first of which BSR GE engages in a number of issue-specific, multi-stakeholder facilitated with support from the GE Foundation. Senior GE dialogues, focusing where we have significant influence and corporate representatives were active contributors to all of impact. One example, developed this year, has been our work these discussions, and the Company participated in the joint on the problem of conflict minerals, with Business for Social submission of multi-stakeholder comments to the SEC, which Responsibility (BSR), together with NGOs and investor organizations. also included NGOs and investor organizations such as The This year we also hosted a supplier summit in China, bringing Enough Project and As You Sow, as well as companies from a together GE sourcing, EHS and quality staff with suppliers, peer variety of other sectors. These comments played a significant companies and government representatives to discuss the role in the development of the SEC’s draft rules on this issue. challenges in securing better working conditions. GE condemns the use of mineral revenue to fuel ongoing Product Development conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and is Our “Session T” technology planning process draws on feedback committed to supporting efforts that address the root causes from customers and business and technology leaders to develop of the conflict. We encourage conflict-free mineral sourcing ideas that lead to new or better products and address the needs from the region, as we believe that responsible sourcing can of our customers and society. support local economies, development and livelihoods. Under the conflict minerals reporting provisions of the Dodd-Frank Our advisory panels for ecomagination and healthymagination Consumer Protection and Wall Street Reform Act, GE is also challenge and sharpen our focus on innovation, driving the developing policies and management processes to mitigate performance improvements of these programs. For more details, the risk of minerals from conflict mines in the DRC entering please see the ecomagination and healthymagination annual our supply chain. GE is also working collaboratively across reports or www.gecitizenship.com/reporting. industries and with multiple stakeholder groups to share information, support traceability efforts and supply chain due The Internet and social media offer new opportunities to diligence, and assess where we can contribute to greater engage directly with stakeholders, respond to questions and stability and well-being in the region. invite feedback and collaboration. One example of this is the ecomagination Challenge—http://challenge.ecomagination.com— 18 ge 2010 citizenship Report Engaging and reporting on corporate citizenship with GE stakeholders in China How can companies protect their intellectual property China is an important place for GE to do business, not only because while supporting indigenous innovation in China? of the size of its markets but also because of the role the country plays in addressing shared global challenges. GE’s supplier base in Partnering for Innovation and Safeguarding Intellectual Property China has come a long way, but we still continue to identify www.gecitizenship.com/partnering-for-innovation-andsignificant issues. In November 2010, GE held a Supplier Summit safeguarding-intellectual-property in Shanghai, bringing together global Environment Health and Safety (EHS), sourcing quality and audit teams, peer companies and government officials to share experiences and discuss In November 2010, we also held a convening in Beijing to challenges in securing better working conditions. understand broader stakeholder expectations on CSR in China. It brought together experts from Chinese NGOs, think-tanks, multinationals and state-owned companies. The key messages How is GE collaborating with suppliers to improve that we heard were that GE’s contribution to society in China is conditions and operational systems? focused in the right places: bringing to market technologies for energy saving and affordable healthcare, building our own and A Supplier Summit in Shanghai our suppliers’ capacity to protect the local environment and the www.gecitizenship.com/a-supplier-summit-in-shanghai health and safety of people who make our products, controlling the intensity of water use and emissions in our own operations, and building the capacity for indigenous innovation through In particular, they discussed the challenges and the limitations joint ventures and training. of auditing. The suppliers who attended the Summit shared with GE that one of the most helpful aspects of their engagement with GE was the individual coaching, training and the sharing of best practices with other suppliers on how and why to improve environmental efficiency and solve problems, rather than on simply how to pass an audit. Suppliers also highlighted the business benefits that resulted from this maturing approach to labor and environmental standards, including improved worker efficiency and morale, an enhanced reputation, and increased customer orders. ge 2010 citizenship Report 19 expertise our priorities GE’s business strategy is focused on the big themes and issues facing matrix of issues is therefore a broad simplification of what matters the world today, and in the future. These are our shared priorities— to the business. Nevertheless, it highlights the common areas where areas where GE can contribute to solving societal problems or, we have an impact and the ability to make a difference—through conversely, must manage risks. Individual GE businesses face the way we operate within the business and the marketplace, or specific issues, as outlined in the priorities by business section below, through our broader influence in society. and are increasingly understanding and managing these issues through a company-to-country approach. Any companywide OVERVIEW OF STRATEGIC PRIORITIES GLOBAL CHALLENGES GE RESPONSE • Climate Change • Innovation • Water Scarcity & Quality ecomagination • Chronic Disease healthymagination • Struggling Cities • Resource Depletion • Health, Safety and Environment • Conflict & Corruption • Responsible Lending • Rule of Law In country-for country • Human Rights Policy through a variety of strategies, including product innovation, public policy engagement and operational excellence • Uneven Development • Managing Talent and Skills Development • Skills Gap • Education Programs • Ethical Sales and Marketing • Responsible Investment • Financial Volatility • Data Privacy • Trust in Institutions • Product Safety PRIORITIES BY BUSINESS GE Aviation GE capital • Sustainable alternative fuels—consideration for total lifecycle, • Responsible lending—discouraging predatory or discriminatory sustainability of alternative fuels and the development of criteria lending practices for sustainable biofuels sourcing, as well as capital availability • Data privacy & protection—policies and systems to ensure • Rare, precious & conflict minerals in components protection and proper use of personal and financial information • Climate change, ocean acidification & air quality—significant • Disclosure practices—of terms and fees in statements, contracts radiative forcing (gases and aerosols) from aviation emissions and promotional materials • Emissions Trading Scheme for aviation • Anti-money laundering • Noise pollution—pursuing technology, operational and • Islamic finance infrastructure improvements to lower the noise impacts • Integration of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) of aviation criteria into lending/financing/investment decisions • Business ethics—especially government and military sales, and • Environmental products—tailored products focused on corruption in emerging markets environmental credits or loans, clean tech • Intellectual property—protection and enforcement of intellectual • Energy financial services—financing/leasing for renewables property rights in emerging markets • Financing for reduced impacts—integration of incentives and preferential terms for projects/products with reduced environmental footprint 20 ge 2010 citizenship Report GE home & business solutions GE transportation • Smart product design—energy and water efficiency, reduction/ • Climate change—tailored products focused on reducing fuel use elimination of hazardous materials across consumer and home and improved efficiency for marine engines and all-electric or products, beyond regulations hybrid rail solutions • Conflict minerals used in light bulbs • Network efficiency—end-to-end route planning to create “green • Packaging—reduced and recyclability of packaging, especially in trade lanes”—via lower emitting modes, e.g. ship to rail and consumer products product tools to optimize rail networks • Recyclability & disposal—including design and takeback • Sustainable mobility—promoting rail market growth and influencing incentive regimes to drive sustainable practices in • Labor & environmental compliance—in manufacturing and public rail networks (e.g. within franchises, access charges) through the supply chain • Labor standards & safety—addressing conditions in • Smart homes manufacturing, especially in emerging economies • Data center solutions • Components in equipment & railcar bodies—reduced use and • Consumer education—for purchasing and use of products to recyclability of components and use of more efficient materials reduce impacts • Technology solutions—breakthrough battery technology knock• Appliances for bottom of pyramid on effects for system efficiency in wind and solar; drilling motors • Government engagement—to provide minimum efficiency designed for lower marine environmental impacts standards • Intuitive visualization of resource consumption, related impact— GE energy avoidance of overconsumption caused by human error • Technology and policies—carbon capture and storage, hydraulic • Detailed insight into resource usage by area, machine or process— fracturing (toxic chemicals), enhanced oil recovery, minimization adjustment of production activities to avoid peaks/spikes of gas flaring • Correlate process/equipment performance to energy and water • Social license to operate for renewables—community investments usage; automated exception trapping—sustained reductions of in health, education, etc.; project life cycle transitions that avoid ~10% through process tuning economic/social disruptions and enhance community well-being • Standard operating procedures “interlocked” with equipment, • “Choose Your Customer”—reputation risks of servicing projects processes—incremental 5%–10% gains from elimination of that may cause significant environmental or social damage; variance in procedures, setups association with controversial sourcing • Profile of energy, water inputs by product family across sites— • Security and safety—GE products responding to prevention, reduced costs as planning optimized for utilities as well as preparedness and response implementation in the industry other factors • Nuclear power—stakeholder concern over long-term waste issues, impact of Japan earthquake/tsunami and security risks GE healthcare • Supplying solutions to public networks—smart grids, • Access to healthcare—for diagnostics and medical devices— infrastructure and operational efficiency capabilities, LNG pricing, patents and natural gas networks • Health systems delivery—investment in infrastructure/ • Sustainability of renewable energy components & alternative capabilities in emerging markets fuels—total life cycle impact of solar panels, wind power • Data security, portability—especially electronic medical records components & electric vehicles, toxicity of components, energy requirements in manufacturing, biofuels (first, second and • Energy use in data centers/servers—due to large software third generation) services business within GE Healthcare • Conflict and rare minerals—in turbine blades, electric and • Clinical trials—informed consent, low-resource environments, hybrid cars appropriate incentives/pay for healthy volunteer studies • Wind power designed for more diverse installation sites— • Ethical sales & marketing e.g. more urban • Unintended product use—e.g. ultrasound equipment • Bioethics, including stem cells • Animal testing • Patient safety COUNTRY fact sheets In the interest of providing more useful data regarding GE’s Brazil Germany Japan Poland citizenship activities, a series of fact sheets has been developed Canada Hungary Kenya Saudi Arabia to share information on a country-specific basis. Please visit China India Korea South Africa www.gecitizenship.com/our-business/country-fact-sheets to Colombia Indonesia Mexico Spain download copies. France Italy Nordic Region UK ge 2010 citizenship Report 21 expertise Q&A With JOHN FLANNERY, INDIA CEO Q&A How important is India to GE, and how can India’s place in GE’s plans be compared to its focus on the U.S. and China? GE has been in India for more than a century, with our first investments being in hydro power back in 1902. Our growth here has been in the last 20 years, as we see India both as an important market and an extraordinary source of talent. With annual revenues of about $2 billion, we have a long way to grow with and in India. of this more recent technology thrust to GE is the increasing collaboration across our international R&D capabilities—especially between emerging economies such as India and China. How will GE contribute to India’s leadership in forging tomorrow’s green economy, and how best can that contribution be measured? India has a vibrant and important civil society: How has GE engaged with this community, and how might this engagement India has several development needs, but right up there in the be improved going forward? priorities are some of the things we do, especially energy and healthcare. Energy use in India is growing rapidly, with 70% today GE’s profile in India is of a company that is a long-term player generated through the use of coal. Clean energy development is investing significantly, creating jobs and bringing leading therefore key, and our gas turbine business is currently our largest technologies to bear on the country’s development. We partner a source of revenue in India. We expect both wind and solar to be great deal with government, given our business focus of energy, growth areas going forward. Our transport business, focused in healthcare and transportation. Our operations do not attract India on locomotives and fuel-efficient aviation engines, provides concern or criticism for their environmental or social footprint. a significant energy and carbon-efficient contribution to India’s Operating in India, however, means engaging with communities burgeoning requirements in this area. and NGOs concerned with community development and broader social and environmental issues. Mainly, this is achieved by But “green” is not just about the environment; it also means healthy contributing to communities in need, and we encourage and people. Our health diagnostics products have a contribution to support employee engagement through volunteerism in make here, especially with the healthymagination focus on lower education and health initiatives. cost and more mobile products suited for the rural Indian context. Which Indian companies do you admire most, especially India is challenged to bring more people out of poverty than for their approach to integrating sustainability into their any other nation: How can GE’s technological leadership and strategies and practices? business innovation help address this challenge? Operating in India means being part of a broader business Technology is not the single answer to addressing poverty, but it community that is increasingly world class in every respect. It can be a major contributor if developed and deployed effectively. would be wrong to single out any particular companies that GE does a lot of large-scale technologies, and these are and will impress me, but there is no doubt in my mind that Indian remain a crucial part of the development mix. Increasingly, businesses will be among the leaders in building tomorrow’s however, we complement this traditional strength with smallersustainable businesses and associated practices. scale technologies sorely in need in India today, such as our water purification technology that can remove life-endangering arsenic, and off-grid power-generation equipment using available biomass with no need for electricity. One sign of the growing importance 22 ge 2010 citizenship Report expertise Q&A with Bill Cary, COO of GE Capital Q&A What does citizenship mean in the context of GE Capital? What do you see as GE Capital’s main citizenship risks and opportunities? For GE Capital, citizenship means delivering consistent financial performance fairly, responsibly and transparently. We’ve worked to create products and services that meet our responsible lending and environmental standards, to maintain a strong culture of compliance, and to give our employees the training and tools they How do you integrate environmental, social and governance need to identify risks early. We’ve also integrated our commitment criteria into your financial products and investment decisions? to transparency into our financial reporting. We promote responsible financing first and foremost by requiring compliance with local law. We’ve developed strong in-house legal In terms of risks, we are a global company, and we work in a and environmental expertise to help guide our decisions, and to constantly evolving social and environmental context. One major make sure we are meeting industry best practice. challenge is to ensure our standards are not only rigorous, but also adaptable in the ever-changing environment and markets we Environmental, social and governance concerns can be especially operate in globally. We are always seeking better ways to identify acute when we are considering project finance in developing and manage risk, and we also make sure we have people with the countries. When we finance projects in developing countries, we right expertise to help guide our decisions. follow the Equator Principles in order to promote compliance with local law and international norms like the World Bank environ­ Good citizenship makes good business sense. When we underwrite mental guidelines. We look for opportunities to partner with loans and leases, for example, we expect GE will have a relationship government organizations that have strong environmental, social with that customer throughout the life of the loan, and ideally and governance values, such as the U.S. Export-Import Bank, beyond. We have a stake in our customers’ success. It is important the International Finance Corporation and the European Bank for that we know our customers well, and that our customers Reconstruction and Development. Working with groups that place understand the products and services we provide. Our responsible strong values on environmental, social and governance criteria lending standards help us do just that. helps reinforce our commitment. Given the loss of trust in the global financial services sector How do you provide the right kind of training and incentives to over the past few years, what has GE Capital done to integrate ensure that decisions made globally are consistent with GE’s ethics and responsibility in the way it develops, markets and values and citizenship commitments? services its core consumer products? Our sales, risk and legal teams receive regular training to ensure Before the financial crisis, our Retail Finance and Global Banking any employees involved in making new loans and managing businesses had started work on a set of global responsible lending our portfolios understand key legal requirements and are familiar standards to guide the way we develop and market consumer with GE’s best practices and standards. In each of our businesses, products worldwide. The principles behind them are simple—we we have experienced leaders in place to provide guidance on want to offer customers suitable products at market-appropriate environmental, social and governance issues. These leaders have rates. We want to use straightforward, simple language and a minimum of 15 years’ experience in the environmental and disclose information about fees and interest rates so our social area, and are recognized leaders in their profession. customers can make informed decisions. In 2010, we expanded these standards, and made them applicable to all our banking products and services, including deposits, securities and investments, and payment and account-keeping services. ge 2010 citizenship Report 23 expertise Q&A with Marco Annunziata, GE Chief Economist Q&A Emerging from the downturn is a priority: How can we best ensure that this recovery is green and does not resurrect the economic and social habits that drive unsustainable economies? We must not forget the basic lesson that using capital needed for future investment to pay for consumption today is not sustainable. This is as true for national economies as it is for household budgets, and it is as true for natural resources as Smart public policies are important in advancing sustainability it is for finance. We cannot continue to consume exhaustible in business strategies and practices: What would be on your resources, whether it is fossil fuels or clean air, more quickly than wish list for a policy agenda from this perspective? we replenish them through innovation. Government has a crucial role to play in leveraging the creativity Coming out of the recession, businesses have an opportunity to and strength of the private sector. Businesses respond to incentives. shift toward sustainability. Corporations are no longer in a state of Exhaustible resources remain overused because the damage to emergency; U.S. businesses are lean and profitable, with healthy the environment caused by their consumption is not reflected in balance sheets and a relatively low level of debt. Now is the time their price. At the same time, companies do not invest sufficiently to relaunch investment and to build the industries of the future. in research and development in areas such as alternative energy, We must take a long-term view and develop products and which would benefit the whole economy. Governments can help to services that can bolster the sustainability of the overall economy. correct these market failures through tax and price incentives, to unleash private-sector innovation and investment. Some skeptics say that U.S. and China success is a zero-sum game. Of course, GE is a major player in both countries. Can GE firmly aligns its business strategy with sustainability issues. you give your view on this argument? Do you see a time when economic and environmental realities mandate that each company integrate sustainability into its International trade brings benefits to all sides. When the U.S. business practices in order to be successful? imports goods from China, consumers benefit from lower prices and greater affordability. Resources are freed up that can be That time is approaching fast. The rapid economic growth of large devoted to producing different goods and services in the U.S. At emerging markets is driving demand for raw materials, and this is the same time, economic growth in China also translates into already being reflected in rising commodity prices. These price stronger demand for U.S. products. GE’s involvement in China and rises are a warning signal that is flashing red, telling us that for China’s involvement in the U.S. are therefore complementary. By people in China and India to fulfill their aspirations for a better life, contributing to investment and innovation in both of these major we will all need to become hugely more efficient in the way we use countries, GE helps make the global economy more resilient, to natural resources. Economic factors like prices are becoming more the benefit of both countries. and more aligned with environmental factors, putting inescapable pressure on business. The companies that recognize this inexorable The painful reality experienced by workers laid off when industries trend, and invest ambitiously in sustainability innovation, have the shift, however, feels very different from this economic analysis of greatest chances of success in coming decades. the mutual benefits of globalization. People must find new jobs, sometimes move to new cities, sometimes retrain—and all this is harder for older workers. Enabling people to make the transition depends on fostering education, innovation and investment, to ensure that economies remain flexible and capable of seizing new opportunities. 24 ge 2010 citizenship Report expertise Global theme: energy and climate change In the 1890s, Founder Thomas Edison sold GE’s first lightbulbs. Back then, in order to pay for an hour of light powered at the equivalent strength of today’s 100 watts, the average worker would have to work a full hour. By 1960, the time period decreased to a mere eight minutes. And by 1992, it was down to less than a second when using a compact fluorescent bulb. GE is proud of the part that Edison played in this energy decades ago. They are increasingly brittle, and incompatible with revolution making lighting cleaner, safer, cheaper and brighter. the need to support a clean future. We continue today to innovate to drive up quality and efficiency, and improve affordability in our core technologies. But Edison Today businesses, scientists, societies and governments face the was just one in a long line of innovators, and the story of their challenge of kicking off another energy revolution—to reduce breakthroughs was not only one of “inspiration and perspiration,” dependence on the fossil fuels that contribute to climate change, but of wider policy frameworks supporting research and radically improve the energy, water and resource efficiency of education, open trade and commerce. every industry and determine whether it is possible, affordable and safe to capture and store carbon dioxide. As with the first Over the past 30 years, while technology has been reinvented in industrial revolution, this will create jobs, but also require new areas such as telecommunications and healthcare, it has hardly skills and ways of thinking within and between companies and budged in energy. Most of the technologies that underlie existing nations. As with the shift from candles to oil, to gas, then to energy and transport systems remain those that were invented electric lighting, it must also enable better lives for more people. ge 2010 citizenship Report 25 GE provides technologies for every kind of energy production, Ecomagination is a business response to the needs of industries including coal, oil and gas, nuclear, wind, solar and hydro and and consumers around the world. In countries built on 20thbiomass, as well as energy distribution and use. There is a clear century infrastructure, the challenge is to transform. In emerging opportunity to develop and deploy new technologies that are economies it is to “leapfrog,” building new infrastructure with more efficient, secure and clean in each of them. the most efficient solutions. In China, ecomagination sales now account for 18% of the business. In the Middle East, GE has built its first ecomagination Center in what aims to be the world’s How can we use less and do more with first carbon-neutral, zero-waste city—Masdar (Abu Dhabi), one rare earth minerals? of the world’s most sustainable communities. It showcases wind, solar and other renewable energies, the “Smart Grid,” and waterRhenium Reduction Program purification technology and energy-efficient home appliances. www.gecitizenship.com/rhenium-reduction-program One thing we have learned through our own work to reduce GE’s energy and water footprint is that it cannot be done through Fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas are projected to be a large top-down processes alone. It is about enabling people to find portion of our energy mix for decades to come. Therefore GE is solutions. Within GE, we enable this process through site-by-site committed to developing new, cost-effective technologies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. The demand for energy means that unconventional How can we reduce the impacts of our products sources of oil and gas, such as oil sands, shale and coal seams, are across their whole life cycle? increasingly being utilized. We believe these fuels can be used as Design for a Healthy Planet part of the overall energy mix, but innovation is needed to reduce www.gecitizenship.com/design-for-a-healthy-planet the CO² emissions associated with the process of extracting and upgrading the oil and gas, and to improve the use and treatment of water used. We are collaborating with leading universities, researchers and water quality experts to develop solutions. “Treasure Hunts,” where employees use their own knowledge and experience to discover savings opportunities and determine the These kinds of technology collaborations are supported in part best solution together with experts. It is a process that builds on through GE’s ecomagination initiative. Ecomagination represents the “Kaizen” technique of Lean Manufacturing, which was first GE’s commitment to deliver new cleaner products and technologies translated to energy use by Toyota. It is also one that we are to market for its customers and society. It is a business initiative now sharing beyond our own facilities. In the U.S., in collaboration to create value by enabling our customers to cut costs, improve with the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), we are supporting quality and reduce their own environmental impacts, and by companies, universities and even entire cities in conducting their reducing our own environmental footprint at the same time. own Treasure Hunts. We are also piloting the Treasure Hunt Having invested $5 billion in ecomagination R&D in the first five process with some of our suppliers. years, last year, we set new ambitious targets: As part of the search for bottom-up innovation, in 2010, we • Invest $10 billion in green R&D over the next five years launched the $200 million ecomagination Innovation Challenge. The first round focused on smart grid ideas, with almost 4,000 ideas • Grow ecomagination revenue at twice the rate of the submitted from 150 countries. The five winners were each Company’s growth awarded $100,000 to develop their ideas on creating a smarter, • Improve our own energy intensity by 50% by 2015 cleaner, more efficient electric grid. Announcing the results in • Reduce GHG emissions by 25% by 2015 November 2010, GE, along with its venture capital partners, also • Reduce our freshwater use by 25% by 2015 unveiled new investments totaling $55 million in promising power grid technologies. The second round of the challenge, opened in Ecomagination products make up a large part of our industrial early 2011, is focused on home energy efficiency. product portfolio, and have been developed by most GE businesses. They range from home appliances to aircraft engines, from water filtration to high-speed rail engines and to loans for How did GE achieve a world’s first in the use of energy-efficiency investments. In 2001, GE Capital Real Estate sugarcane-ethanol? launched a new ecomagination solution—ArdenACCESS—which The Power of Sugarcane-Ethanol uses smart-building technology to monitor and reduce energy www.gecitizenship.com/the-power-of-sugarcane-ethanol use in commercial buildings. In 2010, ecomagination sales grew to $18 billion, and now account for 12% of our revenues. 26 ge 2010 citizenship Report Dilemma: Are we going fast enough and far enough? GE has set ambitious targets for growing sales of ecomagination products and for cutting our own environmental impacts. These are business targets like any other, aligned with our planning and investment cycles, not aspirations without accountability. They are viewed as aggressive, stretch goals within the business; significant challenges requiring investment and action at every business and site. But does it add up? Is it enough? The short answer is no, it is not. The success of GE’s approach to energy and climate will not be measured simply by adding up our own energy and carbon The global challenge of providing reliable, affordable, accessible savings, or even by counting the energy and carbon saved by our and clean energy to people around the world, and to do this within customers. Ultimately the success of our strategy depends on the limits that would prevent catastrophic climate change, is just whether we, working with others, create a secure and cleaner too great for companies acting on their own. Without certainty energy future. about what the market will look like in years to come, no business is able to invest enough in the breakthrough technologies needed for energy system transformation. What role will new supplies of natural gas play in a greener energy system? GE supports development of market-based programs to slow, The Challenge & Opportunity of Natural Gas eventually stop, and ultimately reverse the growth of greenhouse Jeff Fulgham, chief sustainability officer, GE Water and gases. To accelerate innovation it is crucial that governments Process Technologies send the right signals and create demand for clean technologies. www.gecitizenship.com/the-challenge-opportunity-of-natural-gas Although there was some encouraging progress at the inter­ national climate change negotiations in Cancun in 2010, the commitments of the world’s governments do not yet provide the loud, long, legal signals needed. Electric Vehicles We are working hard on electric vehicles in the U.S., a key How can companies encourage employees to save industry of the future. We believe that by 2040, 75% of the energy, reduce waste and save money? vehicle miles traveled in the United States should be electric miles. This would deliver cleaner air and cheaper transport, and Treasure Hunts would significantly contribute to cutting both carbon emissions www.gecitizenship.com/treasure-hunts and oil imports, as well as creating jobs and export opportunities. GE has invested in the batteries, charging stations and smart To be successful, “green” products need to be better for customers grid technologies needed to power a mass market of electric and for the environment. To be equally successful, public policies vehicles. At the same time, we are also using our own for low-carbon growth need to deliver both economic and social purchasing power to help create this market, by switching benefits. Globally, GE advocates for governments to put in place half of our 30,000-car fleet to electricity, as well as offering strong, smart policies to enable energy transformation. We have fleet financing for electric vehicles to our customers. been working over many years in partnership with groups such as the World Business Council on Sustainable Development, the World But getting a critical mass of electric vehicles onto the road Energy Council and the U.S. Climate Action Partnership to show requires a simultaneous shift by drivers, investors, fleet how economic and environmental ambitions can be combined. In managers, manufacturing and servicing industries, electricity 2010, Jeff Immelt helped to found the American Energy Innovation suppliers and distributors. It therefore requires coordinated Council, with other business leaders, to advocate for a national public policies. We are working with other leading businesses, energy policy that promotes the advancement of clean energy. through the Electrification Coalition, to advocate for a road We also contribute to dialogue and action between countries, map of policies in the U.S. to enable the industry to flourish. for example, working with both the U.S. and Chinese governments to develop pilot projects and bilaterally fund centers for clean energy. In this way, we seek to demonstrate in practice how public policies can enable the creation of new green industries, creating jobs, enhancing trade and improving energy security. ge 2010 citizenship Report 27 expertise Global theme: Sustainable Healthcare Healthcare is a global problem, but one that doesn’t lend itself to global solutions. Every region faces different health challenges and every country has different systems for ensuring their citizens are able to access the healthcare they need. Everywhere around the world three things are common to the found in the high-end machines but with capabilities suited healthcare challenge: the need for quality care that is accessible for use in emerging markets at a price point appropriate for to more people at an affordable price. In Europe there is universal those markets. access to healthcare, but some feel the quality of care is not adequate. In China, the main problem is access, with 300 million In China alone, there are 80,000 smaller hospitals and clinics people outside of the healthcare system because they can’t afford that lack modern equipment. GE already has approximately the doctors’ fees. In the U.S., it is the high cost of healthcare that is 1,000 engineers working on product development in China, causing most concern. who work with government to understand their priorities and inform their policies. In 2010, we hired and trained 500 new GE strategy is driven by meeting patient and healthcare providers’ sales representatives to serve 12,000 of these hospitals. needs, with a step-change in quality, access and cost. To do this, GE Healthcare takes an in country-for country approach, investing in Sometimes what is needed to solve health challenges is not a local R&D teams to design products that work in each environment healthcare product at all. In many countries, the biggest vector for and to keep them working even in challenging environments. the transmission of disease is dirty water. In other places, the problem is that hospitals lack reliable energy supplies. In other Over the past year, we have launched the Brivo range of baby cases it is capital to invest in cost-saving solutions. warmers, CT scanners, digital X-rays and MR systems. Designed to be easy to use and robust, they take advantage of the advances 28 ge 2010 citizenship Report Healthymagination is a business initiative that brings all of GE’s In 2011, the first non-healthcare product received healthymagination businesses together in a six-year, $6 billion commitment to deliver certification. It was developed jointly with Innovative Water better care to more people at lower cost. Technologies, a Colorado-based, privately owned business that had been a licensed distributor and installer of GE’s formerly Our healthymagination commitments are to, by 2015: owned Homespring water filtration system. It was a key product following the Haiti earthquake, when GE’s disaster response team • Invest $3 billion in R&D, $2 billion in finance and $1 billion in identified water purification as a vital priority. technology and content • Launch 100 innovations that lower cost, increase access and The in country-for country approach also informs GE’s engagement encourage innovation for all, and improve quality by 15% with governments on health issues. There are some overarching principles that we advocate for, such as making better use of data, • Work with partners to focus innovation on critical needs for concentrating on prevention and on early detection, and allowing efficient technologies, healthcare information technologies, international trade and markets to prevail to reduce costs and broader access and consumer-driven health enable more creative healthcare solutions to be found. However, • Increase the value gap between our own healthcare costs and much of our health policy advocacy is tailored to solving problems healthcare earnings in particular countries. • Engage and report on our progress Game-changing solutions are needed that alter the way health services themselves are delivered. More isn’t always better. For example, the U.S. spends well above the average of other wealthier Can GE help to reduce infant mortality around countries on healthcare, but has only average results. Russia the world? provides hospital beds and doctors at the highest levels, but its A Commitment to Sustainable Improvements in Infant citizens’ health is well below average, while Chile spends the Survival Rates same percentage of its GDP on a smaller number of hospitals www.gecitizenship.com/a-commitment-toand doctors but has a healthier population. sustainable-improvements-in-infant-survival-rates Better health starts well before people seek medical treatment. It is critical to arm people with more knowledge so they can take Within GE Healthcare, the healthymagination principles of cost, preventative steps sooner. In the U.S., healthymagination is backed quality and access have been adopted across the board. This by a consumer-facing campaign sharing imaginative ideas and ensures that every product or solution developed starts from developing mobile apps to encourage healthy eating and exercise. customers’ problems and measurably improves care. Every Through our HealthAhead program, we engage GE employees, product, not just those seeking healthymagination certification, retirees and families in creating a culture of health at work. has to demonstrate clear clinical and economic improvements The goal is that all our sites with more than 100 employees will be over existing products. certified as healthy workplaces by 2012. To meet this requirement each site must demonstrate a wide-ranging package of measures, GE’s philanthropic work also supports these same goals. Developing from instituting a tobacco-free campus to providing healthy food Health™ is GE Foundation’s $50 million program providing grant and nutritional information in cafeterias and vending machines, funding and volunteer support to non-profit health centers in the as well as employee health risk counseling and screening. To United States, while in countries such as Ghana, Cambodia, date, 17% of GE sites with more than 100 employees have been Indonesia and Honduras, Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) is HealthAhead certified in 2010. investing in upgrading the capabilities of rural district hospitals. The goal of both programs is to improve healthcare delivery for We also believe that hospitals and healthcare systems can be vulnerable people. The programs draw on GE products, expertise made much more efficient. We have developed business solutions and employee engagement to provide a sustainable solution, for managing hospital assets, and for helping hospitals to organize, including training in parts and after-installation service. In turn they measure and manage healthcare delivery. We have also launched have provided a valuable lesson for GE on what it takes to solve a partnership with Intel providing solutions for home monitoring. healthcare problems in the most challenging environments. This allows patients to be released earlier from hospitals, and to have daily check-ups without going to the physician’s office, getting GE has so far invested $1.3 billion in healthymagination research real-time feedback to help them manage their own condition. and launched 43 validated products. Many of these are low-cost medical products in the Brivo™ DR-F range. ge 2010 citizenship Report 29 Dilemma: Can we reach the bottom of the pyramid? Every country in the world is now party to at least one human rights treaty that addresses healthrelated rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of themselves and their family, including medical care. And yet two billion people worldwide do not have access to primary care or clinics, while 100 million people are impoverished each year as a result of healthcare spending. Healthymagination is GE’s response to the affordability challenge. Currently, the vast majority of donor aid and public spending on It takes us out of the realm of the world’s capital cities to cities, healthcare in developing countries is directed towards infectious towns and villages that are poorly served. disease. But chronic diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, stroke and cancer, are now more common as causes of death, and impact This is a new market for GE. We expect to be able to double our the long-term health and quality of life of millions of people. sales every year for the next few years as this market grows and we introduce more products across more of our businesses. Can the success of global healthcare campaigns be The key question for our social impacts is whether we can, replicated for chronic diseases? through our business strategy, make a difference to the health The Chronic Disease Challenge and well-being of people around the world who currently lack Rachel Nugent, deputy director, Global Health, Center for Global effective and affordable healthcare. Development www.gecitizenship.com/the-chronic-disease-challenge Improving healthcare is one of the most complex challenges, involving advanced science, individual behavior change and a complex web of public and private systems that are different in GE is working with governments and NGOs in many countries to every country. understand and address the healthcare challenges of managing and treating chronic disease. We believe it is an area that should also command greater international attention. Developing and Can hospitals help to make a healthier environment? demonstrating the evidence base for how chronic diseases can Continuing to Reduce the Environmental Impact of be treated in lowand middle-income countries are crucial steps Medical Products toward improving care and treatment. In relation to breast cancer, www.gecitizenship.com/continuing-to-reduce-thewe are working with the Global Breast Health Initiative to identify environmental-impact-of-medical-products guidelines for treatment that can be carried out with limited resources that would enable implementation on a global scale. A key technology focus area for GE is the high-tech diagnostic We are starting to make inroads into closing the healthcare gap, equipment that enables disease prevention and early treatment. but there is clearly a long way to go to reach all those who would Innovation in our products and services can make diagnostic benefit from better healthcare. Closing this gap depends on technologies more accessible and affordable, but to really make technology innovation, but also on governments and international a difference, they need to be part of a system for effective aid donors continuing to invest in healthcare and improving treatment. For example, while breast cancer screening systems healthcare systems. can now be installed in trucks to create mobile clinics, women must be referred to a specialist hospital unit for treatment. In many countries, this is only available in the capital city and is not affordable. 30 ge 2010 citizenship Report contribution and impact 2010 highlights Strategy combine the advances of high-end machines with capabilities • In the past 10 years, GE has repositioned its portfolio through and costs suited for emerging markets. divestitures representing 50% of the Company to focus on key global themes such as energy, water and healthcare, and built supply chain strength in the core businesses of providing the infrastructure and • In 2010, our assessment process identified over 12,500 findings financial services needed for growing economies. at approved suppliers. GE requires suppliers to address all findings in a reasonable period and tracks closure in an automated Company performance database. As of February 15, 2011, approved suppliers have • Earnings expanded by 15% from 2009 to $12.6 billion, and closed more than 95% of all findings since 2002. Types of revenues declined 3% to $150 billion. In 2010, GE’s stock price findings include health and safety, environment, emergency grew 21%, outperforming the S&P 500 Index, which grew 13%. preparedness, labor or human rights. • GE hosted a supplier summit in Shanghai, bringing together global EHS professionals, sourcing quality and audit teams, peer reporting companies and government officials to share experiences and • This year’s citizenship report takes a 10-year retrospective and discuss challenges in securing better working conditions. includes reflections on our performance and external perspectives on GE’s role to advance global sustainability, as well as opportunities for GE in the future. public policy • GE promoted public policies that support trade liberalization, innovation-stimulating intellectual property rights, and research and development advancement of clean energy. • In the past 10 years, GE has tripled the amount that is invested • Jeff Immelt helped to found the American Energy Innovation in R&D to 6%, and developed local R&D centers in China, India, Council with other business leaders to advocate for a national Germany and Brazil. energy policy to promote the advancement of clean energy. ecomagination human rights • Ecomagination products and services now total more than • Human Rights Champions were identified at each GE business to 110 offerings, with sales of $18 billion accounting for issue Human Rights Risk Assessment processes and report any 12% of Company revenues. risks and abatement plans. • Last year, GE launched the $200 million ecomagination Innovation Challenge and received almost 4,000 smart grid ideas from 150 countries. water • GE launched new ambitious targets for ecomagination aiming • GE continued to make progress on its water goal by reducing to grow revenues from ecomagination products, improve water use by 30%. During 2010, GE continued to drive its strategy our energy intensity, reduce our GHG emissions and reduce our by working with those sites that dominate GE’s water use footprint. fresh water usage. greenhouse gases and energy reductions healthymagination • GE reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 24% compared to the • GE has so far invested $1.3 billion in healthymagination research 2004 baseline. GHG and Energy Intensity have been improved by and launched 43 validated products, which provide significant 37.4% and 33%, respectively, since 2004. improvements in cost, quality and access to meet patient and healthcare providers’ needs. community • The GE Family contributed more than $250 million in cash and product innovation in emerging markets product to support important community programs around the • GE’s product development model takes an in country-for world, impacting millions of people in the areas of healthcare, country approach to introduce innovative products suitable for education and the environment. emerging markets that are significantly more efficient, and available at lower price points. job creation • Over the past year, GE has launched the Brivo™ DR-F range of • GE has committed to creating 6,500 new manufacturing jobs in babywarmers, CT scanners, digital X-rays and MR systems that the U.S. through infrastructure investments in a low-carbon future. ge 2010 citizenship Report 31 contribution and impact Activities by Commitment Area To review the full text and data for each of our priorities, please visit www.gecitizenship.com/ our-commitment-areas. GE’s comprehensive approach to corporate citizenship is as diverse and far-reaching as our organization. We categorize our citizenship efforts according to a range of priorities, as shown here. As mentioned in “About This Report,” the full scope of performance data and progress against commitments and targets is also available on our Web site. This summary provides an overview of the content and data that are available in more detail online. our people compliance & governance www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/our-people www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/complianceWith nearly 300,000 employees working across 100 countries, GE governance works hard to meet its responsibilities for the health and safety of The GE commitment to perform with integrity is instilled in every its people. Founded upon the imagination, intelligence and employee as a fundamental expectation. This expectation is curiosity of its employees, GE depends on its people to drive guided by our integrity policy, The Spirit & The Letter, and is business growth and strengthen its leadership position in the underscored by an extensive system of policies, processes, global marketplace. training and communications that contribute to the operational excellence of GE’s citizenship platform. In addition, GE continues to invest in leadership and development training. To attract, retain and bring out the best in its people, GE offers challenging, rewarding careers through which employees are able to continuously learn—growing their personal and professional capabilities, as well as GE’s ability to excel. public policy www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/public-policy The advancement of global policy initiatives is an important activity for organizations large and small. In GE’s case, the our communities motivation for such an endeavor goes beyond the commercial. By furthering discussion in such areas as trade, energy, healthcare www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/our-communities and human rights, GE is able to share best practices while gaining -impact new knowledge around solving the world’s biggest problems. Inspired by the dedication of our employees, GE strives to make a positive, sustainable impact on the development of stronger and more self-reliant communities around the globe. 32 ge 2010 citizenship Report our suppliers our customers www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/our-suppliers www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/our-customers GE expects suppliers to obey laws that require them to treat Customers are becoming increasingly important collaborators in workers fairly, provide a safe and healthy working environment, the product development cycle. As the marketplace grows more and protect environmental quality. In 2008, GE expanded its dynamic and interdependent, GE understands that the success of supplier review program to encompass freedom of association, our customers complements our own. discrimination and harassment in line with GE’s Statement of Principles on Human Rights. The Company also conducted a thorough program review and is currently piloting program refinements designed to encourage GE’s suppliers to adopt their own management approach to ethical business issues. environment, health & safety www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/environmenthealth-safety Applying world-class environment, health and safety (EHS) human rights expectations in its operations, GE’s leaders are responsible for maintaining compliance and reducing the Company’s environmental www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/human-rights footprint, while also ensuring the health and safety of GE’s nearly GE views respect for human rights as a fundamental part of 300,000 employees around the world. Trained in programs that responsible corporate citizenship. reduce not just greenhouse gas emissions and water use, but also workplace illness and injury, EHS experts employ operational Human rights concerns touch GE’s sphere of influence in many tools, training and processes that drive accountability and deliver ways, whether they involve issues with suppliers or the intersection the best results. of our water business with the human right to that resource. GE also works with its suppliers to ensure that they provide a safe and healthy workplace for their own employees and meet GE’s Supplier Expectations (www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitmentareas/our-suppliers). our products & services www.gecitizenship.com/about-citizenship/our-impact/productsservices-issues From infrastructure projects and entertainment programming to consumer finance products and nanotechnology, GE takes a 360-degree perspective of the impact our products and services can have on the environment, the economy and society. ge 2010 citizenship Report 33 contribution and impact Performance Against Commitments Each year, we make commitments to help us drive progress and accountability. Below is a summary of progress against our 2010 commitments, defined by priorities. Our people 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment healthymagination: Provide 17% of all GE sites with more than 100 employees were We expect over 90% of all GE sites with an update on GE’s internal HealthAhead-certified in 2010. more than 100 employees to be HealthAhead Work Site HealthAhead-certified by the end of 2011. certification program: • Report percentage certified as HealthAhead sites globally • All GE sites with more than 100 employees to achieve HealthAhead certification by 2012 healthymagination: Work toward More than 120 sites are currently tobacco-free campuses. As we Work toward goal of implementing the goal of implementing tobaccohave worked with sites around the world and understand how tobacco-free campus standard globally by free campus standard globally by challenging this lifestyle change can be, we have made the November 1, 2011. March 1, 2011. decision to extend the goal to November 1, 2011. We have also made nicotine replacement therapy available globally at no (or substantially reduced) cost. healthymagination: Drive better • Reduced by 1% • Continue efforts to decrease U.S. healthemployee health globally • Double-digit cost reduction in 2010 related absence through HealthAhead programs: • Develop pilot programs to reduce health• Reduce U.S. health-related • Increased breast cancer screenings by one point and maintained high utilization rate for other screenings (U.S. only) related absence outside the U.S. absences by 2% • Limit to a 3% U.S. healthcare • Strive to limit the annual increase in annual cost increase or less U.S. healthcare cost • Increase in U.S. preventive screening rates Update on new initiative, GE has launched new Growth Values that will help inform the In 2011, we will embed the Growth Values “Redefining Crotonville,” curriculum for Re-Imagining Crotonville. The Re-Imagining in the Executive Curriculum. We will develop regarding GE’s global leadership Crotonville effort is in three main areas: Content, Experience and execute plans for contemporizing the development center. and Environment (what is taught, how it is taught and where it global Crotonville experience and is taught). environments where leadership is taught. GE will review potential metrics GE Global Learning has launched several new job aids and GE will continue to explore metrics that help associated with global learning tools to help employees build skills when and where they are. communicate this commitment to employee opportunities for, and engagement We have expanded our library of offerings in both content and development. with, employees. local languages. Add questions to the 2010 Two questions were presented and answered by all survey Administer an employee opinion survey employee survey that provide respondents to evaluate the extent to which the survey is used to at the end of the third quarter to a employees the opportunity produce positive changes: representative sample of GE employees. to share their perceptions 1. I believe the results of this survey will be used to make positive regarding the extent to which changes in my team they believe the survey is used to make positive change. 2. I believe senior leaders in my business will take action based on the results of the survey 34 ge 2010 citizenship Report Work with EPA to use Phase I experience to improve Phase II of the Hudson River dredging project. + SEE EHS on page 37 for more details Compliance & Governance 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment Continue to strengthen our • To assist in these efforts, GE performs an annual risk • Continue to strengthen our compliance compliance processes and assessment for approximately 1,500 sites based on common processes and culture in remote sites culture in remote sites. internal and external risk indicators. GE businesses and the Corporate Audit Staff partner to review these risk assessment results and develop site audit plans. Additionally, sites identified as having an elevated level of risk are required to complete a comprehensive compliance and financial controls selfassessment addressing controls in key areas. Self-assessment and audit results are monitored by business controllers and periodically summarized and reviewed with the GE Controller and Policy Compliance Review Board. Continue to drive regulatory • Completed a detailed Government Business Resources and excellence on government Capabilities Assessment across all GE businesses doing contracting processes. business with U.S. federal, state or local government agencies, based on government and GE policies and the GE Government Business Process Standards • Conducted a comprehensive CAS-led audit of all U.S. government Federal Supply Schedule contracts. These contracts serve all U.S. government agencies and represent a unique opportunity for GE products and services, but come with particularly complex compliance requirements • Conducted a comprehensive training program touching more than 1,100 employees engaged in the management of these government contracts to ensure they are well-equipped to maintain knowledgeable and active oversight • Provided additional training associated with the unique requirements of Recovery Act-funded business with federal, state or local governments, training more than 800 employees on key Recovery Act-related compliance requirements • Reviewed stimulus-fund contracting activities in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, as well as in key countries where stimulus funds represent potential opportunities for GE Maintain our focus on reporting • Policy concerns up 4% year over year … we view an increase year • Realign and strengthen compliance and and resolution of concerns, and over year as a positive indication of an open reporting environment Ombuds teams to reflect global business the ombudsperson process. • Ombuds Team training and education + OmBits publication restructuring (up-to-date internal Web-based site for Ombuds team • Adapt processes and procedures to worldwide) address Dodd-Frank whistleblower law • Regional group meetings and open roundtable discussions • Focus on monthly reviews of concerns with employees across all levels raised and on lowering further the current • New videos featuring Ombuds and Deputy Ombuds; Businessaverage days to close of an investigation led case study video(s) with a focus on “no retaliation” ge 2010 citizenship Report 35 contribution and impact Performance Against Commitments Public Policy 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment Support the adoption of public On numerous occasions, GE senior officials spoke publicly in Support the adoption of public policies that policies that strengthen the support of trade liberalization through bilateral, regional and strengthen the global economy and the global economy and the global multilateral fora, and against public policies that inhibit trade global trading system. trading system. (including “forced localization” programs). Advocate for public policies that Advocated directly and through industry consortia for (i) strong Advocate for public policies that encourage encourage technological innovation-stimulating intellectual property rights protection in technological innovation. innovation. climate change talks and in trade liberalization agreements; and (ii) R&D and other public policies that support innovation. Seek to promote the rule of law, Promoted transparency and rule of law globally, including Seek to promote the rule of law, particularly particularly in the developing targeted programs in Vietnam, China and Argentina. in the developing world where strong ruleworld, where strong rule of law of-law disciplines are critical to economic disciplines are critical to development. economic development. Provide update on GE’s In consultation with GE Healthcare’s Global Government Provide update on GE’s position as it relates position as it relates to global Relations team, no changes were deemed necessary to GE’s to global healthcare reform. healthcare reform. current viewpoint on healthcare reform, found at http://www. ge.com/news/our_viewpoints/healthcare_reform.html. Commit to publicizing As standard practice, our press releases announcing new GE Address the world’s energy and renewable-related stimulus projects include information on how the GE product or service environmental challenges. programs in which directly supports the customer’s clean energy and water-related GE is active. policy objectives. For additional information: http://www.gepower. com/about/press/en/index.htm. Continue to focus on Engaged in public fora in the United States and abroad on Continue to focus on regulatory change. regulatory change. regulatory changes, including in areas of financial services, healthcare, energy, environment, tax, trade and transportation. Provide update on GE’s position GE supported Congressional climate and energy legislation in as it relates to climate-change 2010, but that legislation was not enacted into law. GE supports legislation. a national energy policy that effectively promotes a shift of our nation’s energy mix toward cleaner energy options such as renewables and natural gas-fired power plants. In addition, the deployment of large numbers of electric vehicles holds the potential to dramatically reduce national dependence on imported oil. Committing to ecomagination product revenues growth at twice the rate of GE’s overall revenue between now and 2015. + SEE products and services on page 38 for more details 36 ge 2010 citizenship Report Environment, health & safety 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment Work with EPA to use Phase I Worked with EPA to modify project standards and design to Perform the first year of Phase 2 of the experience to improve Phase II allow more efficient implementation of Phase 2 of the dredging Hudson River Dredging project. of the Hudson River project. As a result, GE agreed to implement the remainder of dredging project. the Hudson River Dredging Project. 25% reduction in environmental In 2010, wastewater exceedances increased over 2009 due GE continues work toward identifying the exceedances and spills to exceedances of sanitary wastewater and air emissions. root cause of air and water exceedances Industrial wastewater exceedances comprised only half of the and implementing robust corrective actions total wastewater exceedances recorded. Air exceedances also to prevent recurrence. In 2011, GE will increased over 2009. Reportable spills and releases decreased reduce wastewater and air exceedances by by more than 50%. implementing programs focused on reducing sanitary wastewater exceedances and enhancing environmental framework execution. Continue to enhance onboarding During 2010, the EHS leaders within each of GE’s major growth Continue to implement professional and professional development regions developed approaches for professional development and development programs in GE’s growth opportunities for EHS onboarding. Leadership program participants were hired in Brazil regions: China, Brazil, India and the professionals globally. and China, two of GE’s significant growth areas. Middle East. Support established programs in Mexico and host a cross-business professional development event in the United States. Continue long-term GHG and GE continued to make progress on these goals; GHGs were Engage business leaders in driving GHG energy use reduction trend and reduced by 24% and energy intensity improved by 33% from the and energy intensity use reductions. drive to the following goals: 2004 baselines. During 2010, GE hosted its first-ever Forum on Implement an ecomagination scorecard for • 50% improvement in Industrial Energy Efficiency, and devised a strategy to drive GE’s internal environmental footprint energy intensity by 2015 GHG and energy use reduction in GE’s business units. against which activities that drive the goals (2004 baseline) will be measured. • 25% reduction in GHG emissions by 2015 (2004 baseline) Continue long-term water GE continued to make progress on its water goal by reducing Implement water Kaizen Blitz events at GE’s use reduction trend and drive to water use by 22% from its 2006 baseline. During 2010, GE top water-using locations. Drive the use of the following goal: 25% reduction continued to drive its strategy by working with those sites that GE’s measurement and treatment in freshwater use by 2015 dominate GE’s water use footprint. technology in water-using operations. (2006 baseline). Zero work-related fatalities Three work-related fatalities Zero work-related fatalities 15% reduction in recordable 3.5% reduction 15% reduction injuries and illnesses 15% reduction in lost-time cases 10.9% reduction 15% reduction Explore solutions to prevent Human and organizational performance concepts, which have Plans for 2011 include more extensive high-severity infrequent events. been utilized for years in high-performance industries, hold training and follow-up with the businesses promise for reducing high-severity and infrequent injuries, and that are piloting human and organizational are being piloted in various businesses. performance techniques, as well as integrating these concepts into our existing management systems. Add 20 new VPP/Global Star sites. 11 new VPP/Global Star facilities 20 new VPP/Global Star sites Zero fines Fines paid were $78,021. Zero fines 100% completion of 98% training completed 100% completion of regulatory required training required training ge 2010 citizenship Report 37 contribution and impact Performance Against Commitments OUr Products & Services 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment Increase transparency of GE • Enhanced transparency in 10K/10Q reporting by consolidating Increase transparency of GE Capital Capital financial reporting by specific off-balance sheet assets in compliance with FAS 166/167, financial reporting by continuing a regular establishing a regular rhythm of and by providing further credit quality disclosures reflecting the rhythm of communication with external communication with external strength of the GE Capital portfolio stakeholders. stakeholders. • Continued to provide quarterly supplemental data, including segment-level financials and asset-quality metrics, in addition to earnings reports • Maintained a systemic operating rhythm with regulatory and rating agencies Committing to ecomagination While GE’s overall revenue was down 3% in 2010 vs. 2009, Committing to ecomagination product product revenues growth at ecomagination products and services remained at $18 billion. revenues growth at twice the rate of GE’s twice the rate of GE’s overall overall revenue between now and 2015. revenue between now and 2015. Starting in 2010, GE commits to GE continues its strong ecomagination R&D commitment Starting in 2010, GE commits to doubling, to doubling, to $10 billion, its by investing $1.8 billion in development of cleaner, more $10 billion, its research and development research and development efficient technologies. investment in ecomagination over the next investment in ecomagination five years versus the previous five years. over the next five years versus the previous five years. By 2015, GE will improve the GE continued to make progress on these goals: GHGs were By 2015, GE will improve the energy energy intensity of its operations reduced by 24% and energy intensity improved by 33% from intensity of its operations by 50%, and will by 50%, and will reduce its the 2004 baselines. Appliances & Lighting is transitioning reduce its absolute GHG emissions by 25% absolute GHG emissions by 25% all refrigeration to utilize cyclopentane over the next two years (both using the 2004 baseline). (both using the 2004 baseline). (completion 2012). The cyclopentane change in our factories will eliminate the number 1 and 3 of the top eight GHG emission sites for GE. Continue long-term water use GE continued to make progress on its water goal by reducing Implement water Kaizen Blitz events at reduction trend and drive to water use by 22% from its 2006 baseline. During 2010, GE GE’s top water-using locations. Drive the the following goal: 25% reduction continued to drive its strategy by working with those sites that use of GE’s measurement and treatment in freshwater use by 2015 dominate GE’s water use footprint. technology in water-using operations. (2006 baseline). Provide product example of The Brivo MR355 1.5T magnetic resonance (MR) imaging system “Reverse Innovation” global makes the diagnostic benefits of high-performance MR business strategy. technology accessible to a wide range of customers globally. It combines simplification technology with low total cost of ownership and it can be sited in 20% smaller space compared to other full-body 1.5T MR systems. It has been validated by Oxford Analytica, an independent consultancy, to deliver 15% lower total cost of ownership than previous-generation MR systems. Brivo MR355 also can potentially reduce annual energy costs by up to 34% per year, saving up to 60,000 kWh per year compared to previous-generation systems. Healthymagination: Invest Since our launch, we’ve made $1.3 billion in research and Healthymagination: Invest $3 billion $3 billion in research and development investment progress against our original $3 billion in research and development to launch development to launch at least commitment. Today healthymagination serves as a rallying at least 100 innovations that lower 100 innovations that lower cost, cry for meaningful innovation to address the world’s biggest cost, increase access and improve quality increase access and improve health issues. It is a call for better products at more price points by 15%. quality by 15%. in more regions; for sustainable delivery models; for cuttingedge technologies. 38 ge 2010 citizenship Report Continue to contribute one million hours of volunteer service, emphasizing activities in Education & Community Development, Environment and Health. Increase the number of GE Volunteers councils. + SEE our communities on page 40 for more details Human rights 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment In connection with the duty Working through the Company’s Human Rights Champions in Look for appropriate opportunities to to respect human rights, place within each business, we encouraged due-diligence engage in Human Rights Risk Assessment we will look to enhance dueprocesses through checklists and other instruments and have efforts in 2011. diligence practices, including issued guidance on Human Rights Risk Assessment processes. consideration of Human Rights The nature of the GE businesses’ initiatives in 2010 did not lead to Risk Assessments where a full-blown Human Rights Risk Assessment. appropriate. Update on Compliance Review The general counsels of each of the major businesses have Board and Human Rights identified Human Rights Champions to be responsible for Implementation Procedures. undertaking this due-diligence effort and report any risks and abatement plans to their business’ Compliance Review Board (Session D). The rhythm of these efforts varies by business, as do the human rights issues of concern. We convened quarterly telephone calls to share concerns and best practices. Advance information governance In 2010, GE and its Information Governance and Privacy practices GE will focus on refreshing standards and and privacy goals through continued to expand on their commitment to information implementing guidelines that support enhanced employee awareness governance and privacy as a core value for employees, partners its updated Spirit & Letter policy, Privacy in 2010. and customers, taking responsibility as a thought leader on these and the Protection of GE Information. topics both within GE and externally. GE will also continue to take an active role in public discourse on privacy policy and issues of importance in a world of evolving technology. Provide more information on In the area of product use and design, in 2010 GE Healthcare In 2011, GE Healthcare will continue its GE’s privacy policy as it relates to pursued and received certification as a Certified EHR Technology dedicated efforts to anticipate customer employee healthcare records under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for its data protection needs and expectations in and GEHC electronic medical Centricity Advance, Centricity Electronic Medical Records (EMR) product and services development. records. and Centricity Practice Solution products. This certification required GE Healthcare’s EMR products to demonstrate capabilities to satisfy each privacy and security criterion where technically feasible. The GE Employment Data Protection Committee worked in 2010 to help facilitate the compliant implementation of EHR systems in certain GE employee medical clinics; this work will continue into 2011 as the Company seeks to provide a meaningful combination of provider and employee utility, and employee privacy in these systems. New 2011 Commitment In connection with the duty to respect human rights, we work with our Global Business Initiative (GBI) partners to develop practices that respond to the final Business and Human Rights Guiding Principles issued by the UN Global Compact. Engage with other GBI members to develop normative due-diligence processes to be used in connection with minority joint ventures. ge 2010 citizenship Report 39 Contribution and impact Performance Against Commitments Our Communities 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment • Upgrade capacity at 25 more • 53 sites upgraded/completed, mostly in Rwanda, Cambodia, • Build capacity through upgrading health centers and hospitals Nigeria and Mali facilities, clinical skill-building and process through Developing Health • Emergency Obstetric Care (EmOC)—partnership with Millennium improvement Globally™ (DHG) Villages Project (MVP)—early evidence suggests institutional • Build Ministry of Health (MOH) and hospital • Evaluate maternal/infant care delivery has increased from 33% to 47% across the first five biomedical engineering capacity for impact of DHG program sites in Uganda, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and Malawi. At Ruhiira in long-term sustainability Uganda, number of births delivered by skilled health personnel • Evaluate maternal/infant care impact of went from 9% to 42%; in Bonsaaso, Ghana, it went from 30% to DHG program and effectiveness of DHG 61% [MDG metric]. Before the kits were distributed, hospitals models lacked basic equipment to treat patients. Doctors and nurses were ready to serve, but lacked the necessary supplies to help those in need. In Sauri, located in western Kenya, a small facility that was once better equipped with EmOC donations was able to serve 200 patients a day—more than a nearby large district hospital • Honduras—39% reduction of infant mortality in the national neonatal intensive care unit at Escuela Hospital. In 2010, infant mortality reduced by 55% at Olanchito and number of assisted births increased by 12% Continue commitment to the six • Continued working with six districts, including renewed grants • Begin and provide interim report on districts and renew grants to to Louisville, Kentucky, and Stamford, Connecticut initial findings of the effects of DF work Louisville, Kentucky, and • Board awarded $20.4 million grant to Milwaukee, Wisconsin as in all sites Stamford, Connecticut. Explore the seventh Developing Futures™ in Education (DF) site • Complete audit reports from six districts opportunities to create business and “deep dive” into Milwaukee partnerships and expand the • Convene and meet with education thought leaders such as program to additional districts. Arne Duncan, Common Core State Standards (CCSS) and • Convene at least 30 national/site local Continue to convene education Assessment writers in Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin businesses in Washington, DC, and at DF thought leaders, and work with 2011 annual conference in Orlando, education advocates to assist in Florida, to develop partnerships helping all children achieve a • Publish a document on “The Heart of good education. Reform” that narrates the work of DF • Monitor and assess national public opinion on student and parent involvement in student education • Refine and implement strategic community engagement in each of the seven sites • Refine existing audit and implement • Establish GE Foundation as a leader in supporting CCSS Direct $25 million from GE The program awarded $11.15 million grants in total to 45 health Expand to another 32 health centers Foundation over three years to centers in 10 cities. An underserved population of more than in 14 cities with a total of $9.75 million expand access to quality 500,000 was impacted. More than 200 events and 5,000 hours grants. An underserved population of healthcare in targeted have been devoted in terms of pro bono engagement. approximately 300,000 is expected underserved communities across to be impacted. More than 200 events the United States. and 5,000 hours will be devoted to pro bono engagement. Continue to contribute Increased volunteer hours by 10% to 1.1 million. Maintain volunteer level at more than one million hours of volunteer one million hours with divestiture of NBCU. service, emphasizing activities in Education & Community Development, Environment and Health. Increase the number of GE Volunteers councils. 40 ge 2010 citizenship Report OUR SUPPLIERS 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment Improve the management Since 2009, GE has posed management-systems questions to In response to these challenges, we are system scoring system and suppliers during on-site assessments. Many small and medium developing a new management-systems select criteria to identify companies had a difficult time implementing the managementapproach focused on select suppliers to suppliers for which this is systems requirements. We also found that the presence of a encourage improvements in their programs an effective approach. management system on paper does not guarantee compliance over time. This will be piloted in 2011–2012. with environmental health and safety regulations. Support suppliers with training In addition to the training GE provides annually, in November Launch Supplier Partnership Program to and other outreach. 2010, GE partnered with the Institute for Sustainable Communities engage with specific suppliers on targeted (ISC), The Guangdong EHS Academy and the WBCSD to train capacity-building efforts. about 100 Chinese suppliers on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reductions (www.gecitizenship.com/ greenhouse-gases-and-ge-supply-chain). Continue capacity-building Continued existing efforts. Included ISC and the Guangdong EHS Continue capacity-building efforts and look efforts such as the Guangdong Academy in GE’s Supplier Summit (www.gecitizenship.com/ for additional opportunities to partner EHS Academy and the Mexico a-supplier-summit-in-shanghai). locally to improve supplier capacity. Clean Industries program; look for other opportunities to improve supplier capacity. Design a due-diligence process The GE Foundation funded a multi-industry, multistakeholder, Complete and implement internal to reduce the risk of minerals multistrategy forum (“M3 Forum”) to pull together the work that all program to: from conflict mines in the various parties are doing to address the ongoing violence in the 1. Mitigate the risk that minerals from Democratic Republic of Congo DRC and its link to mining. GE has worked with organizations such conflict mines enter the supply chain; and (DRC) and adjoining territories as the Electronic Industries Citizenship Coalition to institute a entering GE’s supply chain. program to ensure that smelters eliminate demand for ores from 2. Gather information needed to report to conflict mines, and is designing an internal program to eliminate the SEC under the Dodd-Frank Act. minerals from conflict mines from our supply chain and ensure Continue to work with industry groups that we will be prepared to report to the Securities and Exchange to implement Smelter Verification Commission (SEC) under the conflict minerals provision of DoddProgram to trace minerals from mines Frank (www.gecitizenship.com/conflict-minerals-and-theof origin to smelters. democratic-republic-of-congo). OUR CUSTOMERS 2010 Commitments Progress 2011 Commitment Healthymagination: Commit Grounded in GE Healthcare, GE Water, GE Global Research Healthymagination: Commit $6 billion $6 billion to enable better and GE Capital, we’ve made progress in achieving our to enable better health, focusing on cost, health, focusing on cost, access healthymagination vision over the last few years. Since our access and quality. and quality. launch, we have validated 43 healthymagination products, made $2.2 billion in investment progress against our original $6 billion commitment and touched more than 234 million lives. Train customers on GE Healthcare has developed guidance documents for customers how to mitigate healthcare that address healthcare industry data protection/privacy issues privacy issues. and are provided to customers upon request. Keep the public and customers Ecomagination celebrated its five-year anniversary with a Keep the public and customers informed through the public event on July 13, 2010, announcing new goals making informed through the ecomagination ecomagination report, ecomagination a bigger part of GE. Ecomagination.com and report, ecomagination Web site and ecomagination Web site and the ecomagination annual report continue as our primary public engagements. public engagements. communication vehicle. GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 41 CONTRIBUTION AND IMPACT OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE GE is committed to maintaining a culture of integrity, transparency, ethics and compliance. Operational excellence means managing social and environmental performance, applying the same performance culture, innovation and talent to these goals as we do to any other business goals. GE has been working on a companywide initiative known as GLOBAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS PROCESSES Regulatory Excellence since 2007. The initiative emphasizes A disciplined approach to risk is important in a diversified the responsibility of leaders in every business to ensure organization in order to ensure that we are executing according regulatory compliance, and it has established a common to our strategic objectives and that we only accept risk for process for managing regulatory risk areas across the which we are adequately compensated. We evaluate risk at Company. To learn more about how we manage our social the individual transaction level and evaluate aggregate risk and environmental responsibilities within the business, visit: at the customer, industry, geographic and collateral-type levels, www.gecitizenship.com/about-citizenship/our-approach/ where appropriate. operational-excellence The GE Board of Directors oversees the implementation of How does GE incorporate diversity to drive growth, policies in relation to employees, customers, investors and revenue and market penetration? other stakeholders. GE invests in its employees, spending more Mixing Diversity into the Supply Chain Process than $1 billion on training each year. Our non-negotiable www.gecitizenship.com/mixing-diversity-intoexpectation of employee integrity is articulated in our policy, the-supply-chain-process The Spirit & The Letter, which requires compliance with law and policy relating to vital issues, such as financial integrity and avoiding conflicts of interest. Available in 31 languages, these In addition, our global risk management systems were further integrity policies are provided to all of our employees, holding strengthened in August 2009 with the appointment of the each person accountable for compliance. GE Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Mark Krakowiak. The CRO develops and implements an enterprise risk management approach for GE to ensure that risk objectives are aligned with our overall Does GE “Bucks, Brawn and Brains” effectively company strategy. They work closely with the businesses to help nonprofits build capacity to better serve aggregate, monitor and mitigate risk through improved their constituents? controls, policies and procedures, integrating these controls Bringing World Class Business Processes to with existing governance and management processes. Community Organizations www.gecitizenship.com/bringing-world-classThe Company continues to work on productivity through business-processes-to-community-organizations process control, Six Sigma, Lean Manufacturing and the development and implementation of new technologies. Our strong compliance culture reinforces these efforts by To read more about our global risk management framework requiring employees to raise any compliance concerns and by and business processes, visit: prohibiting retribution for doing so. To facilitate open and candid www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/compliancecommunication, we have about 700 designated ombudspersons governance/global-risk-management throughout the Company who act as independent resources for reporting integrity or compliance concerns. We hold our consultants, agents and independent contractors to the same integrity standards. 42 GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT RESPONDING TO ENGAGEMENT IN DECISION MAKING helping ensure that the appropriate actions and resources At the corporate level, three key bodies are responsible are in place. for making decisions about citizenship and implementing learnings from the numerous stakeholder dialogues: • The Corporate Executive Council (CEC) brings together 40 of GE’s top leaders, including business CEOs, to share progress • The Public Responsibilities Committee of the GE Board of on the Company’s strategy and performance, and to discuss Directors is chaired by Director and former U.S. Senator Sam best practices. Nunn, and includes Jeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO; James I. Cash, Jr., director; Rochelle B. Lazarus, director; Ann M. Fudge, • Citizenship issues are linked into GE’s broader strategic director; James J. Mulva, director; Susan Hockfield, director; planning through both hardwired and softwired connections. and Roger S. Penske, director. This committee oversees GE’s Societal issues are hardwired to strategy as part of our positions on corporate social responsibilities and public issues of “Growth Playbook,” the business environment we consider in significance that affect investors and other key GE stakeholders. developing business strategy. Environmental, social and To learn more about the Public Responsibilities Committee, regulatory issues are incorporated into a number of cyclical please visit www.ge.com/governance/committees. processes, including individual employee assessments, business compliance and environment reviews, and health • The Citizenship Executive Advisory Council (CEA) is comprised and safety assessments. of five senior GE executives: Brackett Denniston, senior vice president and general counsel; Bob Corcoran, vice president To be successful, these inputs must be factored into and of corporate citizenship; Gary Sheffer, vice president considered part of strategy, planning and execution. communications & public affairs; Ann Klee, vice president of Citizenship reporting provides an end-of-year overview of environmental programs; and Mark Vachon, vice president our key strategic issues, our responses to them and our of ecomagination. This group reviews stakeholder feedback performance against stakeholder concerns. and issues important to the Company’s citizenship efforts, HOW ENGAGEMENT LINKS TO LEARNING & DECISION MAKING Dialogues Ongoing Reviews Regional Convenings Citizenship Executive Operational Committees Expert Advisory Panel Advisory Committee Diversity ecomagination Advisory Committee (strategic reviews, quarterly) HR healthymagination Advisory Board Operational Engagements Public Responsibilities Committee Commercial Indexes/Ratings (Oversight, 3 times in 2010) Surveys Compliance Investor Inquiries Corporate Executive Council EHS Employee Affinity Groups (progress review on strategy Risk Partnerships and performance, quarterly) Active on both local Memberships & global levels ONGOING CITIZENSHIP ENGAGEMENT THROUGHOUT THE YEAR Strategic Growth Planning: Session D Session C Session T Operating Session E Playbook Key Operating (Compliance) (Organization) (Technology) Plan (EHS) (Strategy) Milestones GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 43 CONTRIBUTION AND IMPACT AT-A-GLANCE METRICS GE GENERAL DATA (in $ billions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GE REVENUE BY COUNTRY/REGION U.S. 81.1 86.2 85.0 72.2 70.5 Europe 32.6 39.9 44.0 36.9 31.8 Pacific Basin 17.6 21.8 23.6 20.7 21.6 Americas 11.5 12.6 14.2 11.4 13.4 Middle East & Africa 5.5 8.0 10.1 10.0 9.1 Other Global 3.3 4.0 4.7 4.1 3.8 Total 151.6 172.5 181.6 155.3 150.2 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT GE-Funded Research 2.8 3.0 3.1 3.3 3.9 GOVERNANCE DATA 2008 2009 2010 OMBUDSPERSON CONCERNS BY AREA (reports per policy) Fair Employment Practices 345 366 414 Conflicts of Interest 209 235 206 International Trade Controls 142 147 138 Security & Crisis Management 114 111 123 Regulatory Excellence 90 98 127 Business Records (T&L, Time & Attendance) 133 98 91 Environment, Health & Safety 97 87 127 Routines, Documentation, Internal Measurements 92 83 89 Supplier Relationships 86 74 94 Improper Payments 52 64 35 Privacy 69 63 59 Controllership (Accounting, Financial Reporting, Billing) 57 53 45 Intellectual Property 27 46 48 Theft 72 38 42 Working with Governments 28 38 22 Complying with Competition Laws 22 22 21 Other Integrity Concerns 37 18 25 OMBUDSPERSON PROCESS — INVESTIGATION RESULTS Concerns Reported 1,672 1,641 1,706 Disciplinary Actions 420 420 363 GEOGRAPHIC BREAKOUT OF INVESTIGATIONS CONDUCTED (percent of investigations) U.S. and Canada 55% 57% 57% Europe 17% 17% 21% Asia 15% 15% 13% Latin America 13% 11% 9% 44 GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT EMPLOYEES DATA 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GE EMPLOYEES U.S. 158,000 161,000 155,000 165,000 161,000 155,000 155,000 152,000 134,000 133,000 Percentage of Total 51% 51% 51% 54% 51% 49% 47% 47% 47% 46% Non-U.S. 152,000 154,000 150,000 142,000 155,000 164,000 172,000 171,000 154,000 154,000 Percentage of Total 49% 49% 49% 46% 49% 51% 53% 53% 53% 54% Total 310,000 315,000 305,000 307,000 316,000 319,000 327,000 323,000 288,000 287,000 GE EMPLOYEES REGION-SPECIFIC BREAKDOWN U.S. 161,000 155,000 155,000 152,000 134,000 133,000 Canada & the Americas (a) 24,000 30,000 28,000 19,000 24,000 24,000 Europe 83,000 85,000 92,000 95,000 85,000 83,000 Middle East & Africa 2,000 2,000 3,000 7,000 3,000 3,000 Pacific Basin 47,000 47,000 49,000 50,000 42,000 44,000 Total 316,000 319,000 327,000 323,000 288,000 287,000 GE FEMALE EMPLOYEES REGION-SPECIFIC BREAKDOWN U.S. 31% 31% 30% 30% 29% Canada & Mexico 33% 33% 33% 31% 29% Latin America 32% 32% 31% 29% 26% Europe 42% 41% 42% 41% 40% Middle East & Africa 15% 16% 14% 13% 11% Pacific Basin 33% 35% 36% 35% 32% Total 35% 35% 35% 34% 33% COMPARATIVE U.S. RACE AND ETHNICITY REPRESENTATION (percentage of total employees) Executive 12 14 14 15 15 15 15 American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 5.2 6.2 5.9 6.1 6.2 6.4 5.9 African American 4.1 4.3 4.3 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.5 Hispanic 2.4 2.9 3.3 3.1 4 4.1 3.8 Other — — — 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Professional 17 19 19 19 20 20 21 American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 7.5 8 8.1 8.2 8.8 9 9.3 African American 4.7 4.8 4.8 4.9 5.1 5 4.9 Hispanic 4.8 5.5 5.4 5.7 5.9 5.9 5.8 Other — — — 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 All Other 25 28 28 29 28 28 27 American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 3.4 3.5 3.4 3.9 4 4.2 4 African American 13.2 13.2 13 13.6 13.3 12.7 12 Hispanic 7.6 10.5 9.9 10.6 10.5 10.5 10.7 Other — — — 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 Total Diverse Representation 21 23 23 24 24 24 24 American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 5.2 5.5 5.5 5.9 6.3 6.5 6.7 African American 9.3 9.4 9.3 9.6 9.3 8.9 8.3 Hispanic 6.2 8.2 7.9 8.3 8.2 8.2 8.1 (a) Excludes approximately 16,000 employees in Central America related to GE’s acquisition of controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) in June 2009. ECOMAGINATION DATA (in $ billions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ecomagination R&D Investment — 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.4 1.5 ecomagination Revenue 6 10 12 14 17 18 For a full report on our ecomagination activities, please visit our online ecomagination report at www.ecomagination.com. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 INJURY & ILLNESS AREAS (c) Recordable Rate 1.62 1.64 1.52 1.40 1.31 1.15 1.11 Lost-Time Rate (d) 0.42 0.45 0.46 0.42 0.39 0.35 0.31 TOTAL VPP SITES 138 140 163 190 215 228 238 AIR & WASTEWATER EXCEEDANCES Air 25 14 21 30 17 3 19 Wastewater 98 98 101 79 73 38 62 GE U.S. TOXIC RELEASE INVENTORY (TRI) ON-SITE DATA 2005–2009 (e) TRI On-Site Releases (in millions of pounds) 5.00 4.92 3.09 (f) 0.42 (g) 0.29 0.24 — WATER USE (IN BILLIONS OF GALLONS) (b) (h) Total — — 15.3 — — — 11.9 Once Through Cooling Water — — 8.9 — — — 6.5 WASTE GENERATION (h) Hazardous Waste (in metric tons) — — 40,300 — — 32,751 36,100 Non-Hazardous Waste (in metric tons) — — 233,000 — — 174,776 217,000 Recycled Metals (in metric tons) (i) — — — — — 106,000 109,000 GE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (b) (h) GE Operational GHG Emissions (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent emissions) 7.44 — — — — — 5.65 GE Operational GHG Intensity (metric tons per $ million revenue) 60.06 — — — — — 37.62 GE Operational Energy Intensity (MMBtu per $ million revenue) 498.7 — — — — — 335.4 GE Operational Energy Use (million MMBtu) 61.7 — — — — — 50.4 ADDITIONAL METRICS Global Penalties Paid (in $ thousands) 351 326 372 237 99 89 78 Training Units Completed (millions of units) U.S. 1.10 1.42 1.45 1.42 1.78 1.42 1.38 Non-U.S. 0.45 0.55 0.59 0.59 0.67 0.64 0.63 Agency Inspections U.S. 694 753 861 740 803 993 942 Non-U.S. 767 736 639 474 505 711 638 Spills & Releases 36 65 66 98 72 59 25 (b) For data associated with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and water usage, please visit www.gecitizenship.com/metrics/environment-health-safety. (c) Rates are based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours annually. (d) Lost-Time Rate uses the OSHA calculation for days-away-from-work cases (transfer or restricted cases are excluded). (e) This data will always lag by a year, since U.S. TRI data for the prior year is not submitted until July 1 as a matter of law. (f) Does not include the former GE Advanced Materials business, as it was divested in December 2006. (g) On-site TRI Releases not including GE Plastics, which was divested in August 2007. (h) For GHG and energy-related metrics, each year GE adjusts its 2004 baseline inventory to account for divestments and acquisitions. For 2005–2009, GHG and energyrelated data were not collected for new acquisitions. As a result, adjusted results for 2005–2009 are not available. For water and waste-related metrics, each year GE adjusts its 2006 baseline inventory to account for divestments and acquisitions. For 2007–2009, water and waste-related data were not collected for new acquisitions. As a result, adjusted results for 2007–2009 are not available. Complete water and waste data were not collected before 2006. In early 2011, GE divested its controlling interest in NBCUniversal, and now has a minority ownership stake in the company. Our 2010 data includes NBCU but, in accordance with the WRI/WBSCD GHG Accounting Protocol followed by GE, we will not include NBCU data for 2011 and subsequent years and our baseline will be adjusted accordingly. For comparison purposes, if NBCU’s 2010 data were excluded, our overall GHG and energy use performance improves by approximately 1%, while energy intensity stays relatively flat. During the course of 2011, GE will complete several significant acquisitions, adding up to 100 manufacturing and service sites, along with additional offices, warehouses and other locations, which will have an as yet unquantified impact on results to be reported in 2012. (i) Recycled metals first reported in 2009. For recycled metals metrics, each year GE adjusts its 2009 baseline inventory to account for divestments and acquisitions. COMMUNITIES & PHILANTHROPY DATA (in $ millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 ALL CONTRIBUTIONS 145.2 180.4 160.3 202.5 CONTRIBUTIONS BY MAJOR PROGRAMS Matching Gifts 37.8 34.9 32.8 38.0 Developing Futures in Education 29.8 33.6 33.7 33.5 Developing Health Globally 10.2 15.6 15.5 14.7 Local Business Contributions 15.5 23.8 18.5 31.0 NBCU PSAs 21.5 39.4 21.5 36.8 Scholarships 4.7 4.2 5.2 4.8 United Way 9.1 9.2 12.0 9.3 Subtotal 128.6 160.7 139.2 168.1 88.6% 89.1% 86.8% 83.0% Other 16.6 19.7 21.1 34.4 Total 145.2 180.4 160.3 202.5 GE EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS Gifts That Were Matched 37.8 34.9 32.8 38.0 United Way 21.5 21.4 20.9 18.6 Total 59.3 56.3 53.7 56.6 CONTRIBUTIONS AS A PERCENTAGE OF GE NET INCOME Total Giving 204.5 236.7 214.0 259.1 Total Contributions as a Percentage of Net Income 0.92% 1.37% 2.00% 2.05% VOLUNTEER BREAKDOWN Countries with GE Volunteer Councils 36 42 46 47 GE Volunteer Councils 144 175 175 197 Employees Registered to GE Volunteers Portal 47,000 61,000 74,000 64,000 2010 SUPPLIERS DATA ASSESSMENTS BY REGION FINDINGS BY CATEGORY FINDINGS BY REGION 46% China 42% Health & Safety 60% China 21% Latin America 28% Environment 15% Latin America 12% India 16% Emergency 13% India 13% Europe, Middle Preparedness 7% Europe, Middle East & Africa 13% Labor East & Africa 8% Rest of Asia 1% Dormitory 5% Rest of Asia 0% North America 0% North America GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 47 VALUE CREATION CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE FOR SHAREOWNERS “There is a significant universe of long-term investors who want greater exposure to wellmanaged companies and emerging markets. GE is able to respond to these investors and produce better value over the long term.” — TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VICE PRESIDENT, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS FOR GE RESPONSIBILITY TO SHAREOWNERS GE is one of the most widely held stocks in the world. Ownership Does Islamic finance compete with or complement of the Company can and does benefit millions of people through conventional banking? flows of dividends and capital benefits, both to individual shareBanking in the Middle East: Islamic Finance for All owners and through such intermediaries as pension funds and Afaq Khan, CEO, Standard Chartered Saadiq insurers. In fact, about half of GE’s issued shares are owned by www.gecitizenship.com/banking-in-the-middle-east individuals, including many of the Company’s current and past employees, who have helped to shape the Company’s success over decades and generations, and whose savings for retirement social responsibility criteria. Responsible investing itself is evolving continue to create value through their investment in the Company. beyond “negative screening” to a more positive engagement that Historically, GE’s owners were predominantly from the U.S., but identifies and promotes those social and environmental factors in the last four years non-U.S. ownership has grown to more that can drive superior financial performance. than 10%, a sign of the globalization of capital markets. Such active investing has become more mainstream in recent years. GE’s responsibility, legally and ethically, is to provide the best The UN Principles of Responsible Investment, for example, with possible return, financially and through its impact on the world nearly 850 signatories, representing around $25 trillion in assets, today and in the years to come. reflect these changing criteria. Stock exchanges around the world are also taking steps to promote and require greater transparency THE ROLES OF CAPITAL MARKETS on environmental, social and governance performance and risk Capital markets facilitate the use of today’s resources to realize factors, with the BM&FBOVESPA Exchange in Brazil, the future benefits. Such benefits are most usually measured in Johannesburg Stock Exchange and The National Stock Exchange of financial terms, or more exactly, risk-adjusted returns to the India taking steps in this area. The London Stock Exchange, NASDAQ investor. In our society, capital markets play the historic role of and NYSE Euronext all have stock market indices that focus on investing what we choose not to consume today. The objective companies that exhibit “best in class” performance or that provide is to provide economic opportunities strengthened by secure solutions to sustainability challenges. sources of energy, water and physical safety. “Research shows that on average, positive, opportunity-focused Over the past decade, capital markets have come under increased application of environmental, social and governance investment scrutiny for their effectiveness in these areas. The recent global criteria leads to outperformance.” recession, along with its destruction of economic value and jobs, has been attributed in large part to the short-termism of the capital — CARY KROSINSKY, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, TRUCOST markets, banks and investment houses. Citizenship, or the ethical pursuit of business success—achieved by delivering affordable products that help address pressing challenges—requires “patient” Major institutional investors focus on such key indicators of longcapital that rewards businesses whose strategies and practices term value-creation potential as governance and remuneration. align with these long-term, value-creating opportunities. The management of social and environmental impacts is While the debate continues on the pros and cons of various increasingly viewed as a test for effectively handling complex approaches to financial regulation, a new breed of shareowner strategic and operational challenges. As Trevor Schauenberg, has emerged with a greater focus on citizenship and long-term vice president, investor communications for GE, explains, “There concerns. Nearly one in eight dollars under professional is a significant universe of long-term investors who want greater management in the U.S. is already invested using some form of 48 GE 2010 CITIZENSHIP REPORT exposure to well-managed companies and emerging markets. As GE prepares for the future, our cumulative earnings and cash Because citizenship is a key component of GE’s operational flow over the last decade rank in the top 10 of all the companies in excellence, GE is able to respond to these investors and produce the world. In 2010, GE’s stock price grew by 21%, outperforming the better value over the long term.” S&P 500 Index, which grew by 13%. And, while GE is widely acknowledged as a sustainability leader in its products and Solving Big Problems processes, the traditional “socially responsible investment” GE’s products aim to meet many of tomorrow’s pressing needs, community, primarily because of its aversion to nuclear technology from clean energy to energy-efficient infrastructures and or defense-related activities, holds very little stock. transportation to clean water and affordable healthcare. Valuing Citizenship GE is investing in technology. Over the last five years, the Citizenship is a critical value driver for GE, and it will continue Company’s research and development budget has increased by to be an important differentiator to investors in the future. This more than 40%, from $2.8 billion in 2006 to $4 billion in 2010. These is true for many other companies as well, as businesses adjust investments have focused increasingly on core societal challenges, their products and processes to meet growing environmental such as those exemplified by two programs, ecomagination and challenges and the sustainability demands of customers and healthymagination. These initiatives have established measurable communities around the world. commitments for creating products that, respectively, improve our customers’ energy, carbon and water efficiency footprints and Developing consistent methods for measuring and reporting on the affordability, accessibility and quality of healthcare. performance in areas such as greenhouse gas emissions and water use will be crucial to understanding and rewarding good performance. GE applauds the work of initiatives such as the “I am confident that GE will continue to be successful in the Carbon Disclosure Project, the World Resources Institute and the years to come.” World Business Council for Sustainable Development in creating — Warren Buffett the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We use the GHG Protocol for our own emissions inventory and have worked with other companies in road-testing a new standard to help measure the emissions While the core of GE’s critical knowledge platform resides in the associated with products and supply chains. U.S., the Company has accelerated investment into “In country-for country” research in Shanghai, Bangalore, Munich and, soon, Rio Today’s capital markets are in the early stages of responding to de Janeiro. The idea is to effectively leverage local expertise and such signals. Competencies, information flows, analytic models insights to address the evolving needs of emerging markets and remuneration approaches will continue to be reshaped in and their nations’ citizens. the years to come to deliver long-term financial returns. The challenge is not to measure the financial return for doing good, GE’s approach is clearly aligned with the interests of long-term but rather the financial rewards from successfully addressing investors, offering exposure to a portfolio of future industries and global challenges with profitable products and services. And fast-growing emerging markets, combined with the disciplined GE expects to play a prominent role in this evolutionary process management and culture of compliance needed to manage the as it continues to generate value and solid returns for its corresponding risk and complexity. many shareowners. ge 2010 citizenship Report 49 reference global reporting initiative (GRI) G3 Content Index Our 2010 Citizenship Report applies a self-declared GRI Application Part II: Standard Disclosures PAGE Level A. To view the more detailed GRI Index, including the EC4 Financial assistance * indicators that we did not report on, as well as more links to relevant EC6 Locally based suppliers * information, and the GRI Application Level Table, please visit EC7 Local hiring * www.gecitizenship.com/frameworks/gri-index. Infrastructure investments and EC8 28, 34, 44 services for public benefit For more information on the GRI Sustainability Reporting Framework and the G3 Guidelines, see www.globalreporting.org. Significant indirect economic Inside cover, EC9 impacts 1, 2, 5, 8, 25, 28 Environment Part II: Standard Disclosures PAGE EN2 Recycled input materials * 1. Strategy and Analysis EN3, EN4 Energy consumption 44 1.1 CEO’s Statement 14 Initiatives to reduce energy 1, 2, 5, 8, 15, 16, EN5–EN7 25, 34 consumption 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 20, 25, 28, 31, 34, EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 25, 34 42, 44 EN10 Water recycled and reused * 2. Organizational Profile EN11–EN15 Biodiversity * 2.1–2.9 Organizational Profile Inside cover, ii, 44 Significant air emissions and 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 52 EN16–EN20 25, 32, 34, 44 initiatives to reduce them 3. Report Parameters EN21 Water discharged 44 3.1–3.3, Reporting parameters Inside cover, 44 Waste and Hazardous Waste, 3.6–3.11 EN22–EN23 44 including significant spills 3.4 Contact point Inside back cover Initiatives to mitigate environmental 3.5 Process for defining report content Inside cover, 16, 20 EN26 25, 34 impacts of products and services 3.12 Standard report disclosures 50 EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions 44 3.13 External assurance policy and practice 6 Environmental protection EN30 25 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement expenditure and investments 4.1–4.7, Governance arrangements, including Labour 15, 18, 42 4.9–4.10 ESG arrangements LA1, LA13 Employee profile and diversity 44 Internally developed statements of LA4 Collective bargaining agreements * mission or values, codes of conduct, 4.8 17, 18, 32 Employee health and safety and principles relevant to ESG, and LA6, LA9 * representation the status of their implementation LA7, LA8 Health and safety data and programs 44 4.11 Precautionary principle 42 Employee training and career Externally developed ESG LA10–LA12 32, 34, 44 management data and programs principles or other initiatives to 4.12 8 LA13 Diversity 44 which the organization subscribes or that it endorses Human Rights Memberships in associations and/or Significant suppliers and 4.13 8, 18, 25, 42 HR2 44 advocacy organizations contractors’ human rights screening 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement 6, 18, 25, 28, 38 Employee training concerning HR3 44 Disclosures on Management Approach aspects of human rights Economic 5, 20, 25, 28 Managing human rights risk in HR4–HR7 44 operations Environmental 20, 25, 32, 34, 42, 44 Society Labour 18, 22 SO1 Impacts of operations on communities 34, 42 Human Rights 2, 5, 8, 22, 34 SO2–SO4 Managing risks related to corruption 42, 44 Society 2, 8, 28, 34, 44 Participation in public policy 8, 14, 17, 18, Product Responsibility ii, 2, 20, 25, 28, 34 SO5 development 25, 28, 34 Economic SO6 Political contributions * Direct economic value generated i, 17, 28, EC1 Product Responsibility and distributed 5, 34, 44 Health and safety impacts of EC2 Implications of climate change 25 PR1 28 products and services EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations * PR6 Responsible marketing behavior 42 *This content exists online. To visit the page with its link, see the GRI extended index at www.gecitizenship.com/reporting/frameworks/gri-index. 50 ge 2010 citizenship Report reference United nations global compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. As a multistakeholder leadership initiative, it seeks to align business operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption and to catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals. GE became a signatory to the UNGC in 2008. In addition to our For more information about how GE is working with the UNGC, 2010 Citizenship reporting, GE has produced this table as part of please visit www.gecitizenship.com/frameworks/un-global-compact. our Communication on Progress (COP). Business signatories to the For more information about the UNGC strategic policy initiative, visit UNGC are required to annually submit a COP for the UNGC Web the UN Global Compact Web site at www.unglobalcompact.org. site and to share the COP widely with their stakeholders. UNGC 10 Commitments PAGE/LINK Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 p. 30 proclaimed human rights; and www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/ Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human human-rights Principle 2 rights abuses. Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Human Rights—www.gecitizenship.com/ Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; our-commitment-areas/human-rights Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Our People—www.gecitizenship.com/ our-commitment-areas/our-people The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Energy and Climate, p. 25 Principle 7 challenges; Environment—www.gecitizenship.com/ourcommitment-areas/environment-health-safety Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Public Policy—www.gecitizenship.com/ Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly our-commitment-areas/public-policy Principle 9 technologies. Our Suppliers—www.gecitizenship.com/ our-commitment-areas/our-suppliers www.ecomagination.com Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Compliance & Governance— Principle 10 extortion and bribery. www.gecitizenship.com/our-commitment-areas/ compliance-governance ge 2010 citizenship Report 51 reference GE AWards & Recognition GE recognizes the difficulty in benchmarking its policies, processes Best U.S. Corporate Governance and programs against its peers, as the Company portfolio spans Investor Relations, 2007 multiple regions, businesses, industries and products. Here we provide a quick snapshot of external benchmarks where others Best in Leadership Development have decided how GE measures against their respective Leadership Excellence, 2007, 2008 standards. This list below reflects performance recognized for work done in 2010 and before. Most Ethical Companies Ethisphere, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Investors Dow Jones Sustainability Index: 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, America’s Most Generous Corporate Foundations 2009, 2010 BusinessWeek, 2010 (#5) Innovest: Highest AAA rating Brand Sustainability Index survey M&M, 2010 (#2) KLD: Global Climate 100 Index Diversity Maplecroft: Climate Innovation Index (#1) Best Diversity Companies Diversity/Careers, 2007 Company & Leadership World’s Most Admired Companies Great Place to Work Fortune, 2006 (#1), 2007 (#1), 2008 (#2), 2009 (#9), Black Enterprise, 2007 2010 (#16) Best Companies for Women’s Advancement #1 Company for Leaders Working Mothers, 2011 Fortune/Hewitt Associates, 2007, 2009 BusinessWeek, 2010 (#1) 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers Transparency International, 2010 Working Mothers, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 World’s Most Respected Company Most Powerful Women Barron’s Magazine, 2008 (#11), 2009 (#43) Fortune, 2007, 2008, Charlene Begley Fortune, 2009, Lauren Zalaznick Top 50 Technology Companies Scientific American, 2007 Top 100 Military Employers G.I. Jobs, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Best Place to Launch a Career BusinessWeek, 2007 (#13), 2008 (#12), 2009 (#16) Top 50 Employers for Veterans Military Times, 2010 (#1) 100 Most Influential People Society of Women Engineers Time, 2008, Jeff Immelt President’s Award, GE Women’s Network, 2009 Time, 2009, Lauren Zalaznick Citizenship Reporting Best Global Brand CERES Sustainability Reporting BusinessWeek, 2008, 2009 2009 GE Citizenship Report—Top 15 Most Innovative Companies Corporate Register Reporting Awards BusinessWeek, 2007 (#4), 2008 (#4), 2009 (#17), 2010 (#23) 2009 GE Citizenship Report—Top 10 in Best Report, Best Carbon Fast Company, 2009 (#11), 2010 (#19), 2011 (#45) Disclosure, Creativity in Communications, Relevance & Materiality and Credibility Through Assurance 20 Best Companies for Leadership BusinessWeek, 2011 52 ge 2010 citizenship Report General Electric Company Fairfield, Connecticut 06828 www.ge.com MAKE MONEY MAKE IT ETHICALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE At the heart of GE’s approach is a simple framework: make money, make it ethically and make a difference. This is an integrated approach, as each piece depends upon the others for overall success. To learn more about how this principle guides GE in addressing the world’s most complex challenges, please visit our Web site at www.gecitizenship.com.
