Annual Report 2010 About this report In order to make known its performance, The financial data for 2009 and 2010 were perspectives and management model, Embraer S.A. has calculated according to the criteria set forth by adopted, for the third consecutive year, the international Brazilian accounting standards (International Financial Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines in the G3 Accounting Standards – IFRS), and they were audited version, and we declare that we have achieved application by PricewaterhouseCoopers. In the case of significant level “B.” This publication makes reference to the results of changes that affect the comparability of the information, 2010 as published in 2011. GRI 3.2 | 3.3 they will be duly indicated during the report. Information Our objective is to present economic, social and regarding the location of the GRI indicators can be environmental results clearly, transparently and broadly to found at the end of this report and, also, at the end of stakeholders (employees, customers, community, financial the paragraphs, graphs or tables in which they were institutions, suppliers, government, NGOs, shareholders and described. GRI 3.7 | 3.8 | 3.9 | 3.10 | 3.11 | 3.12 | 3.13 investors, representative associations and organizations, As Embraer sees it, the geographical definition of and media). GRI 4.14 “place” refers to the suppliers located in the same country We also plan to show the initiatives and the as its headquarters – that is, Brazil. GRI 2.1 commitment to development, with a focus on management and results, and to show how Embraer mitigates the impacts caused by its activities on the environment. GRI 3.5 The information published here covers the period For more information, go to: from January 1st, 2010, to December 31, 2010, except when ri.embraer.com.br/Embraer subsequent events are mentioned, and the full economicfinancial results of operations carried out in Brazil and the other Suggested documents: countries where Embraer has units. The socioenvironmental Financial Statements, Reference Forms and 20-F Report results reported refer to the units installed in Brazil, except or call: +55 12 3927 4404 GRI 3.4 when other subsidiaries are included in the coverage. The criteria for selecting the information give priority to the relevance of the subjects for the Company, and they also consider Embraer’s commitments to the indicators found in the Corporate Sustainability Index. GRI 3.1 | 3.6 | 3.9 Mesa 8:30am | -7 Nashville 9:30am | -6 Index Minneapolis 9:30am | -6 Louisville 10:30am | -5 We are Embraer, a global Company Fort Lauderdale 10:30am | -5 Windsor Locks 10:30am | -5 “The human capacity to fly is fantastic. that develops innovative aircraft and Melbourne 10:30am | -5 São Paulo 12:30pm | -3 Taubaté 12:30pm | -3 Botucatu 12:30pm | -3 Gavião Peixoto 12:30pm | -3 technologies, because we believe that people Flight shortens borders and makes time our ally, São José dos Campos 12:30pm | -3 Alverca 4:30pm | +1 deserve a best way to fly.” Évora 4:30pm | +1 Villepinte 4:30pm | +1 Le Bourget 4:30pm | +1 drawing people and cultures together. singapore 11:30pm | +8 beijing 11:30pm | +8 Harbin 11:30pm | +8 . 04 . Message from the President & CEO . 08 . Profile . 16 . Business Principles and Management Practices . 28 . Scenario and Strategy . 32 . Performance . 56 . Socioenvironmental Performance . 88 . Corporate Information 4. Message from the President & CEO GRI 1.1 | 1.2 Embraer positioned itself appropriately throughout 2010, and significant results were achieved. Most of the corporate objectives and operational and financial performance goals were met or surpassed, as well as several objectives related to programs under development, most notably the certification of the Legacy 650. After nearly two years of difficulties and challenges brought on by the international financial crisis, the aviation industry was marked by signs of stabilization and recovery in some of its segments in 2010. For Embraer, the year ended better than it started and, despite the adversities that the market still faces, the Company achieved its objectives and took one more important step forward in building its longevity and perpetuity. Embraer’s good positioning allowed us to take advantage of the opportunities that arose during 2010, and some significant results were achieved. We met or surpassed our corporate objectives and operational and financial-economic goals, in addition to reaching various milestones of programs under development, including the certification of the Legacy 650. In addition, the constant efforts put forth through the Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E), mainly in its industrial operations, contributed positively to improving the Company’s gross margin. Embraer strengthened itself operationally and financially, invested in its people and processes and in developing new products and new technologies, and continues to enjoy great credibility and acceptance in the market. Current and new customers, mainly in the commercial aviation market, have begun procuring our aircraft once again, and the market, in general, has recognized our capacity to stand strong under difficulties, be competitive and preserve our economicfinancial health. At the end of 2010, Embraer’s firm order backlog stabilized at US$15.6 billion, after more than two years of decline. .5 In summarized retrospect of the relevant facts for the year, in the commercial aviation market, we gained some 100 new orders for the E-Jets, thus reaffirming the good positioning of these products in the market. There were 101 commercial jets delivered, which surpassed the initial estimate of 90 aircraft. In the executive aviation market, Embraer also had a remarkable 2010, with the delivery of 145 jets, which was the largest number among all manufacturers, and represented 19% of the industry’s deliveries. In other words, practically one in every five executive jets delivered in 2010 was made by Embraer. A special highlight was the important contract with NetJets, the largest executive jet operator in the World, to supply 50 Phenom 300 light jets, with options for an additional 75 – truly a seal of credibility for Embraer in that market segment. In the area of Defense and Security, there were also numerous triumphs, like the first sale of the Super Tucano in Asia, with a contract for eight airplanes for Indonesia. Furthermore, international partnerships were formed for the KC-390 program with the governments of Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Portugal, Czech Republic and Argentina, giving a firm boost to future export business. Several important dates were commemorated in 2010, like ten years of Embraer’s presence in China and Singapore, as well as ten years of our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), and ten years since our Gavião Peixoto plant went into operation. 6. Gavião Peixoto | 12:30pm | -3 mesa | 8:30am | -7 For the second consecutive year, we were listed among the best companies to work for in Brazil, and we were recognized, by an important national trade publication, as the best company in the vehicle and transport industry. We won awards for the transparency of our management and our financial statements, which endorse our position as one of the global companies that effectively practice the best principles of corporate governance. As for the responsibility to preserve the environment, we are working with other industry stakeholders to reduce the impact of aviation on the environment. The target set by IATA is to achieve a 50% reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050, in relation to the levels in 2006. Therefore, we are involved on different fronts in developing more efficient airplanes and sustainable biofuels for aviation. Embraer’s commitment to building a sustainable future is established in all of its dimensions, and founded on our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. In recognition of the actions carried out in recent years, at the end of 2010, Embraer was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), after having been evaluated as one of the best global companies in the aerospace industry, and ranked in the “Gold Class” in terms of sustainability practices. It is also important to point out that we were, once again, chosen to be listed with the ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial/Corporate Sustainability Index) of the BM&FBOVESPA, as has happened every year since the index was created in 2005. November 19, 2010, was a historic day for Embraer. On that date, the General Meeting of Shareholders approved two important changes in our corporate bylaws: the name of the Company, from Embraer – Empresa Brasileira de Aeronáutica S.A., to Embraer S.A.; and the expansion of our corporate purpose, from a single focus on the aerospace area to adding defense and security, as well as energy. This can be considered as one of the most important changes made in the Company’s 41-year history, once we open new doors for growth and for building our future. .7 Fort Lauderdale | 10:30am | -5 São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 Consistent with this development, Embraer Defense and Security was created in January 2011 as a corporate unit that will be autonomous and agile to meet the needs of current and future customers in the defense and security market, domestically and abroad. Brazil has played an increasingly relevant role on the worldwide geopolitical scene and, through its National Defense Strategy, has established a forward-looking vision for positioning the nation’s defense material industry. The creation of this new business unit is an important step in consolidating Embraer’s central standing within this context, which continued at the beginning of 2011, with the signing of partnerships and the acquisition of part of the capital of companies that have technology for developing radar, command, control, computation, communication, and intelligence (C4I) systems, and unmanned aerial vehicles (USV). Regarding the expansion of our business into the energy sector, we have broadened feasibility studies and analyses for investments, while always keeping in mind our central competencies – those which will allow Embraer to compete and win customers and markets. We will move forward, as we gain a clear certainty about the potential return on those investments and the true benefit they can accrue for our Company and our shareholders. We face the future with optimism and determination and remain firmly on track with continuous improvement and the practice of our values. We are bold and innovative, pursuing excellence in what we do, investing in our people and working to satisfy our customers worldwide, and create value for our shareholders. Last but not least, we are building our future in a sustainable manner. Frederico Fleury Curado President & CEO 8. Profile GRI 2.1 | 2.7 | 2.8 | 2.9 The change of the Company name to Embraer S.A. expanded its business scope, by creating opportunities for diversification and non-organic growth. Embraer S.A. in the airline and executive jet markets, along with the defense and security segments. It also provides after-sale Created on August 19, 1969, by the initiative of support and services to customers in 95 countries, and has the federal government, Embraer transformed science become the world’s largest manufacturer of aircraft with up and technology in to engineering and industrial capacity. to 120 seats, and one of the largest Brazilian exporters. It Upon completing 41 years, it strengthened its pursuit of has produced and delivered more than five thousand units excellence by making a change in its corporate name to in a highly competitive, cash-intensive market with high Embraer S.A., and also expanded the business and market technological content. areas, which will allow the Company to promote or carry out The Company’s stocks are traded on the São Paulo Stock technical activities linked to the development, production Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), and for ten years it has been listed and support of aircraft, as well as carrying out other with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Furthermore, it is technological, industrial, commercial and related services of listed with the BM&FBOVESPA Corporate Sustainability Index the defense and security areas. This expansion will provide (ISE) and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). opportunities for diversification and non-organic growth, Embraer closed out 2010 with 17,149 direct via investments in other areas, and allow the Company to employees1 – 16,133 in Brazil and 1,016 abroad – all of whom engage in anticyclical activities, in relation to the fluctuating are committed to the goal of changing the way people and demands of the aeronautics industry. GRI 2.9 products are transported, always based on high technology, After it was privatized, in 1994, the Company safety and customer satisfaction. experienced an expansion process, and today, it is involved 1. Number does not include employees of partially owned subsidiaries; OGMA – Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal S.A., where Embraer controls 65% of the capital (1,512 employees); or HEAI – Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry, a factory in Harbin, China, in a joint venture with the Chinese state-owned AVIC (223 employees), which has 1,735 direct employees. Fort lauderdale | 10:30am | -5 Taubaté | 12:30pm | -3 louisville | 10:30am | -5 Villepinte | 4:30pm | +1 10. nashville | 9:30am | -6 Minneapolis | 9:30am | -6 “We don’t want to change the World. Just its way of flying.” Embraer’s Worldwide Operations UsA GRI 2.5 Fort Lauderdale Nashville Countries with operations Mesa Factories Windsor Locks Offices Louisville Service Centers Authorized Centers Minneapolis Spare Parts Distribution Centers Melbourne* * Under construction. Brazil São José dos Campos Gavião Peixoto Botucatu Taubaté São Paulo .11 alverca | 4:30pm | +1 China Beijing Harbin Singapore Singapore Portugal France Alverca Villepinte Évora* Le Bourget * Under construction. 12. Global Presence as well as a specialized worldwide authorized network. Today, Embraer is one of the largest aerospace Embraer also has distribution centers for replacement parts companies in the world, due to its constant and and specialized technical staff in China, to give support to determined pursuit of fully satisfying its customers. Now customers. holding a part of the global market and having important Support for sales, marketing and promotional and internationally renowned partners, for more than 40 activities is provided by the offices in São José dos Campos, years Embraer has been contributing to the integration of Fort Lauderdale, Villepinte, Singapore and Beijing. the world through aviation, shortening distances between With a majority holding, in association with EADS, people and offering aircraft with the most modern Embraer controls 65% of the capital of OGMA – Indústria technology, versatility and comfort. Aeronáutica de Portugal S.A., which is an aeronautics Embraer invests in its global presence in order to maintenance and production company. It also holds HEAI offer products, services and attention that meet the needs – Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry, which is a factory in of its customers and markets. Therefore, it maintains Harbin, China, in a joint venture with the Chinese stateindustrial and operational units in Brazil and in several owned AVIC. GRI 2.5 other countries. The Company’s headquarters are located in Brazil, in the city of São José dos Campos, in the state New Factories – The Company inaugurated its first industrial of São Paulo. GRI 2.4 unit in the United states in February 2011 at Melbourne The Company maintains its engineering, development International Airport, in the Florida city by the same name. and manufacturing activities in Brazil, with five industrial The facility will be initially dedicated to assembling the units located in São José dos Campos, Eugênio de Melo, Phenom jets and supporting the executive jets business. In Botucatu and Gavião Peixoto, as well as two logistical centers addition, Embraer is adding two new industrial units in the in Taubaté and Campinas, all in the state of São Paulo. city of Évora, in the Alentejo region of Portugal, which will In order to support its after-sale operations, Embraer be dedicated to manufacturing milled metallic structures and has Company-owned service and replacement parts sales sets made of composite materials. GRI 2.5 centers in São José dos Campos (São Paulo – Brazil); Fort Lauderdale (Florida), Mesa (Arizona), Nashville (Tennessee), New Corporate Unit – In 2011, the Company’s defense and and Windsor Locks (Connecticut), in the U.S.; Villepinte (near security business began to be managed by a new corporate Roissy – Charles de Gaulle Airport) in France; and in Singapore, unit, whose creation was announced in December 2010. Embraer Defense and Security brings together not only the production and support of military aircraft and systems (patrol and surveillance), but also other types of military and civilian security projects. This separation of the defense and security business from the rest constitutes a big opportunity for Embraer, because For years it will basically change the verticalization of functions. Such areas as human resources and the purchase of supplies for assembling aircraft will report directly to the new company, thus strengthening the interfaces and facilitating even more Embraer has worked to bring the decision-making processes. GRI 2.5 the planet together through Corporate Structure GRI 2.3 In order to support its operational activities, aviation, with the most modern Embraer has a corporate structure that has the objective of meeting the demands and particularities of each Country in which it is involved, besides improving and aircraft technology and comfort. organizing the management of the group’s companies, while providing the integration of all operations and customer satisfaction. .13 controller Indústria ELEB ECC do Brasil Embraer Beijing Embraer RepreEmbraer Credit Aeronáutica Equipamentos Cia de Seguros GPX Ltda. Commercial sentations, LLC Limited, LLC Neiva Ltda Ltda. subsidiary subsidiary Office subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary Embraer Embraer Embraer Overseas Asia Pacific Aircraft Pte. Limited – Limited Holding Inc. Singapore subsidiary subsidiary Embraer Embraer Embraer Embraer Embraer Embraer Aircraft Aircraft Customer Executive Executive Training Services Inc. Maintenance Services Inc. Jet Service LLC Aircraft Inc. Services Service Inc. Embraer Embraer Embraer CAE Aviation Austrália Training Europe SAS Pty Limited Services Holding subsidiary subsidiary Embraer Embraer Aviation Embraer Europe’s International Europe SARL Representative SAS Office Dubai Embraer Spain Holding Co. SL subsidiary Embraer China Harbin Embraer Embraer Embraer CAE ECC Leasing ECC Investment Aircraft Industry Air Holding Training Services Aircraft Technical Company Portugal Switzerland AG Co. Ltd. (JV SGPS S.A. (UK) Ltd. Service Co. Ltd. Limited SGPS S.A. Embraer AVIC II) Embraer OGMA Indústria ECC Insurance & Embraer Portugal Aeronáutica de Financial Co. Ltd. Finance Ltd. Estruturas Portugal S.A. Metálicas S.A. Embraer Listral Embraer Portugal Estruturas Merco S.A. Estruturas em Aeronáuticas S.A. Compósitos S.A. 14. Participation in Associations and Commitments Embraer has been one of the signers of the Embraer adopts principles and commitments UN Global Compact since 2008. When it joined, it in association with a variety of organizations, so as to made a public commitment to develop policies and expand its social involvement and develop the continuous strategies and to implement and monitor actions that improvement processes for its management. The seek to promote human rights, labor relations and the Company participates proactively and with solidarity in environment and fight corruption by making every effort issues relevant to human, environmental and economic to perfect the interaction processes of the organization, development for the aerospace industry. whether internally or externally. GRI 4.12 Table of Indexes and Highlights2 GRI 2.8 | EC1 Variation 2010 2009 2008 Table of Indexes and Highlights [R$ Million] 2010 v 2009 (%) Net Revenues 9,381 14 10,871 11,747 » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » Gross Margin (%) 19.2 1 19.4 20.5 Operating Income 686 11 767 1,112 Operating Margin (%) 7.3 3 7.1 9.5 EBITDA 1.069 12 1,219 1,500 EBITDA Margin (%) 11.4 2 11.2 12.8 Net Profits 574 37 912 429 Net Margin (%) 6.1 27 8.4 3.6 Investments 3 573 30 824 962 Net Indebtedness 2,391 33 3,584 4,300 ROE (%) 11.0 40 18.2 8.1 ROCE – US$ (%) 16.1 2 15.8 17.1 Dividends Distributed 201 12 229 224 Total Assets 13,981 10 15,478 21,499 Net Property 5,218 4 5,020 5,971 Firm Order Backlog (US$ Billion) 15.6 6 16.6 20.9 Revenue Backlog (Years) 3.0 6 3.3 3.8 Aircraft Delivered (Units) 246 1 244 204 Number of Employees 17,149 2 16,853 23,509 EBIT per Employee (R$ 1,000) 40 7 43 47 2. The numbers calculated for 2009 and 2010 are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and those for 2008 are in line with Law No. 11,638/07. 3. Values include investments in Development and Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E). The Ibase Social Report containing the socioenvironmental indicators is found on page 80. .15 Revenue Breakdown GRI 2.7 Revenue by Segment 2% 2% 2% 2008 11% 11% 9% 13% 9% 8% 14% 16% 21% Commercial Aviation 2009 Executive Aviation 53% 62% 67% Defense and Security Aviation Services Commercial Aviation 2010 Others 2010 2009 2008 2008 Revenue by Region 2009 4% 6% 7% 22% 21% 18% 4% North America Executive Aviation 13% 11% 10% 7% Europe Large Jets 2010 15% 18% Latin America 33% 33% Brazil 43% Asia Pacific 22% 13% Others 2008 2010 2009 2008 2009 Aircraft Deliveries by Segment Executive Aviation 165 Light Jets 2010 19 126 125 101 98 2008 37 21 2009 2 2010 2009 2008 Defense and Security Civil Jets 2010 Commercial Executive Large* Executive Light** * Legacy and Lineage ** Phenom Jets delivered to the Defense and Security market are accounted for in the segment according to the model delivered. 16. Business Principles and Management Practices Embraer generates value for its stakeholders as it follows its vision, its values and the highest governance standards currently practiced in Brazil. It is through these precepts that the Company seeks to ensure its perpetuity, with behavioral integrity and a keen socioenvironmental awareness. Business Philosophy Vision Values Embraer will continue to consolidate itself as one The values that shape attitudes and unite actions to of the main global forces in the aeronautics and defense ensure the Company’s perpetuity are: GRI 4.8 and security markets and as a leader of the segments in which it is involved, recognized for the level of excellence Our people in its corporate action. GRI 4.8 Our customers Company excellence Boldness and innovation Business Global presence It is Embraer’s business to generate value for its Sustainable future shareholders, by fully satisfying its customers in the global aeronautics market. Generating value is understood to be the maximization of the Company’s value and the guarantee of its perpetuity, with integrity of conduct and social and environmental awareness. The Company concentrates on three business areas and markets: the airline market, executive jets and defense and security. GRI 4.8 minneApolis | 9:30am | -6 Windsor locks | 10:30am | -5 Le Bourget | 4:30pm | +1 São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 18. Villepinte | 4:30pm | +1 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Since May, 2011, the Board of Directors (BD) has Embraer S.A. is a publicly traded corporation with been composed of 13 full members and their respective its capital spread among thousands of shareholders – substitutes, elected directly by the shareholders, and nine of many of whom are long-term institutional investors – and them are independent. It is up to the Federal Government, as which operates in a field that is highly competitive and the holder of the Golden Share, to name one member, and cash intensive, with high technological content. For that the employees must name two representatives: one for the reason, it is more than necessary to have a corporate Embraer Employee Investment Club (Clube de Investimentos governance model that safeguards the responsibilities dos Empregados da Embraer – CIEMB) and the other elected inherent to an integral business management and that directly by the employees who are not shareholders. GRI 4.3 ensures sustainability and perpetuity. The BD meets regularly, eight times a year, or at This commitment to the shareholders and other any time to discuss and decide on matters important stakeholders is an effect of the proposed company to the operations of Embraer. All members serve a joint restructuring, which, among its achievements, brought two-year mandate, and reelection is permitted. GRI 4.4 the unification of the classes of shares issued by the The mission of the Board of Directors, among other Company and in circulation for a class of common stocks. functions, is to establish guidelines; set the overall direction This unification facilitates Embraer’s participation in for the business, along with plans and goals, the annual the BM&FBOVESPA New Market and also ensures the budget, and investment programs established by the benefit of 100% of the tag-along rights. GRI 2.9 Board’s Action Plan; follow the performance of Embraer in The Brazilian Government, as the holder of the the markets where it operates; call independent auditors; special class Golden Share, preserved its right to veto and issue stocks and bonuses. The BD also can elect and issues considered to be strategic for the Company and for dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as the Federal Republic of Brazil. inspect its management. GRI 4.1 The Articles of Incorporation also provide for other In 2010, as a means of strengthening even more protective mechanisms to ensure not only the spread of the practices of corporate governance and of meeting the the controlling shareholders, but also that most of the needs of the shareholders, the BD started using a selfvotes cast during the deliberations of any general assembly evaluation process to rate its own performance. GRI 4.10 be cast by Brazilian shareholders, which was an principle established when the Company was privatized. GRI 2.6 .19 gavião peixoto | 12:30pm | -3 Alverca | 4:30pm | +1 Composition of the Board of Directors Strategy Committee [on January 1st, 2011] It is the responsibility of the Strategy Committee President to assist the BD in establishing the strategic policies and Maurício Novis Botelho guidelines for the segments in which Embraer operates; follow the Company’s management, in order to increase its efficiency Vice President and effectiveness and to reduce costs; and establish priorities Hermann Heinemann Wever for new demands and investments. GRI 4.9 Members Risks Committee Cecília Mendes Garcez Siqueira This new committee established in 2010 has the Wilson Carlos Duarte Delfino responsibility to identify and manage the risks inherent Claudemir Marques de Almeida to the Company’s activities, by operating in a totally Israel Vainboim independent manner in relation to the operational units; Aprígio Eduardo de Moura Azevedo to consolidate the risks and make it possible for the BD Paulo César de Souza Lucas to make evaluated decisions regarding allocations of Samir Zraick capital based on return/risk; to formalize the processes Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto in which risks are present and, periodically, review them Ingo Plöger GRI 4.2 and readapt them to the new needs; to establish, publish and document standards and procedures for approving Auxiliary Committees and managing risks; to provide Embraer with the most In November, 2010, the Executive Committee advanced models for measurement, and processes for ceased to exist, and the Strategy Committee was formed, managing risks, that are able to furnish the necessary as well as the new Risks Committee. The Company now has information with maximum accuracy, speed, and security; four auxiliary committees, all of which advise the Board of and to prepare employees (through formation, training, Directors in areas significant for Embraer. GRI 4.1 etc.) in terms of risk management. GRI 4.9 For more on the résuméS of the members, go to: ri.embraer.com.br/Embraer/Show.aspx?id_canal=pYKhgRD4EdB96GGQEb9knA== GRI 4.7 20. Human Resources Committee Composition of the Fiscal Board Composed of four members, all of whom are named [on January 1st, 2011] by the BD, its responsibilities are to assist the Board of President Directors in electing and dismissing Company directors; to Ivan Mendes do Carmo establish the functions of executive directors; to name the Director of Investor Relations, in line with the regulations Vice President of the Brazilian SEC (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários – Eduardo Coutinho Guerra CVM); to approve the salary and human resources policy, including criteria for remuneration, rights and advantages Members and remuneration of the top management; and to authorize Alberto Carlos Monteiro dos Anjos donations or transfers of resources. Taiki Hirashima Adolpho Gonçalves Nogueira Audit Committee In compliance with the requirements of the SarbanesExecutive Board Oxley Act (SOX), Embraer made several changes in its Fiscal The Executive Board (EB) manages the Company, Board, so that it can perform the functions of the Audit with its responsibilities established by the Articles of Committee. This became necessary because the Company Incorporation, and it is named by the Board of Directors has ADRs on the NYSE. The Committee’s functions are: to for a two-year mandate. Management follows the present recommendations to the BD regarding the choice, strategic planning that takes into consideration not only elimination, substitution or hiring of other services from the economic, financial and operational performance, but external auditing firms and amounts paid for the services they the socioenvironmental as well, which is part of the goals provide; and to mediate eventual conflicts and controversies and remuneration of the EB. GRI 4.5 | 4.10 between the Board and the external auditors. Additional In 2010, the EB was reorganized to expand the functions are to supervise the work of the external auditors; Company’s capacity for external actions and, at the same to take the initiatives and measures needed for knowing and time, its competitiveness and the quality of its employees, checking on complaints regarding articles referring to its products and services. Three fundamental changes financial statements, internal controls and the independent were made in this reorganization: the creation of a COO audit; to supervise the quality of the financial reports (Chief Operating Officer), with a strong emphasis on and and Embraer’s compliance with the legal and regulatory dedication to the internal operations of the Company; the requirements; and to evaluate and manage the qualifications, establishment of a specific front to study, plan and make performance and independence of the internal audit and the new programs feasible; and the creation of a new position internal financial and control risks. GRI 4.6 focusing exclusively on strategies and policies pertaining to people, in addition to the existing human resources Fiscal Board structure. Besides this, as mentioned previously, the The Fiscal Board is a standing body that inspects Embraer Defense and Security corporate unit was created administrative actions. It is elected in a regular general in November. meeting for a one-year mandate and is composed of five full members, whether shareholders or not, with one of them being a financial expert, and their respective substitutes. GRI 4.1 | 4.4 | 4.6 For more on the résumés of the Fiscal Board members, go to: ri.embraer.com.br/Embraer/Show.aspx?id_canal=pYKhgRD4EdB96GGQEb9knA== For more on the résumés of the members of the Executive Board, go to: ri.embraer.com.br/Embraer/Show.aspx?id_canal=pYK hgRD4EdB96GGQEb9knA== .21 Composition of the Executive Board Executive Vice President, [on January 1st, 2011] New Programs Airline Market President & CEO Mauro Kern Júnior Frederico Pinheiro Fleury Curado Executive Vice President, Technology Executive Vice President & CFO Emílio Kazunoli Matsuo Cynthia Marcondes Ferreira Benedetto Executive Vice President & General Counsel COO Flávio Rímoli Artur Aparecido Valério Coutinho Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs Executive Vice President, Airline Market Horacio Aragonés Forjaz Paulo César de Souza e Silva Executive Vice President, People Development Executive Vice President, Executive Jets Antonio Júlio Franco Luís Carlos Affonso Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Officer, Embraer Defense and Security Organization and Human Resources Luiz Carlos Siqueira Aguiar Hermann Ponte e Silva 22. In May, 2011, Embraer made the following changes  auro Kern took responsibility for the Engineering and M in the composition of its Executive Board: Technology area, whose former head, Emílio Matsuo, moved on to the recently created position of Embraer’s L uís Carlos Affonso took responsibility for New Programs, Chief Engineer and was succeeded at the head of the Executive Jets In the Operations area, Hélio Bambini took responsibility business by Ernest Edwards, formerly responsible for for Industrial Operations marketing and sales, North America and the Caribbean Therefore, the new Embraer organization now has the following macrostructure: Corporate Structure General CFO COO President & CEO USA Counsel Cynthia Artur Frederico Curado Gary Spulak Flávio Rímoli Benedetto Coutinho People Europe Júlio Franco Luiz Fuchs Country Risks Sustainability and Presidents Management Organizational Development Luís Navarro Institutional Hermann Silva Relations China Frederico Curado Guan Dongyuan (Interim) Business Development Antonio Campello New Programs Asia and Pacific Luís Carlos Ricardo Pesce Affonso Business Products and Services Commercial Executive Defense and Engineering and Industrial Chief Engineer Aviation Aviation Security Technology Operations Paulo César Silva Mauro Kern Emílio Matsuo Ernie Edwards Luiz Carlos Aguiar Hélio Bambini .23 Sustainability Committee Quality Policy In 2009, in an action for improving its commitment Since 1996, Embraer has been certified according to ethics, transparency and the perpetuity of the business, to ISO 9001 standards, and since 2002, by AS 9100 (a Embraer created the Sustainability Committee. standard for Quality Management Systems for Aviation, Composed of four members and connected directly Space and Defense organizations). When P3E (see page to the Executive Board, the Sustainability Committee has 36) went into effect in 2007, these requirements were as its main responsibilities to identify and propose to deepened and expanded to all Embraer employees who the Executive Board the adoption of best sustainability are involved in the pursuit of continuous improvement practices and accompany the established performance in all administrative and operational processes. To be indicators, in order to ensure that the targets are achieved excellent means to have customers, shareholders and during the annual planning cycle. Furthermore, it supports employees who are benefiting from the best corporate the preparation of the Annual Report and the evaluation of practices and their results. In 2010, a study was done to Embraer for participating in sustainability indexes. GRI 4.9 find the level of compliance of Embraer’s Management practices with the fundamentals of excellence of the Relationship with Independent Auditors National Quality Foundation, in order to identify what Embraer’s policy regarding its independent actions are needed to begin implementation in 2011. (The auditors, and services provided that are not related to National Quality Foundation is an organization analogous external audits, is based on principles that preserve the to the European Foundation for Quality Management auditor’s independence. and The Foundation for the Malcolm Baldrige National During 2010, Embraer hired services from those Quality Award). auditors for diagnosing IFRS, for a total of R$279,000, or 5% of the total fees paid for external auditing services, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Policy which were provided to the group’s companies worldwide. As provided in its Environment, Occupational Health Embraer has a policy of presenting all services and Safety Policy, “...Embraer shall perform all industrial and provided by its independent auditors, but not related to commercial operations in an environmentally sustainable external audits, to the Fiscal Board for approval. way, which is entirely safe and promotes good health.” For that reason, it aligns itself with the following Policies principles: respect for the environment; occupational The corporate policies for Financial Management, health and safety as Company priorities, reflected in its Quality, Environment, and Occupational Health and activities, products and services; the continuous perfection Safety have been consistently consolidated through the of performance in these areas, by combining preventive Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E). Embraer practices with corrective action and innovative and effective is on the path to formalizing a corporate Sustainability solutions; and full compliance with environmental, health, policy, and to that end, it follows the best practices. occupational safety, and fire and emergency prevention standards and laws. Financial Management Policy Other priorities include providing training, awareness This policy establishes the guidelines for managing and constant information to employees and stakeholders; the corporate finances related to the Company’s cash flow integrating environmental, health and occupational safety and capital structure. A committee was established with objectives and goals with Embraer’s processes and plans; the responsibility for keeping abreast of the indicators preventing and combating pollution; ensuring that work areas and reporting them to the management, to the Audit conform with health, occupational safety and ergonomic Committee and to the Board of Directors, by reporting requirements; and preserving natural resources, in order to on the opportunities and risks found, and the comments avoid damage to the environment. made regarding the operations and the progress of mitigating actions. 24. São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 Risk Management Market GRI 1.2 | 4.9 | 4.11 The expansion of the operating areas into the defense and security and energy segments will allow Embraer to not Since 2002, Embraer has applied structured be so dependent on the behavior of the aerospace market, risk management processes to a number of corporate which is still recovering from the effects of the international levels, thereby meeting current demands, standards economic crisis that began in 2008. With this operational and regulations of the aerospace industry, according to diversification, the Company will be prepared for eventual national and international standards and laws. market risks. The Company reinforced its processes in 2009, through the Board of Directors’ approval of a Financial Financial Management Policy and, in 2010, by creating the Risks Several risk reduction projects were developed Committee, at the Board of Directors level, which and implemented for corporate processes and in the main strengthened even more its commitment to transparency information systems. The overall control environment was and the perpetuity of the operations and of the material revised, while improving the corporate structure for internal and financial resources used. controls, in line with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Section 404: The entire portfolio of corporate risks is managed Internal control structure of relevant processes for financial and monitored through an Action Plan as the management statements, according to the Public Companies Audit tool. This entire process and its results are periodically Oversight Board (PCAOB). discussed with the top management and presented to the In order to offer better financial support to sales and Risks Committee, Fiscal Board and Board of Directors. operations, Embraer closed a credit operation in September 2010 for US$1 billion, with a group of 25 international financial Operational institutions, for the purpose of ensuring access to shortOperational risks are covered by regularly evaluating term financial resources, in the case of need, at previously our processes. Last year, the treasury and marketing negotiated rates. This amount will be available for up to two processes were evaluated, for the purpose of assessing our years, through two lines of credit: US$400 million for prepractices in light of those of the market. All of the studies financing exports, and US$600 million for financing working done of the processes, from the standpoint of operational capital. This resource may be used for withdrawals, and the risks, are presented and discussed with Embraer’s Audit payment deadline, if used, is September, 2013. Committee, under the responsibility and coordination of the Internal Risks and Controls area. .25 Louisville | 10:30am | -5 Le bourget | 4:30pm | +1 The cash allocation management system adopted Environmental/Climate Change by the Company continues to be one of the main tools GRI ec2 for mitigating exchange risks. Thus, by adjusting the cash The subject of climate change has transformed the allocations in reals (R$) or in dollars (US$), Embraer seeks discussion agenda of organizations, due to numerous alerts to neutralize its exchange exposure. It also extended its regarding the environmental problems arising from global indebtedness, in 2010, in order to ensure greater security for warming and, especially, its effects. its operations. While accompanying the evolution of these issues, Embraer assesses existing opportunities associated with its Image activities, such as controlling consumption, changing the Embraer zealously protects its image, based on a energy matrix, utilizing new technologies, developing new constant and transparent relationship with strategic groups products, and others. Thus, issues related to this subject are in which the Company actively communicates to the market worked out in the organization’s different action plans, as and other stakeholders even before certain issues become described in this report. polemical or become risks to operations and to the brand. During the present year, the process for identifying environmental and climate change risks will be revised, as Legal part of building the organization’s sustainability policy. Embraer is one of the largest aerospace companies and takes part in all of the manufacturing stages of its aircraft, from developing the project to providing aftersale assistance. Therefore, its concern with legally protecting the intellectual property of innovations, generated by its research and development initiatives, is shown in the significant increase in the number of patents requested by Embraer. From 2003 to 2010, there were 64 requests made, of which 26 were granted (12 in 2010 alone). 26. Code of Ethics and Conduct The code also applies to Embraer’s subsidiaries, in GRI 4.6 | 4.8 | so2 | so3 Brazil and abroad, and is absolutely coherent with the laws and best corporate governance practices of the countries Five years after its approval, our Code of Ethics and where we are located. Conduct fits perfectly into the Company’s commitment to As an essential management instrument, Embraer’s intensify its actions for ensuring sustainable growth. Code of Ethics and Conduct will be updated whenever As it works with our corporate values and the basic necessary, contributing decisively to guiding the vision, principles of the UN Global Compact, which the Company actions and behavior that will ensure the perpetuity of formally accepted in 2008, our Code of Ethics and Conduct the Company. This updating and revision of content is is similar to a nation’s constitution, integrating fundamental up to the committees assisting the Board of Directors principles, rules and values that should guide all corporate (Human Resources Committee and Audit Committee) policies, guidelines and procedures. and committees assisting the Company’s Executive Board (Ethics Committee and Sustainability Committee). All employees receive, upon hire or at each updating phase, a copy of the document. Furthermore, presentations are made on the subject to employees, so that everyone can understand its contents and clarify any doubts. For suppliers, partners and other stakeholders, Embraer seeks to present its internal rules of conduct through communiqués. .27 Whistleblowing Channel Number of Reports Received GRI 4.4 | so2 The Whistleblowing Channel, in operation since 2005, received an average of 218 reports from 2005 Embraer has several communications channels to 2008, but in 2009 and 2010, this number went up to between employees and employer. The Whistleblowing 419 reports posted. This increase was due to an internal Channel – managed by an independent company – works campaign regarding the channel, which was held during the with anonymity and confidentiality, and makes it possible second half of 2009. for any person to report an eventual violation of the Code of During the first half of 2010, the number of reports Ethics and Conduct, or of practices that are inappropriate stayed above the average of the year before. As of July, we for the best sustainable practices. The Whistleblowing improved the Whistleblowing Channel, in order to make its Channel is available in three distinct forms: purpose more clear, and we included questions that helped improve the quality of the contents of the reports. After  ail, via mailbox No. 11.331 – ZIP 05422-970 – São M those changes, we had a 45% reduction in the number Paulo/SP – Brazil of reports posted during the second half of the year, in Embraer’s website (www.embraer.com), on the home comparison with the first half of 2010, but, with an improved page, “Report of Misconduct” icon, or filling out a form, quality of the reports, reflecting a better understanding of under “Contact Us” the Code of Ethics and Conduct, and of the true purpose of Embraer’s Intranet this communication channel. The Intranet continues to be the most used channel, from the three that have been made available, and it was responsible for 84% of all reports posted on the Whistleblowing Channel in 2010. This shows the credibility of the mechanism in the aspects already mentioned, such as confidentiality and anonymity in receiving and dealing with the reports that are posted. Total reports received Means Used 2010 428 409 183 Intranet 84% Internet 12% Postal Service 4% 2010 2009 2008 28. Scenario and Strategy In order to generate value for its shareholders, the Company includes among its strategies the development of new businesses and operations, the evolution of the enterprise excellence program (P3E) and the stimulation of best environmental and social practices. Airline Market accessible to a larger number of users. Furthermore, since they have more modern technology, they help lower the impact on In 2010, worldwide air traffic showed an increase of the environment caused by older and inefficient aircraft. 6.4%, according to estimates made by the International Civil The 30to 60-seat segment has achieved its Aviation Organization (ICAO), which confirmed that the air maturity cycle and is established as an important element transportation market is recovering, after the crisis period of for hub feeder systems in the main North American and 2008–2009. As a result, the industry may earn as much as European airports. The primary demand for this type of US$15.1 billion in 2010, according to IATA estimates. aircraft should regain its intensity only in the next decade, With the renewed demand in the airline market, when the natural substitution cycle will begin. Also, Embraer estimates an average growth of 4.9% per year, transactions with 50-seat regional jets in the used aircraft over the next 20 years, but in an environment with greater market have intensified, due to their greater use in regional competition and lower charges, due to the change in passenger aviation markets in Russia, the European Community, profile. Embraer expects a global demand of around 6,900 jets Mexico, Africa, South America and Australia. with 30 to 120 seats in the next 20 years, and that estimate The 61to 120-seat segment will continue assisting will generate some US$200 billion. airlines in the process of increasing efficiency by adapting The 30to 120-seat jets are established as essential the seat offering to passenger demand on flights operated tools for the development of worldwide aviation. They by narrow-body aircraft with excess capacity. These jets contribute to increased quality of service, help the system to also tend to be used to substitute older fleets, to develop be more efficient, allow airlines to adjust supply to demand – new markets and to assist with the natural growth of during both growth and crisis phases – and make it possible regional airlines that operate smaller jets, in order to to open new routes, which makes air transportation more increase income and market share. minneApolis | 9:30am | -6 Botucatu | 12:30pm | -3 São José dos campos | 12:30pm | -3 minneApolis | 9:30am | -6 Villepinte | 4:30pm | +1 30. São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 Executive Aviation Market Despite the fact that the impact of the world crisis has limited the short-term growth prospects, the United Since mid-2008, the executive aviation market has States will continue to be the biggest and most mature suffered the effects of one of the most aggressive drops market for executive aviation in absolute numbers. Current in sales in its history, surpassing the impacts left by the estimates indicate that the country will be responsible for recession of the ‘80s, as well as the events of September something like 43% of the global market projected for the 2001. The high inventory of semi-new aircraft for sale at next ten years. low prices and the uncertainties that assail the worldwide economy are factors that make it unlikely that there will be Defense and Security a full recovery of demand for light executive jets in 2011. In 2010, the global industry’s deliveries of executive Embraer concluded the year with the operations of aviation jets came to 763 aircraft, or a drop of 12% when the defense and security area being managed separately compared to 2009, when 870 executive jets were delivered. by a new business unit – Embraer Defense and Security In terms of income, the market grew from US$17.2 billion in – that will focus on the production of military aircraft 2009, to US$18.2 billion in 2010, mainly due to the increase and their systems (patrol and surveillance), as well as in deliveries of larger and more expensive aircraft, in relation communication, computerization, control and intelligence, to the smaller models. It is expected that the market will command and training in other types of military and continue its recovery process, which will probably become civilian security projects. This diversification is a part of the more intense at the end of 2011 or beginning of 2012. The Company’s strategy for compensating market risks. potential global value of this market, from 2011 to 2020, This business unit, whose biggest customer is the should reach US$210 billion, with the delivery of over Brazilian Air Force (FAB), has integrated solutions that 10,000 executive jets. combine an extensive technological content and operational The emerging economies performed well in 2010, efficiency with competitive acquisition and operating costs. especially in Brazil, where government long-term financing Its product portfolio includes aircraft and systems for a variety alternatives, which did not exist until then, have accelerated of purposes: command, control, communication, computers, demand, mainly for light jets. The Russian market regained intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR); normalcy earlier than expected, mainly due to the return to training and combat; and transportation of civilian and liquidity of the region’s stock markets, as well as the recovery military officials. Furthermore, this corporate unit provides of the more wealthy individuals. On a smaller scale, some of support services for defense and security customers, as well the Asian countries, like China, and those of the Middle East as modernizing aircraft for the Brazilian armed forces. helped absorb the reduction in worldwide demand. .31 Nashville | 9:30am | -6 Fort Lauderdale | 10:30am | -5 It is expected that during its first year of operations Embraer Strategy this new corporate unit will have revenues of around US$750 million and will become stronger over the coming years, not In order to build a future of longevity, with growth only to meet Brazil’s needs, but also in exports. This new and value generated for shareholders, Embraer will adopt the business configuration opens a new range of capacities following strategic actions over the coming years: to the Company since, besides providing products and systems for the aerospace segment, it will also serve the A  ssess new developments and invest in the future of promising security segment and will consolidate Embraer’s commercial aviation central position in the process of strengthening the Brazilian Continue investing in and developing executive aviation Defense and Security industry. Boost the operations of the new corporate unit – Embraer In line with this strategy, at the beginning of 2011, Defense and Security, which will concentrate not only Embraer Defense and Security acquired 90% of the on the production and support of military aircraft and capital of the radar division of OrbiSat da Amazônia systems (patrol and surveillance), but also on other types S.A., which was an important step for increasing the of military and civilian security projects Company’s participation in the Brazilian Security System. Expand into new business, based on investment feasibility The Company also signed a contract with AEL Sistemas, a studies and analyses subsidiary of Israel’s Elbit Systems Ltd., for the purpose of Continue implementing the Embraer Enterprise Excellence jointly assessing and exploring the market for unmanned Program (P3E), with increased improvement in resources aerial vehicles (UAV), including the potential creation of and processes, thus generating reduced operating a company to be involved in this segment with Embraer expenses Defense and Security as majority shareholder. Invest in technology and innovation As it continued to expand its portfolio, the Company Give even more incentive to best environmental acquired 50% of the capital of Atech Negócios em practices, and for occupational health and safety, Tecnologias S.A. This partnership will increase the capacity corporate governance, and relationships with the of the companies to develop products and services in the communities and employees. area of command, control, computer, communications and intelligence (C4I) systems. In 2010, the defense market presented a favorable scenario for growth, with a series of campaigns underway in the markets for transporting officials, training and light attack, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, aircraft modernization and military transport, as well as other systems and services. 32. Performance The constant efforts of the Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E), especially in the industrial operations, contributed to improving productivity and maintaining the gross margins. After the adjustment made in 2009 by Embraer, 2010 Even with a policy of controlling expenses, the was marked by a return to stability, mainly during the second Company did not suspend its programs for developing half of the year, when there was a market upturn and the the midlight Legacy 450 and midsize Legacy 500 aircraft, Company focused its actions and strategies on sales. These and certifying the large Legacy 650 jet. That attitude efforts brought results: after seeing its firm order backlog transformed 2010 into a year of stability for Embraer, which shrink by nearly US$6 billion in 2009, due to cancelled moved ahead toward a sustainable future and toward aircraft orders and paralyzed sales, Embraer closed out the perpetuity, due to consistent management, transparent year with a firm order backlog of US$15.6 billion, and sales processes and relationships, and strategy. are once again on the rise. In 2010, as in the last two years, Embraer achieved its Operational Performance initial results forecasts, and the composition of the backlog was very important at that time, especially due to the drastic The return to sales campaigns and the results drop in sales caused by the international financial crisis. achieved in the second half of the year, with new orders, A devalued dollar (US$), in relation to the Brazilian real (R$), brought new strength to the Company, whose main also brought pressure to bear on performance, because challenge was to maintain profitability and to improve 90% of the Company’s revenues come from foreign sales, processes, so as to reduce financial and operating costs. in dollars, while an important part of its costs occur in reals. In that context, despite the effects of the currency Even at that, there was improvement in operating margins exchange rate, the constant efforts promoted by the and an increase in productivity. Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E), mainly in its industrial operations, contributed positively to improving productivity and maintaining gross margin amounts. Gavião Peixoto | 12:30pm | -3 São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 Villepinte | 4:30pm | +1 évora | 4:30pm | +1 34. “Until science gives people wings, we will give them a better way to fly.” Keeping the Company balanced and profitable, and Technological Development – The capacity to generate ensuring the position and prestige it holds in the market, technologically innovative solutions is an indispensable is the big challenge for the coming years, along with the competency for remaining competitive in the aeronautics preservation of our corporate values. industry. Keeping in mind the importance of new In terms of sales, the Farnborough International technologies for confronting the main challenges facing the Airshow (U.K.), in July 2010, was an important event that aeronautics industry in the coming years, Embraer, through reinforced Embraer’s image as a competitive company, its technological development program, investigates and attractive to operators worldwide, after having racked up develops solutions that create internal competencies for highly important victories that resulted in 42 firm orders, total familiarity with critical technologies for the markets besides other commercial proposals. The largest order in which the Company is involved, or in which it could be came from Britain’s Flybe, which could be for as many as involved in the future. 140 aircraft for a potential total value of US$5 billion, if all In order to ensure an adequate vision of the future, options and purchase rights are taken. the strategy of the technological development program is Another big highlight was the annual organizational based on an assessment and monitoring of the worldwide climate study and the polls taken by Época and Exame technological scenario. The training efforts moved ahead magazines, ranking Embraer as one of the best companies in 2010 and will continue to receive investments in 2011. to work for in Brazil. The Company was also named by Valor All of this is to apply advanced technologies that will make Econômico as one of the best companies in terms of people it possible to develop aircraft more quickly and make them management in Brazil. The target set by Embraer, three safer, lighter, quieter, more comfortable and more efficient years ago, was to achieve a 75% employee satisfaction in energy consumption and in terms of emissions and with rating, and at the end of 2010, the rating came to 78%. easier maintenance. Technological and Knowledge Management Knowledge Network – Embraer’s technological development Knowledge management continues its big focus strategy is structured as a program that is able to manage on consolidating practicing communities and collaborative and carry out multidisciplinary projects and be part of a environments for projects. In addition to the efforts in this variety of institutions, like universities, research institutes, area, an Embraer Technology and Innovation Seminar (ETIS) stimulus institutions and other companies that operate as was held for the first time, where a large amount of high-tech a network of development partners. At the present time, work produced by employees was presented and discussed, more than 50 Research and Development (R&D) institutes, focused on technology and innovation. in the technological cooperation network, involve over 250 As a means of optimizing and standardizing the researchers from the scientific community. In 2010, an processes applied to the various products being developed, important step was taken to integrate with global research intense work is being carried out to revise and harmonize these networks, when the Company became a member of an processes, in order to ensure the continuous improvement of initiative of Singapore’s Agency for Science, Technology quality and productivity in developing new projects. and Research (ASTAR), which allowed Embraer to access knowledge at the forefront of aeronautical technology. .35 In light of the importance of R&D for the nation’s From 2003 to 2010, Embraer substantially increased development, and the strategic importance of the its requests for patents. In all, 64 requests were made, of aeronautics industry for technological innovation, Embraer which 26 have been granted so far. actively participates in discussions with the main corporate leadership and the government, in order to strengthen public Industrial Operations policies for stimulating the National Innovation System. In 2010, Embraer moved forward to make its In this way, the Company seeks to contribute to building manufacturing units benchmarks of productivity and a more dynamic environment that favors technological technology in its industry. innovation in companies and the intensification of the The aircraft production volume surpassed the research of emerging technologies in the Country. GRI so5 previous year by two airplanes, including the delivery of the first units of the new Legacy 650, which joined the portfolio Innovation and Intellectual Property – The technological of executive aviation products. The Phenom 300 program development program showed significant results. Among climbed to 26 deliveries in 2010. them were two important projects in the area of energy The Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E) efficiency for onboard aircraft systems, which will allow continued advancing with the implementation of important greater efficiency in fuel consumption and a resulting initiatives, Kaizen projects and 3P (Production Preparation reduction of emissions for future Embraer products. Process). During the year, there was significant progress in the certification level of the continuous improvement cell groups for industrial activities, with the qualification of the Company’s first silver cells. 36. minneApolis | 9:30am | -6 Botucatu | 12:30pm | -3 The strategy for automation implementation moved The four sustaining pillars of P3E are: significantly ahead in 2010. Projects were put in place that raised productivity and quality. Other robots were added  he development of Embraer’s organizational culture T to the already existing number for joining the fuselages, The development of people manufacturing E-Jet wing panels, performing ultrasound The continuous formation of leaders and of their inspections and assembling structures made of composite management skills materials for executive jets. The pursuit of excellence and efficiency in all of the As for the development of new programs, the first Company’s processes large tooling sets for the wing and horizontal and vertical stabilizers were received for assembling the prototype The last item uses Kaizen3 and the Lean4 philosophy of the Legacy 500, for which the first parts had already to improve processes in an integrated fashion. been manufactured. The KC-390 cargo transport jet, The program was developed by setting up which is another big project in the development phase, continuous improvement cell groups, based on the also took significant steps forward by establishing the Company’s value flow. The advance of the cells in the production process and doing the preliminary planning of stages of the program goes through a certification process, the infrastructure for producing these airplanes. starting with a basic qualification and, then, successively moving through the bronze, silver and gold levels, as Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program – P3E performance goals are achieved. GRI 4.9 | ec9 By 2010, 424 of the 443 existing cell groups had It is of vital importance that every corporation qualified, which means that they had established the know the right time to make big changes that have the expectations of internal and external customers, the routine power to impact its way of being and doing. Embraer has for applying the tools for continuous improvement and the experienced this ever since the presentation, in July 2007, excellence goals. By the end of the year, four cell groups of the Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E), which had achieved silver certification and 280, the bronze level. is a system based on a Japanese model whose objective is to take Embraer’s management, processes and products to the level of excellence, starting with improving the skills of 4. Japanese administrative concept that means continuous and gradual improvement all of the Company’s employees and leaders. in the company or in the personal life. Above all, it is a philosophy of life of constant improvement, based on the phrase “tomorrow is better than today”. 5. A management philosophy derived from the Toyota Production System, also called Lean Manufacturing, which came up in Japan, at the Toyota automobile plant, after World War II. The philosophy is sustained by absolutely eliminating waste, and the two supporting pillars are just-in-time and automation. The seven biggest wastes that the system works to eliminate are: overproduction, waiting time, transportation, processing, inventory, movement, and defects. .37 fort lauderdale | 10:30am | -5 Melbourne | 10:30am | -5 Furthermore, we began the second cycle of practicing the Occupational Health and Safety values, which move from individual actions to a collective GRI la7 movement, and adapting the processes, tools and policies The Company holds OHSAS 18001 certification. of the cell groups that are a part of the program. Embraer has the Environmental, Occupational Health, Safety Several tools are used to train employees and to and Quality Integrated Management System (SIG-MASSQ) maintain the excellence of operations in each sector. Every that monitors the actions and results of all of the units and member of each of the cell groups has the autonomy to integrates the Company, employees, outsourced personnel and solve problems. To that end, there are quality clinics that partners in issues relating to health and safety. This system is identify difficulties and make it possible to repair mistakes. evaluated annually and certified by ABS – Quality Evaluations. There is also a skill matrix that shows the technical Based on P3E, all of the Company’s areas have capacities of the people in each cell, which helps focus continuous improvement targets for the processes and needed adjustments and training. criteria for eligibility connected with the issues of occupational Leaders are trained in three stages: a) program for health and safety. Furthermore, the system is supported by new leaders; b) perfecting command skills; c) forming new other programs, such as the Behavioral Program that has entrepreneurs, for the purpose of ensuring the perpetuity contributed to the goal of reducing job-related accidents by of the business. The leader must always be aligned with involving employees in the subject of safe behavior. the P3E values, in order to inspire subordinates and thus The SIG-MASSQ strategy is based on establishing reduce waste and increase Embraer’s competitiveness. objectives and goals that are strengthened through The program also established a culture of “selfactions such as those covered by the Plan for Excellence expression,” where employees can offer solutions and in Occupational Health and Safety, whose main goal is to innovations for the operating and management processes, reduce job-related accidents by 70% and reduce the degree besides new values for the Company: the importance of of seriousness by 50%, by December 2012. The plan has a teams for the Company’s success, serving customers well, four-pronged focus: prevention, process changes, educational constant pursuit of excellence, innovation as a Company actions and corrective actions. hallmark, global thinking and alignment with sustainability. In 2010, compared to 2008, there was a 50% reduction in the number of job-related accidents requiring a leave from work, and 37% in accidents requiring no leave, at just the Faria Lima plant, which has the largest group of people (see graph), thus reflecting the preventive, corrective and educational actions. Embraer has not recorded an accident fatality among either employees or outsourced personnel since 2007. 38. Accident Graphs – Faria Lima Unit Work-related accidents Work-related accidents without loss of working days with loss of working days 37% 40% 19% 47% 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Supply Chain Management integrated the rules and procedures practiced by all of Embraer does not apply common policies or the areas involved in the supply chain, such as freight, practices of preference to any type of supplier. There are Incoterms, currency conversion, receiving materials, several factors that influence the selection of suppliers, exhibits and payment conditions. including reliability, cost, technical capacity, availability Meetings are held with executives and to and delivery deadlines, quality, purchase convenience, accompany action plans with the main suppliers of assistance and production capacity. GRI 2.4 | 2.5 aeronautical materials. Quarterly checks are made In the production process, the purchased of: on-time delivery, quality indexes, management of aeronautical materials represent a high percentage product modification and customer satisfaction. To of aircraft costs and, consequently, have a big impact improve relations and communications, the Embraer on the Company’s cash flow. One of the main efforts Suppliers Conference (ESC) and Supply Chain Alignment put forth in 2010 was to conduct projects in such a (SCA) are held twice a year, with the participation manner as to improve cash flow, turnover, relations of supply chain companies, in order to communicate and communications with suppliers, labor processes, Embraer’s expectations and present current and future training the employees of the Supply Department, scenarios for the airline, executive jet and defense and and reducing the volume of inventory of purchased security markets. Also, production plans, action plans materials. About 5% of the budgets for the purchase and projects for improving the supply chain and product processes of the operating units is worked out with local quality are presented. suppliers. Projects for reducing inventory levels covered Evaluations were done of key suppliers, in order changing the purchasing planning policies for materials to identify potential risks to the supply chain and to (lot and emergency inventory), eliminating inventory limit them. Checks are made of risks related to finances, excesses, reducing obsolete materials and taking actions product quality, supply chain, modifications and for improving cash disbursement forecasts. The project engineering and production workload versus capacity. After the check is finished, Embraer, in conjunction with the suppliers, establishes action plans to limit or eliminate the risks. GRI ec6 .39 Sales Financing There are signs of liquidity in the market as a whole. Despite the effects of the crisis on the availability and Private banks, leasing companies and the capital market cost of financing aircraft, in 2010 the airline companies were should increase their participation in new financing in able to structure the financing of their deliveries, and the the coming years. Agencies giving credit to exports will export credit agencies fully supported their manufacturers. continue their important involvement in 2011 in meeting Embraer’s customers, in particular, obtained wide-ranging total financing needs, which are estimated at US$77 billion success in structuring aircraft financing. for the airline market. The diversification of the E-Jets customer base and In 2010, Embraer announced the second the versatile application of the aircraft in several business Memorandum of Intent (MOI) with companies from models have contributed to a positive perception of the China to finance and lease aircraft. These agreements will asset as a risk-mitigating element, and consequently, the contribute to providing strong support for our customers residual values have performed excellently. The successful worldwide. It is expected that participation in structuring structuring of financing for Embraer customers, in recent for leasing will increase significantly over the coming years. years, is proof of the excellent evaluation of the E-Jets by the This year, Embraer concluded its first Pure Cover line financial market. The EMBRAER 170/190 family has been of credit for exports. With the creation of this structure, the predominantly financed by European financial institutions financing bank benefits from a 100% guarantee from the and leasing companies. The support of the Brazilian export Brazilian government, via the Department of International financing system, composed by BNDES, SBCE and the Affairs of the Ministry of Finance. This new structure will Ministry of Finance, increased in recent years due to the also offer more credit to Embraer customers, because it financial crisis and represented about 53% of the total facilitates access to international financial institutions and a deliveries in 2010, and should maintain similar levels in 2011. broad range of investors from the capital market. However, accumulated government support represents only 17% of the total E-Jets deliveries since 2004. 40. Asset Management Product Responsibility and Safety In order to offer the best support to sales and reduce Embraer has the highest production standards, Embraer some of the financial risks relate to selling airplanes, in 2002, has the highest production standards, which begin with the Embraer created the ECC Leasing Co. Ltd. subsidiary, based commitment to entrepreneurial excellence. The P3E program, in Dublin, Ireland. which pursues continuous improvement of people and The mission of ECC Leasing is to manage and sell processes, is one of the pillars of responsibility for a product, like the portfolio of aircraft that, due to contractual obligations, an airplane, involving technology and safety measures. Besides may be acquired by Embraer by trade-in and repurchase. training employees, the Company and its training partners This company also provides resale services to third parties provide all of the operators of the aircraft it manufactures with a connected with sales campaigns. comprehensive set of technical training courses. Up to the present time, ECC Leasing has handled 86 Our sense of responsibility is also reflected in the aircraft manufactured by Embraer, 37 of which have been certifications earned for design, manufacture and air resold, 30 are under operating leases, 11 are available to be navigability obtained for our airplanes in Brazil and abroad. placed back on the market and 8 are used by Embraer to Certification is a legal and mandatory process for civil conclude testing and certification, mainly for the E-Jets and aviation, in which Embraer must show that the product the Legacy 650. meets the safety requirements set by the certifying agency. Besides these aircraft, at the end of 2010, ECC Leasing For Embraer, the safety of its products is one of acquired a fleet of 25 Citation Ultra aircraft, by trade-in, the fundamental bases for generating value. Its safety through a sales contract for 50 Phenom 300 jets, signed by policy is a proactive approach to the entire life cycle of the Embraer with NetJets Inc. The objective of ECC is to resell product, so as to ensure that the rules and standards of these aircraft on the secondary market. safety are met, besides exceeding the minimums required by aeronautical certification agencies. Intangible Assets Its concern for protecting the health and safety For Embraer, the strength of the brand is one of its of people, at all stages of the life cycle of its products main intangible assets. Penetrating different markets and and services, is perceived not only in total compliance regions and holding a significant market share demonstrate with compulsory regulations and standards, but also a global acceptance, always associated with highly reliable, in the pursuit of voluntary certifications. Embraer has innovative, sustainable and state-of-the-art products. certifications issued by aeronautical agencies (CHE – Intangible Assets Components Means of Evaluation Third-largest manufacturer of commercial jets in the world Total sales Fourth-largest Brazilian exporter Global customer base Group formed by important Embraer Brand 41 years in operation world-renowned partners Bond credit rating (investment grade) by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s Knowledge and skills related to strategic competencies Company performance Performance and Process High production rates, motivation and commitment Human Resources Management System (P3E) Awards and recognition in the area of people management Knowledge management process Number or value of patents Intellectual Property Legal protection of intellectual property related to innovations Complete knowledge and control of the business cycle, Infrastructure Operational performance from conception to customer support .41 Certificado de Homologação de Empresa/Company certification and CHT – Certificado de Homologação de Tipo/Type certification) and by the international ABS – Quality Evaluations (OHSAS 18001 and AS 9100) agency. New products, or even the modifications made in projects that have already been certified, are released In years to operators after a formal process of demonstrating compliance with the safety requirements and resulting issuance of approval by the civil aviation authority. of operations, Embraer has innovated The process of guaranteeing the integrity of Embraer’s products continues, even after the aircraft goes the way of transportating people, into service, or after modifications have been made, with the appropriate follow-up of the fleet, both by Embraer globally consolidating its brand, in the and by the responsible agencies. GRI pr1 Furthermore, via technical operating and maintenance avantgarde of the industry. manuals of the aircraft, Embraer makes detailed information available for all of its products and services so that customers and end users can use them safely, efficiently and in accordance with the applicable regulatory demands, thus The safe performance of the products is continuously minimizing the environmental and social impacts arising monitored with customers. Any risks eventually identified from their use. are immediately evaluated and treated by Embraer’s Product Safety Committee, thus consolidating a complete Certifications – All of the aircraft developed by Embraer process for managing risks that seeks to minimize are certified by Brazil’s National Civil Aviation Agency exposure, according to the best standards of the industry. (Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil – ANAC), the Federal The following graph presents the annual average of subjects Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States and included in the monitoring performed by this committee. the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) of the Even while continually launching new models and with the European Union, as well as others, depending on where number of airplanes in operation growing, in recent years the aircraft will be registered and operated. GRI pr3 this average has remained at around three issues per type of airplane monitored. In the event of an accident or serious incident involving one of its products, Embraer’s Flight Safety representatives participate in investigations and supports the authorities in charge, always in accordance with the Subjects Included in the Product regulations of Attachment 13 of the International Civil Safety Committee Monitoring Aviation Organization (ICAO). In the case of an accident that occurred in China, in August 2010, involving an EMBRAER 190 jet, a team of experts from the Company 3.0 was present at the site, from the very beginning of the 2.7 work, supporting the Civil Aviation Administration of 2.5 China (CAAC). Although the investigation has not been concluded, at the present time, nothing has been found to suggest a cause related to the product. In other accidents that occurred in 2010, like the crash of an EMB-810C Seneca II, in Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; an Embraer 110 Bandeirante in the municipality of Senador José Porfírio, Pará, Brazil; and an Embraer 120 2010 2009 2008 Brasília in Australia; besides a belly landing of an ERJ 145 (*)The value refers to the average per in Vitória da Conquista, Bahia, Brazil there was no proof of type of monitored aircraft. manufacturing problems with the aircraft. GRI pr2 42. .43 Commercial aviation customers 44. Aircraft Deliveries by Segment GRI 2.2 2010 2009 Commercial Jets 100 122 Capacity: 50 Seats 6 7 ERJ 145 Range: 2,900 km (1,550 nm) Capacity: 70 to 80 Seats 9 (2) 22 EMBRAER 170* Range: 3,900 km (2,100 nm) Capacity: 78 to 88 Seats 8 11 EMBRAER 175 Range: 3,700 km (2,000 nm) Capacity: 98 to 114 Seats 58 62 EMBRAER 190 Range: 4,500 km (2,400 nm) Capacity: 108 to 122 Seats 17 20 EMBRAER 195 Range: 4,100 km (2,200 nm) Executive Jets 144 115 Capacity: 6 to 8 Occupants Phenom 100 Range: 2,182 km (1,178 nm) 100 93 Category: Entry-level Capacity: 8 to 10 Occupants Phenom 300 Range: 3,650 km (1,971 nm) 26 1 Category: Light Capacity: 10 to 14 Occupants Legacy 600 Range: 6,297 km (3,400 nm) 3 18 Category: Super Midsize Capacity: 10 to 14 Seats Legacy 650 Range: 7,223 km (3,900 nm) 7 Category: Large Capacity: 13 to 19 Seats Lineage 1000 Range: 8,334 km (4,500 nm) 5 3 Category: Ultra-large Capacity: 70 Seats 3 EMBRAER 170 Shuttle Range: 3,900 km (2,100 nm) Defense and Security** 2 7 Capacity: 37 Seats 1 1 ERJ 135 Range: 3,250 km (1,750 nm) Capacity: 6 to 8 Occupants Phenom 100 Range: 2,182 km (1,178 nm) 4 Category: Entry-level Capacity: 10 to 14 Occupants Legacy 600 Range: 6,297 km (3,400 nm) 1 Category: Super Midsize Capacity: 98 to 114 Seats 2 EMBRAER 190 Range: 4,500 km (2,400 nm) Total Jets 246 244 * Deliveries identified with parentheses were accounted for as operational leasing. ** Includes only deliveries of executive jets to be used for transportation of authorities and aircraft for stated-owned airlines. .45 Airline Market In just six years after the first EMBRAER 170 went In Brazil, due to the success of Passaredo Linha into service, the E-Jets conquered a solid and diversified Aéreas’ operations of the ERJ 145, which began in 2009, customer base of 58 airlines in 39 countries on five that company’s fleet was doubled in 2010, to ten from continents, while surpassing the mark of five million flight this aircraft family. In Ukraine, Dniproavia Airlines uses hours. The delivery of the 700th E-Jet – an EMBRAER 190 the aircraft to cover new markets and to substitute for – to BA CityFlyer, of the U.K., represented an enormous larger airplanes, in order to adapt the number of seats triumph for Embraer and is a milestone achieved by few to demand. In Mexico, the 50-seat jet is operated by commercial aviation programs in the history of the world AeroMexico Connect and is an increasingly important aviation industry. element for feeding AeroMexico’s hubs. The company The EMBRAER 190 of BA CityFlyer went into operates 41 aircraft, which is the fourth-largest ERJ 145 operation at the main business airport in London, fleet in the World. London City (LCY), where Embraer gained steep descent In order to serve the growing market for used aircraft, certification for this model. The Embraer 170 was and to give support to the needs of customers, Embraer certified in 2007 for the same function and is also operated offers the Lifetime Programme, a customizable support by this airline company, out of LCY. package that has been essential to guaranteeing the In 2010, the market began to show signs of recovery, success of the operation of the ERJ 145 in those markets. which was reflected in the announcement of new E-Jet Furthermore, Embraer also offers a conversion to a shuttle sales: Embraer 170/190 to Gulf Air (Bahrain), Embraer 175 to configuration as an option for customers of this family. FlyBe (U.K.), Embraer 190 to Air Lease (U.S.), Embraer 190 to The 888 ERJ 145 jets delivered by Embraer are now Republic Airways (U.S.), Embraer 175 to Fuji Dream Airlines flying for over 30 airline companies on five continents, and (Japan), Embraer 195 to Lufthansa (Germany), and have surpassed the impressive figure of 13 million cycles Embraer 190 to Austral Líneas Aéreas (Argentina). In and 15 million flight hours. addition, Azul (Brazil), TRIP (Brazil), and BA CityFlyer The 61to 120-seat jets are increasingly serving as (U.K.) confirmed their confidence in Embraer’s products by strategic tools, which are fundamental for airlines to protect converting several options into firm orders. their competitive positioning. Similar to what happened Also in 2010, three new customers began operating after September 11, 2001, the effects of the worldwide E-Jets: Austral Líneas Aéreas (Argentina), Gulf Air financial crisis, which began in 2008 and peaked in 2009, (Bahrain) and Air Moldova (Republic of Moldova). have forced companies to adapt seat offerings to a reduced At the end of 2010, the E-Jets achieved the demand. The E-Jets have provided the needed agility for impressive figure of 947 firm orders, 720 options and companies to adjust the seat offerings on their routes, 699 new jets delivered. With the ERJ 145 family and the thus maintaining their level of service while, at the same E-Jets, Embraer achieved a market share of 44% in the time, protecting their market shares. This strategy favored segment of 30 to 120-seat jets. The firm order backlog for the positioning of companies for regaining the growth of the airline market reached US$7.6 billion, or the equivalent their business when the industry began to recover in 2010. of 250 aircraft, detailed as follows: At the same time, the E-Jets have been recognized by the market for their capacity to operate within all business models, whether low-cost, mainline or regional companies. This flexibility is the direct result of low fuel consumption and low emissions, and reduced operating costs. The high levels of punctuality and excellent comfort offered by this aircraft family are also fundamental factors for the versatility of the product. 46. Airline Market – Firm Order Backlog 2010 Aircraft Model Firm Orders Options Deliveries Firm Order Backlog ERJ 145 Family ERJ 135 108 108 ERJ 140 74 74 ERJ 145 708 706 2 Total – ERJ 145 Family 890 888 2 EMBRAER 170/190 Family EMBRAER 170 191 40 181 10 EMBRAER 175 173 276 133 40 EMBRAER 190 478 353 321 157 EMBRAER 195 105 51 64 41 Total – EMBRAER 170/190 947 720 699 248 Family Total 1,837 720 1,587 250 Executive Jets The Legacy 650 jet debuted on the market in 2010. Despite the difficulties that affected the worldwide After obtaining ANAC and EASA certifications, the aircraft aviation market, Embraer significantly expanded its share took its first flight directly from Dubai, in the United Arab of the executive aviation market. In terms of units delivered, Emirates (UAE), to London, in the U.K. Furthermore, the first Embraer’s share rose from 14% in 2009 to 19% in 2010. In unit of this aircraft was delivered in December to a customer terms of revenues, the increase was from 6.4% to 6.9%, in the Middle East, reinforcing the good acceptance of the due to the mix of products delivered. These increases are Legacy platform in that market. On the other hand, the super considered to be extremely relevant, given the World’s midsize Legacy 600 is entering its ninth year of production current economic scenario. with wide market acceptance, having achieved 185 aircraft One sign of recovery was the purchase agreement in regular operation in 35 countries, in December 2010. for up to 125 aircraft signed by Embraer and the U.S.-based Also in 2010, the 100th Phenom 100 entry-level jet NetJets, which is the biggest shared ownership operator in was delivered to JetSuite, an American shared-ownership the World and has a fleet of over 800 aircraft in the light, operator. Furthermore, the first delivery of a unit of this midsize and large categories. The agreement provides for aircraft to an Indian customer occurred in November, the purchase of 50 Phenom 300 light jets, plus 75 options reinforcing the position of Embraer on the Asian market. to buy, and could come to about US$1 billion. At the end of the year, the Phenoms then flying came to over During 2010, in line with a planned strategy, 180 aircraft in 22 countries. The Phenom 300 was delivered Embraer worked in the executive aviation market and made to a Brazilian and an Indian customer for the first time, thus direct efforts that consolidated even more the commitment confirming the acceptance of Embraer’s executive jets in established with the market at the beginning of the decade. emerging markets. In May 2010, the aircraft received EASA Those efforts were a part of the offer of integrated solutions Type Certification. for acquiring and operating Embraer’s executive jets, and covered everything from ANAC and EASA certifications obtained by the Phenom 300 to the expansion of the network of sales representatives, training, services and customer support. .47 The new midlight Legacy 450 and midsize Legacy 500 Defense and Security jets saw their first parts produced, beginning in January 2010. Embraer Defense and Security played a strategic The development of these aircraft continues on schedule. In role in Brazil’s defense system – it has already supplied October 2010, ground tests began on the Legacy 500, and its more than half of the Brazilian Air Force (FAB) fleet – and first flight is expected for the end of 2011. is now beginning to aggressively expand its influence to In September 2010, the longest flight ever taken other regions, besides the more than 25 countries that it by an Embraer executive jet was recorded. The ultra-large already serves with its aircraft. Lineage 1000 took a nonstop flight from Mumbai, India, to Now under development and in schedule, the KCLondon, U.K. Furthermore, an aircraft of this jet model was 390 military transport and in-flight refueling aircraft is delivered to a Mexican customer for the first time, and the right on schedule. The KC-390 will have the capability of fleet was increased in the Middle East. flying 850 kilometers per hour and carrying up to 23 tons At the end of 2010, Embraer had accumulated a of useful payload. It can also carry 64 battle-equipped backlog of US$4.7 billion in executive jet orders. parachutists or 80 conventional infantry soldiers, and will allow Embraer to enter a new market segment. The first flight of the prototype is expected by 2014 and the certification of the aircraft by the end of the following year. The aircraft already has 60 intents to buy – 28 from FAB; 12 from Colombia; six each from Chile, Portugal and Argentina; and two from the Czech Republic. 48. Fort Lauderdale | 10:30am | -5 mesa | 8:30am | -7 In 2010, two transport aircraft were delivered to the In 2010, the training and operational support defense market, eight F-5s were modernized by FAB’s F-5M systems (TOSS) – which can include flight simulators, Program, and 35 Super Tucanos were delivered to Brazil, computer-based training (CBT), mission planning stations Ecuador, the Dominican Republic and Chile. (MPS) and mission debriefing stations (MDS) – were The year 2010 was very significant for the entire also developed to support operations of the Super Tucano line of products for the defense and security segment. The in Chile, Ecuador and the Dominican Republic. These Super Tucano training and light attack aircraft continued countries receive basic, advanced and instructor training. to be one of the highlights, and went into service in one Training services were also supplied, in 2010, to Thailand more country, Ecuador, which joined Brazil, Colombia, Chile (ERJ 145 family), Panama (Legacy 600) and the Brazilian and the Dominican Republic as operators of the aircraft. government (EMBRAER 190PR). Furthermore, a contract was signed with a new customer, As for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Indonesia, to supply eight aircraft, starting in 2012, making (ISR) systems, the highlight is the AEW India program, a total of 180 aircraft sold and 152 delivered. The contract now fully underway, for India’s Defence Research and with Indonesia represents the first in the Asia Pacific region. Development Organization (DRDO), to supply three EMB Embraer Defense and Security has a contract with 145 AEW&C aircraft. The first delivery is expected for 2011. FAB to produce 99 Super Tucano airplanes, and in 2010, As for aircraft for transporting military and civilian FAB received the 89th unit. Deliveries were finalized of officials, the deliveries of an ERJ 135 to the Thai Navy and a the 12 units to Chile and the 8 to the Dominican Republic. Legacy 600 to the government of Panama demonstrated the The Ecuadorian Air Force ordered 18 aircraft, and 15 have good acceptance of our platforms for carrying authorities. already been delivered. This wide acceptance confirms its In the area of modernization programs, three are versatility, associated with its good performance for training currently underway for Brazil’s armed forces. In the A-1M and operating missions, and its low acquisition, operation program, Embraer is responsible for modernizing 43 and maintenance costs. subsonic AMX fighters. Besides this program, a contract was signed at the end of 2010 with FAB to modernize these aircraft. .49 nashville | 9:30am | -6 São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 The second program – the F-5M for FAB – covers a The first flight simulator for the new Phenom 300 total of 46 F-5 fighters, of which 8 more units were delivered, jet at Embraer CAE Training Services (ECTS) received in 2010, with 5 units left for 2011. At the beginning of 2011, a certification from ANAC, the FAA and EASA in August contract was signed to modernize 11 additional F-5 fighters, 2010. This is a cutting-edge training tool in operation at besides supplying another flight simulator for this aircraft, the CAE SimuFlite training center in Dallas, Texas, U.S., as a continuation of the contract signed in 2000. and it is used by customers to qualify pilots for that The third program has to do with modernizing 12 A-4 particular aircraft. aircraft for the Brazilian Navy, 2 units of which are already at the Company’s facilities. At the end of 2010, the Embraer Defense and Security business unit had accumulated a firm order backlog of US$3.3 billion. Aeronautical Services The worldwide network of customer support billion and services for Embraer’s Executive Aviation business continued expanding in 2010, with the naming of five In 2010, the aeronautics market new authorized service centers. Currently, this network consists of five Company-owned centers and another 37 authorized centers. was marked by the initial signs The number of Embraer aircraft is continuously expanding throughout the world, and the Company of stability and recovery in continues to stay focused on supplying and developing aeronautical services. In July 2010, it created the first some segments, which allowed full subsidiary in China, after ten years of activities in the country: China Aircraft Technical Services Company Ltd. the backlog to grow again, (ECA), headquartered in Beijing and with investments of US$18 million, specializing in logistics and the sale coming to US$ 16 billion by the of replacement parts, as well as consulting services on technical and flight operations issues. beginning of 2011. 50. Economic Performance positively to improving the Company’s gross margin. Embraer prepared its financial statements for 2010 Embraer is listed with the New Market in accordance with the information gathered and the (Novo Mercado) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRS) model, (BM&FBOVESPA), after following its rules, which deal applying IFRS 1 “First time adoption of IFRS,” and setting with the top level of governance in Brazil. This shows our January 1st, 2009, as the transition date for the standard. investors, financiers and other stakeholders the Company’s The individual financial statements of the controller commitment to best management practices adopted by were prepared according to the accounting principles open capital companies. followed in Brazil, in order to allow a better basis for Strategic planning and continuous follow-up, comparing the data. internally and externally, along with the use of corporate indicators, allow the Company to make necessary Net Revenues and Gross Margin adjustments in the pursuit of better results. The economic In 2010, Embraer recorded net revenues of impacts are reflected on the Added Value Statements. R$9,380.6 million, which is 14% less than the R$10,871.3 In 2010, the aeronautics market was marked by the million earned in 2009. This drop is due, basically, to the initial signs of stability, and even the recovery of several strengthening of the real (R$) in relation to the dollar segments. Embraer’s good positioning allowed it to take (US$), with an average annual exchange rate variation of good advantage of the opportunities that arose, mainly 11.7%, and to a change in the mix of products delivered, in the airline market, and some significant results were with a larger share going to the Phenom. The gross margin achieved, mainly in industrial operations, which contributed calculated in 2010 was 19.2%, and stable in relation to the previous year, which despite the strengthened exchange rate, was compensated by productivity gains arising from the P3E program. [R$ Million] 2010 2009 Net Income 9,380.6 10,871.3 Cost of Products Sold (7,582.6) (8,759.5) Gross Profits 1,798.0 2,111.8 Gross Margin 19.2% 19.4% Operating Expenses (1,112.4) (1,345.1) Earnings before Interest and Taxes 685.6 766.7 Operating Margin 7.3% 7.1% Depreciation and Amortization 383.6 452.1 Adjusted EBITDA* 1,069.2 1,218.8 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 11.4% 11.2% Net Profits Attributed to Embraer 573.6 912.1 Net Margin 6.1% 8.4% Profit per Share 0.79 1.26 Number of Shares** 723,665 723,665 * Adjusted EBITDA, according to the CVM’s Official Letter No. 1/2005, represents the net profits plus net financial income (expenses), income tax and social security, depreciation and amortization, nonoperational income (expenses), minority shareholdings, and asset equivalence. ** Does not include 16.8 million shares held by the treasury. .51 Income per Business Segment and Region Operating Expenses and Profits In 2010, the Airline, Executive Aviation and Defense As a result of the large number of aircraft delivered and Security segments represented, respectively, 53%, during 2010, total inventory dropped by US$433 million 21% and 13% of total net revenues, compared to 62%, 16% and closed out the period at a total of US$2,150.9 and 9% in 2009. Aeronautical services and other business million, which was the lowest it has been since 2006. maintained their 11% and 2% shares, respectively, of total Accounts payable were US$749.8 million less in 2010, net revenues. as a consequence of the adjustments in purchases. Net revenues for the airline market closed out the Furthermore, during 2010, accounts receivable recorded period with R$5,058.8 million, which is a 26% reduction from a slight increase of US$350.4 million. During the period, the R$6,811.4 million of 2009, due to fewer deliveries and operating expenses totaled R$1,112.4 million, for a drop the strengthening of the Brazilian real. The executive aviation of 17%, compared to the R$1,345.1 million of 2009, due market generated revenues of R$1,983.4 million in 2010, or 17% to a provision of US$103 million made that year, because more than the revenues of R$1,694.1 million of the previous of Mesa Air Group entering into receivership. Taking year. The aeronautical services segment presented revenues away the nonrecurring effects of the receivership, our of R$991.2 million, for a drop of 17% from the R$1,194.3 million operating expenses remained stable in 2010, despite the recorded in 2009. Net revenues from the defense and security strengthening of the Brazilian real by nearly 12%. market were R$1,177.8 million in 2010, for a growth of 24% Commercial expenses, on the other hand, rose 9% over the R$948.9 million of 2009. over 2009 and totaled R$657 million, or 7% of net sales Brazil maintained its expansion in the Company’s net revenues. Administrative disbursements recorded R$346.1 revenues, growing from 4% in 2008 to 13% in 2010 (11% million in 2010, for a drop of 8% from the R$376.2 million in 2009). The main factors were seven deliveries to Azul of the previous year. Linhas Aéreas Brasileiras and one to TRIP Linhas Aéreas. Also contributing were the new Phenom 100 and Phenom EBIT 300 customers, in addition to the contracts signed with the Operating profits (EBIT) in 2010 came to R$685.6 Brazilian government. Furthermore, in light of the worldwide million, or 11% less than the R$766.7 million of 2009. Even crisis, North America’s share in Company revenue continued at that, the Company generated an operating margin, also dropping, going from 23% to 13% of net revenues. known as an EBIT margin, of 7.3%, which is higher than the 7.1% of 2009. Revenue by Segment Revenue by Region 2% 2% 2% 9% 4% 6% 7% 11% 11% 8% 22% 21% 18% 13% 9% North America 14% 4% 16% 13% 11% 10% 21% Commercial Aviation Europe 7% 15% 18% Executive Aviation Latin America 53% 62% 67% 33% Defense and Security 33% Brazil Aviation Services 43% Asia Pacific 22% Others 13% Others 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 52. EBITDA Asset Indicators Operating cash generation, as measured by EBITDA, Embraer closed the year with a total indebtedness dropped 12% in 2010 from that of 2009 (R$1,069.2 million and of R$2,390.6 million, or 33% less than the R$3,584 million R$1,218.8 million, respectively), but the EBITDA margin was of the previous year. Long-term credit lines are 95% of this 11.4%, and remained stable, in relation to the previous year. total. Indebtedness is composed of R$1,723.3 million (72%) in credit lines, the majority of which are stated in U.S. dollars, Net Profits and Net Margin and the rest – R$667.3 million (28%) are stated in Brazilian Embraer ended 2010 with net financial revenues reals, where the average debt retirement is six years. of R$30.9 million, or 90% more than the R$16.3 million The 3.3% growth in operational results, stated of 2009, which is explained mainly by the continuity in dollars, resulted in an improved return on capital of the actions to manage financial assets and reduce employed (ROCE), showing the Company’s greater indebtedness. Therefore, it obtained profits, before taxes, operating efficiency. Its liquidity evolved over 2009 due of R$715.1 million, as opposed to R$647.2 million for the to the payment of short-term indebtedness. At the end of previous period. 2010, net cash grew 36% to R$1,152.8 million. Financial The net profits of R$573.6 million attributed to management that is close to customers allowed a Embraer dropped 37% from the R$912.1 million calculated lessening of the total amount of accounts receivable and in 2009, and net margin reached 6.1%, below the 8.4% of customer financing for another year. 2009. In that same year, net margin was positively influenced Inventory ended the year at R$3,662.8 million, by a deferred income tax credit on the difference between or 14% below the previous year, which is consistent for the tax base and the accounting base of nonmonetary the second consecutive year, as a result of managing assets, mainly inventories. Due to the strengthening of the suppliers and perfecting operational efficiency, which real, in 2010, there was an income tax disbursement that reduced the production cycles. contributed to a reduction in net margin. .53 Consolidated Indicators 2010 2009 [R$ Million IFRS] For years Net Indebtedness/Assets 0.5 0.7 Inventory Turnover 2.1 2.1 Asset Turnover 0.7 0.7 ROA 4.1% 5.9% ROE 11.0% 18.2% Five years ago, Embraer was listed on the 16.1% 15.8% ROCE* * In US$ IFRS. ISE-BM&FBOVESPA, and in 2010, it became one of five aerospace companies Consolidated Highlights 2010 2009 [R$ Million] to join the Dow Jones Sustainability On hand* 3,543.4 4,433.4 Accounts Receivable 581.9 709.3 Index, ranked in the Gold Class Customer Financing 117.5 91.9 Inventory 3,662.8 4,257.3 Permanent Assets** 3,194.6 3,180.8 Economic Value Added (EVA) Suppliers 1,250.0 1,038.3 Embraer showed a drop in profitability, as measured by the Economic Value Added (EVA), due to the Indebtedness – Short-term 120.9 1,031.5 constitution of deferred income tax and social contributions Indebtedness – Long-term 2,269.7 2,552.5 on the difference between the accounting value of assets Net Assets 5,217.7 5,019.8 and liabilities and the tax base, for fiscal purposes, and the * Includes cash and cash equivalents and Active Financial Instruments. increased investments to be remunerated. ** Includes Property and Intangibles. [R$ Million] 2010 2009 Total Assets 13,981 15,478 Liabilities with Spontaneous Financing 6,372 6,874 Remunerated Liabilities 7,609 8,604 Third-party Capital 2,391 3,584 Own Capital 5,218 5,020 Investments to be Remunerated 7,609 8,604 Net Operating Income 9,381 10,871 Operating Costs and Expenses (8,696) (10,240) Operating Results 685 631 Income Tax and Social Contribution (115) 290 Cost of Third-Party Capital (216) (286) Adjusted Net Profits 354 635 Cost of Own Capital (675) (666) Added Economic Value (321) (31) EVA/Investment to be Remunerated -4.2% -0.4% The EVA calculation excludes special purpose entities (SPE). 54. Capital Market Furthermore, in 2010, Embraer also joined the Embraer’s relationship with the financial community theoretical lists of the IBrX (Brazil Index), IBrX 50, IGC and with its investors is based on the release of transparent (Índice de Ações com Governança Corporativa/Index and equitable information communiqués, which are of Stocks with Corporate Governance), the recently characterized by profound respect for legal and ethical created ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency Index), ITAG (Índice de principles, as the Company seeks to consolidate and maintain Ações com Tag Along Diferenciado/Special Tag Along its leadership and innovation image on the capital markets, Stock Index), INDX (Industrial Sector Index), and IVBX-2 according to the rules of the New Market (Novo Mercado) (BM&FBOVESPA 2nd Line Value Index). of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), which Embraer’s capital consists only of common stocks, requires the highest level of corporate governance in the traded on the BM&FBOVESPA under EMBR3, which Nation. Its shares have been listed on the BM&FBOVESPA recorded a 24% increase in value in 2010, and closed the since 1989, and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), year quoted at R$11.80. However, the BM&FBOVESPA, as with level III American Depositary Receipts (ADR), where it a whole, rose 1% in value over the same period. completed 10 years in July 2010. The Company’s American Depositary Shares As a result of the management and innovation (ADS), listed on the NYSE under ERJ, achieved a quote of processes, the Company has been listed with the ISEUS$29.40 during the last session of the year, representing BM&FBOVESPA (Corporate Sustainability Index), an increase in value of 33% in 2010, while the Dow Jones since it was created in 2005, and joined the Dow Jones increased by 13%. Sustainability Index (DJSI) for 2010-2011, thus becoming one of the five aerospace companies from around the world to be listed with the index. EMBR3 Performance BM&FBOVESPA [2010] ERJ Performance NYSE [2010] Jan/01/2010 = 100 Jan/01/2010 = 100 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec Embraer BM&FBOVESPA Embraer NYSE .55 On December 31, 2010, Embraer’s capital totaled Shareholder Remuneration 740,465,044 common stocks (ON), and 16,800,000 Based on consolidated net profits of R$600.2 million, common stocks were deposited in the treasury, with no Embraer distributed R$201 million to its shareholders in political or economic value. 2010, in the form of interest on its own capital, equivalent Of the total shares forming the Company’s capital, to R$0.28 per common stock. This distribution to the on December 31, 2010, 49.6% were being traded on the shareholders was approved by the Board of Directors in BM&FBOVESPA, and 50.4% in the form of American meetings held during the year: Depositary Shares (ADS) on the New York Stock On July 10, the distribution of R$34.540 million Exchange (NYSE). was approved for the first half of 2010, and was paid on In 2010, most of the liquidity of the common stocks November 22, 2010. was in the North American market, when the volume On September 16, the distribution of R$21.709 of ADS traded on the NYSE showed a daily average of million was approved for the third quarter of 2010, which 938,000 shares, which is equivalent to the average daily was paid on November 22, 2010. financial volume of US$23.1 million. On the Brazilian And on December 9, the distribution of R$144.733 Exchange, common stocks showed an average daily million was approved for the fourth quarter of 2010, and volume of 1,731 shares, with an average daily financial was paid on January 14, 2011. volume of R$18.4 million. The distribution of proceeds in 2010 represented Embraer’s market capitalization came to US$5.4 33.5% of the consolidated net profits of the Company. billion at the end of December 2010, compared to US$4 billion on December 31 of the previous year. Common Stocks* Dividends Paid R$ million 33.5% 52.2% 25.6% 229 224 201 Dividends Payout Thornburg Investment 6.3% BM&FBOVESPA Others 24.1% Oppenheimer Funds 7.2% BNDESPAR 5.5% NYSE Others 36.9% Previ 12.8% Grupo Bozano 7.2% NYSE 50.4% BM&FBOVESPA 49.6% 2010 2009 2008 * Does not include 16.8 millions of shares in the treasury. Shares total 723.665.044 56. Socioenvironmental Performance Embraer actively supports and participates in projects for developing alternative solutions with a focus on reducing the environmental impact of air transportation, and on ensuring the sustainable growth of the aeronautics industry. Environmental Performance In 2010, based on the Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E) and on the Behavioral Program, new requirements The management of environmental performance were included that are connected to the environment and at Embraer is based on the awareness and training of all occupational health and safety, by establishing targets for employees, on continuously improved actions regarding the reducing the use of natural resources and the number of jobsubject, and on monitoring processes, activities and results in related accidents. the Environmental, Occupational Health, Safety and Quality Regarding eco-efficiency, in 2010, a survey began of Integrated Management System (SIG-MASSQ). (see page 37) possible energy-efficiency projects and of rationalizing water SIG-MASSQ integrates all of the data referring to the consumption in the various production and administrative environmental impact of the units in Brazil, and their aggregate processes. During the current year, Embraer is evaluating longindicators are: liquid effluents, solid wastes, atmospheric term goals regarding the environmental aspects of its operations emissions, water, electrical power and greenhouse gases (GHG). and processes. As a reflection of its environmental initiatives, the As for product development, a project was begun in the Company has held ISO 14001 certification since 2002 and second half of 2010 to introduce environmental requirements to is evaluated annually by ABS – Quality. Furthermore, since Embraer’s products, throughout their life cycle. December 2007, Embraer has promoted the corporate During 2010, Embraer continued to support several management of its environmental guidelines, through the projects for developing bio-kerosene for aviation, through Environmental Master Plan. various technological partnerships, besides being a founding Our commitment to protecting the environment member of the Brazilian Alliance for Aviation Bio-Kerosene and natural resources is also extended to an unrestricted (Aliança Brasileira para Bioquerosene de Aviação – ABRABA). compliance with all of the environmental legal requirements and standards in all of the countries in which Embraer has units or sells its products. Gavião Peixoto | 12:30pm | -3 Melbourne | 10:30am | -5 São José dos Campos | 12:30pm | -3 Botucatu | 12:30PM | -3 58. SingapOrE | 11:30pm | +8 Alverca | 4:30pm | +1 Product Development W  ork to develop new-generation engines, in conjunction GRI 4.17 | EC2 | EN6 | En26 | EN27 with propulsion system manufacturers The global air transportation industry is responsible Research new technologies for reducing internal and for about 2% of the greenhouse gas emissions generated external noise levels, for the purpose of increasing by human action6. The growth of this industry over the passenger comfort and causing less noise impact in the past several decades, allied with increased efficiency, has vicinity of airports avoided making the current scenario more significant. However, with the constant growth in air traffic, it is forecast During the second half of 2010, a project was begun to that this proportion will increase in the coming years. introduce environmental requirements and evaluate the In response to that, civil aviation in general – airline impacts of Embraer’s products on the environment during companies, aircraft manufacturers, airports and air traffic their entire life cycle, which consists of: control systems – has been working in a coordinated Conception fashion on a series of goals for reducing its environmental Certification impact (footprint), so as to continue to be an instrument Production Process for economic growth. The goals include: improve fuel burn Customer Operation efficiency by 1.5% by 2020, limit industrial emissions as Disposal of 2020 and reduce industry emissions by 50% by 2050, based on 2005 figures. To that end, we consistently invest in technological Development of Biokerosene development, in order to meet the challenge. Embraer’s plan Companies and institutions connected with the for technological development gives priority to initiatives aviation, agricultural and energy sectors have been carrying that seek to improve the performance of the products and out a variety of activities and projects, in order to contribute to mitigate their environmental impact. the development of sustainable alternative fuels for aviation. Among the innovation and increased efficiency The industry’s objective is to develop effective solutions initiatives are the following projects: for reducing its environmental impact and to ensure the sustainable growth of this important means of transportation, Improvement of airplane aerodynamics by using sustainable biofuels that do not contribute to Intensively use of lighter materials to reduce the deforestation, or cause other possible harm to the environment. structural weight of the aircraft Embraer supports the development and introduction Develop aircraft with more electrical systems that are of biofuels as a long-term sustainable alternative for aviation. less dependent on power from the engine As an integrating element, the Company must assess the Research alternative fuels, including bio fuels impact of new fuels on its platforms. 6. www.iata.org/whatwedo/environment/Pages/climate_change.aspx .59 gavião peixoto | 12:30PM | -3 In November 2009, Embraer, General Electric and In different regions of the world, airline companies Amyris signed a memorandum of understanding to evaluate and airplane manufacturers have performed flights using the technical and sustainability aspects of renewable alternative fuels, mainly biokerosene mixed with conventional fuels, starting with sugar cane. The initiative will result in a aviation gas (kerosene), with the objective of showing the demonstration flight, in 2012, with an Embraer E-Jet owned technical feasibility of these renewable fuels. From 2008 to by Azul Linhas Aéreas and using GE engines. 2010, eight demonstration flights were taken with biofuels Embraer has participated in different industry produced from several raw materials, one of which, in Brazil, initiatives that seek to make the development and production used domestically produced pinhão-manso. of biokerosene more dynamic, including: ABRABA – Brazilian Alliance for Aviation Biofuels (Aliança Brasileira Domestic Technological Capacity para Biocombustíveis na Aviação); the international SAFUG GRI EN 18 | EN 26 – Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group; the European The engagement of Brazil in projects for developing consortium SWAFEA – Sustainable Way for Alternative Fuels alternative fuels will make agriculturalists, technicians and and Energy for Aviation; and the American CAAFI – Commercial industries able to create a consistent technological base. Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative. GRI 4.13 | 4.17 | so 5 Among the benefits brought by establishing a specific policy and with an eye to the future of aviation are: Brazilian Alliance for Aviation Biofuels (Aliança Brasileira para Biocombustíveis na Aviação –  echnological development between educational institutions, T ABRABA, www.abraba.com.br) regulatory agencies and private organizations Moved by the growing demand to meet the The insertion of the nation’s industry in the alternative requirements for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in fuels market aviation, as well as providing energy safety in Brazil, ABRABA The engagement of the agricultural sector and research has become a forum for discussing the various aspects of institutes for the purpose of seeking highly productive developing sustainable aviation biofuels, positioning Brazil as genetic material and the productive development of one of the world’s main protagonists of this technology, similar agro-energy cultures that are adequate for Brazil’s soil to what has already happened with ground transportation. and climate conditions ABRABA believes that the use of sustainable biofuels Bringing value to biomasses produced in the country produced from biomass is fundamental for maintaining the An assessment of the impacts of using sustainable biofuels growth of the aviation industry in an economy of low carbon for aviation emissions. The goal is to obtain biofuels of equivalent quality, Safety and energy independence for defense aviation safe use, cost and adequate production capacity, compared to petroleum-derived fuels. 60. Environmental Management System Eco-Efficiency The Environmental, Occupational Health, Safety and Besides all of these actions, Embraer also has an Quality Integrated Management System (SIG-MASSQ) is Internal Electrical Power and Water Committee (CICEA) responsible for managing and monitoring the processes that puts out ideas, information and technologies for the related to this subject, while always working for continuous purpose of raising the awareness of employees regarding improvement. The efforts put forth throughout the years the need for economizing these resources. resulted in the Company receiving OSHAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certification, and maintaining them year after year. Consumption of Electrical Energy GRI EN 4 | EN 7 In 2010, all of the Company’s units in Brazil had objectives In Brazil, Embraer’s units purchase electrical energy and goals aligned with managing atmospheric emissions, from the power companies in the regions where they are wastes and natural resources. located. In 2010, 421,000 GJ were purchased. Embraer reinforced its environmental management As for the projects for reducing energy consumption, system through P3E, by adopting the eligibility requirements we began substituting light fixtures in 2010, at the Faria Lima for the certifications (bronze, silver and gold) for each cell unit (São José dos Campos), where 80% have already been group, required for the environment, occupational health changed, bringing savings of 16 GJ/year. The approximately and safety, highlighting: having no pending nonconformities 3,000 remaining fixtures will be changed later this year. or lacking of action plan; fully complying with all legislation; Another investment in 2011 will be to change 750 maintaining spreadsheets of updated and monitored air conditioning units, which will bring a reduction in environmental aspects and impacts; and performing a SIGconsumption of 6 GJ/year. Furthermore, other projects will MASSQ self-evaluation. be evaluated within the plan for establishing Embraer’s ecoThe cell groups responsible for projects or results efficiency goals. directly linked to the Environmental Master Plan have In this context, the work is being done in partnership, indicators for accompanying the evolution of the actions since 2008, with the School of Electrical Engineering of carried out. the Universidade Estadual Paulista Júlio de Mesquita Filho Embraer develops its activities with a focus on (UNESP) in Guaratinguetá. GRI EN 5 the efficiency of its processes and on the high quality of its products. In line with these guidelines, it takes into account the issues of health and safety, quality of life of Energy Consumption [GJ thousand] its employees, and the socioeconomic development and well-being of the communities with which it is related, via 461 educational and management improvement programs for 421 432 civil organizations. 2010 2009 2008 The Environmental, Occupational Health, Safety and Quality Integrated Management System (SIG-MASSQ) is responsible for managing and monitoring these processes, while always pursuing continuous improvement. .61 Direct Energy Consumption Listed According to Primary Energy Source GRI EN 3 Sources [Gj – Unit] 2010 2009 2008 Heavy Fuel Oil 2,600 4,143 7,272 Diesel Oil 358 687 1,061 Gasoline 2,111 1,662 297 Diesel 6,293 14,745 5,726 Aviation Gas 32 49 429 Aviation Kerosene 361,868 359,904 495,142 Ethanol 1,934 5,019 5,633 Water Consumption Embraer has been identifying and intensifying actions Unit Initiative Reuse for reducing water consumption in its production and 281 m3/month administrative processes. Gavião Irrigating trees and (during the dry Peixoto gardens with reused water In 2010, consumption was reduced by 40,450 m3 season) at the Brazil units. This savings came from investments in production processes, from installing timed faucets in the Faria Lima Reused in the towers for (São José washing gases and in the 550 m3/month restrooms (bringing as much as a 60% reduction in water dos Campos) paint shop of F-113 consumption) and from implementing projects for reusing water. For 2011, plans include continuing these projects, intensifying improvement studies and modernizing the paint shops. There is a reuse rate of 831 m3/month in various production processes of the Faria Lima and Gavião Peixoto units. The ideal total water consumption at the Brazil units, in 2010, was 564 m3 x 1000. During 2011, we will continue assessing alternatives for reducing water consumption, also as part of the plan for establishing Embraer’s eco-efficiency targets. GRI EN 8 | EN 10 62. Protecting Biodiversity public agencies. For organizing the use and preservation The Faria Lima, Eugênio de Melo, Botucatu, Taubaté, of the nature area, Embraer has had a management and ELEB plants do not have protected areas. Only Gavião plan in place since 2009, including a survey of the flora Peixoto (GPX) had a demand that was finalized in 2010 and fauna, and as soon as the process is finished, it will (according to Pre-License 000373, of December 8, 2000), make the community aware of the area’s existence. which requested a Permanent Preservation Area (PPA) of GRI EN 11 | en 12 | eN 13 200 hectares, for a total area of 1,693.39 hectares. In 2011, the Embraer Institute for Education Since 2001, at the GPX plant, Embraer has been and Research launched Embraer’s Jequitibá Center for reconstituting an area of 356.71 hectares, by planting 91 Environmental Education, covering 250,000 square meters species of seedlings native to the region. This environmental and named for a jequitibá tree that is over 500 years old recovery process is backed by the Forest Restoration on the site. The project is done in a partnership with the Project approved by the State Natural Resources Protection departments of education and of the environment of the Department of the Department of the Environment of the city of São José dos Campos, along with local universities State of São Paulo (DEPRN). and NGOs. The objective is to promote environmental In the recovered area, 32.38 hectares are a awareness among public school students and contribute permanent preservation area and 328.74 hectares are a to the professional qualification of teachers and local legal reserve. Twenty-three hectares were planted with residents. GRI EN 14 35,200 trees, in 2010, for a total of 594,200 trees, or 100% of the total area set aside for the project (356.71 hectares). Emissions, Effluents and Waste The reforestation of the area permits the reconstitution of Greenhouse Gas Emissions the local ecosystem and the return of the region’s wildlife. The emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) is also Another preservation area is located near the of concern to Embraer. Based on a process established in Botucatu plant, where Embraer acquired three hectares 2007, we do a GHG inventory annually, according to WRI/ of cerrado, in order to perform the environmental WBCSD standards. In 2010, for the second consecutive compensation requested by the DEPRN, due to the impact year, Embraer audited its GHG emissions inventory for the caused on the vegetation by the building expansions that purpose of validating the data and improving its survey occurred there. Therefore, Embraer began a project at that process. This audit follows ISO 14064 – Greenhouse site, in 2009, to create a Private Reserve of Natural Assets Gases: Part 1 – Specifications for Quantifying, Monitoring (Reserva Particular do Patrimônio Natural – RPPN). The and Reporting Emissions and Removing Entities. The audit RPPN is private conservation unit legally established by was performed by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance. public authorities. This is a voluntary act by the landowner, We continuously seek to reduce our emissions who transfers the ownership of the land to the State, but through different projects for improving efficiency, like maintains control of the area, and who is then exempt from lowering electrical consumption, improving the internal paying property tax. logistics of products being manufactured, and the At the RPPN, scientific research can be done, as consumption of kerosene during technical and corporate well as visits for touristic, recreational and educational flights. purposes, supported by universities, organizations and Embraer’s Brazil units recorded the following GHG emissions: Tons of CO2 Equivalent 2010(2) 2009(1) 2008 Scope 1 – Direct Emissions 41,728 36,990 48,100 Scope 2 – Indirect Emissions 6,360 2,951 6,215 Scope 3 – Other Indirect Emissions 22,390 23,249 22,390 1. The amounts published in the previous report, with reference to the 2009 inventory, were estimated and then adjusted, after the audit for the ISO 14064 process. 2 . A preliminary estimate. It can be altered by a review of the data entrance date or the expansion of the inventory limits, during the audit. GRI EN 16 | EN 17 | EN 19 .63 Volunteer Reporting Initiatives on the GHG Inventory By joining different voluntary initiatives for reporting GHG emissions, Embraer has participated, since 2007, in the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program as one of its founding members, and in 2010, we obtained the silver seal. In 2008, the Company also joined the Carbon Disclosure Project. Besides providing a better understanding and positioning regarding the subject, joining these initiatives gives the Company a better relationship with stakeholders For the coming years, a plan has been established for and an increased capacity to participate in defining public investing in different processes: policies for the carbon market, among other competitive advantages. GRI EN 18  Automation of the painting process, by installing robots in the larger paint shop of the Faria Lima plant MP, SOx, NOx and VOC Emissions Installation of a solvent recovery system in the area for Embraer’s objective, by 2012, is to reduce VOC painting primary parts with reusing the solvent in processes emissions by 20% compared to 2008. During 2010, the for cleaning parts at the Faria Lima plant chemical milling facilities were transferred from the Faria Lima plant to the Botucatu plant, following the installation The total discharge of particulate materials, composed of a new control and exhaust technology, which will allow of VOCs, and sulfur and nitrogen oxides during the operations expected VOC emissions to be reduced by 7 tons/year. of all of the Brazil units are shown in the following table. Atmospheric Emissions [Brazil units] 2010 2009 2008 Particulate Material – MP 17.68 7.34 6.67 Sulfur Oxide – SOx 3.29 1.95 4.90 Nitrogen Oxide – NOx 55.75 16.04 16.96 Volatile Organic Compounds – VOC 24.30 25.05 21.83 The results of the ELEB plant began to be reported in 2010, along with monitoring the emissions of its paint shops and gas washers. The 2010 amounts are within legal limits. Opportunities for improvement for 2011 are being assessed, regarding NOx emissions (25 tons in 2010). GRI EN 20 64. % D  iscarded florescent bulbs are recycled. The mercury in them is used to produce thermometers, the aluminum is reused to make cans and the chemical powder is used to make ceramics Some 99% of the hazardous Cans, filters, cleaning cloths and leftover paint are used in ovens for manufacturing cement for the construction industry wastes from the Brazil units go Chemical sludge and leftovers from surface treatments and chemical milling are transformed into metal oxides to companies that co-process or and used in the finish work of flooring and tiles In 2010, the Brazil units generated approximately recycle them 12,800 tons of waste, a drop of 6% compared to 2009. As for non-hazardous materials, Embraer generated 10,000 tons, of which 80% is sent for recycling, 3% for recovery, 16% to the sanitary landfill and 1% to make compost. Embraer generated 2,700 tons of hazardous waste, Effluents and Wastes which was 5% less than in 2009. The Company’s main The effluents and waste generated during the guideline is to not send these wastes to industrial landfills. various production processes are treated according to the Therefore, 54% of the hazardous waste go for co-processing most stringent standards in effect. As for waste, the main in cement ovens; 44% are reused as raw materials for other generating processes are: production of composite materials, production processes outside of Embraer and the rest is surface treatments, aircraft painting and the milling of parts. decontaminated, recovered or sterilized. Hazardous materials are given special attention when disposed of. Approximately 99.3% of the hazardous waste of the Brazil plants go to companies that co-process or recycle them. The following are examples of the disposal of these wastes: Waste Disposal Methods, by Type and Weight [Kg] Type of Waste 2010 2009 2008 Hazardous 1,187,967 1,422,931 4,445,899 Recycling Non-hazardous 8,115,998 8,134,672 11,996,495 Decontamination Hazardous 21,984 12,651 23,305 Hazardous 11,323 14,505 14,319 Recovery Non-hazardous 324,000 331,000 247,00 Sterilization (autoclave) Hazardous 1,588 1,598 300 Sanitary Landfill Non-hazardous 1,627,735 2,416,923 2,900,797 Compost Non-hazardous 134,240 0 0 Co-processing Hazardous 1,449,824 1,366,860 1,477,041 Total 12,874,659 13,701,140 21,105,156 GRI EN 22 | EN 24 .65 Total Water Disposal, by Quality and Destination Improvements Related GRI EN 21 | EN 25 to the Environment, by Unit As for industrial effluents, the Faria Lima, Eugênio de Embraer modernized the galvanization process by Melo, ELEB and Botucatu units use the public sewer system, substituting wood crates for devices that can be returned to run by Sabesp, to dispose of them, after giving them proper the ELEB unit and by substituting the bright shot and shot treatment according to Decree No. 8,468 (September 8, peening equipment, thus reducing the generation of glass 1976), Article 19A. The volumes disposed of by these units microspheres and employee exposure to noise. are shown in the following table. At the Faria Lima plant, the internal route for In 2010, the Botucatu unit aggregated new surface transporting materials and aircraft was optimized, with treatment and chemical milling processes, which is the less distance covered and a resulting reduction in CO2 main cause of the 13% growth in effluents generated emissions. GRI EN 18 compared to 2009. Among the improvements made in the Botucatu unit, At the Gavião Peixoto unit, a physical-chemical the main ones were: changing the energy matrix from OC4 treatment is done to industrial effluents, for later disposal gas to LPG; reducing electrical consumption; substituting in the Córrego da Mulada stream, according to Decree the exhaust of the paint shop by removing the axial exhaust No. 8,468 (September 8, 1976), Article 18A. The volumes units; installing centrifugal exhaust units with a controlled disposed of by this unit are shown in the following table. speed; improving the performance of the compressed air In 2010, the Gavião Peixoto unit aggregated two new distribution circuit by interconnecting the central air units; paint shops to its production process, bringing the total to reducing water consumption, reusing it in the effluent four shops in operation. Furthermore, it began the technical treatment plant and using the treated effluents at the ETEI to cleaning process of these shops, which also contributed to fill the gas washers; and changing the hot water tables for dry an increase of 89% in the industrial effluents generated. heat in the dining hall. GRI EN 5 | EN 10 Industrial Effluents [m3/year] Industrial Effluents [m3/year] 71,520 2,376 63,185 62,320 1,257 1,108 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Main disposal parameters: pH 6 to 10, Sulfite 1.0 mg/lt, Hexavalent chromium 1.5 mg/lt, Main disposal parameters: pH 5 to 9; DBO: 60mg/lt or 80% reduction, Total Suspended Solids up to 20ml/lt and total Chromium 5.0 mg/lt. Total Suspended Solids up to 1.0 ml/lt and total Chromium 5.0 mg/lt. 66. Évora | 4:30pm | +1 Social Performance To complement these results, it is good to note the organizational climate study done every year at Embraer, Embraer carries out its activates focusing on the which in 2010 obtained an overall favorability rate of 78%. efficiency of its processes and the quality of its products. This study looks at 17 factors: my satisfaction, motivation Aligned with these guidelines, it deals with the issues of and commitment, safety and working conditions, leadership, health, safety and quality of life of its employees, as well strategic management, innovation and productivity, survey as the socioeconomic development and well-being of the reliability, external relationship (corporate image and communities in which it is involved. citizenship), performance management, communication, In its community relations, Embraer develops pressure/stress and quality of life, development and programs focusing on education and on projects that provide career, teamwork, risk/priorities and propensity for change, improved management processes for civil organizations. work planning/decentralization/organization and roles, remuneration and benefits. The same survey, the previous Management System year, showed 70% positive answers. In 2010, the Company continued investing in The work of recognizing the practice of Embraer’s developing and training employees and leaders, which, among values continues to grow throughout the Company, other benefits, positively influenced the internal work climate. strengthening corporate identity and trust among people. Directly reflecting this evolution and several movements The activities of the cultural front of the P3E program directed at employee satisfaction, Embraer was ranked as one resulted in a participative dynamic of transparency and of the best companies to work for in Brazil, according to the respect in personal relationships. results of the Great Place to Work study, which analyzed the In this sense, the Values Program started the second five dimensions of the organizational environment: credibility, practice cycle, in 2010, which went from individual actions respect, fairness, pride and camaraderie. into a collective movement, besides adapting processes, Another result that showed the Company’s tools and policies in the cell groups that are a part of the commitment to its employees was the result of the Exame/ P3E program. FIA Guia 150 Melhores study, which investigated four overall subjects: identity, satisfaction and motivation, leadership, and learning and development. In the case of the Hewitt/ Valor Econômico study, three main axes were studied – engagement, high-performance culture and satisfaction – and the result was no different. All of the studies show a level of satisfaction of around 79%, along with favorability, engagement, improvement and balance. .67 Beijing | 11:30PM | +8 Melbourne | 10:30am | -5 Stakeholder Relations institutional representatives, to the Company’s facilities GRI 4.14 | 4.15 | 4.16 | 4.17 (open doors); practices of investor relations (participation Embraer’s operations and activities demand in conferences, road shows etc.); the Embraer Suppliers frequent or occasional direct interaction with various Conference (ESC) and Supply Chain Alignment (SCA), with stakeholders, and it is essential that this relationship be the participation of members of the supply chain, and so on. kept responsible, objectively and transparently, and that The institutional website and that of Investor it contribute to the development of the communities Relations serve as a source of news and information in which the units are located. Since it is a world-class regarding performance, products, governance and other company and one of the country’s biggest exporters, there subjects of interest to stakeholders. is a need for periodic contact with national, state and municipal governments. Employees and Labor Rights Communication takes place through representatives Embraer believes that people are the basis for its of like areas who are named to be involved in conversations, success, and gives incentive to building harmony between dialogues, negotiations or even as a legal representative. professional development, personal satisfaction, social This is done through personal attention, telephone contacts, participation and family tranquility. The human resources advertising in the media, the use of electronic and computerized area is responsible for applying best labor practices that media or formal documents, and in all cases giving a smooth are based on national and international standards, like: flow and outworking of the subjects dealt with. Brazil’s Consolidated Labor Laws (CLT), the International In pursuit of improved relationships and Labour Organization (ILO) and its fundamental provisions, communication, Embraer promotes several actions during the Universal Human Rights Declaration and specific labor the year to engage stakeholders, such as: periodic facelegislation of the countries in which Embraer has units. to-face meetings of customers at their headquarters; During the integration program for new employees, various workshops in which best maintenance practices everyone receives detailed information regarding salaries, are discussed, such as the MCW (Maintenance Cost benefits, vacation, collective bargaining agreement, rights Workshop); conferences, meetings and events with and duties, and a copy of the Embraer Code of Ethics and customers, shareholders, the community, and the press Conduct. (see page 26) regarding a broad range of subjects and proposals; Internet forums for exchanging experiences among customers, mediated by Embraer technicians; promotion of regular visits by groups, including heads of state, ministers and other 68. In 2010, Embraer hired 1,130 new Facebook, at: employees. The return of former employees www.facebook.com/pages/Embraer/305961729456?v=wall was given priority and took into account their profile and professional experience; 377 former Twitter, at: employees were hired, or 33% of the total. twitter.com/embraer For the first time, the Company used social networks to publicize available job openings: Linkedin, at: Thus, Embraer closed out 2010 with www.linkedin.com/company/embraer 17,149 employees. Employees [By Functional Category – Includes Subsidiaries] 2010 2009 2008 Category Brazil Foreign Total Brazil Foreign Total Brazil Foreign Total Operational (Hourly) 7,479 7 7,486 7,640 43 7,683 11,020 63 11,083 Administrative 619 221 840 615 155 770 927 158 1,085 Technicians (Mid-Level) 2,130 385 2,515 2,160 280 2,440 2,564 317 2,881 Engineers 1 2 3 3, 579 73 3,652 3,367 79 3,446 3,645 73 3,718 Other Professionals 1,431 213 1,644 1,315 221 1,536 1,443 165 1,608 (University Level) Leadership 895 117 1,012 855 123 978 1,009 166 1,175 Total 16,133 1,016 17,149 15,952 901 16,853 20,608 942 21,550 1. For 2008, 616 engineers were considered to be in leadership positions; the engineers total 4,334. 2. For 2009, 510 engineers were considered to be in leadership positions; the engineers total 3,956. 3. For 2010, 513 engineers were considered to be in leadership positions; the engineers total 4,165. GRI LA 1 Its partially owned subsidiaries, OGMA and HEAI, Women were 13.4% of the total Embraer employees. closed out the year with 1,735 employees. As for diversity, there are 786 employees with handicaps or special needs. Furthermore, Embraer’s culture is based on respect for differences in religion, sexual preference, race, Subsidiaries and Associated Companies gender or any other condition covered by appreciation for minorities, cultural differences or the like. 1,512 1,534 1,701 HEAI 223 241 258 OGMA 2010 2009 2008 .69 Distribution of Employees by Gender [Brazil and Foreign Units] 2010 2009 2008 Age Level Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Up to 30 5,277 977 6,254 5,911 1,031 6,942 8,872 1,550 10,422 30 – 50 8,294 1,225 9,519 7,619 1,089 8,708 8,507 1,205 9,712 Over 50 1,283 93 1,376 1,116 87 1,203 1,327 89 1,416 Total 14,854 2,295 17,149 14,646 2,207 16,853 18,706 2,844 21,550 GRI LA 13 Educational Level – Embraer and Subsidiaries Turnover Embraer depends on a highly qualified labor force, Turnover at Embraer, in 2010, was 5.5%, as shown in the and of the total number of employees in Brazil, 38% have following table. The benchmark for the sector is 4%. The formal at least a university degree, which is three times more than job market in Brazil had a turnover rate of 36% in 2009. GRI la 2 the national average of 12%. The minimum educational In 2010, 1,130 employees were hired and 834 were level required for employees is a high school diploma. dismissed, so that we closed the year with a growth of 296 employees. Educational Level [Embraer and Subsidiaries] Company Employee Overall Initiative Initiative Turnover 3.8% 1.6% 5.5% High School 62% Masters or Ph.D 2% Post-Graduate 5% University 31% 70. Remuneration The remuneration policy is exclusively based on Embraer operates in the aerospace industry, where technical criteria, and no form of discrimination is allowed qualified and motivated professionals are the basis for of the person holding the position. The individual salary is effective performance in operations carried out at several based on qualifications, competencies and skills needed to units and locations. We seek to develop competencies perform the activities – that is, it is related to the position and to give incentive to professional improvement through held by the employee. The lowest salary at Embraer is educational means and remuneration that is in line with twice the national minimum wage (R$510 in December the complexity of the job and the performance of the 2010). GRI ec 5 employee, and according to the job market. Employee Remuneration by Salary Range Regional Minimum Wage (SP): R$560.00 Regional Minimum Wage (SP): R$505.00 Range 2010 2009 (No. Wage) Male Female General Male Female General From To Effective Ratio % Effective Ratio % Effective Ratio % Effective Ratio % Effective Ratio % Effective Ratio % 1 2 129 0.92 48 2.29 177 3.21 78 0.56 54 2.66 132 3.22 2 5 2,841 20.24 375 17.91 3,216 25.70 4,680 33.61 579 28.55 5,259 42.60 5 10 6,190 44.09 889 42.45 7,079 56.58 4,914 35.29 747 36.83 5,661 45.85 More than 10 4,849 34.75 782 37.34 5,661 45.24 4,252 30.54 648 31.95 4,900 39.69 Total 14,039 2,094 16,133 13,924 2,028 15,952 GRI ec 5 Collective Bargaining and Unionization The Company recognizes and fully applies all of the Embraer respects and understands the importance clauses of the collective agreements signed by its union of the role played by the unions with which it relates representative, in which there are specific clauses regarding and maintains a relationship with them that conforms job safety, such as improved working conditions around to the legislation in effect. In the Brazilian units, 8.5% of presses and similar equipment, plastic injectors and surface the employees are union members; however, all of them, galvanization, in all of the metalworking industries in the whether union members or not, are covered by the salary State of São Paulo. GRI la 9 adjustments and by the social clauses negotiated in the collective bargaining agreements signed by the union Child Labor and Forced Labor representative of the employees and the association that or Analogous to Slavery represents the Company. The Company also negotiates At  Embraer there is no child labor, because the minimum collective agreements directly with the unions representing hiring age is 18, except for minor apprentices, according to the employees, covering 100% of the employees specific legislation represented. In the collective labor agreements, there are At Embraer there is no forced labor, or that which is social clauses that ensure the right of the unions to hold analogous to slavery membership campaigns on the Company’s premises. The The Code of Ethics and the signing of the UN Global individual condition and freedom of employees to associate Compact by Embraer publicly reinforce these commitments is respected by Embraer. GRI la 4 | hr 5 in the eyes of stakeholders GRI hr 6 | hr 7 .71 Career Planning and Internal Recruiting Leadership Development The “Flight Plan – Career at Embraer” program, which In 2010, the actions for developing leadership provides an integrated vision of their careers to employees, continued by launching the Embraer Leadership Laboratory from hiring to retirement, has been consolidated. In it, the with the purpose of helping the managers find answers by leadership personnel are capacitated to discuss and guide exercising leadership and inspiring others. The laboratory will people in the process of building their careers. promote the connection between Embraer leaders and the In July 2010, a career planning program was created, companies that can accrue solid knowledge and experience; called Career Paths, which proposes to make information it will also allow Company leaders to share their knowledge available so that people can autonomously understand what and build joint solutions for exercising an increasingly effective is required for developing their careers in the Company. GRI la 12 and innovative leadership, by discussing such subjects as Also, nine groups concluded the Post-Career Program, people management, innovation, high-performance teams, with the participation of 289 employees. This program sustainability, business sense, transforming leadership, supports employees in their retirement planning with culture management, strategy, global involvement and subjects related to that change, such as how to prepare a career guidance. new life project, knowledge transfer, and preparing leadership to guide and support people. GRI ec 3 | la 11 Professional Qualification and Development As a means of giving incentive to the career GRI la 10 development of its employees, Embraer makes available, In 2010, the Engineering Specialization Program internally, all of the job openings in the selection process, (ESP) graduated 84 engineers specialized in aeronautics. before going to the market to fill them. For leadership levels, Since the first class, in 2001, ESP has trained 1,116 engineers this process occurs in the same way, but the priority is on with a total investment of R$67 million. natural selection within the area itself. If it is necessary to As a means of strengthening competencies and go outside to recruit, we benefit local candidates. Since the knowledge, the “Internal Instructors” program has the Company is geographically located in several countries, we participation of 526 employees who are capable of being understand “local” to mean the country in which the job instructors for internal courses, and 10,737 hours of opening appeared. instruction have been given in 722 courses held. In 2010, 841 openings were available (112 leadership The behavioral preparation program, based on values positions), and 10,487 people participated in the selection and focusing on Embraer competencies, called “Future process. We had an internal usage rate of 94% for the Business Leaders”, drew the participation of 211 employees leadership positions and 55% for the other positions. GRI ec 7 in 2010. Another outstanding program is the Study Scholarship, where Embraer gives scholarships to partially cover the cost of courses connected with the essential functions of the Company’s business, at the technical or university educational levels. In 2010, 347 employees 2010 2009 2008 benefited, with a total investment of R$246,000. Job Openings 841 348 30 The total investment in professional qualification Participating programs and specific programs for the business, corporate, 10,487 11,481 1,091 Employees industrial and engineering areas was in the order of R$5.3 94% million in 2010. (leadership) Usage (%) 47% 83% 55% (remaining positions) 72. Training and Development Programs [Brazil Units 2010] Number of Average Training Category Training Hours Trained Employees Hours per capita Leadership 759 32,768 43 Engineers 3,102 240,439 78 Technicians 1,908 134,498 70 Operational 7,279 197,324 27 Professionals 1,530 86,299 56 Administrative 606 27,622 46 Trainees 225 7,425 33 Total 15,409 736,375 47 Number of Employees Trained Number of Training Hours Average Training Hours per [Brazil Units] [Brazil Units] Employee [Brazil Units] 19,502 17,604 15,409 726,375 705,574 663,964 47 38 36 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 .73 Health and Safety Committees GRI la 6 Initiatives for Promoting Health Embraer has installed and put into operation an and Quality of Life GRI la 8 Internal Accident Prevention Committee (IAPC) at all of Embraer develops several corporate programs with a its Brazil units. At the Faria Lima plant, the IAPC has been focus on the occupational health and the quality of life of its in existence since 1971. The number of members of the employees and their families. IAPC is set by Regulatory Norm NR-05 of Administrative Statement No. 2,314/78 of the Ministry of Labor, and at the present time at all of the units there are 40 full members and 30 substitutes representing the employees, which are elected every year by secret ballot. Also on the IAPC are 40 full members and 30 substitutes named by the Company. The IAPC, besides holding the annual SIPAT (Internal Accident Prevention Week), also has its own action program prepared by its participants and reviewed by every new mandate. Initiatives Description Launched in 2009, the program serves as an “umbrella” for the actions promoting health and quality of life, focusing on employees and their families. Along with the program, the Well-Being Well-Being Minute was set up, as an informative weekly bulletin focusing on information and awareness of employees regarding health and quality of life. In 2010, the program was expanded to the Embraer units abroad, respecting the needs of employees and the culture of each country The Company has a program for reducing/eliminating smoking. This program offers smoking Well-Being Without Smoking employees treatment and psychological follow-up, and has been working to eliminate smoking on its premises by 2011 Well-Being Without Drugs The program supports employees and families with treatment for drug dependency A partnership with Weight Watchers that offers employees several methods for healthy weight loss. Well-Being with the Scales In all, 453 employees participated in the initiative and lost, collectively, 1,540 kg Reintegration of employees with heart problems to their habitual activities with physical activity Well-Being with Your Heart and actions for improving their life style Creation of the “Breastfeeding Area”, which is a pleasant place for mothers to breastfeed their Well-Being with Maternity children in comfort and privacy Promotes an ideal environment for exchanging information and also for reflecting on how to Lecture Series have a better quality of life, by adopting healthy attitudes in daily living In 2010, Embraer invested R$1 million to vaccinate over 29,000 employees and family members. Embraer Vaccination Program The program seeks to prevent endemic diseases, by offering the annual vaccination of employees and their families, by picking up almost the entire cost 74. Distribution of Benefits 2010 Distribution of Benefits 2009 GRI La 3 GRI La 3 Medical, Dental and Medical, Dental and Pharmacy Assistance 48% Pharmacy Assistance 49% Complementary Pension Plan 20% Complementary Pension Plan 15% Employee Transportation 12% Employee Transportation 14% Meals 11% Meals 13% Life Insurance 2% Life Insurance 2% Others 7% Others 7% Total Investment R$200 million Total Investment R$206 million Benefits Value Added Distribution (VAD) – Consolidated Embraer offers a broad range of benefits to its GRI ec 1 employees and their families, which represents an important The purpose of the VAD is to show the wealth distinctive difference in attracting and retaining talent. This generated by Embraer, and its distribution to the is proven by the organizational climate study performed segments of society represented by its shareholders, in 2010, in which 88% of the employees said they were employees, financial institutions and the government satisfied with the benefits offered. Around R$200 million (municipal, state and federal). The added value to be were invested in benefits, as the chart above. distributed totaled R$2,707 million and represents 28% of net revenues in 2010. Consolidated [R$ million] 2010 2009 Revenues 11,324.3 9,751.5 Supplies Acquired from Third Parties (8,208.3) (6,907.7) Gross Added Value 3,116.0 2,843.8 Depreciation and Amortization (452.1) (383.6) Net Added Value Produced by Entity 2,663.9 2,460.2 Added Value Received by Transfer 302.7 246.8 Total Added Value to be Distributed 2,966.6 2,707.0 Distribution of Added Value 2,966.6 2,707.0 Personnel 1,467.6 1,359.2 Government (taxes, fees and contributions) 119.3 503.7 Interest and Rent 442.4 244.0 Interest on Own Capital and Dividends 228.9 155.7 Profits Withheld / Losses for the Year 683.2 417.8 Participation of Non-controlling Shareholders 25.2 26.6 .75 Value Added Statement – VAS 2010 Value Added Statement – VAS 2009 Employees 50.2% Employees 49.5% Government 18.6% Government 4.0% Third Parties 9.0% Third Parties 14.9% Retained 15.4% Retained 23% Shareholders 6.8% Shareholders 8.6% Society and Human Rights occupational health and safety criteria. In effect since 2005, The Embraer Code of Ethics and Conduct formalizes the by 2009 it included 359 suppliers (143 national and 216 corporate commitment to maintain a work environment that is foreign). In 2010, 120 suppliers were qualified (39 national free of any form of discrimination, harassment or forced labor, and 81 foreign). Once irregularities are identified, the whether child or slave. It is strictly prohibited, at all plants, and in suppliers are guided and given a deadline for correcting the any relationship with stakeholders, to have publicity, advertising problem, under the condition that the purchase or service or any other material released, to make any mention or have contract could be canceled. GRI hr 1 | hr 2 any illustration or manifestation of discrimination of race, ethnic group, gender, creed, religion, age, handicap or sexual preference. Social Action GRI so 1 | ec 8 | ec 9 | so 5 It also prohibits and punishes within the measures established The Embraer Institute for Education and Research by the law, to have any type of harassment, which includes (IEEP) has actions and projects directed towards initiatives any act or attitude, verbal or physical, that implies humiliation, that contribute to the social inclusion process through the embarrassment or threat to employees. education. IEEP is fully supported by Embraer and develops its In 2010, Embraer recorded no cases of discrimination of own projects, in order to create models of excellence that can any type, and there was no record of forced or compulsory labor be transferred to other realities, as well as actions in support of at the units in Brazil or abroad. Complaints of moral harassment third-party projects. were checked by internal processes, and five occurrences were Besides technical criteria, the initiatives of the Embraer assessed to be real. Disciplinary measures were applied in each Institute also reflect three areas of concern: quality, innovation case, from orientation with a formal warning to the dismissal of and cost. The quality of the projects for social investment those involved. GRI la 4 | hr 4 is derived, in part, from the Company policy to demand Embraer’s actions against discrimination and standards from IEEP that are similar to those required of its forced labor are extended to the entire network of national product line. In the aeronautics industry, quality is an absolute and foreign suppliers. The Environmental, Occupational value, and the conviction is that there is the very real possibility Health, Safety and Quality Integrated Management for improving Brazil’s public education based on improving System (SIG-MASSQ) establishes a process for qualifying management, without a significant increase in cost. suppliers, which covers environmental, human rights, and 76. Innovation is another banner of the institute. Since it One of the highlights of this commitment to is fully sustained by a high-tech company that competes on a developing young people through education is Embraer global scale, and the subjects of education and management Juarez Wanderley High School. It is fully maintained by are present in Embraer’s daily life, there is total commitment Embraer, and provides quality instruction to young people to debating these subjects, supporting the improved quality of coming from the public schools. Over the past three years, education, and increasing the degree of social inclusion of lowit has obtained notable results on the National High School income young people. Exam (ENEM): Social Development Actions and Projects in Brazil Project Description Main project of the Embraer Institute for Education and Research (IEEP) and fully supported by the Company since 2002 Engenheiro Juarez Serves 600 students per year in the region of São José dos Campos, Taubaté, Caçapava, and Jacareí Wanderley High School Quality, free education with a pedagogical focus on giving incentive to autonomy (CEJW) Full-time High School instruction for students from the public school system According to the Ministry of Education, it is the 8th best high school in the State of São Paulo, the 21st in the Southeast Region, and the 35th in the nation (ENEM-2009) Began in 2006 Prepares its curriculum in association with the USA Occupational Research and Development Center, Rede Pitágoras de Ensino, and the Instruction and Research Institute of the Sírio-Libanês Hospital University Preparation Prepares for academic and professional challenges, bringing the reality of the workplace into the school Program (UPP) 800 classroom hours in four semesters: exact sciences (pre-engineering), humanities (pre-humanities and administration) and biomedicine (pre-biomedicine) 400 students benefited per year Began in 2005 Embraer is the biggest contributor to the fund, with up to 25% of the amount paid monthly to each scholarship recipient Helps cover the general expenses of former students of Engenheiro Juarez Wanderley High School who are studying in universities outside of the region of São José dos Campos The scholarships are granted only to students with excellent academic performance, accepted by public or private Scholarship Fund universities, with a government (PROUNI) study scholarship and facing financial limitations that hinder them from pursuing their studies Former students of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School who benefited from the program become contributors to the fund after graduating from the university, thus returning the value of the scholarship, with monetary correction In 2010, 313 students benefited Began in 2009, with the 2nd edition of the competition held in 2010 Held in a partnership with IEEP and Embraer employee volunteers Embraer Mini-Glider Challenge for students from the 7th to 9th grades that involves preparing a project report, with drawings, diagrams Competition and explanations regarding the solutions used to develop the mini-glider, down to the construction and testing, in order to evaluate its performance during the competition flight In 2010, 260 students participated in the program Participative management program for the school community, created in 2006 Since its creation, 41,848 students have benefited. In 2010, there were another 8,768 students Stimulates reflection on the quality of school management and proposes improvements in the educational model of Action in School public primary and high schools Program (ASP) Projects are evaluated by IEEP Methodology developed under the coordination of UNICEF’s Educational Action, of the UN Development Program, and Inep-MEC .77 In 2010, Embraer invested some R$ 12 million in educational and cultural programs that benefited local communities. Furthermore, the Company promoted and participated in several social actions that strengthened its relationship with society. Created in 2004, to assist NGOs in preparing and developing projects Foments social culture for mobilizing society to identify and solve problems Social Partnership Active participation of Embraer employees who voluntarily prepare and carry out projects developed by social Program (SPP) organizations Since 2004, SPP has supported 61 projects, 14 in 2010 alone Course lasts eight months for students from the state school system QuQualifies participants with information technology knowledge, techniques and citizenship Digital Inclusion Offers professionalization alternatives for the job market Since it was created in 2003, 240 students have benefited, 40 in 2010 Embraer volunteer employees participate as instructors Created in 2002, in partnership with Municipal Departments of Education and Junior Achievement of the State of São Paulo Embraer employees participate in the program as volunteer guides to students Objective is to stimulate an entrepreneurial spirit in young people Program lasts for 15 weeks with weekly periods of 3 ½ hours. Participants create a company, choose their product, Mini-Company manufacture and sell it. In this way, they learn the main processes that are experienced in a day-to-day business 8th grade and High School students from public schools participate in the program The resources needed for creating the mini-company are raised by the students, themselves, by selling shares At the end of the program, the mini-companies are liquidated, and the results are distributed among the shareholders Created in 2009, in a partnership with GAMT, an NGO from Caçapava/SP, that trained the educators of Gavião Peixoto Robotics Project Offers, through educational robotic, a learning environment capable of awakening new interest in subjects already experienced by the students in the classroom 20 students from the public schools of Gavião Peixoto, ages 14 to 17, participated in the project Program for the Professional development and training program for handicapped people, created in 2002 Handicapped Already benefited around 78 handicapped young people, 35 in 2010 78. Nashville | 9:30am | -6 Le Bourget | 4:30PM | +1 In 2010, Embraer invested around R$12 million Awards and Recognition GRI 2.10 in educational and cultural programs that benefit local Embraer was recognized and awarded in several communities. evaluation areas, which take into consideration high Besides these programs, Embraer promoted standards of governance, sustainability, management or participated in several social action and isolated practices, occupational health and safety, crisis management awareness programs. and the quality of its products, among others. Some of the recognition and awards received are: Program for the Handicapped In February 2010, the Embraer Institute invested IDEA Brasil Design 2010 Award – Transportation Category: R$60,000 and benefited 35 students with special needs “Gold” rating for Legacy 450 and Legacy 500 executive jets, from the Elza Regina Ferreira Bevilacqua Municipal School, for using the most modern and refined design solutions of São José dos Campos, who received two ergonomic Flightglobal Achievement Award – Innovation of the Year computer stations that adjust to their needs, providing Category: for the innovative electronic flight control system comfortable access to tools for pedagogical support in the of the Legacy 450 and Legacy 500 executive jets school’s information technology room. The municipal pilot 23rd Annual “Best of the Best,” Robb Report – Business Jet program was supported by the Department of Education of Category: Phenom 100 – best aircraft in the light jet category; São José dos Campos. Phenom 300 – best aircraft in the light midsize jet category Inovar para Crescer 2010 Award – Brazilian Pro-Technological Pink Jet Innovation Society: winner in the Vision Category, for the In October 2010, Embraer, Azul Linhas Aéreas constant improvements in the Ipanema aircraft Brasileiras and the Brazilian Federation of Philanthropic Diamond Certification 2010 – U.S. Federal Aviation Institutions Supporting Breast Health (Federação Brasileira Administration (FAA): second consecutive win for de Instituições Filantrópicas de Apoio à Saúde da Mama – Embraer’s executive jet maintenance centers in Fort FEMAMA) came together in a campaign for breast cancer Lauderdale, Florida, and Mesa, Arizona (U.S.), in recognition prevention, with the objective of increasing the awareness of excellence in aircraft maintenance training of the importance of early diagnosis, in order to increase the SAM Sustainability Yearbook 2011 – “Gold Class” Category: chances of curing the disease. To symbolize the initiative, an Embraer joined the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index), EMBRAER 195 jet belonging to Azul was painted pink, which having been evaluated as the second-best global company is the worldwide symbol of the fight against breast cancer. in the aerospace industry, in terms of sustainability practices The jet is operated by an exclusively female crew, who wear pink uniforms. The launch of the campaign coincided with Pink October, which is the worldwide movement against breast cancer. .79 Gavião Peixoto | 12:30pm | -3 Taubaté | 12:30pm | -3  anking among the 150 Best Companies to Work 2010 – R Exame and Você S.A. magazines, in a partnership with FIA (award also received in 2009) Ranking among the 100 Best Companies to Work 2010 In 2010, Embraer won – Great Place to Work Institute: award received for the second consecutive year and published in Época magazine, a number of awards, in of Editora Globo 30 Best in People Management 2010 – AON Hewitt recognition of the results it Consultants and Valor Econômico: 4th place in the Large Company Category EPS 2010 Award – Best Psychologically Healthy Companies obtained throughout the year. – Gestão & RH magazine ABS – Agência Brasil de Segurança Award: first Brazilian company to receive the award for best practices in preventing and fighting fires and emergencies XIV Anefac – Fipecafi – Serasa Experian Award “Transparency Trophy 2010”: Embraer among the 10 most transparent in Brazil We are grateful to these institutions and to our 12th Abrasca Award for Best Annual Report: 5th place and stakeholders, and we are committed to continuing to make honorable mention in the Strategy item every effort in defending our fundamental values: motivating DCI Company of the Year 2010 Award: “Embraer, the most our people, internal and external transparency, healthy and admired company in the aviation sector” ethical relations with our customers, excellence in industrial Carta Capital Award: most admired Companies in Brazil 2010 and technological capacity, promoting economic-financial Biggest and Best (Maiores & Melhores) Award in health, zeal for the assets of shareholders and, finally, the transportation & logistics 2010: “The best in the aeronautical perpetuity of the enterprise. and components industry sector” Época Negócios – The companies with the greatest prestige Revista Exame – Biggest and Best IstoÉ Dinheiro – Most Valuable Brands 80. Social Performance Indicators GRI eN30 1 – Calculation Base 2010 Value [R$ thousand] 2009 Value [R$ thousand] Net Revenues (NR) 8,231,283 9,271,506 Operational Result (OR) 1,076,535 890,356 Gross Payroll (GPR) 1,649,730 1,550,566 Value % over % over Value % over % over 2 – Internal Social Indicators [R$ thousand] GPR NR [R$ thousand] GPR NR Meals 20,475 1.24 0.25 22,203 1.43 0.24 Mandatory social charges 444,839 26.96 5.40 406,853 26.24 4.39 Supplementary retirement 38,324 2.32 0.47 29,659 1.91 0.32 Health 84,895 5.15 1.03 94,428 6.09 1.02 Labor health and safety 9,346 0.57 0.11 10,615 0.68 0.11 Education 246 0.01 0.00 326 0.02 0.00 Culture 143 0.01 0.00 168 0.01 0.00 Professional training and development 15,784 0.96 0.19 15,943 1.03 0.17 Childcare or childcare stipend 342 0.02 0.00 276 0.02 0.00 Profit-sharing 79,162 4.80 0.96 70,175 4.53 0.76 Others 29,891 1.81 0.36 34,661 2.24 0.37 Total – Internal Social Indicators 723,447 43.85 8.79 685,307 44.20 7.39 Value % over % over Value % over % over 3 – External Social Indicators [R$ thousand] OR NR [R$ thousand] OR NR Education 11,272 1.05 0.14 12,174 1.37 0.13 Culture 806 0.07 0.01 600 0.07 0.01 Fight against hunger and food insecurity 0 0.00 0.00 457 0.05 0.00 Others 260 0.02 0.00 385 0.04 0.00 Total Contribution to Society 12,338 1.15 0.15 13,616 1.53 0.15 Taxes (excluding social charges) 141,441 13.14 1.72 235,433 26.44 2.54 Total – External Social Indicators 153,779 14.28 1.87 249,049 27.97 2.69 Value % over % over Value % over % over 4 Environmental Indicators [R$ thousand] OR NR [R$ thousand] OR NR Investment related to 8,956 0.83 0.11 9,017 1.01 0.10 Company production/operation Investment in external programs and/or projects 92 0.01 0.00 96 0.01 0.00 Total Environmental Investment 9,047 0.84 0.11 9,113 1.02 0.10 Regarding the definition of “annual goals” to ( ) does not have goals (x) does not have goals reduce waste, the general consumption for ( ) meets from 0 a 50% ( ) meets from 0 a 50% production/operation and increase efficiency in ( ) meets from 51 to 75% ( ) meets from 51 to 75% utilization of natural resources, the Company: (x) meets 76 to 100% ( ) meets 76 to 100% .81 5 – Staff Indicators 2010 2009 No. of employees at the end of the period 16,133 15,952 No. of new hires in the period 1,028 201 No. of outsourced employees 2,430 2,336 No. of interns 169 32 No. of employees over 45 years 2,441 2,492 No. of women working at the Company 2,094 2,030 % of management positions held by women 8.16% 8.47% No. of handicapped or special-needs 740 786 employees 6 – Relevant Corporate 2010 Goal for 2011 Citizenship Information Ratio of highest to lowest 42 No goal salary at the Company Total on-the-job accidents 792 600 The social and environmental projects ( ) Directors ( ) Directors implemented by the Company were decided (x) Directors and management (x) Directors and management upon by: ( ) All staff ( ) All staff ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management The risk and security standards in the ( ) All staff ( ) All staff workplace were decided upon by: (x) All staff + CIPA (x) All staff + CIPA With regard to labor unions, the right ( ) Does not get involved ( ) Will not get involved for collective bargaining and internal ( ) Follows ILO rules ( ) Follow ILO rules representation of workers, the Company: (x) Encourages and follows ILO (x) Encourage and follow ILO ( ) Directors ( ) Directors Supplemental pension benefits are extended to: ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management (x) All staff (x) All staff ( ) Directors ( ) Directors Profit-sharing is extended to: ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management (x) All staff (x) All staff Regarding the selection of suppliers, the ( ) Are not considered ( ) Will not be considered same ethical and social and environmental (x) Are suggested (x) Will be suggested responsibility standards adopted by the ( ) Are required ( ) Will be required Company: ( ) Does not get involved ( ) Will not get involved Regarding the participation of employees in ( ) Supports ( ) Will Support volunteer activities, the Company: (x) Organizes and encourages (x) Will organize and encourage Total value added for In 2010: 2,397,906 In 2009: 2,509,580 distribution (R$ thousand): 19.23% Government 48.26% Employees 1.59% Government 48.28% Employees Distribution of Value Added (DVA): 6.49% Shareholders 8.59% Third Parties 9.12% Shareholders 13.79% Third Parties 17.43% Retained 27.22% Retained 82. GRI Index 1. Strategy and Analysis AR Pages Global Compact Declaration of Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the Organization about the relevance of 4 continuous support in 1.1 sustainability to the organization and its strategy. the CEO’s Message 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4 and 24 2. Organizational Profile AR Pages Global Compact 2.1 Name of the Organization. 1 and 8 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 44 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 12 2.3 subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 12 and 38 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 12 and 38 2.5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 18 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 8 and 15 2.7 sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting Organization. 8 and 14 Significant changes during the reporting period 8 and 18 2.9 regarding size, structure or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 79 and 80 3. Report Parameters AR Pages Global Compact 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.) 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 Process for defining report content, including: a) determining materiality; b) prioritizing topics within 1 3.5 the report; and c) identifying stakeholders the Organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the Report 1 3.6 (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 1 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other 1 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 1 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of 1 business, measurement methods). .83 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 1 3.11 boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 1 and 82 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 1 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement AR Pages Global Compact Governance structure of the Organization, including committees under the highest governance body 18, 19 and 4.1 20 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Executive Officer (and, if so, his or 19 4.2 her function within the Organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 18 4.3 highest governance body that are independent or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 18, 20 and 4.4 27 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 managers and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Organization’s 20 performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 20 and 26 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 19 4.7 governance body for guiding the Organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. Statement of Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles relevant to 16 and 26 4.8 Commitment and economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation. employees disclosure Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance, 19, 23, 24 4.9 and 36 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Processes for self-evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect 18 and 20 4.10 to economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is addressed by the Organization. 24 7 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 14 Statement of 4.12 Commitment principles or other initiatives to which the Organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the Organization: has positions in governance bodies; 59 Statement of 4.13 Commitment participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Organization. 1 and 67 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 67 Share of the COP Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 67 4.16 with the Company’s of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. stakeholders Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 58, 59 and 4.17 67 Organization has responded to those key topics and concerns. 84. Economic Performance Indicators Disclosure of Management Approach 50 and 54 Aspect: Economic Performance AR Pages Global Compact Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Core EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 14 and 74 retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Organization’s 25 and 58 7 and 8 Core EC2 activities due to climate change. Core EC3 Coverage of the Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 71 Aspect: Market Presence AR Pages Global Compact Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to 70 6 ADD EC5 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Policy, practices and proportion of spending on 38 Core EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management 71 6 Core EC7 hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts AR Pages Global Compact Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 75 Core EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 36 and 75 ADD EC9 impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Indicators Disclosure of Management Approach 56 and 60 Aspect: Energy AR Pages Global Compact Core EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 61 8 Core EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 60 8 ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 60 and 65 8 and 9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based ADD EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements 58 8 and 9 as a result of these initiatives. ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 60 8 and 9 Aspect: Water AR Pages Global Compact Core EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 61 8 ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 61 and 65 8 and 9 .85 Aspect: Biodiversity AR Pages Global Compact Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, Core EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 62 8 value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products and Core EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 62 8 biodiversity value outside protected areas. ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 62 8 Strategies, current actions and future plans 62 8 ADD EN14 for managing impacts on biodiversity. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Waste AR Pages Global Compact Core EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 62 Core EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 62 ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 59, 63 and 65 8 and 9 Core EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 62 8 Core EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 63 8 Core EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 65 8 Core EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 64 8 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous ADD EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage 64 of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies ADD EN25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting Organization’s 65 8 discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services AR Pages Global Compact Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 58 and 59 8 and 9 Core EN26 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products and their packaging materials 58 8 and 9 Core EN27 that are reclaimed by category. Aspect : Overall AR Pages Global Compact ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 80 8 Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Disclosure of Management Approach 66 and 67 Aspect: Employment AR Pages Global Compact Core LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 68 Core LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 69 6 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 74 6 ADD LA3 or part-time employees, by major operations. 86. Aspect: Labor/Governance Relations AR Pages Global Compact Core LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 70 and 75 1 and 3 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety AR Pages Global Compact Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker ADD LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 73 health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of 37 Core LA7 work-related fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in Core LA8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 73 regarding serious diseases. ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 70 Aspect: Training and Education AR Pages Global Compact Core LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 71 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 71 ADD LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 71 ADD LA12 development reviews. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity AR Pages Global Compact Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Core LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other 68 1 and 6 indicators of diversity. Core LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 1 and 6 Human Rights Performance Indicators Disclosure of Management Approach 24 and 76 Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices AR Pages Global Compact Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include 75 1, 4, 5 and 6 Core HR1 human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 75 1, 4, 5 and 6 Core HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken. Aspect: Non-Discrimination AR Pages Global Compact Core HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 75 1 and 6 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining AR Pages Global Compact Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Core HR5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to 70 1 and 3 support these rights. .87 Aspect: Child Labor AR Pages Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 70 1 and 5 Core HR6 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Aspect: Forced or Analogous to Slavery AR Pages Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or labor Core HR7 analogous to slavery, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced 70 1, 2 and 4 labor or analogous to slavery. Society Performance Indicators Disclosure of Management Approach 26 and 75 Aspect: Community AR Pages Global Compact Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Core SO1 manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, 75 1 operating and exiting. Aspect: Corruption AR Pages Global Compact Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for 26 and 27 10 Core SO2 risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in Organization’s anti-corruption 26 10 Core SO3 policies and procedures. Aspect : Public Policy AR Pages Global Compact Public policy positions and participation in 35, 59 and 75 10 Core SO5 public policy development and lobbying. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior AR Pages Global Compact Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and ADD SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Disclosure of Management Approach 36, 37, 40 and 41 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety AR Pages Global Compact Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Core PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services 41 subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary ADD PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their 41 life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling AR Pages Global Compact Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage 41 8 Core PR3 of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 88. Corporate Information Embraer Units Brazil United States Of America Embraer S.A. – São José dos Campos (Headquarters) Embraer Aircraft Holding, Inc. – Fort Lauderdale Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2.170 276 SW, 34th Street 12227-901 – São José dos Campos – SP – Brazil Fort Lauderdale, FL – 33315 – USA PHONE: +55 12 3927 1000 PHONE: +1 954 359 3700 FAX: +55 12 3927 6600, ext. 1448 FAX: +1 954 359 8170 Embraer – Eugênio de Melo Embraer Aircraft Maintenance Services – Nashville Rodovia Presidente Dutra, km 134 10 Airways Blvd. Distrito Eugênio de Melo – SP – 12247-820 – Brazil Nashville, TN – 37217 – USA PHONE: +55 12 3927 1000 PHONE: +1 615 367 2100 FAX: +1 615 367 4327 Embraer – Gavião Peixoto Estrada Municipal Euclides Martins, 2.170 Embraer – Melbourne Gavião Peixoto – SP – 14813-000 – Brazil 1205 General Aviation Drive PHONE: +55 16 3338 9000 Melbourne, FL – 32901 – USA FAX: +55 16 3338 9001 France Indústria Aeronáutica Neiva – Botucatu Embraer – Villepinte Av. Alcides Cagliari, 2281 Bat. Eddington Paris Nord II 33, Rue des Vanesses Botucatu – SP – 18606-855 – Brazil BP 57391 Villepinte – 95943 Roissy CDG Cedex – France PHONE: +55 14 3811 2000 PHONE: +331 49 38 4400 FAX: +55 14 3811 1936 FAX: +331 49 38 4401 Embraer – Taubaté Embraer Aviation International – Le Bourget Rodovia Floriano Rodrigues Pinheiro, 333 Aéroport du Bourget – Zone d’Aviation d’Affaires – BP74 – Taubaté – SP – 12042-000 – Brazil Le Bourget Cedex 93352 – França Eleb Equipamentos Ltda. – São José dos Campos Rua Itabaiana, 40 São José dos Campos – SP – 12237-540 – Brazil PHONE: +55 12 3935 5211 FAX: +55 12 3935 5284 .89 Shareholder Information Portugal Depository Banks Ogma Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal S.A. – Alverca Brazil – Banco Itaú S.A. 2615 173 – Alverca – Portugal Rua Boa Vista, 176 – 1º subsolo PHONE: +351 21 957 1000 / 957 9000 01014-001 – São Paulo – SP – Brazil FAX: +351 21 958 1288 / 958 0401 PHONE: +55 11 3247 3138 / 3247 3139 FAX: +55 11 3247 3141 Embraer – Évora Praça de Sertorio s/nr United States of America – JP Morgan Gabinete de Apoio da Presidencia 60 Wall Street, 36th floor Évora, Lisboa – 7004-506 – Portugal 10260-006 – Nova York – NY – USA PHONE: +1 212 623 0875 China FAX: +1 212 623 0079 Embraer – Beijing Suite 1806, Tower 2, China Central Place Independent Auditors Office Building n° 79, Jianguo Road PricewaterhouseCoopers Chaoyang District – Beijing 100025 Rua Euclides Miragaia, 433 – cjs. 301 e 304 People’s Republic of China 12245-550 – São José dos Campos – SP – Brazil PHONE: +86 10 6598 9988 PHONE: +55 12 3913 4505 FAX: +86 10 6598 9986 FAX: +55 12 3942 3329 www.pwc.com/br Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry – Harbin 15 Youxie St. Investor Relations Pingfang, Harbin – 150066 – People’s Republic of China Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2.170 PHONE:+86 451 5390 8988 12227-901 – São José dos Campos – SP – Brazil FAX: +86 451 8650 2511 PHONE: +55 12 3927 4404 FAX: +55 12 3922 6070 Singapore investor.relations@embraer.com.br Embraer – Singapore Contacts: André Gaia, Caio Pinez, Cláudio Massuda, Juliana 391B Orchard Road # 24-02 Villarinho and Paulo Ferreira (Brazil) and Luciano Froes (USA). Ngee Ann City – Tower B – 38874 Singapore PHONE: +65 6734 4321 Publications and Information FAX: +65 6734 8255 The quarterly results, press releases and annual reports are available under the Department of Investor Relations and on the website: www.embraer.com.br Contact For questions regarding the contents of this report and more information, write to: investor.relations@embraer.com.br, or call: +55 12 3927 4404 Credits Coordination Executive Vice-Presidency, Finance and Investor Relations Executive Vice-Presidency, Sustainability and Organizational Development Content Consulting TheMediaGroup www.mediagroup.com.br Design, Graphics and Writing TheMediaGroup Photos Acervo Embraer Iara Venanzi Paulo Friedman Printing Braspor Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2.170 São José dos Campos, SP 12227-901 Brasil www.embraer.com
