Cardo GRI report 2010 Enabling sustainable performance The world’s population is growing. Mobility and declared. GRI is an internationally widely used standard the demand for access to goods and services from for reporting sustainability performance with regards to across the globe are increasing. Being a worldfinancial, environmental and social aspects. leading supplier of industrial doors and logistics During 2010, Cardo also signed the United Nations systems, wastewater treatment systems, process Global Compact. The Global Compact is a global strategic equipment for the pulp and paper industry and business initiative on corporate responsibility initiated by garage doors, Cardo solutions help to solve the The UN General Secretary, Kofi Annan in 1999 at the World challenges with shortage of water and a growing Economic Forum. The initiative brings together business demand for efficient transportation and energy with UN Agencies, labour and civil society in the common solutions. objective of achieving a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. Companies that sign up to the Global To continue to meet these challenges in a successful way, Compact are committed to aligning their operations and Cardo has identified a number of particularly important strategies with the ten principles of the initiative that are focus areas enabling sustainable performance. Within governing human rights, labour, the environment and these focus areas, there is a number of key performance anti-corruption. We have aligned our operations and indicators that we measure and follow-up. For the year of strategies with the ten principles of Global Compact by 2010, we report these KPIs according the guidelines of incorporating these in our Code of Conduct (CoC) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), application level C, self thereby implementing the ten principles in our organization. 1 GRI Index COMPANY PROFILE Page 1. Strategy & Analysis ● 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization 4 ◗ 1.2 Descriptions of impacts, risks and opportunities 6 2. Organizational profile ● 2.1 Name of the organization 6 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 6 ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 7 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 7 ● 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 7 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 ● 2.7 Markets served 7 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 8 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 8 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 8 3. Report Parameters ● 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 8 ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 8 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) 8 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 8 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 8 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report 8 ● 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 9 ● 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 9 ● 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 9 ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 9 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ● 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 10 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 10 ● 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 10 ● 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 10 ● 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 10 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 10 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10 ● Full coverage indicates that the reporting organization has reported data completely fulfilling the demands of the GRI guidelines for the specific indicator. ◗ Partial coverage indicates that the reporting organization has reported data partially fulfilling the demands of the GRI guidelines for the specific indicator. 2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Environmental performance ENERGY ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 12 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 13 ◗ EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 15 ◗ EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 14 CLIMATE IMPACT ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse emissions by weight 16 ◗ EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 16 ◗ EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 15 ◗ EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 17 WATER ◗ EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 19 Financial performance ECONOMY ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 19 ● EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change 19 Share value (Performance Indicator outside the scope of GRI) 20 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Innovation (Performance Indicator outside the scope of GRI) 20 Resources allocated for R&D (Performance Indicator outside the scope of GRI) 21 Social Performance HUMAN RIGHTS ◗ HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 21 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ● LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region 22 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ● LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 23 ● LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 24 ● Full coverage indicates that the reporting organization has reported data completely fulfilling the demands of the GRI guidelines for the specific indicator. ◗ Partial coverage indicates that the reporting organization has reported data partially fulfilling the demands of the GRI guidelines for the specific indicator. 3 Company Profile 1. Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization. The market did not recover as we had hoped in 2010. Instead, it remained at the low level of 2009 for most of the year. Despite this, Cardo is much stronger today than before the recession and we are increasingly an environment company that operates in response to the driving forces we see in the world. What pleases me most about the past year is the fact and ability to keep prices up, this is why we succeeded that we became so much more efficient. Cardo has used so well in terms of both margins and cash flow during the the recession to truly become one company, without cost year – despite the sluggish market. leakage due to poor processes. We are collaborating As a consequence of our becoming stronger during better and are better organized both inwardly and 2010, we have also been able to raise the bar for the outwardly. Together with selectivity in targeting customers Company’s financial targets. 4 End customers in focus Growing most outside Europe In order to sharpen up our capability, we devoted a lot of The European market is not growing as fast as the markets energy during the year to how we meet the market. We in the regions outside our own. Right from the start, my continued our efforts to increasingly target end customers goal as leader for Cardo has therefore been to reduce our instead of contractors – end customers that we ourselves dependence on western Europe. This effort is continuing actively select in strategic segments and that to a greater with undiminished intensity and we have gone from 84 degree focus on total operating costs. In the first instance, percent of sales in Europe in 2006 to 76 percent today. this is a question of businesses that have a large installed In Cardo Flow Solutions, we began establishing a new base of our products and our competitors’ products and production unit in China during the year, which will make are interested in our service offering. it possible to reduce lead times there very considerably. Our message is that the initial investment is a small part A presence in this large and growing market is an important of the cost. Instead, it is the life-cycle cost they ought to precondition for our being able to take a substantial focus on, and we at Cardo will talk both to those people proportion of growth there. who make decisions about investments and those who In Europe, which is largely a replacement market, we are responsible for operations. This requires selling to can take market shares by increasing our targeting of a number of people at several levels in our customer end-customers and by focusing on energy consumption. companies – and getting high enough up to reach New sales are to be found in the emerging markets. everyone who really influences decisions. We know that we have an attractive offering for everyone who is Signs of recovery interested in energy-efficiency, reliability and total cost. Last year, I concluded by saying that within Cardo we would coordinate business operationally by changing the More efficient and more energy-saving – everywhere organization. This we have done. Nevertheless, it was a Our vision and business idea are based on our being a difficult year because of low volumes. Cardo is a late-cycle customer-oriented solution provider that offers value-adding company and essentially we have yet to see the upswing. solutions. Among other things, this means that we are But I believe that we have reached the bottom of the always working on new energy-saving solutions that help recession and will see better volumes in the market bring about a better world, where our customers can utilize during 2011. and economize with energy and water in a better way. During the year, we decided on an ambitious innovation Well prepared program, with an increased focus on research and As the recovery occurs, Cardo is very well prepared for development. The aim is that each innovation will make growth and better positioned than we were in the our products more efficient and more energy-saving. In previous boom – both in Europe and in new markets. combination with an effective offering in service, this will The good work we did during the year has made us make Cardo even more competitive and profitable. attractive in a number of ways. ASSA ABLOY’s offer for We also fine-tuned our own organization and supply the Company at the end of the year is proof of that. chain. For example, the entire Cardo Entrance Solutions Finally, I would like to thank our employees as well as division was provided with a common logistics system and our customers and collaborative partners. It was together joint distribution centers. The Cardo Flow Solutions that we made 2010 such a good year. division streamlined its production apparatus in order to become faster, more efficient and even better at meeting, and preferably exceeding, its customers’ expectations. Malmö, Sweden, in March 2011 Peter Aru, President and CEO 5 1.2 Descriptions of impacts, risks and opportunities demands of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). During The world’s population is growing; and mobility and the this year, the first step has been to identify performance demand for access to goods and services from across the indicators that are important for Cardo to incorporate globe are increasing. Globalization and an increased sustainability into all our functions and businesses. pressure on the environment are bringing new dangers These include financial results, research & development, and concerns. Global challenges such as lack of clean environmental footprint (energy use, climate impact and water and energy and the need for efficient transportation water use), occupational health and safety, competence solutions requires entirely new ways of thinking. This development, diversity and supplier compliance with applies to nations and societies as well as to organizasustainability requirements. In addition to the selected tions and companies. Cardo is a world-leading supplier number of GRI performance indicators included in this of industrial doors and logistics systems, wastewater report, Cardo has identified a few other key performance treatment systems, process equipment for the pulp and indicators that we have chosen to report, not referred to in paper industry and garage doors. Cardo solutions help to GRI, but relevant to our business. For the coming year, we solve the challenges with shortage of water and a growing will put emphasis on defining suitable long-term targets demand for efficient transportation and energy solutions. and mid-term objectives and goals that are relevant to our Being efficient, and providing energy efficient solufuture operations and organizational structure. tions for our customers, has been our priority during the In Cardo, sustainability is incorporated in the business year. A decision about an increased effort and resources strategy at all levels, led and supported by the CEO. directed towards R&D, was taken during the year. Our A steering group is assigned responsible to develop, and goal is to continue to make our products even more align, the Cardo sustainability efforts along with overall efficient and energy saving, which we believe will make business strategy in practice. The steering group consists Cardo even more competitive and successful. We already of nine members with management positions at either group provide the market’s most energy-efficient, submersible wide level or division level. At the level of each local office pumps for wastewater – the ABS EffeX range – and and unit, Cardo has assigned sustainability coordinators offering the Crawford Control & Monitoring System, which enabling true change at all levels in the company. significantly can reduce the energy that is lost through industrial doors. Further more we are developing our 2. Organizational profile capability for innovation in many areas such as process 2.1 Name of the organization development, ways of working, R&D etc. The name of the organisation is Cardo. The challenges that directly impact our own operations are similar to the challenges that most parts of our society 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or service meet. This includes increased energy costs as a result of Within Cardo, there are three divisions: Cardo Entrance limited energy resources, human induced climate change Solutions, Cardo Flow Solutions and the division of and its resulting impact on the environment, our natural Lorentzen & Wettre. Within each division, Cardo has resources and a safe and sound human population. Of focused on developing a limited number, strategically reasons such as these, we are actively working to reduce selected brands, which in most cases are leaders or our own ecological footprint to be able to continue to run among the leaders in their respective market segment. a successful business. Internally, we have reorganized our The division Cardo Entrance Solutions entails brands supply chain to create an efficient and smooth common and products within industrial doors and logistics systems logistic system for Cardo Entrance Solutions. Cardo Flow as well as garage doors. Brands included in Cardo Solutions has refined the product range and production Entrance Solutions are Crawford, Henderson, Megadoor processes to become even faster and more efficient reand Normstahl. sponding to customer needs. An inventory of our energy The division Cardo Flow Solutions include the brands use and resulting climate impact through emissions by of ABS, Pumpex and Scanpump providing products and greenhouse gases has been performed during the year, solutions for transportation and treatment of wastewater increasing our capability to control operational energy as well as for the pulp and paper industry. demand and climate impact. Lorentzen & Wettre, the sole brand in our third division, Sustainability management has since 2010 been focuses on sophisticated equipment for process optimizaperformed within Cardo in structured way that fulfils the tion and quality control for the pulp and paper industry. 6 SHAREHOLDERS 56 56 56 NOMINATION AUDITORS COMMITTEE GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 6 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 6 COMMITTEE Goals and strategies Reports and control 6 5 AUDIT 6 PRESIDENT AND GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 65 65 Cardo 65 Cardo Entrance Flow Lorentzen Solutions Solutions & Wettre 2.3 Operational structure of the organization in over 30 countries, which all are included in the reported Within Cardo, there are four central operating companies: information in this GRI report, if not stated otherwise. Cardo AB, Cardo Shared Services AB, AB Cardocenter The three largest regional markets for Cardo are and Cardo Treasury AB. Cardo operations extend over Europe, North America and Asia. The net sales for these more than 30 countries worldwide and are pursued in the regions were 76.3 percent, 7.5 percent and 7 percent for divisions Cardo Entrance Solutions, Cardo Flow Solutions Europe, North America and Asia respectively. and in Lorentzen & Wettre. The percentage of Cardo group net sales represented by each of the division is 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form following: Cardo Entrance Solutions 56 %, Cardo Flow Cardo has been listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Solutions 40 % and Lorentzen & Wettre 4 %. Exchange since 1995. As of December 2010, LE Within Cardo, there are in total 114 legal entities, of Lundbergföretagen AB , Stockholm Sweden, held 11 150 which 17 are dormant companies with no present activity. Cardo shares representing 41 percent of the company’s Cardo Entrance Solutions includes 41 legal entities that share capital and voting rights and are thereby the largest are fully embraces by the division as well as 2 entities owner. The second largest owner is If Skadeförsäkringar which are shared with another division. Cardo Flow AB with 10 percent of the outstanding shares and Solutions in turn has 35 legal entities on its own and 3 associated votes. No other shareholder holds directly or entities that are shared. The smallest division within Cardo indirectly more than 10 percent of the shares. Institutional is the Lorentzen & Wettre with 14 legal entities on its own owners account for 91 percent of the total number of as well as 2 entities shared with other divisions. shares and votes. Non-Swedish investors hold roughly The divisions are supported by the group wide function 20 percent. Refer to section 2.9 for the public offer by Shared Services which include HR, communication, IT, Assa Abloy to acquire all shares in Cardo AB. purchasing, finance and treasury. All three divisions are reporting to a five member 2.7 Markets served Group management team, lead by the President and Cardo’s products, systems, solutions and services are CEO Peter Aru. The Board of Directors, chaired by supplied to many markets globally. Cardo Entrance Fredrik Lundberg, is an 11-member group including three Solutions serves markets such as retail, the transportation employee representatives. and logistics industry, the airports and shipyards as well the consumer market through selected retailers. The 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters markets served by Cardo Flow Solutions are principally Corporate headquarters are located in Malmö, Sweden. municipalities or other public or private operations with responsibility for wastewater treatment and handling. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Cardo Flow Solutions also provides pump solutions to the operates pulp and papers industry together with Lorentzen & Wettre, Cardo is an international company with global operations. which focuses on sophisticated equipment for process The company has manufacturing, sales and R&D operations optimization and quality control within this area. 7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period The number of employees, as of 31 December 2010, was Cardo has received no special awards during the in total 5522. The financial data describing the scale of reporting period. Cardo is presented in the table Net sales and operating earnings below. 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Net sales and operating earnings, 2010 The reporting period for the information provided is 2010. Operating Net sales earnings For some of the performance indicators, information for (MSEK) (MSEK) 2009 is included. Cardo Entrance Solutions 4.485 528 Cardo Flow Solutions 3.181 328 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Other operations1 307 56 This is the first year of GRI reporting within Cardo. Other costs2 -69 Cardo in total 7.973 843 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) 1) Lorentzen & Wettre. 2) Made up of the parent company, other central units and Group adjustments. Cardo intends to report sustainability performance annually. The Group’s objective of capital structure is to create a 3.4 Contact point security and sustainability for the Group’s operations to Questions regarding the GRI report or its contents may be generate returns for shareholders. The capital structure sent by email directed to either Per-Olof Nyquist, Director should also be at a level that the cost of both borrowed Organizational Development (per-olof.nyquist@cardo.com) capital and equity are as low as possible. At the end of or Daniel Rosenqvist, Director Global Process Development, the reporting year, the total capital employed was SEK Cardo Flow Solutions (daniel.rosenqvist@cardo.com), or 3330 million, of which SEK 2990 million was financed through the Malmö HQ phone number: +46 10 4747 000. by shareholder equity. The total assets were SEK 5261 million and net cash amounted to SEK 265 million. 3.5 Process for defining report content The sustainability performance measures in focus for 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Cardo has been identified through an extensive internal regarding size, structure, or ownership dialogue led by an appointed steering group, which includes There were no significant changes in size during the fiscal members from top management positions within the Cardo year 2010. There was however a change in the structure. divisions and Shared Services, and also by consultation The former divisions Door & Logistics Solutions as well as with important external stakeholders, including customers. Residental Garage Doors were incorporated to represent The performance measures have been selected to Cardo Entrance Solutions. The former Wastewater reflect sustainability impacts, challenges and opportuniTechnology Solutions and ScanPump from the Pulp & ties that Cardo has identified. These include financial Paper Solutions were transformed into Cardo Flow results, research & development, environmental footprint Solutions while former Pulp & Paper Solutions today is (energy use, climate impact and water use), occupational represented by Lorentzen & Wettre. For the purpose of health and safety, competence development, diversity and our GRI report 2010, this structural organization has minor supplier compliance with sustainability requirements. In impact since this is the first year that Cardo report on addition to the selected number of GRI performance sustainability performance according to GRI. indicators included in this report, Cardo has identified a On 13 December 2010, ASSA ABLOY AB announced few other key performance indicators that we have a public offer to the shareholders of Cardo to transfer all chosen to report, not referred to in GRI, but relevant to of their shares in Cardo to ASSA ABLOY. No major changes our business. in the ownership were completed at the end of 2010. The shareholders in Cardo who had accepted the bid 3.6 Boundary of the report represented in March 15 2011 approximately 98.2 percent Cardo’s sustainability reporting system covers all operations of the total number of shares and votes in Cardo. As a worldwide. This includes more than 5300 employees, in consequence NASDAQ OMX Stockholm decided that around 30 countries and both manufacturing and sales Cardo AB (publ) should be delisted from NASDAQ OMX units that are fully owned or leased by Cardo, as well as Stockholm. The last trading day of the shares was the headquarter in Malmö. Thursday, April 21 2011. 8 To some extent, there are variations in the boundaries for Cardo, there are no changes in reporting structures between the divisions, where the division Lorentzen & Wettre that would affect comparability between years. in some circumstances has been excluded in the performance measures. When this is the case, it has been clearly stated 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of in the report that the performance data represents calculations information gathered from Cardo Entrance Solutions and For financial and social performance data, Cardo has for a Cardo Flow Solutions. As described at indicator 2.3, long period been using existing central reporting system Lorentzen & Wettre represents only 4 % of Cardo Group to collect the relevant information needed. For environnet sales and is minor part of Cardo operations. mental footprint data, Cardo has developed an intranet web based tool to collect information about energy use Detailed description of report boundaries as well as water consumption, reported by a local GRI Financial data are reported for all operations worldcoordinator at each facility. Included in this tool are wide except for KPIs relating to innovation and R&D, which descriptions of working processes and continuous do not include the division of Lorentzen & Wettre. improvements at each facility supporting to build a Social performance indicators cover all operations common story about what has been done and the road worldwide except for the specific GRI indicator relating ahead. In this way, Cardo secures data quality and builds to employees receiving performance reviews (LA12). The sustainability control bottom-up which will strengthen the division Lorentzen & Wettre is not included in the measure organisation’s capability to perform real changes in the for LA12. local operations. Calculations of carbon dioxide emissions Environmental data represent performance data solely are mainly based on energy conversion factor accounted for Cardo Entrance Solutions and Cardo Flow Solutions, for by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative databases. as well as the headquarter in Malmö. In some circumstances relating to environmental footprint data, not all facilities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements have been included in the reported figures. Regarding the of information provided in earlier reports, and the environmental performance measures, the presented reasons for such re-statement result represents 86 different legal units and 151 facilities Not applicable because this is the first year of Cardo GRI around the world, corresponding to 93 percent of the total reporting. number of facilities within Cardo. None of the Lorentzen & Wettre facilities are included in the measures regarding 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting environmental performance. periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.7 Limitations on the boundary of the report Not applicable because this is the first year of Cardo GRI Cardo’s sustainability reporting system covers all operareporting. tions worldwide, however, decisions have been taken to exclude the division Lorentzen & Wettre for some of the 3.12 GRI Content index performance indicators. As described at indicator 2.3, An index of the content of this GRI report is presented Lorentzen & Wettre represents only 4 % of Cardo group separately at GRI Index, page 2–3. net sales and is minor part of Cardo operations. See also 3.6 Boundary of the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, For the reporting year of 2010, which is the first year of leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other GRI reporting for Cardo, we have self-declared GRI level entities that can significantly affect comparability C and has chosen not to perform a third party verification. from period to period and/or between years We do however regard third party verification as an important This year’s report boundaries are described in indicator step towards transparency and quality assurance and our 3.6. and 3.7. Because this is the first year of GRI reporting ambition is that this will be performed during coming years. 9 4. Governance, Commitments, 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Engagement and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, which the organization subscribes or endorses including committees under the highest governance Cardo has signed the UN Global Compact (UN-GC) ten body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting principles, and is committed to respect and support the strategy or organizational oversight initiatives ten universally accepted principles in the areas The highest governance body is the Board of Directors. of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The Board of Directors appoints the Group management When developing the Cardo Code of Conduct (CoC), team lead by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The CEO the UN-GC was one of the platforms that was used is also a member of the Board of Directors, but not the and thereby, implementing our CoC means that we also Chair of the Board. implement the UN-GC principles in the organization. There is an appointed steering group assigned to be responsible to develop, and align, the Cardo sustainability 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the efforts along with the overall business strategy. The organization steering group consists of 9 members with management Important stakeholders engaged by the organization are positions at either group wide level or division level. employees, owners, investors and the financial markets, customers, suppliers and the broader community including 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest new potential recruits. governance body is also an executive officer The Board of Directors and its chair has delegated the 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of executive management of Cardo to the Chief Executive stakeholders with whom to engage Officer. Employees Internally within Cardo, all employees are involved in work 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board related to developing and living our Code of Conduct structure, state the number of members of the highest (CoC). Cardo’s newly developed CoC was approved governance body that are independent and/or nonduring the year. The CoC is available on 14 languages executive members and has been distributed to all employees. It includes The Board of Directors has 11 members in total, of which guidelines relating to global legal regulations, adaptations 3 are employee representatives. to local laws and regulations, legal assignments, conflicts of interest, information transparency as well as bribery 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to and corruption. The aim of Cardo’s CoC has been to make provide recommendations or direction to the highest it a tool that can drive change within the organization. At governance body first, the CoC was communicated through a seminar on Cardo holds an Annual General Meeting each year to top level within Cardo. The intention is to continue training which all shareholders are invited. Shareholders wishing all employees according to a set plan. However, at the to have a matter dealt with at the Annual General Meeting end of the reporting period, this training of all employees can submit written requests to this by ordinary mail or was set on hold due to the uncertainties of coming addressed to Cardo AB, Box 486, SE-201 24 Malmö, ownership. Sweden or by e-mail to agm@cardo.com. In general, to ensure that requests can be taken into the official notice, Owners, investors and the financial requests should be submitted in this regard at least 7 weeks markets before the AGM. Being a listed company at the OMX Stockholm Exchange, There is also a possibility to address issues to the our owners, potential investors and the financial markets board though email addressed to info@cardo.com, which are important stakeholders. We communicate with this will be directed to the Board. group of stakeholders through continuous quarterly Employees have the possibility to forward messages to financial reporting, including two telephone conferences the board through the employee representatives in the Board. per year as well as two press conferences per year. 10 Customers Europump/C40 Cities Externally, a group of key customers are continuously During the year, at an event organized by Europump, consulted with the aim to increase our knowledge of Cardo also contributed to the discussions aiming at enabmarket demands and how Cardo positively can impact ling best practises sharing of energy and environmentally customers and their own work with sustainability and efficient solutions for large cities. Europump Association efficiency. Européenne des Constructeurs de Pompes is an organisation with 18 members from 18 European counties with Suppliers representatives from several sectors in society. During 2009, Cardo introduced the new purchasing Cardo has during the year started to connect to C40, policy. The requirements in the purchasing policy relate to a network for sharing of best practices between the 40 environmental, ethical, social and economic sustainability biggest cities on this planet. and are present in the legal agreements with suppliers. This dialogue with suppliers has continued during 2010 Civic Exchange Think Tank and will do so also during the coming year. In addition, a Cardo contributed with a whole day seminar in cooperation process for conducting supplier audits will be developed. with the Civic Exchange. The Civic Exhange is one of China’s most respectable think tanks with environment The broader community and conservation as one of their main focuses along with Cardo has chosen to actively engage with the surrouncivic participation and social development. ding society and stakeholder groups other than the ones described above. In these meetings, for example directed to new potential recruitments at universities, recruitment events etcetera, we share the visions and goals of Cardo. During the year, approximate 40 such meetings were held around Sweden including visits at Malmö Högskola, Malmö Stad and the Rework the World event in connection to the Tällberg Forum. More personal meetings are also held through employees with management positions at Cardo that act as mentors to students at Lund University. Cardo also participates actively in dialogues and meetings with think tanks and sector associations relevant to our business and sustainable development, such as through the Europump/C40 Cities co-operation and the Civic Exchange think tank in China. Tällberg Forum and Rework the World In 2010, the annual Tällberg Forum gathered 1800 people over a few days in the summer in Tällberg, Sweden. The Tällberg Forum is a place where leaders from all over the world and from various sectors of society gather to talk about and reflect upon the challenges and opportunities that stem from global interdependence. During 2010, the Tällberg Foundation also contributed to the Rework the World event, focusing on youth, entrepreneurship and sustainability. Cardo contributed to the dialogue by being present and discussing one of the global main challenges – clean water deficit where Cardo has a major potential to contribute. 11 Environmental control from the bottom up, which strengthens the organisation’s capability to perform real changes in the performance local operations. Our vision and mission focus on adding value to our ENERGY customers’ operations by supplying solutions that address EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary their problems. This means that we continuously explore energy source new and efficient solutions so that our customers can Direct energy consumption is defined as the consumed utilize and conserve energy and water in a better way. energy within our operations that we are fully in control This also means that energy, the global climate and water of in terms of the amount used and what primary energy resources are important focus areas for our own operations. sources we utilize. Direct energy consumption within our We dedicate serious efforts into understanding our operations means primary energy sources used for environmental footprint relating to these issues so that on-site generated electricity or heat, as well as fuel for we can identify areas where the potential for improving vehicles owned by the company. Direct energy consumption our environmental performance is the highest. also refers to Scope 1 according to the Greenhouse Gas For several years now, our environmental impact has Protocol Initiative, an internationally accepted guideline been mapped within Cardo units as separate initiatives. for reporting emissions of greenhouse gases originating During 2009, Cardo took an overarching approach to from the World Business Council on Sustainable make a water, energy and carbon dioxide (CO2) inventory Development (WBCSD) as well as the World Resources covering the whole group. The aim of this extensive inInstitute (WRI). ventory is to increase control of our energy use (type and The process ahead for developing the sustainability amount) and water use so that we can improve resource performance for our direct and indirect energy use efficiency and move away from fossil energy sources as includes setting targets adapted to our various kinds of much as possible. These goals aim to move Cardo in the operations, identifying their respective potentials for same direction with the overall Cardo innovation initiatives improvements and defining activities that will support us for products, services and processes always striving to in reaching our goals. improve resource efficiency. Regarding all environmental performance measures, On-site generation of electricity and heating the presented result represents 86 different legal units The table below, On-site generation of electricity and heat, and 151 facilities around the world, corresponding to 93 shows the amount of electricity and heat generated at percent of the total number of facilities within Cardo and our facilities during 2009 and 2010 in MWh. The on-site more than 90 percent of Cardo employees. None of the generation of electricity at the Cardo Flow Solutions Lorentzen & Wettre facilities are included in the measures facilities stems from the demand for electricity for pump regarding environmental performance. In cases where testing in plants where the ordinary electricity provision is the Cardo headquarter is included in the Cardo Flow not enough. On-site electricity and heating is generated Solutions performance measures, this is stated. solely from fossil energy sources, and our potential The data has been collected with the support from for minimizing our climate impact at this level of the 50 assigned coordinators around the world. By working organisation is therefore to investigate how we can shift this way, Cardo ensures data quality and builds sustainability these towards non-fossil energy sources, in addition to improving the efficiency of operations. On-site generation of electricty and heat (MWh) 2010 2009 Cardo Cardo Cardo Cardo Flow Entrance Flow Entrance Solutions Solutions Total Solutions Solutions Total On-site electricity1 1,237 0 1,237 1,174 0 1,174 On-site heating1 8,292 8,409 16,701 9,991 7,455 17,447 Total 9,529 8,409 17,938 11,165 7,455 18,620 1) 100 % fossil energy (oil, diesel, natural gas and liquid petroleum gas) 12 Fuel consumption by company owned vehicles, by fuel type and volume (L) 2010 2009 Cardo Cardo Cardo Cardo Flow Entrance Flow Entrance Solutions Solutions Total Solutions Solutions Total Petrol 57,967 232,140 290,107 189,037 75,729 264,766 Diesel 418,712 2,774,592 3,193,304 442,054 3,039,235 3,481,289 LPG1 1,295 1,672,891 1,674,186 2,685 1,377,135 1,379,820 Biofuels2 7,623 0 7,623 4,187 26,542 30,729 1) Liquid petroleum gas 2) B20 (20 % biodiesel) and ethanol, of which 69 % are B20. Fuel consumption in company owned vehicles The Cardo headquarter’s fuel consumption constitutes Cardo has chosen to measure the direct fuel consumption less than 1 percent of Cardo Flow Solutions’ use of petrol from vehicles that are owned or leased by a facility and in 2009, and less than 4 percent in 2010. available for Cardo employees to use. These are vehicles such as our car pool and service cars. Company cars are not EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary included in this inventory due to the difficulty in measuring energy source the rate of private versus business use. The indirect energy consumption within Cardo is defined as purchased electricity and heat, representing Scope Fuel consumption by company owned vehicles 2 according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. (volume L per employee)1 Within this indicator, we include both purchased electricity and heat that we are the main buyer of, as well as purchased Fuel Volume (L) per Employee electricity and heat that is provided by our landlords. We 2000 do have a limited ability to impact the primary energy 1600 sources used by the energy providers contracted by our 1651 1607 landlords. However, by holding a dialogue with our landlords, 1200 and asking to measure our individual energy use and 1124 1125 the production mix used as primary energy sources, our 800 aim is to indirectly encourage our providers to offer more transparent electricity and heating reporting as well as 400 improving the primary energy mix used in purchased 276 346 electricity and heating. In the energy inventory made, 0 approximately 95 percent of the amount of purchased 2010 2009 electricity and heat has been assigned a primary energy Cardo Flow Solutions Cardo Entrance Solutions source by the energy provider. Cardo in total The absolute amount of purchased electricity and heat are similar between the two divisions within Cardo, and The results of total fuel volume consumed by Cardo Flow between the two years covered in the inventory, described Solutions and Cardo Entrance Solutions clearly shows the in the table and diagram on page 14. When measured difference in operations between the two divisions, as per employee, the results indicate a substantially higher described in the table and graph above. Cardo Entrance relative electricity usage within Cardo Flow Solutions, Solutions depends largely on service and maintenance at compared to Cardo Entrance Solutions. This is explained customer sites. This dependence also leads to greater by more energy intensive operations relating to manufacpotential for more efficient transportation solutions. turing and testing within Cardo Flow Solutions. Transportation with company owned vehicles within Cardo The current energy mix of our purchased electricity Flow Solutions results mainly from service and installations. and heating is heavy on fossil energy sources. There Currently, transportation with company owned vehicles is is great potential for Cardo operations to more actilargely dependent on fossil fuels. Indicators EN7, EN18 vely choose non-fossil energy sources in the future by and EN29 further describe how we work to manage our purchasing certified renewable electricity, for example. environmental impact related to transportation. 13 Purchased electricity and heat (MWh) 2010 2009 Cardo Cardo Cardo Cardo Flow Entrance Flow Entrance Solutions Solutions Total Solutions Solutions Total Electricity 12,173 13,500 25,673 12,594 13,355 25,949 District heating 5,267 4,337 9,604 4,612 5,770 10,382 Total 17,440 17,837 35,277 17,207 19,125 36,331 Purchased electricity and heat by primary energy source (MWh)1 40,000 35,277 36,331 5 4 % 5 % 10 30,000 17,837 16 19,125 40 19 50 34 17 20,000 % % 19 17 17,440 17,207 10,000 5 39 7 44 11 12 26 20 0 2010 2009 Cardo Flow Solutions Fossil Renewable Nuclear Other Biomass Cardo Entrance Solutions 1) Waste heat is included in “Renewable”. “Other” is mainly purchased electricity and heat which primary energy mix has not been identified. Total direct and indirect energy use (MWh per employee)1 The process ahead for developing the sustainability performance for our direct and indirect energy use MWh per Employee includes setting targets adapted to our various kinds 20 of operations, identifying their respective potentials for improvements and defining activities that will support us 16 in reaching our goals. 15.3 15.4 Of the total MWh reported for Cardo Flow Solutions, 12 the headquarters represents 6 percent. 12.4 12.1 10.3 9.9 8 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, 4 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 0 2010 2009 Being efficient and providing energy efficient solutions Cardo Flow Solutions for our customers has been our priority during the year, Cardo Entrance Solutions and has included a decision about an ambitious program Cardo in total for innovation. Our goal is for each innovation to make our 1) Purchased and on-site generated electricity and heat. products, services and processes even more efficient and energy saving, which we believe will make Cardo even more competitive and successful. By already providing the market’s most energy-efficient, submersible pumps 14 for wastewater – the ABS EffeX range – and offering The Crawford Monitoring System: Door solutions that the Crawford Control & Monitoring System, which can improve efficiency and save energy halve the energy that is lost through industrial doors, our The Crawford Monitoring System (CMS) is a system for business case is strong as we move into a more energy the control and monitoring of doors and docking areas. efficient and aware society. It fulfils several purposes, of which saving energy is the most important – a crucial argument in view of the fact The ABS EffeX range The world’s most energy-efficient that 75 percent of energy losses in logistics centres occur submersible wastewater equipment through open doors. With CMS, the customer can ensure During 2009, Cardo launched the world’s most energythat the door is open only during loading or unloading and efficient submersible wastewater pumps, the ABS EffeX is automatically closed when the truck leaves the facility. range. This is a range of newly developed low power The system can also automatically close the door during consumption pumps, which are adapted to market demand a break in work. Furthermore, CMS increases security at for reduced energy consumption and less environmental the facility, both by keeping the doors closed when they impact in connection with water treatment. The ABS EffeX are not being used and by allowing the entire facility to be also boasts enhanced hydraulics and a high degree of monitored in real time. The system can also help improve reliability, thanks to features such as the market’s best the efficiency of the facility by reserving selected doors sludge handling and passage for both large solid particles for certain vehicles and by communicating with the drivers and long-fibre material. A number of ABS EffeX pumps using text messages, for example. Finally, CMS can be were already operating in field trials at various pumping used to manage preventive maintenance, automatic facilities in Europe prior to the launch and exceeded the error messages and service planning, contributing to the customers’ requirements for both reliability and energy efficiency and long-term profitability of the facility. consumption, a combination that has been historically difficult to achieve. The ABS EffeX boasts advantages EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and as far as energy savings and reduced emissions of CO2 efficiency improvements are concerned, both during the service life of the pump EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas and during the manufacturing process. It is also more emissions and reductions achieved future-proof than any previous pump, since the deveFor environmental performance related information, Cardo lopment process took into account the EU’s expected has developed an intranet web-based tool to collect requirements for reduced energy consumption and information reported by local GRI coordinators at each forthcoming legislation in other countries. facility. Included in this tool are descriptions of working After the great reception for the world’s most energy processes and continuous improvements at each facility. efficient, submersible wastewater pump in 2009, it These descriptions help build a common story about was time to introduce the next member of the ABS what has been done so far when it comes to energy and EffeX range in reporting year 2010: an energy-efficient carbon management, as well as best practices around our submersible concept mixer with a permanent magnetic global operations and the activities planned for the future. engine. The new concept mixer has a built-in, variable In this way, Cardo builds sustainability control from the gear that optimizes processes and minimizes power bottom up, strengthening the organisation’s capability to consumption, resulting in an overall efficiency that is make real changes in the local operations of an otherwise 35 percent higher than corresponding existing mixers. challenging organisational environment in terms of size High reliability, minimal need of maintenance and maximum and structure. Accounted for in the report are a few service life for equipment ensures optimal life-cycle examples of energy saving and reductions of greenhouse economy for users. The gearless permanent magnetic gases from our various kinds of operations within Cardo engine also yields a small mixer size that can cover many Flow Solutions and Cardo Entrance Solutions. different applications. This greatly reduces the need for extra equipment and spare parts without increasing the risk of downtime. 15 CARDO FLOW SOLUTIONS Cardo Entrance Solutions Sweden AB Cardo Production Vadstena AB Being a service provider, Cardo Entrance Solutions Cardo Production Vadstena AB has reduced electricity Sweden AB has service centres at four different locations consumption during 2009 by approximately 5 percent. in Sweden. The main energy consuming activity is the use One of the factors in this decrease has been to reduce of service vans. This has been a focus for several years. the idle consumption of electricity, namely, the use of One of our goals is to decrease the weight of the service electricity while the manufacturing site is not in operation. vans, while we ensure that our vans are equipped with Some of the major actions taken by Cardo Production the correct spare parts and tools needed to perform the Vadstena included improving ventilation control in the required installations and maintenance. The challenge is facility, changing lighting sources and adding lighting to make certain that we can solve the maintenance issues sensors. This resulted in a decrease of the electricity on the first service visit, and avoid making several visits consumption of approximately 30 percent while because of missing spare parts, as we also reduce the the manufacturing site was not in operation, which weight of our service vehicles. corresponds to 6 percent of total consumption during We address this challenge by continuously weighing the year. the service vans, ensuring that the vehicles have engines Quantitatively, the electricity consumption while the that are strong enough for their respective loads, keeping manufacturing site was not in operation resulted in track of consumed spare parts for each service van and spending 167 298 kWh/year. After controlling the working to optimize efficient logistics planning for all ventilation, the consumption resulted in 8190 kWh/year, service personnel. which gives an annual saving of 159 100 kWh/year (representing close to SEK 130 000). CLIMATE IMPACT Cardo Production Vadstena has identified several EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse additional activities to reduce energy use and increase emissions efficiency, including efficient measures for power EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas regeneration for test facilities, using detectors for lighting emissions by weight in manufacturing and further improving the control of Direct greenhouse gas emissions arise from direct energy ventilation. consumption. That is consumed energy for on-site generated electricity or heat, as well as fuel for vehicles CARDO ENTRANCE SOLUTIONS owned by the company. Direct energy consumption, and Cardo Door Production Moosburg the corresponding direct greenhouse gas emissions, refers Cardo Door Production in Moosburg installed a new to Scope 1 according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol heating system in the main administration building. With Initiative, an internationally accepted guideline for reporting the new heating system, the usage of heating oil was emissions of greenhouse gases originating from the reduced by 20 percent. Regarding our electricity usage, World Business Council on Sustainable Development the contract valid since July 2010 includes a RECS (WBCSD) as well as the World Resources Institute (WRI). certification. This means that the supplier guarantees that Indirect greenhouse gas emissions arise partly from the electricity that we purchase originates from renewable the indirect energy consumption defined as purchased energy sources. electricity and heat, representing Scope 2 according to One of the goals for the future is to install solar panels the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. In addition to on most of the roofs of our production halls to be able to estimating greenhouse gas emissions from electricity generate our own electricity. The intention is to find an and heat, we have decided to measure those arising from external partner who will lease the roofs for this purpose, business travel, accounting for a specific part of Scope 3 and in this way avoid initially high investments. according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. CO2 The production halls at the Cardo Door Production in emissions are based on using energy conversion factors Moosburg are old and the heating of these buildings is from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative databases. inefficient at the moment. Investments in improved insulaThe absolute climate impact from CO2 emissions is tion would support a reduction in the usage of heating oil. that Cardo Entrance Solutions has doubled emissions compared to Cardo Flow Solutions ( see graph on page 17). This results mainly from a dependence on transportation by company owned vehicles used for service and maintenance 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2eq)1 40000 30000 6 18 29,8663 8 18 24,673 2 6 19,418 10 6 % % 59 5 16,723 64 20000 17 24 33 10000 35 16 10,448 % % 16 7,950 11 21 12 15 0 2010 2009 Cardo Flow Solutions Purchased Purchased district On-site generation of Company owned Business travels electricity heating electricity and heating vehicles Cardo Entrance Solutions 1)  ased mainly on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative conversion factors and the central Cardo travel agency. B 2) Of which 5.5 % is due to combustion of biomass. 3) Of which 4.0 % is due to combustion of biomass. CO2 intensity per kWh direct and indirect energy our various kinds of operations, set targets and define (purchased and on-site generated electricity and heating) activities that will take us in the right direction. Of the CO2 emissions reported for Cardo Flow Solutions, gCO2eq per kWh 5 percent arise from activities in connection with Cardo 300 headquarters and its employees’ travels. 240 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 200 230 220 products and other goods and materials used for the 196 190 193 organisation’s operations and transporting members of the workforce 100 Our environmental footprint is largely impacted by the transport of materials, goods and products as well as the transportation to provide our clients with installation and 0 maintenance services and transporting members of the 2010 2009 workforce while on duty. Within these aspects, Cardo Cardo Flow Solutions has identified three areas in which a larger effort has Cardo Entrance Solutions Cardo in total been made to identify significant environmental impacts: 1) the use of our service vans, providing our clients with at customer sites. As stated in EN3, this fact also presents installation and maintenance services, 2) employee a potential area for improvement relating to more business travel by air as well as with company owned cars resource efficient logistics, which would result in (excluding benefit cars) and 3) transportation of materials, decreased climate impact. goods and products to and from our facilities. To minimize our climate impact in general, there are several actions that can shift our present energy mix The use of our service vans, providing our clients with from fossil energy sources towards more renewable installation and maintenance services sources. This inventory has not only given Cardo an The use of our service vans to provide our clients with understanding of which of our activities has the greatest installation and maintenance services contributes to fossil impact on our climate. This detailed inventory, made at the energy consumption, emissions of various gases and level of each facility, also enables each facility to identify particles as well as noise. We have chosen to monitor the its biggest potential improvements and take actions to fuel consumption in our car pool and service vans, using decrease their CO2 footprint. The next step in minimizing the web-based tool described in EN3, 4 and EN16. The our climate impact is to identify specific indicators for results are described in EN3 and EN16. 17 The Global Fleet Management Policy describes the Employee business travel by air as well as with company policy for company cars not covered by the energy and owned cars (excluding company cars) CO2 inventory. Described in the policy is that all new As described in EN16, we have made an inventory of company cars shall be selected so that their impact on business travel distance covered by air flights as well as the environment is as limited as possible. The target is our climate impact from business travel by air. We have to reduce the CO2 emissions to be able to meet the EU also, as described in EN3, made an inventory of our fuel directive target of 120 g/km by 2015. To meet Cardo’s consumption and climate impact related to company requirements on sustainability, each country is responsible owned cars used by employees (excluding benefit cars). for developing a plan for a yearly CO2 reduction of at least The division of covered flight miles between short, 5 percent regardless of the CO2 average today. Cardo medium and long haul shows that Cardo Flow Solutions Group has made a decision on a maximum of 169 g/km for is heavier in long haul flights, reflecting the geographic delivered company cars in 2010 and a minimum annual spread of facilities and customers (see graphs below). decrease of 5 percent. The CO2 plan is a goal but the The next step in the processes of reducing our business annual level is set every year. The limit Cardo Group travel is to set targets and define activities supporting defined is a maximum and is not to be exceeded. this goal. Business travel by air (flight miles) Flight miles Flight 18,164,696 8,672,112 15000 13 18 32 36 % 12,963,397 % 50 5,484,247 51 10000 6 9,492,584 % % 6 5000 7,479,150 35 59 28 66 0 2010 2009 Cardo Flow Solutions Short haul Medium haul Long haul Cardo Entrance Solutions Business travel by air (flight miles per employee) Transportation of materials, goods and products to and from our facilities Flight miles per Employee We are aware that the transportation of materials, goods 6000 and products to and from our facilities is one of the 5000 most significant impacts from our business. To address 5179 this fact, we have made a larger effort of describing our 4000 transportation work to and from our facilities by using 4250 3775 information from the transportation service providers, in 3000 2911 addition to the energy and CO2 inventory made of our 2822 2000 direct and indirect energy use. However, the market and 1935 systems for providing the kind of data needed for these 1000 estimates are still undeveloped. During the process of 0 investigating our climate impact from our transportation 2010 2009 of goods, materials and products, Cardo decided not to Cardo Flow Solutions report this information in the GRI report for 2010, but Cardo Entrance Solutions Cardo in total to keep working on the dialogue with transportation providers to increase the possibility of mapping this information more accurately. 18 WATER Financial performance EN8 Total water withdrawal by source We constantly work to offer our customers solutions with Financial performance is about succeeding well financially added value. This means that we continuously explore new so that we can fulfill our responsibility towards our owners and efficient solutions that contribute to a better world, so at the same time as we contribute to the goal of increased that our customers can utilize and conserve energy and prosperity with minimal environmental impact. The direct water in a better way. This also means that we measure economic value that we have generated as well as the our own water use and minimize it as much as possible, resources put into research and development aiming at especially in areas where fresh water is scarce. continuously providing the market with even more efficient Our water footprint is similar between our two divisions, products and services are measures of our financial and between the years, as described in the table and graph performance. below. In the analysis we also find that our water footprint is primarily impacted by our manufacturing units, with a ECONOMY consumption of approximately 20.7 m3/employee, compared EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed to sales units with an approximate consumption of 12.9 m3/ Net sales in 2010 declined by 4 percent (at comparable employee. Water consumption in our manufacturing sites exchange rates). Despite this, operating earnings increased stems largely from pump testing, a process in which we from SEK 529 million to SEK 843 million in 2010, compared already recycle water. Moving this work forward will include to 2009. In both 2009 and 2010, the organization has indentifying specific indicators for specific operations, taken restructuring costs of adapting the organization to setting targets and defining actions that will support us in lower demand and to reorganize the production structure reaching our future goals. of Cardo Flow Solutions. Operating earnings adjusted for The Cardo headquarters’ water consumption is these and other items affecting comparability amounted approximately 4 percent of the water consumption reported to SEK 891 million (SEK 764 million in 2009). The main for Cardo Flow Solutions. reasons for the improved operating result are that the product mix provided to customers has improved in relation Total water consumption (m3) to demand and that pricing strategies have been successful. In addition, the implemented restructuring processes have 2010 2009 given the expected cost savings. Cardo Flow Solutions 29,089 33,038 Cardo Entrance Solutions 47,486 45,265 Economic value Total 76,575 78,303 2010 2009 Operating earnings (MSEK)1 843 529 Operating margin (%)2 10,6 6,0 Water consumption (volume m3 per employee) 1) Operating earnings are defined as net sales minus all operating costs. 2) Operating earnings divided by net sales. Water Volume (L) per Employee 20 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to 16 17.9 16.5 16.8 16.7 16.2 climate change 15.2 Climate change and its relation to fossil energy consumption, 12 as well as its impact on the natural hydrological cycle, is a 8 factor with implications at many levels of our organisation. The global challenges such as lack of clean water and 4 energy, and the resulting increasing costs, require new solutions that combine increased prosperity with minimal 0 environmental impact, and Cardo plays an important 2010 2009 role in meeting these challenges by providing energy Cardo Flow Solutions efficient and energy saving products and services. This Cardo Entrance Solutions Cardo in total view is embraced by the senior governance body of the organisation and communicated to all employees. 19 In general, the increased awareness in the surrounding RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT society about global challenges such as the need to provide Innovation clean water and energy for everyone has benefited Innovation in Cardo involves products, services and both our business and our motivation to provide our processes. For 2010 GRI reporting, we focus on innovation products and services. Being efficient, and providing relating to research and development. energy efficient solutions for our customers, has been Cardo strives to understand its customers’ needs our priority during the year including a decision about an and to develop solutions to meet those needs, thereby ambitions program for innovation. Our goal is that each generating value and competitiveness through innovation. innovation will make our products even more efficient and Our goal is that each innovation will make our products energy saving, which we believe will make Cardo even even more efficient and energy saving, which we believe more competitive and successful. By already providing will make Cardo even more competitive and successful. the market’s most energy-efficient, submersible pumps Therefore, we have chosen to measure and report KPI’s for wastewater – the ABS EffeX range – and offering relating to innovation and research & development, the Crawford Control & Monitoring System, which can outside the direct scope of GRI. halve the energy that is lost through industrial doors, During 2010, Cardo has initiated several activities that our business case is strong moving into a more energy play an important role to increase innovation and for the efficient and aware society. coming year, these initiatives will be fine tuned. The challenges that directly impact our own operations n Cardo Flow Solutions have implemented a central are similar to the challenges that most parts of our society function to manage and drive innovation through R&D meet. This includes increased energy costs as a result of and Product Management organizations. limited energy resources, human induced climate change n Cardo Entrance Solutions has implemented a central and its resulting impact on the environment, our natural Application Management Organization to manage resources and a safe and sound human population. Of customer needs through Application Management reasons such as these, we are actively working to reduce and innovations through R&D as part of the our own ecological footprint to be able to continue to Application Management Organization. run a successful business. To present one example, an n To release the innovation power in the organization, inventory of our energy use and resulting climate impact both divisions have introduced an open portal for all through emissions by greenhouse gases has been employees to share their ideas. performed during the year, increasing our capability to n In order to derive full benefit from product development control operational energy demand and climate impact. and to ensure that it supports the overall business strategy, Cardo has a central function for intellectual Share value property rights, which actively manages the Group’s The share price development and the dividend yield are patent and brand portfolio. important measures of our success because these are n Cardo has introduced a group wide Inventor Remuneration the most direct measures of developed shareholder value Scheme during 2010 aiming at increasing innovation and how it has developed during the year and over time. within the organisation. Share value Innovation: First patent filings and granted patents, 2010 2010 2009 Cardo Entrance Cardo Flow Share price development (%)1 95 88 Solutions Solutions Dividend yield (%)2 2,4 4,2 First patent filings (Number)1 3 2 1) Share price development is the change in share price during the year. Granted patents (Number)2 5 0 2) D  ividend yield is the proposed dividend as a percentage of the market 1) The first patent application filed for a unique invention value of the share at December 31, 2010. 2) The first grant decision published for a unique invention following substantive examination. 20 Resources allocated for R&D been one of the key elements in the company’s supplier To reach our goals when it comes to innovation, the selection and the supply management process. resources allocated for R&D is an important KPI itself. The requirements in the purchasing policy relate to The strategy for R&D investments within Cardo is to have environmental, ethical, social and economic sustainability a research and development plan based on the market’s and the policy is incorporated in the legal agreements present and future requirements as foundation, and in between Cardo and its suppliers. order to achieve this, Cardo seeks and strives for: By signing the policy, suppliers comply with the following n Input from leading end users and knowledge of macro (extracted from the policy): and business trends. n Cardo Group requires the Supplier to comply with n Product development based on platforms and all applicable laws of the Supplier’s jurisdiction in standardization. providing products and services to Cardo Group, or n Well defined cross-functional and efficient innovation within Cardo Group’s supply chain. processes spanning all functions throughout Cardo. n The Supplier shall always strive for continuous environmental improvements and at least once a year, Resources allocated for R&D, 2010 at the request of Cardo Group, report how it has Cardo Entrance Cardo Flow minimized the negative impact on the environment Solutions Solutions during the past 12 months. It is the Supplier’s obligation R&D costs as percentage to commit to implementing solutions to any environmental of total sales (turnover) %1 0,5 1,6 concerns that may arise as a result of its operations. 1) R&D costs defined as costs included in product care, research and development. n The Supplier shall be in compliance with all applicable legislation regarding Safety, Health, Labour Codes and practices. n A zero-tolerance policy toward the use of child labour, and adherence to the United Nations Convention on Social Performance the Rights of the Child and ILO Convention No. 182 on the Worst Forms of Child Labour and ILO Convention Social performance has many dimensions. To perform No. 138 on the Minimum Age for Admission to well as an employer, Cardo continuously promote a Employment and Work. good working environment in all Group sites worldwide n Prohibiting discrimination based on race, national and the goal is a workplace where employees feel origin, gender, religion, age, sexual orientation or disability. appreciated for their work effort and experience that n To comply with local laws so that workers’ rights are there is room for personal development. We also have a maintained, including the rights to join labour unions, responsibility working with our suppliers, assuring that seek representation and/or bargain collectively. they act in a responsible and sustainable way. The Cardo n Under no circumstances is it acceptable to offer, give, Requirements on Sustainability for suppliers is one of the solicit or receive, directly or indirectly, any form of bribe, key elements in the company’s supplier selection and the or any improper or illegal kickback or inducement. supply management process. n In order to make sure that the Supplier complies with the conditions in this Appendix, random checks may be HUMAN RIGHTS carried out. Therefore the Supplier shall provide Cardo HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Group and/or any authorized third party auditor, access contractors that have undergone screening on to the Supplier’s premises for inspection at any human rights and actions taken moment Cardo Group deems it necessary. Cardo Purchasing policy In 2008 the purchasing organizations within Cardo initiated a work to define Cardo’s Sustainability Requirement for suppliers. From 2009 and onwards, the Cardo Requirements on Sustainability for suppliers has 21 The purchasing policy is communicated at supplier LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK meetings and is a part of the contractual process. The LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, procedure for evaluating whether the purchasing policy and absenteeism, and total number of work-related is followed by suppliers and contractors is via supplier fatalities by region. audits, which is a dialogue and process which will be One aspect of security and satisfaction at work, and hence developed continuously. improved customer benefit in the end, is health and safety. Cardo has chosen to divide suppliers in Direct material We train our staff regularly and aim to develop our assembly suppliers and Indirect material suppliers. Direct material lines and service equipment so that it prevents injuries. is components used in products manufactured at Cardo Cardo always follows governing laws and legislation in a production units. Direct material does not however include strict manner. consumables. All external spend which is not categorized To minimize injury rates and occupational diseases, as Direct material is considered as Indirect material or within production, installation and service, which are the service. This includes categories such as vehicles, travel, operations with highest risks, several initiatives have been IT consultants, workwear, tools, legal services, office adopted and implemented: health and safety training for supplies etc. service engineers, equipping service vehicles with safety equipment, developing work wear according to local Direct material supplier and health and safety regulations etcetera. contractor compliance with Despite the efforts put into minimizing injuries, the Cardo purchasing policy 37 % occupational diseases and work-related fatalities, with sustainability requirements, 2010 unfortunately a number of incidents were reported during 63 % 2010. Non-fatal injuries that occurred during 2010 relates to accidents in production, installation or service. Most of our injuries occurred in Europe. Europe is also the region = not covered where 85% of all our staff work. The average rehabilitation = covered time is 1-2 weeks, with regards to injuries recorded. The number of serious injuries is high and we work continuously to move forward with minimizing these occurrences by Indirect materials and services increased focus towards health and safety and educational Cardo’s has since several years been working proactively activities at our facilities. In performance indicator LA10, we with Indirect Purchasing. Today the absolute majority of describe processes relating to training, both as competence all corporate suppliers sourced by Indirect Purchasing development and as health and safety. are covered by Cardo’s sustainability requirements for suppliers. There are anyhow still a large untapped Frequency of injuries and fatalities arising out of, potential, why the coordination work continues to include or in the course of work, 2010 more categories and to increase contract compliance. Number Cardo has taken a strategic decision to move forward in Fatal injuries 0 optimizing the work related to indirect purchasing and to Fatal injury rate/1000 employee 0 Serious, non-fatal injuries 346 secure sourcing from approved suppliers. A global project Non-fatal injury rate /1000 employee 62.7 has recently been started to deploy an eProcurement solution throughout the group. eProcurement is an electronic, web-based solution covering the whole Procure to Pay (P2P) process. The solution will enable better management of indirect material and services purchasing as well as efficient handling of supplier invoices. Cardo presently works on developing a well suited KPI that relates to indirect purchasing. 22 LA10 Average hours of training per year per emn Work Coaching Reflection & commitment ployee by employee category Coaching in groups or individually with local managers/ Attracting, developing and retaining skilled employees are coaches to utilize learnings and reflect upon practice crucial factors in creating sustainable competitiveness to gain organizational and individual commitment for with lasting success. The objective of the HR work at change and development – linked to the management Cardo is to transform business strategies into concrete development process of Cardo. action and enable staff to take personal responsibility. n Daily Work with Teams Application & doing One way of doing this is to provide training and competence Using the established arenas to apply learning’s from development to Cardo employees at all levels. the training when meeting employees and to discuss Each and every employee contributes with their skills. experiences with colleagues to identify needs for further. Experience, competence and good judgement at all levels in our factories, sales units and support units drive our LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular success. To regard learning as any other investment in performance and career development reviews future competitiveness, is a strategic element for our As an employer, Cardo has a responsibility to continuously business development and success. promote a good working environment, both physically We have five training centres around the world who and mentally, at all Group sites worldwide. The goal is a delivers product specific and soft skills specific trainings. workplace where employees feel appreciated for their The company also has several inhouse sales and project efforts and experience that there is room for personal trainings as well as two leadership programs. Cardo also development within the Group as a whole. For Cardo, it offers specific individual training based upon the needs of is important to offer a working environment where every every individual employee. employee understands and knows that they contribute The leadership programs, Cardo Executive actively to the added value for customers. One way to Management Program as well as the High Commitment ensure this is the employee surveys performed at the High Performance, are offered for top and middle local levels as well as the Cardo ambition that every management employees. employee should have at least one performance reviews every year. Annual talks are also held with all managers to High Commitment High Performance evaluate how well they are working from Cardo values. The aim of the HCHP is to establishing a new culture. One key success factor is the way our leaders lead and align with the business strategy. We have consciously Percentage of employees made an effort to enhance our leadership. One part receiving regular 31 % of this effort is to invite our leaders to development performance and career programs where we build one Cardo way with a common development reviews 69 % language, concepts and tools. This program is offered Cardo in total to Cardo Managers and includes four different learning tracks in parallel. n Leadership Training Knowledge intake & learning = employees not receiving Training modules with the aim to develop grounded, regular reviews professional leaders, who can create well-functioning = employees receiving working processes with motivated people and high regular reviews performing teams. Based on Cardo Leadership Tools and High Commitment High Performance Theories. n Learning Teams Reflection & practice Facilitated discussions in smaller groups with the aim to share experiences around leadership and to discuss themes identified as critical for success from a technical and a human interaction perspective. 23 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Breakdown of employees per region, % breakdown of employees per category according to Afrika gender, age group, minority group membership, and Middle <0,5 other indicators of diversity East Asia-Pacific 1 7 North Cardo is a multicultural organisation with a great diversity Eastern America of employees. The different nationalities and cultural Europe 3 5 Latin backgrounds of its staff enrich Cardo. Cardo has a America 6 zero-policy on discrimination and the company’s Code of Conduct includes paragraphs that forbid discrimination within the Group based on gender, religion, age, sexual Western Europe orientation, nationality, political opinion or ethic origin. 78 However, Cardo does operate within a male dominated industry and we are aware of that increasing our ratio of women among our employees would benefit our organisation. We continuously try to attract female applicants to positions at all levels within Cardo, in addition to carefully following every local law and legislation regarding diversity and discrimination. Organization, 2010 Governance body Total no of Male Female Age < 30 yr Age 30 50 Age > 50 individuals % % % % % Board 9 78 22 11 0 89 Management team 5 60 40 0 60 40 White collar 2865 72 28 11 65 24 Blue collar 2652 92 8 13 63 24 Breakdown of employees per country and division according to gender and age group, 2010 Region Total employees Male Female Age < 30 yr Age 30 50 Age > 50 number % % % % % Africa 21 71 29 24 67 9 Asia-Pacific 378 79 21 24 73 3 North America 147 82 18 3 64 33 Latin America 333 86 14 29 58 13 Western Europe 4313 82 18 9 63 29 Eastern Europe 272 72 28 13 75 12 Middle East 58 91 9 19 67 14 24 Cardo AB (publ) Roskildevägen 1 Box 486 SE-201 24 Malmö Sweden Tel: +46 10 4747 000 Fax +46 40 97 64 40 info@cardo.com www.cardo.com
