2 10 201 Comm mun nicattion n on Proggresss (COP P) Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 Stateme ent of Con ntinued support by the Chairm man of Board of Patro ons Indonesiaa Business Lin nks (IBL) is a not‐for‐profit organization in operatio ons since 200 01 with the aim a to help imprrove the state e of corporate governancee in Indonesiaa. To date theere are moree than 50 com mpany members which com mprise nation nal and multtinational co orporations operating o in the countryy and representting a wide range r of induustries. The organization’s o s daily activitties are desiggned practicaal and mostly in line with the e empowerment of Corpo orate Social Responsibility and Ethical Business B Pracctices. These acctivities are mostly in the t form off workshops and variou us capacity building pro ogram developm ment and imp plementation n. IBL believees that the organization, o its operationns and its vaarious empowerrment prograams are veryy much in liine with thee Principles of o the Uniteed Nations Global G Compact. This Comm munication ono Progress reeport marks the t third onee since IBL beecame one off the signatorries to the UNGC C. As in the first report, IBL presentts the progreess of its operations in compliance c to the Principless of the Globbal Compact, hereby enco ompassing Hu uman Rights, Labor and Anti‐Corruptio A on. In addition, IBL is also consistently in active a engageement with vaarious Globall Compact soccial activities,, both in event attendance a an nd networking, to show caase continued d support and d commitmen nt to the UNGC. Noke Kiro oyan, Chairmaan of Board of o Patrons ‐ Inndonesia Busiiness Links Human Rights Principles Principlee 1: businesss should sup pport and resspect the prrotection of internationally proclaim med human rights: IBL continnues its commitment to support and respect hum man rights, by way of applying the gu uiding principle in its daily operations. Internal and d external stakeholders are a treated with w honestyy and integrity in i every aspe ect of work, in good faith and in provid ding fair retu urns. Since 2007, IBL’s Co ode of Conduct Charter and d Standard Operating Procedure P (SSOP) have been b expand ded for praactical implemen ntation to saffeguard perfo ormance conssistency to bee transparentt and accountable. In this case, the impleementation of o fairness in the selection of supplierrs of goods and a services is one that excels e prominen ntly. Since 20 p 007 marks progress in the t acknowleedgment of people as the most valuable resourcess of the organ his case, IBL has facilitated more capacity building training proggrams nization. In th for the sttaff, resultingg in an enthu usiastic workking environm ment. The aim m is to main ntain and improve people deevelopment through t innovative traininng programs for the employees at all levels. Aside from internal development d of human rigghts, IBL also continues to endorse the action to uphold human rights to the coollection of IBBL corporate partners in business. The last year noted n a collaboration with the Center for International Private Entterprise (CIPEE), in close co onsultations with w local SM MEs, IBL faciliitated the stakeeholders to develop d a Co ode of Cond duct for SMEEs endorsed by the Indo onesian Emplloyers Associatioon (APINDO) for implemeentation. Thee main purp pose of this Code of Con nduct for SMMEs in Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 Indonesiaa is to help SMEsS compaatibility to co ompete and meet busineess requiremeents in the global g market. Meanwhile, still in lin ne with humaan resource empowerment and in su upport of thee Indonesia Global G Compact Networks (IG GCN), IBL continues to taake active paart in educatting memberrs of IGCN on the Global Co ompact Principles. The last year ind dicated a co ollaboration with UN‐ESC CAP whereb by IBL associatess were given training oppo ortunities for eligibility as regional r train ners. To date IBL has trained six local facilitators now qualified q as reegional traineers, and in vieew of the incrreasing signattories to the UNGC U IBL has conducted pillot training on o Global Co ompact, in co ollaboration with UN‐ESC CAP and Indo onesia Global Coompact Netwo ork. LABOUR PRINCIPLE P LABOR Prrinciple 4: Elim mination of discrimination d n in the workk place y The last year c looked at the continuation of compliance to o IBL’s seven n principles in the Charter on Business principle, p enttailing the folllowing principples: o Ensuring honesty and a integrity in every aspeect of work byy acting in go ood faith o Providding a fair retu urn to our sup ppliers of gooods and servicces o Satisfyying our clien nts, including those within our own orgaanization, witth the timely provision of goods and/or servicces to agreed specification ns o Respecting our sociial environmeent by maintaaining an activve partnershiip with the community o Demonstrating resp pect for our physical p environment by ad dhering to co ompany national, and international sttandards o Abidinng by Indonessia and International laws o Acknowledging that people are our most valu uable resourcces IBL consisstently abidess by these principles, startiing from the recruitment process, p regu ular staff apprraisals and durin ng occasionall disengagem ment with departing staff pursuing oth her careers. Equal opporttunity within thee working envvironment is currently c bennefitted by 18 8 staff membeers of11 wom men and 7 meen. Externallyy, as describe ed under Prin nciple 1 on Human H Rights, IBL continues to build human capittal, in education n and health. IBL has th he organization’s Young Entrepreneurship StartUp (YES!) Proggram, encompasssing early stage s entrepreneurship awareness, a y youth business recognitioon and enterprise developm ment support. With the current c high unemploymeent rate in the t country, this program m has Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 successfully empowere ed many on ways w for self employment e and the creaation of integrrated employyment in small businesses. b Itt has now beeen maintain ned sustainab bly in the lasst 6 years, and is widening its audience within Indon nesia. IBL considers its YESS! Program to o be an effective channel in promotingg CSR, eliminatinng discrimanttion and increasing employment opp portunity within micro, small and meedium enterprisees. In collabo oration with Plan Intern national, Inc.. IBL is com mmencing a program on Youth Econ nomic Empowerrment to help p youth gettin ng jobs and developing entrepreneurial skills. Environ nment Prin nciple Principle 7: Business should support a precautio onary approaach environm mental challen nge Commitm ment of IBL to o protect envvironment shows on the activities a on working w grou up of environ nment and disasster risk redu uction. IBL supports s the national plaatform for riisk reduction n named Plattform Nasional Indonesia (In ndonesia Disaaster Pengura angan Resiko o Bencana Indonesia‐ Plan nas PRB Indo onesia (Indonesiaa Disaster Rissk Reduction National Plattform). IBL Exxecutive Direcctor was partt of this platform’s founding team, aimed d to facilitatee and encourrage partnersships to reduce Indonesiaa’s natural dissaster risks. IBL encourages the privatee sectors con nsisting of MNCs, M Nationnal Companiies, Stated‐owned Companiees (BUMN) an nd SMEs to contribute. c Th he medium iss the establishment of leaarning forum ms and campaign ns. On this no e ote, IBL also supports the existing 1MSSSH Campaign n (One Millionn Safe Schoolls and Hospitals)). It is a camp paign to pledgge schools and hospitals to o be more ressilient againstt natural disaasters. This is a global initiative by UNISSDR (United Nations Inteernational Strategy on Diisaster Respo onse). Principlee 8: Undertake initiative es to promotte greater en nvironmenttal responsib bility IBL has faacilitated parttnerships in 7 (seven) mun nicipalities, in n the areas of o Water Acceess, Sanitation and Hygiene with w the supp port of Ford Fooundation. IBL’s role as facilitator of CSR has built cross‐ssector partneerships in pro omoting greater environm mental responsibbility. The “Paartnership forr Packaging Waste W (PPW)” initiative leed by the orgganization invvolves several leading multinaational and national n comp panies in Indo onesia in respponse to the Indonesian I Laaw on Waste Maanagement No.18,N 2008. IBL and these companies have formed d a joint proggram to deveelop a solid wastte manageme ent program,, making the best use of wastew which enables e only the waste reesidue to be disp posed to wastte landfills. Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 Principlle 10 Anti‐Corruption n Accordingg to the vision, IBL plays active a roles in upholding corporate cittizenship. As previously sttated, IBL mainly operates by b way of orgganizing workkshops and other o capacitty building evvents. In 20110 the activities to t highlight are a among oth hers as followws: 1. Etthics Workshops with PERTAMINA’s (O Oil State Owneed Company) for their suppliers and vendors organized in nine big cities, together wiith a major co ompany in water supply PT. P PAM Lyon nnaise Jaaya, and othe er prominent companies 2. Preparation off publication named: n Formmulation and Implementatiion Code of Conduct C for SM MEs 3. Siigned an an nti corruption n integrity pact p by the Indonesian Chamber off Commerce. The signatories are e placed und der a coalitio on called KUUPAS (Workin ng group on Business without Bribery). IBL prrovided training materials and facilitatoors during thee many eventts organized. 4. Collaboration with the Indonesian Corruption Eradication Com mmission from 2005 to 2012, undertaking aw wareness raising efforts to t prevent co orruptive bussiness practicces in the cou untry, ammong multi nationals, n natiional and statte‐owned com mpanies. Summaryy of Committment, Syste em, Action anda Perform mance NOTE: as this report is the third onee submitted, a comparativve grid to show wcase progreess under eacch principle is i presented, by indicatingg Year 1 and Year Y 2 Action ns Year 1 Year 2 Year Y 3 Principle 1: 1 Business should s suppoort and respeect the protecction of internationally prroclaimed human rights Commitm ment Encoourage IBL Chartter in Businesss Continued com mpliance to th he IBL corp porations in Principlees, implementted in Charter in Business Principles Indo onesia to daily opeerations: ensuuring respect human honesty and integrity in every rightt aspect off work by acting in good faitth and providding a fair return too your supplieers of goods an nd services. Supporting Global Compact System / Policy IBL implement Code of Conduct C Charrter and Code of Condu uct Charter an nd advoocacy through h Standard d Operating Sttandard Operrating Proced dure. learn ning forum Procedurre IBL adopt a egalitarian Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 apprroach, non discrriminative and non‐‐biased mechanism Actions Orgaanizing Organizinng Workshop ps on O Organizing acttivities namelyy: workkshops and Code of Conduct, C Socializing learnning forums SOP. Orgganizing Workkshop on ‐ COC to o SMEs worksshop GC principles and COP P, ‐ Seminar on namely: “Introd duction to Global ‐ COC C to SMEs Compaact Principless” Workshops W with IGGCN ‐ Executive E Woorkshop ‐ 3 dayss training workshop “Adoptin ng Globall Compact Principples and Sustainability into your y organiization” with IGCN Performance Five workshops on o SMEs qualified to imp plement Loocal facilitato ors qualified as a outcome CSR Code of Conduct C trrainers for furrther empowermentt programs Five workshops on o Business ethics SMMEs qualified d to implemen nt and Code of Code of Condu uct Cond duct Two CEO Network mee etings Principle 4: 4 the eliminnation of all forms f of forced and comp pulsory labor Commitm ment Main ntain full To build human capitaal and Continued devvelopment of compliance on entrepreeneurship among entrepreneursships day‐‐to‐day youth annd women in operration Indonesia, by way of ng workshopss and organizin capacity building even nts System / Policy Perfo ormance Entrepreeneurship Pro ogram set Continued run nning of the agreeement signed d up Entrepreneursship Program by each employee Actions Conssistently YES! Proggramme to wider w Continuation of o YES! implementing thee outreach h and to ensure Programme with activities, policcy sustainabbility, by way of namely: organizin ng activities namely: n ‐ “Busin ness Consultation ‐ YES Y Club Jakarta Day” Free F Business L Launching consulltation to pubblic ‐ Workshop W on n ‐ Womeen Entrepreneeur “Managemen “ nt of YES Worksshop Club C and Menntors ‐ Admin nistration andd Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 C Capacity Buildding” Financcial Report for ‐ B Business n Plan SMEs training t seriees C Competition ‐ Tax awwareness for SMEs S ‐ Social S Entreprreneurs trainin ng series Workshop W ‐ Busineess plan for SM MEs ‐ SMES Worksho op in trainin ng series E Java “Thee Life East ‐ Markeeting Strategyy and secret s of Promo otion for SMEEs E Entrepreneur rs” trainin ng series ‐ Business B Startt up A Award ‐ “Business “ C Consultation Day” free f business consultation c t public to Performance No forced labor The proggram has been The program has h been implemeented for five mplemented now for six yeears. im consecuttive years. Principle 7: 7 Business should s suppo ort a precautionary approoach environm mental challe enge Commitm ment Adop pt Commitm ment to Envirronment Continued com mmitment environmentally protectioon and Disastter Risk frien ndly practicess Reductioon Working Group in vaarious businesss aspeects System / Policy Standard CSR for Better B Life Pro ogram CSR for Better Life Programm Operating Proccedures Actions Attempt to save Organizin ng several CSR ‐ Organizing several CSR enerrgy and to Learning Forum with Ministry Learning Forum witth adop pt non‐ of Publicc works Ministtry of Public works w polluuting ‐ Suppo orting Indonessia operration and 3RR Disaster Risk Reducction (reduce‐reuse‐ Nationnal Platform recycle) Performance Reusse all papers in i Environm ment protection ‐ Enviroonment protection day‐‐to‐day awareneess among corrporate awareness among activvities executivee and CSR corporrate executivee and practitioner CSR prractitioner Auto omatic powerr ‐ Disaster Risk awareeness turn‐off after 8pmm amongg schools and d Auto omatic hospittals computer standb by mod de if not used afterr 15 minutes Principle 8: Comm municattion on Progres P ss 2010 undertake e initiatives to t promote greater enviro onmental responsibility Commitm ment Raisee corporate Partakingg in implementing the Partaking in im mplementing thet commitment to Youth‘s support s in go overnment’s regulation on n sustaainable environm ment So olid Waste Management M deve elopment and d environmental protection System / Policy “CSR R for Better CSR for Better B Life Pro ogram CSR for Better Life Program m life” program Partnership for Packaging Waste W (PPPW) Actions Prodduce advocacyy Conductiing Young Change Leeadership of the t program toolss maker co ompetition an nd im mplementatio on among inauguraation night m multinationals s and national Idenntify and coompanies supp port initiatives addrressing waterr Reprinted Boo oks on Sanitattion and sanitation business probblems Performance Web b‐based Leearning forum ms on PPW map pping on CSR esstablished proggrams, at www w.ibl‐ Public awareness of the emarket.com im mportance off Sanitation business Selected program m addrressing waterr and sanitation probblems Principle 10: 1 Business should s work against corru uption in all its forms, inclluding extorttion and bribeery Commitm ment Raisee the Promotio on of Ethical Business B Continued pro omotion of Ethical awareness on conductss Business conducts ethiccal business System / Policy Business Ethics Business Ethics Prograam, Continuation of o Business Etthics proggram, in collaboraation with KPK, Program, collaaboration with h collaaboration with private sectors and KPK, private seectors and the Indonesian I International organizaation nternational organization In o Corrruption partners Eraddication partners Com mmission (KPK K) and other local and internationall orgaanization partners Actions Worrkshop ‐ Ethicc Workshops ‐ Ethic Workkshops Business Ethics ‐ TV Talk shows on ‐ Preparatioon of COC book Businness Ethics Publicationn: Formulation Prommotion of ‐ Radio o talk sho ows on and impleementation Code Comm municattion on ProgresP ss 2010 Codee of Conduct busin ness ethics of Conducct, A Case Study on amoong SMEs MNC and SME S ‐ SMS (Shorrt message seervice) TV Talkshow T broadcast on bussiness ethics ‐ Signed inteegrity pact fo or anti corruptionn in Indonesiaa Performance Twenty nine Visibility as active sup pporter Visibility as acttive supporteer to workkshops until to the esstablishment of th he establishm ment of Indonesia’s Deceember 2009 Indonesia’s ethical bu usiness etthical businesss conducts and out reaching conductss 30000 participantss One episode for yearr 2009 municattion on Progresss 2010 Comm th Menara Kartika Chandra C 7 floor Jl. Jend Gatot Subroto Kav 18‐20 Jakarta 12950, Inndonesia Ph: +62 21 52025 530/33 Fax: +62 21 52233524 Email: ibl@cbn.nnet.id http://www.ibl.o or.id
