CONTENTS ALIVARIA BREWERY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORTING PERIOD: 2009–2010 1. MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER 3 2. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 4 3. COMPANY INFORMATION 5 4. HUMAN RIGHTS 6 • Product Quality 6 • Responsible Marketing Communications 9 • Personnel 11 • Health and Safety 15 5. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 17 6. BUSINESS ETHICS 20 Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 2 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER Dear Friends, ethics and marketing communication. These policies serve as guidelines for our staff in their day-to day I am pleased to present Alivaria Brewery’s first work and are embedded into all business processes. report on corporate social responsibility. The report reveals how far we have progressed in implementThroughout the reporting period and in spite of ing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the economic crisis in 2009, we have been able to 2009–2010. increase staff salaries, and have maintained our leading sector position. We continued to invest in the Alivaria Brewery takes its obligations very serigrowth and the development of our employees and ously. We know full well that by taking good care of brands. our staff, consumers and partners, and looking after the environment, we invest in the sustainable growth For two consecutive years Alivaria has been of the company, and of society in general. awarded the title «Best Entrepreneur in Minsk». The quality of our products has been recognized by inSince signing the Global Compact there has ternational experts and received prestigious awards. been changes in OJSC «Alivaria Brewery» ownership structure. We have become a full member of We have continued social initiatives. In tandem the Carlsberg Group with which we also share joined with the State Automobile Inspectorate in Minsk, commitment to the UN’s ten global principles. we held the ‘Draw the Line!’ project, aimed at persuading people to stop drinking and driving. Alivaria Last year Group companies, Alivaria included, employees also took part in the ‘Eagles’ Home’ and implemented Carlsberg CSR policies embracing such ‘Green Office’ environmental protection campaigns. issues as labour and human rights, health and safety, environment, community engagement, business By means of open and frank dialogue, we work to strike a balance between the interests of our business and those of our stakeholders. Only through joint efforts can we make the right decisions and contribute significantly to the sustainable development of our society. This report is proof that social responsibility is an integral part of our corporate culture and the longterm strategy for the development of Alivaria Brewery. Mihail Chechenev General Manager, OJSC «Alivaria Brewery» Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 3 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The Global Compact was first announced by the The ten principles then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in an address to The World Economic Forum on January 31, 1999. of Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy iniHuman Rights tiative for businesses that are committed to aligning 1. Businesses should support and respect the protheir operations and strategies with ten universally tection of internationally proclaimed human rights. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human business, as a primary driver of globalization, can rights abuses. help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies Labour and societies everywhere. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in Alivaria Brewery became a signatory of the all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Global Compact UN on the 16th June 2009 . Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 4 ABOUT THE COMPANY Alivaria Brewery is the oldest functioning brewan eagle carrying a keg of beer. The foundion date, ery in the Republic of Belarus. We are proud of our 1864, was also added to the logo. history and unchanging traditions. In 1996 Alivaria began a large-scale project to The brewery works to preserve its heritage. Alirenovate its equipment. varia hosts a number of historic buildings dating The new century brought new changes. In 2005 from the late 19th and early 20th centuries, where The European Bank for Reconstruction and Developthe old-time atmosphere meets contemporary techment (EBRD) acquired 30% of Alivaria shares. nology and Belarus’ oldest, superb-quality beer is brewed. In 2006 Baltic Beverages Holding (BBH) became a shareholder and strategic investor. At that time Alivaria’s chronicles date back to 29 January BBH was a joint venture between Carlsberg A/S and 1864, when with the permission of the Minsk GovScottish and Newcastle plc, spanning 19 breweries in ernor’s office, bourgeois Rohlya Frumkinova set up seven Eastern European countries. the first wooden-built brewery on the corner of Alexandrovskaya and Zagorodnaya Streets (today it is Since 2008 BBH has been owned 88.86% by the crossing of Bogdanovicha and Kiseleva Streets). Carlsberg. Thus Carlsberg became a strategic investor in Alivaria Brewery. Later the brewery was sold to Count Chapsky, Minsk governor, a well-known innovator and paIn 2011 Carlsberg Group obtained a majority tron of the arts. Count Chapsky built the new stone shareholding in Alivaria (67.8%). building, which is still standing, and substantially imCarlsberg Group is one of the leading brewing proved production processes. Thus a small wooden companies in the world, with a broad portfolio of brewery transformed into ‘Bohemia Steam Brewery’. beer and other beverage brands. The new partnerIn 1898, the Count sold the Bohemia to the Lekert ship has opened up huge opportunities for us, acbrothers from Bavaria who already owned brewercess to international sales and marketing experience, ies in Gomel and Mogilev. This allowed them to esand state-of-the-art brewing technologies. However tablish the largest network of breweries in Belarus, even while looking to the future, we remember the which continued to exist until 1917. heritage of past generations and preserve the timehonoured brewing traditions. In 1917 the company was nationalized and became brewery ‘The Belarus’. After the Second World War the brewery was one of the few buildings miraculously spared from destruction in the capital. At the beginning of the 1990s, the brewery was privatised and acquired its present name, ‘Alivaria ‘. Alivaria reinstated its pre-revolutionary trademark— Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRODUCT QUALITY In 2007, Alivaria Extra won first prize at the World Beer Championship in Chicago, USA. Alivaria Brewery takes its responsibilities to deIn 2009, Alivaria Extra won two stars for excelliver consumers and customers high quality beer lent taste at the Superior Taste Award in Brussels, and services. We constantly strive for perfection, find Belgium organized by the International Taste and ways to raise our professional standards and do job Quality Institute (iTQi). better. In 2010, Alivaria Porter and Alivaria Extra won We are engaged in actively researching consumer bronze and gold prizes at the Australian Internationpreferences, conducting a wide range of surveys into al Beer Awards, in Melbourne, Australia, and also taste, packaging, advertising and new products, that two stars at the Superior Taste Award in Brussels, allows us to satisfy consumer needs in the best way Belgium. possible. Since 2008 Alivaria has become an acknowledged innovator on the local beer market. We are the first brewery in Belarus to begin production of premium beers which has won recognition of international experts. Alivaria’s beer has been awarded more than 20 gold, silver, and bronze medals at the most Alivaria Brewery now produces 16 sorts of beer prestigious international exhibitions and tastand has developed more than 20 beer recipes. ings. In 2010, the Alivaria became brand No. 1 in both the beer and non-alcoholic drinks sectors throughout Belarus according to the ‘Bel-Brand 2010 – Top 100 Belarusian brands’ ranking released by the international agency, MPP Consulting. The ranking was based on brands’ real market value. For two consecutive years (2009 and 2010) Alivaria Brewery has been titled ‘Minsk’s Best Entrepreneur of the Year’ in food processing industry. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Alivaria has an effective quality management and product safety system which runs throughout our products, starting from raw materials up to finished products focused on producing confidence that quality and food safety requirements will be fulfilled. As we want our consumers to enjoy a high-quality product with original properties. QUALITY AND SAFETY CONTROL OF RAW MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS WITH REGARDS TO ANALYSIS OF RISKS AND CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS IS PERFORMED ON THE FOLLOWING PRODUCTION LEVELS: Incoming inspection of raw, packaging and other materials safety control Storage of raw and other materials in silos and warehouses control of storage regimes Beer pasteurization control of pasteurization regimes Washing of packaging control of regimes and washing quality Inspection of empty packaging control to exclude presence of undesirable elements Storage of products control of storage regimes Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 7 human Rights In 2007 Alivaria Brewery obtained three certifi2010 was declared the ‘Year of Quality’ in Belarus cates of compliance with international quality stanand Alivaria Brewery actively supported the initiative. dards: STB ISO 9001-2001 Quality Management We held a special competition amongst company System Certificate in the Belarus national system of staff. Prizes were awarded in three categories: ‘Highcompliance, DIM EN ISO 9001-2000 in the German est Process Indicator’, ‘Personal Hygiene Standards system of accreditation, and a certificate of quality in Production Areas’, and ‘Logistics: Best Product management systems and food products safety in Warehouse’. Based on the results of the competition, compliance with HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critithe employees with the best performance in quality cal Control Points). control were awarded gifts. It was also decided that the competition would become another good comThe quality management system is defined in pany tradition, as a way to encourage initiatives and terms of 10 processes; each of them is described by innovative ideas on the part of staff. a corporate standard: Alivaria Brewery continues to monitor the quality • Quality control management system and conof its beer well beyond the brewery’s walls. For the tinuous improvement past few years, the company has been implement• Human resources management ing a quality control programme for draft beer at points of sale and consumption. Alivaria specialists • Infrastructure management visit restaurants, cafes and evaluate the beer on the • Risk analysis and critical control point identifibasis of 10 main indicators. cation As part of the project training courses were orga• Marketing activities and consumer satisfaction nized for staff in the HoReCa (cafes, bars and restauevaluation rants) sector and training materials provided to all • Development and production of new products the premises inspected. Alivaria Brewery considers investment in staff education to be most reliable and • Beer production progressive method of improving the quality of draft We actively invest in the modernization of probeer. duction and the implementation of new technoloAlivaria bottled beer is also assessed by indepengies. dent experts from the Carlsberg Group. Auditors acWe hold regular ‘Quality Days’ at Alivaria Brewquire beer from retail outlets in Minsk and conduct ery: every quarter representatives of the various laboratory tests to determine its characteristics. Redepartments report on the achievement of quality sults show that the quality of Alivaria beer is of the targets in the particular process for which they are same level as the best Western European beers. responsible for. These events allow for additional monitoring of work processes and help us to adjust our tasks accordingly. Alivaria Brewery’s investments in production and trade equipment BYR 4.621 billion BYR 4.869 billion Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 8 HUMAN RIGHTS RESPONSIBLE MARKETING spectorate organized the ‘Draw the Line’ campaign, aimed at raising awareness about drinking and drivCOMMUNICATION ing problem and increasing road safety. The brewery produced more than 3,000,000 bot«‘Enjoyment in moderation’ is the philosophy tles of beer with pictograms reminding drivers about that guides all our marketing. We as a company their responsibility for personal safety and the safety take our social responsibility seriously. We mean of their passengers and other road users. to be part of the solution, not part of the problem. Our brands are household names: we know that Campaign posters were put up in Alivaria Brewthey play a part in the lives of millions of our ery premises, automobile service stations, Atlant-M consumers, all over the world» showrooms, driving schools, and petrol stations in Minsk and the Minsk Region. Additionally, for two weeks, officers of the Minsk State Automobile InMarketing Communication Policy spectorate stopped drivers and handed out air-freshCarlsberg Group eners with the campaign logo. Such initiatives demonstrate Alivaria’s concern for society and its desire to work with all stakeholders. Our marketing communications always comply with the requirements of legislation. They are decent, honest, truthful, and underpinned with a feeling of social responsibility and respect for the principles of honest competition. All staff in the sales and marketing departments, regional representatives included, are well briefed in the Marketing Communication Policy and use it as guidelines in their everyday work. Moderate and responsible consumption of alcohol Alivaria Brewery is proud of its products. For many years we have been brewing beer of unchanging quality which has won international recognition; we want our consumers to enjoy it responsibly. Alivaria Brewery, jointly with the Brewers’ Guild and members of parliament, has been working to provide information and increase understanding about beer and its consumption. Beer is a natural product made from water, malt, hops, and yeast, in which alcohol is formed as a result of natural fermentation. Moderate beer consumption can be part of a healthy lifestyle. At the same time, however, excessive consumption can have a negative effect on health. Alivaria considers alcohol abuse, underage drinking, and driving under the influence, to be unacceptable. In February and March 2010, Alivaria Brewery in a joint initiative with the Minsk State Automobile InAlivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 9 HUMAN RIGHTS Beer consumption culture We do not participate in public events if we are aware that more than 30% of participants are miOne of the key goals of our marketing communors. nications is to develop a culture of beer consumpEveryone who takes part in our marketing comtion amongst adults. We want to create the image munications must be at least 25 years old, or appear of beer as a drink with an ancient history and tradito be 25 years old. tions, and which has to be drunk at the right place and the right time. The voice over recordings in our adverts are performed by people over the age of 25. We deliberately do not produce animated advertising clips, to avoid attracting the attention of children. Information transparency One of the key principles of Alivaria Brewery marketing communications is to ensure complete transparency of information, and access to information which is not commercially sensitive. We provide accurate and truthful information about the ingredients and the properties of our beers. The company’s site contains materials about our activities and products. The launch of any new beer product is always accompanied by a press release containing detailed information about the product. We are introducing new types of beer, new packAlivaria Brewery collects feedback from conaging and accessories, which will have a positive sumers and partners. To find out more about any of effect on the aesthetic perceptions of the drink. Alour products, place an order, or make a complaint, ivaria Brewery is developing special educational proyou can contact us by telephone, email, or regular grammes to disseminate knowledge about beer and mail. You can also visit the brewery in person. drinking culture. ‘The Combination of Beer and Food’ is one of the themes which we have been promoting in our communications. We also support the government’s ban on beer drinking in the streets. Nevertheless, we believe that special places for the consumption of beer should be created. For this reason Alivaria Brewery is making substantial investments in the development of seasonal trade, such as summer cafes, tents and umbrellas. Child and youth protection Alivaria Brewery cares about the younger generation and is categorically opposed to the consumption of alcohol by minors. Our marketing communications are guided by ethical standards and the laws of the Republic of Belarus. Our target audience is people who have reached the legal drinking age. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 10 HUMAN RIGHTS Personnel Alivaria Brewery works to prevent all forms of discrimination, forced labour and does not allow the use Our employees are of great value to us and are of child labour. the key to our success. The Carlsberg Group shall We show respect for the individuality of each strive to establish a workplace where our emmember of our staff, offering equal opportunities for ployees can develop their potential in an open all our employees, notwithstanding gender, age, ethand inspirational working environment. We shall nic origin, or religious belief. maintain a strong commitment to high standards for a fair, respectable and safe workplace for all Our compliance with our undertakings can be employees in the Carlsberg Group. proved by the fact that over the two reporting years, there has not been a single case of violation of human rights or discrimination. Labour and Human Rights Policy Carlsberg Group At the suggestion of the trade union, Alivaria Brewery has set up a Labour Dispute Committee to examine any such issues. The total number of staff employed over the reIn its day-to-day activities, Alivaria Brewery, as a porting period 545. socially responsible organization, follows: • International human rights principles proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; •International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; • Laws of the Republic of Belarus; • Carlsberg Group Labour and human rights policy. Alivaria Brewery Staff Alivaria Brewery staff by employment type by age group 92,48% 40,57% 7,52 % 14,96% 15,98% 28,48% full-time staff Number of staff (from 18 to 29) Number of staff (from 30 to 39) temporary staff Number of staff (from 40 to 49) Number of staff (over 50) Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 11 HUMAN RIGHTS Hiring of staff success of the company. For this purpose Alivaria applies an annual assessment system of staff effecAlivaria Brewery offers equal rights and opportutiveness. nities when hiring staff. Information about vacancies is published in different media, including the company website, newspapers etc. Selection is based on candidate’s professional Freedom of association and abilities and whether he fits the corporate culture of the organization and its values. social guarantees We guarantee official employment, contractual Alivaria Brewery cares about the social protecrelations and compliance with the legislation of the tion of its employees and their families. Republic of Belarus throughout the entire period of labour relations with the employee. We respect the rights of employees to join or to refrain from joining worker organizations. Within the company there is a functioning trade union committee and 86% of the employees at the present time Salary are members. Social partnership between company manaOne of the key priorities for Alivaria Brewery is to gement and employees is regulated by a collective ensure social welfare and a decent standard of living agreement, the aims of which are to guarantee the for its employees. social and economic development of the enterprise, The system of wage calculation is based on the productive employment for the workers, a salary levprinciples of fairness and transparency. The comel corresponding to the current price level and living pany guarantees equal remuneration for men and expenses, decent and safe working conditions, and women for labour of equal value. This principle is the efficient (profitable) operation of the enterprise. achieved through the application of a single pay In May 2010 a new version of the collective scale for all categories of employees, regardless of agreement was signed that included new clauses regender. Company salaries are determined by the garding financial allowances in the following cases: professional competencies of the employee and the level of responsibility of the job. • Acquired professional disability not related to workplace accidents; There is an annual salary review aimed at incrementation. One of the criteria used is the level of • Loss of personal property (fire, theft); salaries in Minsk. We have always endeavoured to • Long-term illness of more than two weeks in offer our employees more than other companies in duration to maintain the average employee’s inthe sector, thus attracting and retaining well-qualicome during the period of temporary incapacity fied and motivated staff. for work. The percentage of salary incrementation and ca• Serious illness of the employee or family memreer growth is directly linked to the results of each bers (spouse, parents, children), traumas due to a employee and his or her contribution to the overall domestic accident affecting the employee, causing serious material loss and lowering the quality of life of the employee. Growth of average monthly wages at Alivaria • Employee death unconnected to industrial acBrewery: cident. 18.54% 20.87% Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 12 HUMAN RIGHTS The company provides all employees with a Employees training and package of social benefits and guarantees: annual paid holidays and targeted financial assistance. development Here at Alivaria Brewery we believe that by investing in human potential, we are also contributing to the sustainable development of the company and our society. Alivaria Brewery strives to create condi16,2 24,2 8,2 13 8,4 20 tions conducive to developing the abilities and tal5 11,2 ents of its staff and supports their professional and 26,32 personal growth. 74 23,5 Employee competences assessment is carried out 7,5 once a year to identify the professional and leader30 ship competences—and potential—of each employee. Based on the results of the evaluation, individual 23,4 development plans are drawn up. Throughout the year employees receive support in fulfilling them. 73,2 Alivaria organises continuing education courses, 419,6 trainings, and seminars for our employees. 11 Becoming a part of Carlsberg Group has allowed 10 Alivaria Brewery to further expand the range of possibilities for our staff at different levels. Weddings, childbirth The high performers from the line personnel can take part in the international ‘Supply chain proLong-term illness, medical treatment gramme’ project. In 2010, three Alivaria employees Jubilees spent several months working in breweries in Western Europe, studying the working practices of their foreign colleagues. Death of employee’s immediate family Employees in need of housing are provided with dormitory facilities by the company, which pays 55–65% of the housing costs. Alivaria Brewery demonstrates concern for the health of its staff. There is a medical cabinet at the company. Employees are offered annual free vaccinations against influenza and also free fluorography. Alivaria Brewery supports employees who want to live a healthy lifestyle: the company covers costs of swimming pools, fitness centres, sports halls, and saunas. In 2010, Alivaria Brewery employees took part for the first time in volleyball competitions between teams from a number of Minsk companies. The company also offers tourism trips. Last year our staff visited Moscow and Mogilev. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 13 HUMAN RIGHTS On-the-job training allows our staff to receive Staff Feedback training in their specialized field at other Carlsberg Group breweries. In 2010 such an opportunity was Alivaria Brewery is convinced that to win the trust provided to representatives of the sales, production, of its employees and create a strong team is posand logistics departments. sible only by building transparent, open relationships within the company, and constant dialogue between Alivaria managers participate in the Leadership the management and the staff. Programme, which provides an opportunity for assessing their leadership potential and improve their The company develops a system of internal comwork. munications. Employees have an open access to company’s policies, procedures and other documents The cultivation of leaders within the company itthey need for their work, contact details through the self is one of our strategic aims. Alivaria encourages internal portal. ambitious and talented staff. A special programme Much attention is paid to informing staff of the has been set up for such employees that involves events and processes taking place within the comadditional training, gradual increase in the level of pany. Urgent messages are displayed on informaresponsibility, thus providing them an incentive to tion boards; at the end of the month, a news digest aspire to key positions in the future. This policy has comes out; and once every quarter, a corporate already given positive results. Up to 60% of vacanmagazine is published. cies are filled by internal applicants. The company holds regular quarterly staff meetAlivaria Brewery has also initiated a project ings, where the results for the previous three months, ‘School for Internal Trainers’. Many of our employees as well as future plans, are announced. After the possess unique skills and knowledge which they can meetings ‘Top Management Tours’ are held. These share with their colleagues. The project lets workers are individual meetings between one of the Deputy enhance their status within the company. As well as General Directors, and staff who were unable to be that it allows to increase company’s efficiency and present at the general meetings, for instance, becreate a succession chain. cause of their work schedule. To stimulate employee’s motivation the comIn September 2009 Alivaria Brewery took part in pany organizes the quarterly award ceremonies for the global Carlsberg Group employee attitude surthe best-performing workers. Throughout the next vey to assess employee attitudes and perspectives quarter their photographs are displayed on informaon the Carlsberg Group. Based on these results, an tion boards. action plan was developed to improve working conditions at the company. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 14 HUMAN RIGHTS HEALTH AND SAFETY The Carlsberg Group shall be committed to achieving high standards of health and safety throughout our business as we recognise the significant contribution of good health and safety conditions to our overall business performance. Our goal is that no harm should arise to people as a result of our activities. The company also has a functioning internal Health and Safety Policy Health and Safety Policy which governs all employCarlsberg Group ees and contractors working at our sites. Over the reporting period the company allocated The health and safety of all employees and conBYR 828 million to health and safety programmes. tractors working at our sites is one of the company’s During the reporting period Alivaria Brewery was key priorities. Alivaria Brewery strives to minimize not subject to a single claim or sanction in the area risks in the workplace, to prevent workplace acciof health and safety, industrial safety, or fire prevendents and industrial illnesses, and to achieve a high tion. level of industrial safety. Alivaria Brewery strictly complies with the requirements of legal and technical statutory regulations for health and safety, guided by the standards accepted in the area. In 2009 the company introduced a Health and Safety Management system compliant with the requirements of the RB STB 18001-2009 standard. Number of cases of industrial accidents at Alivaria Brewery Number of cases of industrial accidents 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 year Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 15 HUMAN RIGHTS Working conditions Staff health and safety Alivaria Brewery makes reasonable efforts to cretraining ate safe environment for employees. All staff, upon commencing work at Alivaria Monthly accounts of health and safety expendiBrewery, must undergo health and safety training tures are kept. In 2010, the funds allocated for these and an assessment of health and safety knowledge purposes were used for replacement of the thermal by the commissions in the relevant departments. insulation jackets of the pipelines and equipment in Further on health and safety knowledge is reguthe brewery house, installation of an anti-icing syslarly tested. tem in the boiler room, lighting renovation, staff vaccination programme against influenza, and health and safety training for staff. Provision of safety Our health and safety strategy involves the regular monitoring of production processes compliance equipment with health and safety legislation, requirements for industrial safety in dangerous working environments, Alivaria Brewery puts much efforts to guarantee certification of employee workplaces. the industrial safety of its employees when operatMonitoring of working conditions, health and ing on the industrial premises, working with equipsafety in the workplace is conducted by the management, chemical substances during the production ment together with public inspectors from the trade process. union membership (26 persons). Employees are provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and protective clothing. New protective clothing and footwear is regularly issued, and the company organizes the laundering, dry cleaning, repair and storage of PPE. Employees whose work involves harmful or dangerous factors receive additional payments, dependent on workplace reviews, and receive additional leave. All payments made to employees comply with the requirements of the Labour Code. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 16 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our company is making the gradual transition The sustainability of the environment plays a vito energy-saving equipment. The replacement of tal role within our business. Most of our raw matwo pumps in the boiler room with more modern terials and ingredients are sourced directly from ones has led to a substantial reduction in electricnature. The continued success of our business is ity loss. Long-life energy-saving light bulbs have directly linked to the health of the environment. been installed throughout the brewery, and the old However as we grow, our environmental impact systems of lighting control gear have been replaced increases, and we are therefore continually lookwith modern electronic lighting control systems. Auing for ways to reduce our impact on the Environtomated systems for unloaded machinery switch-off ment and climate. and thermal insulation technologies are being deEnvironmental Policy ployed as well. Carlsberg Group In 2010, as a result of the optimized use of gas and electricity, the company managed to save enAlivaria Brewery works towards reducing our energy equivalent to BYR 140 million. vironmental footprint. In total over the last five years, the company has reduced its actual expenditure of thermal and elecEnergy saving trical energy. The reuse of energy resources lets the company reduce its ecological impact. Alivaria Brewery develops an annual energy saving plan. Thus, for the past few years, water used in the brewery house to cool the wort is later reused in other technological processes. Actual consumption of thermal and electrical energy per production unit: heating, hot water, and thermal energy Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 17 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Atmospheric emissions Wastewater Since 2006 company has implemented the ‘ProAlivaria Brewery conducts regular reviews of the gramme of official laboratory monitoring of atmopurification equipment at the brewery in order to spheric air pollution’. The company conducts quarprevent any petroleum-based products from leakterly monitoring of environmental emissions that ing into storm drains. In 2010 the company replaced allows us to evaluate impact on the adjacent areas the filtration materials (sorbent) for treating storm and take actions to reduce it. drains. In 2007 the refrigerator compressor stations were overhauled. As a result, the ammonia-based refrigerWaste ators were replaced by equipment with environmentally-friendly Freon R134a, leading to a reduction of We are continually striving to reduce the total volammonia emissions in the atmosphere. ume of waste and to increase the level of recycling. The brewery regularly conducts tests of the venThe company has a waste management systilation system for compliance with the sanitary and tem when the waste is collected separately. At the hygiene standards, and dust and gas filtration equipbrewery there is an organized system of collection, ment for the effectiveness of dust collection. treatment and recycling of several types of waste: fluorescent lamps, accumulator batteries, mixedAt present, the brewery contributes 1.5% of the waste petroleum products (oils, lubricants and coolpollution in the area. ing fluids, and swarf), polyethylene packaging, various paper waste, sacking, used containers, polymer materials and scrap metal are all made safe. All packaging materials (PET bottles, metal tins, glass bottles, polyethylene, corrugated cardboard) are recycled. We collect industrial waste and donate it to recycling organizations. Last year Alivaria Brewery initiated a project to reduce loss of extract in the production of beer by means of the reuse of waste grain dust. This led to a 50% reduction of such waste. In total in 2010, the volume of materials collected for further recycling increased by 33% in comparison with 2009. The volume of materials collected for further recycling: 204.667 tonnes 273.74 tonnes Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 18 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SOCIAL CAMPAIGNS Alivaria Brewery supports employees’ initiatives addressed at dealing with environmental issues. Every day, company employees contribute to the ‘Green Office’ programme aimed at saving water, paper and electricity. The company holds efficiency competitions. At the end of the year employees who introduced and implemented best environment-friendly ideas are rewarded with diplomas and a cash prize. ‘Eagles’ Home’ In 2009 Alivaria Brewery, the ‘Ahova ptushak Batskaishchini’ organization and the Berezinsky nature reserve accomplished the ‘Eagles’ Home’ projAlivaria Ecological Missions ect. Company employees worked with ornithologists Alivaria employees have undertaken a number of to make a number of artificial eagles’ nests. projects to clean up mass-recreation areas in Minsk. Many birds of prey today are on the Red Book One of these missions—’Punish Rubbish’—took list of endangered species. By creating favourable place in the autumn of 2010. Thirty volunteers from sites for their survival and recreation, scientists and Alivaria helped the Minsk Forestry and Parks unitary enthusiasts are trying to preserve the population of enterprise to collect rubbish and fallen leaves in the our feathered friends. park around the Drozdi reservoir. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 19 BUSINESS ETHICS Payments for goods and services are made to the In the Carlsberg Group, we believe in fair and accounts of the counterparties, if there are not lawful transparent business practices. Our Business Ethreasons for alternative payment arrangements. ics Policy seeks to ensure ethical business conduct by guiding our employees when they face Employee salaries are made via electronic card dilemmas of a business ethics nature in their systems via banks with which the company has conday-to-day tasks. tractual relations (Belagroprombank, Belarusbank). The company refrains from all fraudulent activities and applies an effective system of control aimed at combating any possible fraud on the part of its Business Ethics Policy employees or third parties. Company property and Carlsberg Group money is used only for business purposes, and never for personal benefit. Alivaria Brewery has set up a commission to investigate any cases of violation involving materially responsible employees. Alivaria Brewery values its business reputation and strives to be a trustworthy and respected partner and employer. On the 11th of November 2010, Alivaria Brewery Our strategy is based on the legislation of the Rewas awarded the status of ‘Conscientious Parpublic of Belarus and also the Business Ethics Policy ticipant in Foreign Trade Activities’ for its conof the Carlsberg Group, which covers such key issues scientious attitude towards foreign trade operaas bribery, promotion payments, presents, meals tions, and the timely payment of all monetary and entertainment, donations, conflicts of interest, obligations and customs payments. confidential information, competition law, fraud, and business reputation. The company also operates the Carlsberg Group Business ethics principles are integrated into all Whistleblower System. Any employee may use this areas of our company’s activities. Alivaria Brewery system if he or she becomes aware or suspects inhas developed its Regulation ‘On claims and lawcidents at the company which, in the employee’s suits’ and also the ‘Regulations on complying with opinion, contradict the Business Ethics Policy or the antimonopoly legislation of the Republic of BePrinciples. larus’. Employees’ labour contracts contain a clause requiring compliance with the Business Ethics Policy. These could be situations, incidents, or actions which might: • Have a negative effect on (the finances, During the reporting period, the company has reputation or other aspects) of the company, not recorded a single case of violations of busiits shareholders or the Carlsberg Group as a ness ethics. whole; We adhere to moral standards of business, build• Be damaging to moral reputation, industrial, or ing long-term and stable relationships with all inpersonal safety. terested parties, based on mutual trust and the The system has been carefully developed top-recomplete fulfilment of obligations, openness and serve confidentiality and anonymity at every stage. flexibility. Step-by-step instructions guarantee that any comWhen choosing new partners and concluding munications are made in the most secure way posagreements, Alivaria Brewery is guided exclusively sible. by business interests and the principles of honest competition. The company practices a system of open procurement procedures based on the tender Last year 225 Alivaria employees underwent system, allowing for the choice of the most suitable training in the Internal Business Ethics Policy. partner for collaboration with the company. All monetary transactions are made in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Belarus. Alivaria Brewery, Carlsberg Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2009–2010 20 Thank you for your interest in Alivaria Brewery. Having once taken upon ourselves the obligations of responsible business, we will always remain faithful to our chosen path and will be more than grateful if you would share your opinions and suggestions with us. Address: 30 ul. Kiseleva, 220002, Minsk Tel. + 375 17 334 53 82 Fax. + 375 17 334 11 63 Website: www.alivaria.by
