Quality Worth Trust Global Compact Communication on Progress It is a great pleasure to start with extending my deepest gratitude to our partners in success: those who deal with Daaboul Industrial Group, customers, suppliers, workers and officials. Before getting into details pertaining to the group, I find it appropriate to give a quick review of founding the group and its companies, its points of strength and challenges encountered through its history, so as to familiarize all who relate to it: industrialists, business people, engineers, partners, and agents etc… with its new activities. Nowadays, it can be said that a company neglects earnest and continued self-development, in this fast changing world, and stays constantly stable is a company doomed to weakness or perhaps vanishing. The wise man who described science that stops for a reason or another was right when he said: “stable science is like stable Mohammad Daaboul ignorance”. This fact goes beyond the boundaries of science. It is true Founder and CEO, for all human activities in literature, arts, society, economics and hence in industry. Daaboul Industrial Group began its industrial activity in 1976 by “General Aluminum Company . In 1985 it imported the first plant in the country for manufacturing rolling shutters and named it “Madar Rolling Shutter”. In 1996 and 2002 two new production lines were added to this plant. Later, a plant for colored strip ceilings was erected, and by the year 1993 the group built a plant for aluminum extrusions and anodizing, which is “Madar Aluminum”, and today it contains four presses with different capacities: 8 inches, two 7 inches presses and 6 inches. The group, then, established other different industrial installations, comparable and equal to that imported from abroad. Almost all of its machines and equipment are made by its engineers and technicians, of which I mention: Die extrusion and correction section. Aluminum profiles powder coating section. Accessories manufacturing plant. Double glazed insulated glass plant. Aluminum ladders manufacturing unit. Shower and bathtubs cabins manufacturing unit. Mohammad Daaboul Founder and CEO, By the end of the second millennium Madar Glass “Universal Tempered Glass” was founded, then machinery and spare parts construction plant. In 2002 a company was established under the name of “Manar for Aluminum Industries”, which comprises of the giant extrusion press, a section for anodizing and for the manufacturing of wood-effect profiles. what is good for the country and nation. In 2005, the first factory in the Middle East to make and paint aluminum coils and galvanized steel coils was founded. It was “Madar Coil Coating”. It was followed by a third factory for extruding small aluminum profiles, which was named “Madar Aluminum and Décor”. Early in 2007 Sama was founded for studying and fabricating aluminum façades, entrances, doors and windows, also the group had established “Star Animation” Production Company in 1995, which is considered a leader in animated cartoons industry in the Arab world (cinema, TV, and video). The number of people working in the group exceeds 1,800 employees from both genders. Mohammad Daaboul To conclude, I would like to thank all of the group’s customers, Founder and CEO, suppliers and workers, to whom the gratitude is owed for Daaboul Industrial Group achieving the marvelous reputation and trust of those dealing with it. May Allah bless us and direct us to what is good for the country and nation. Our Mission Daaboul Industrial Group believes that the slogan of honesty and straight forwardness in dealing and at work are the foundations of solid partnership with clients. The industrial development shouldn’t be on the expenses of the environment, and the social development is an ultimate goal yet to be achieved. In order to realize that, the Group adopts renewable approaches in the field of business and administration, and relies on its network of distinguished and wide relations locally and in the Arab world. Indeed, those goals wouldn't have come into being without the practical translation of these slogans into reality “Quality worth trust” Our Vision Daaboul Industrial Group’s vision is based on success and superiority. It didn't stop working to be second to none in quality and excellence. Its slogan from the early beginnings was “Quality worth Trust”. We have spent a lot of money and exerted many efforts to achieve this goal by choosing the best technology globally available and building local expertise and enhance it by training and qualifying locally and abroad in its respective field of specialization. In fact, its main principle in choosing the material equipment of production was, and still is the high technical specifications that could help create a distinguished quality products. Support for the United Nations Global Compact Daaboul Industrial Group supports the 10 principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption to actively promote our CSR activities. We commit to making the global compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Company and to clearly stating this commitment to our employees, partners, clients and the public. Also, we espouse public accountability and transparency and will report our progress publicly. DIG is always associated with respect for these principles, internationally acceptable working conditions, and environmentally friendly business practices within our entire supply chain. We want our suppliers to embrace voluntarily our conviction that good corporate social responsibility practices are an integral part of sustainable business development. Significant change is not usually achieved in a single step and our policy of ‘continuous improvement’ is based on mutual trust and cooperation. We are prepared to engage on a Long-term basis with suppliers that show a willingness to improve. Social Responsibility & Environment Daaboul Industrial Group, In June 2010 launched the Sannir project for documenting natural and archeological features in Damascus, and suburb it was launched in cooperation with Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of local Administration, and the French Institute for the Near East. The project aims at documenting the natural sceneries and archeological sites in Syria that can be of a very great asset to the growing movement of tourism by 2012 this project still under process to cover all Syria. Due to sensitivity and responsibility toward society and environment, the company adopted advanced environmental policies. For example, it erected water treatment stations to treat used water, in addition to deep concern with vast green flat areas spread-out through the companies’ site. It also built an advanced smelter to recycle parts and pieces of damaged aluminum, along with its commitment to provide safe and healthy working atmosphere and its constant commitment to the high environmental standards. Sponsoring Harvard Graduation ceremony in Syria Launching the Syrian – Canadian business council Daaboul Industrial Group offered Training for junior chamber international members Madar summer club The Club Purpose is to take care of Robotics championship children since a young age is one of the On 26-03-2011. Under the sponsor of Mr. most important reasons of the Nations’ Mohamed Daaboul Chairman of the Board of civilization, and to prepare the new Directors of Daaboul Industrial Group. Submit a strong generations for better future that thanks certificate document signed by all will governed by human principles, participants and this recognition for its values, and ethics, to develop intellectual collection of material and moral support to the their skills, cultural, social development, success of the robotics competition, and work and increasing the scientific support that actively to stimulate the participation elements will enabling them to be self-fulfillment of innovation and discovery of scientific talent and contribute to building their inherent within them. community. Some of the Club activities: 1tangram (categories) 2Mechanics (grades 2-3 4) 3Robotics (from 5th grade to 15th ) 4The Land of Treasure (agriculture) 5Arts (drawing, mixing and consistency colors,, the perspective of shapes, paste), competitions, and music. We Protect environment with using recycling materials to eliminate waste and save the natural environment, by using biodegradable plastic bags and cloth bags. Daaboul Industrial group using reusable ecofriendly plastic bags, to ensure the Three Rs Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle using recycled plastic bag d2w that can help reduce the burden of plastic waste in the environment, and can be re-used many times during their service-life. The d2w improves the excellent properties of normal plastic by controlling and reducing its lifespan and therefore making it more acceptable A second best alternative we use is cloth bags, which is infinitely reusable, the material reducing pollutants in the air. Reusable cloth bags are a simple, practical and cost-effective way to help protect the environment. Daaboul Industrial Group has sponsored the STEP program (Students towards Experience in Profession) that was organized by JCI (Junior Chamber International) a worldwide federation of young leaders and entrepreneurs. Internship activities for university students, employees, providing opportunities for practical training for university students within companies, institutions, and give students the opportunity to gain real experience before entering to the labor market. Create chances for University students to be interns in local and international enterprises after a series of workshops and personal interviews that will positively affect their understanding and incorporation in the life of Business. Mentorship: To round up business leaders as mentors with students passing critical stage of choosing their destination in business life according to their field of study. This internship will provide trainee vacancies for the best career interns Star Animation Company is one of the Daaboul Industrial group. Specialized in the media and producing children animations (of animation, games and events) Due to our responsibility for the new generation and loyalty to the nation's culture and civilization, Star animation Company for artistic production was established in 6/7/1997. To promote educational family values, and the adoption of rights within the framework of entertainment and artistic high-quality style and competitive internationally, depending primarily on the Arabic experience. The company has chosen to enter the world of the Child and to be involved in this world, and building a better world for an effective and positive role, through culture, heritage and experience. The studio maintains an international standard of quality with a focus on family values and crosscultural awareness initially catering to Middle Eastern children. Participated festivals: * International Family Film Festival in California – USA. (Gold output) * New York International Independent Film & Video Festival – USA. (award-winning best animated film) * The Chicago International Children’s Film Festival USA * MIPCOM festival in Cannes – France. * First international festival for television productions of Islamic countryIran. (Certificate of merit) * First Cairo international festival of Cinema for kids – Egypt. (Two bronze awards) * Festival of the Gulf production of radio and television – Bahrain (Gold Award)( bronze award) Star animation is proud to be working side by side with it producing partners Emaritoons in Dubai and Fine Media Group in the U.S Finally, the company participating in many international exhibitions held in various parts of the world such as Turkey, China and the United States of America etc. Damascus, September 26, 2010: In line with the 7th Regional Special Olympics games, the Syrian Job Fair for people with special needs that took place at the cultural center in Kafarsoseh between September 25th and 27th 2010. Daaboul Industrial Group also took several steps towards the integration of people with special needs in the workforce, including providing training and jobs within the company, as part of its vision of developing society in all its different categories. With the purpose of providing job opportunities for people with special needs, and in order to be in line with the new Syrian labor law. Damascus, July 3-5, 2010 – Daaboul Industrial Group participated in the SYEA Job Fair 10’ which was held on the Damascus International fairground and which attracted over 1000 visitors. The visitors inquired about the available professional courses which will give them an extra star, a unique opportunity to leading local and international companies to get in direct contact with experienced and fresh graduates seeking to pursue job opportunities in different specializations, and help them in today’s competitive employment market. In Jan 8-9, 2011 Daaboul Industrial Group has participated in the job fair & Forum companies which were organized by Arab International University. Our Group participated to in order to extend the cooperation between the university and firms and offering practical training for interested students Moreover, the group presented the book Sannir to the university library, to document natural features and archaeological sites in Syria. Strength points of Daaboul Industrial Group An essential factors in Daaboul Industrial Group success is the attraction, retention and engagement of all our employees. We strive to provide a stimulating and safe workplace characterized by professionalism, respect and equal opportunity. To ensure the level of expertise needed by an individual employee as well as the company as a whole, we regularly assess our competence requirements and provide employee training. We perform an annual survey to solicit employee feedback of our employees. This reflects our commitment to employee development as well as their strong commitment to help continuously improve the industries and working environment. • The determination to carry out its slogan “Quality Worth Trust” tops the list of its strategic priorities. Therefore, the quality department was one of the first few established by the Group. In 1998, Madar Aluminum Co. acquired ISO 9001 Certificate for excellence and high quality in the administrative department. Then in 2009 it acquired the two certificates for technical quality QUALANOD and QUALICOAT. • The Group has a very precise selection of its work force, morally and professionally speaking. As for the technical recognition of its engineers and professionals, the Group delegates a lot of them abroad in missions to get familiarized with everything up-to-date in their fields of expertise and to take part in relevant seminars or workshops. • The Group have very rich library stuffed with almost 2500 books of different topics and fields of specialty, and it is being updated constantly. It is developing the technical and administrative staff and structure through translating some important articles, some famous books’ summaries relevant to business and administrations strategies. • The vast land area, on which the industrial sites of the Group were erected, makes expansion possible by eliminating the need for any partial removal of the large green planted land among the different building of the Group’s. • In view of the mutual trust between the Group’s executive branch and the working force, periodical meetings between senior executives of the Group and departments heads are held, in which work issues are discussed in an open democratic atmosphere. • The constant effort of the Group to rid the employees of some habits that badly affect individuals and society, i.e. the Group presented lately luring incentives for smoke cessation, one of our internal policy we don’t allow smoking nor smoker to be employed Challenges Encountering Methods The Group encountered many challenges. The following were the most important ones and how they were dealt with: 1 Preservation of clean environment rationing natural resources consumption; particularly, Water, so the Group erected a water treatment station to treat water after being used, that resulted in reusing high percentage of treated water, in irrigating the many garden spread-out in the Group’s location. 2 – Fortunately, the Group managed to survive The Global Financial Crisis that stormed the USA and the world in 2009, which caused the collapse of a lot of financial institutions, banks and bigger companies in North America and abroad. 3 – The price increase of raw materials and equipment: what took place in the Group was paradoxical, while it strenuously strived to replace many imported materials with local ones and improved performance both in machinery construction plant and aluminum accessories plant, these two plants brilliantly succeeded in producing equipment accessories that used to be imported from abroad. 4The Initiatives towards continuous innovation: Our companies is known to be an early seeker for any new products, and this desire embrace lots of risks, but when you read books about management and marketing you realize that one who takes the initiative in the market with anything and any products will always be step ahead the others. Competition Influence Our strategies to compete in the local and international market are penetration and differentiation according to the following three elements: 1st: commitment to delivery dates, 2nd: the quality of product, 3rd the price, and, proudly say we have it all. As we wouldn't be able to enter the European market without fulfilling that equation, and even if we had to use land freight for shipping our products in order to deliver it on time still our prices are acceptable for Europeans but rather high for Eastern Asian countries. At first we have exported 50% of our products to Lebanon and then to Iraq but after the opening of many factories in Lebanon our market share reduced less than 50% so we started to export to the North of Africa. Right now we can say that external exportation has dropped, a little in Iraq and Lebanon as the markets there are filled with Asian products approximately 20%, also the increase in our local market shares. After three months we will have same expansion we start already and we will increase our production rate, as a result we will become the largest company in the region for producing high quality of Aluminum profiles. Quality Control Quality control has taken a priority on the strategic goals of the production polices that are adopted by Group. The highly efficient and experienced staff, which runs the Quality Control section, sets plans and implements certain methods to ensure that all products meet the requirements of the International Standard Organization (ISO.) We Provide our customers of the Group with suitable services is a procedural that occupies a central importance in the overall policy of the Group. To ensure the satisfaction of the customers with the products, services rendered to them, the Group has committed itself to supply them with the strict specifications of their ordered products at the exact delivery date. Since the Group adopts the principle that the customer is always right. Our Quality Control Department, is one of the fundamental objectives of the Group, is to achieve a high level of customer satisfaction, we have established of a special department for quality management, prepared al the necessary equipment technology tools. A special laboratory to examine the productions before and during the final production processes, before handing over to customers. To achieve the best possible service to customers, that’s consistent with the requirements of the quality management system ISO (9001), and environmental management system (ISO) 14001. In 1999 was the first Syrian company awarded ISO 9001 Certificates in the field of aluminum industries. In 2009 becomes the first company in the Levant to acquire Qualanod and Qualicoat certificates proving that Madar’s products are in parallel to the European Quality Standards. Meeting these requirements resulted in raising the level of Group’s products to compete with other products, locally or internationally. It is a partnership between Daaboul Industrial Group and Hitachi Plant technologies. It aims at marketing, selling, installing and maintaining of the advanced systems of Hitachi systems in Syria. The focus is currently on waste water treatment systems for sewage and overflow Do Green solutions: of water used in industry. Work will shortly begin on renewable and alternative energy systems. The company began by installing sewage water treatment station using Membrane Bio Reactor, MBR in Ashrafieht, Sehnaya Damascus. Recently, the company won a contract to supply, install, operate and maintain water treatment stations in eleven parks in the city of Damascus. Execution of this contract will be completed 2010 – 2011. Human Rights Principle 1: Our Businesses support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. A comfortable working environment for all employees, we respect the diversity of working styles and make an effort to increase opportunities for female, disabled and elderly employees to work in a comfortable environment. We have taken into consideration the workers safety and their right with an onsite medical clinic, detailed health and safety procedures, ambulance ready 24/7, firefighter station, library, restaurant, and extensive training programs geared to maintaining the workers focus on quality” We encourage and empower our employees to make a positive contribution to society and the communities where we work and live. Their contributions are of many kinds, determined by our employees according to local needs. They may, for example be in the fields of health care, social and humanitarian aid, scholarships and other educational support, art and culture, the environment, children’s welfare as well as many other charitable activities. Eliminating work accidents We regularly meet to discuss with the committee all the issue necessary to ensure the safety of our employees inside the plant or outside. We strive carefully to prevent workrelated accidents from occurring to decrease accidents might attempt. We have a specialized clinic inside the plant always on the standby and a special ambulance for use in the unfortunate event of an accident. We also make every effort to prevent accidents at manufacturing sites and during warehouse and maintenance by applying a special uniform and helmet plus cloves. We thoroughly investigate the cause and implement proactive measures to prevent recurrence in the future Human resource management: We appropriately control the total hours worked by employees and encourages them to be motivated . Our working system based on three shifts schedule, our manufactories operate 24 except Friday . which require vast employees to be directed by HRD. We strike to make our operation efficient and reduce total working hours. in addition to that our HR team try to achieve the best performance of every employees by evaluation all the employees thru his/ her direct manager. We have applied an automatic system to calculate the attendance time for all employees All employees can have yearly vacation between 2 weeks and 4 weeks The HRM working on developing the employees work performance to gain some experience Employee relations Safety and health, Social services, Guidance consultation for educational and culture services, Solving Complains and suggestion, Punishment and rewards. Training and development Career development, Training coordinating, managing training, and developing. Our group arrange a competitions between employees for best summary, and best reader, helping developing creativity and always improving self-confidence of the work force. Code of ethics DIG sets high ethical standards, represented by our core values and reinforced through a code of business ethics and conduct that summarizes our Group policies and directives. Everyone, from the board of directors and executive management team to each individual employee is held accountable for meeting these standards. We also require our suppliers and partners to comply with a similarly stringent Code of Conduct, which is based on the UN Global Compact. We require such high standards of our employees because, as a knowledge-based company, DIG is truly a culmination of our employees’ actions. Innovation has been a major component of our success by applying the ethics code in our group for more than a century, and it is a key to our competitiveness in the future. punishment, physical or verbal abuse or other harassment and any threats or other forms of intimidation are prohibited. There are ongoing communications to inform all DIG employees about our social responsibilities and associated activities. We believe the management in all our operations and most of our employees are already familiar with our social responsibilities regarding to human rights For example we have a policy standard for sexual harassment, employees’ mistreatment; we try our best to control this act as possible as we can. Principle 2: We make sure that we are not complicit in any human rights abuses. Our HRM annually update an internal policy to be followed, which is describing the process of any kind of abuses or breaking rules of the systems. Sickness absence, lateness, disconnection the work without previous permission or and excuse. Multi nationality our Group employed from Asia, Middle East, and Europe countries, they’re all from different background Human Rights Goals Principle 1: Our Businesses support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: We make sure that we are not complicit in any human rights abuses. Daaboul Industrial Group human rights issues are fully considered and fully respected . All the employees of the group are well treated, fairly appraised on an annual basis, and compensated financially and morally based on their achievements and work. Therefore they are motivated and are more productive. All safety measures are applied at the work placesoffices and factories – and health issues are also taken into consideration. Maintain Socially, developing employees’ experience, motivating and encouraging them to be creative and have self-reliance are of the top strategies of the Group. So it scientifically and practically develops staff by: Delegating its engineers and technicians to attend conferences and specialized related courses, and visit some of the important industrial exhibitions in the country and outside. Bringing experts from abroad to stay with our companysometimes for yearsto strengthen and support staff’s potentials. Labor Standards Labor Standards Our Group respects the freedom of association and upholds the Principle 3: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; We operate according to local legislative requirements and other local standards and circumstances for each individual workplace. In countries where employees do not have the right to be members of trade unions of their own choice or trade unions may be banned, Our factories host all labor gatherings and we have established alternative means for employees to discuss work conditions with top management through gathering all labor. Labor Standards Principle 4: We do not allow forced or compulsory labor in any aspect within our operation or supply chain Employees are required to lodge deposits identity papers for employment they are freely chosen their employment and are free to leave the company upon due notice. Working hours comply with national laws and are not excessive. However, several forms of support are also offered to help our employees balance the often competing demands of their work and personal lives. Most of our employees earned greater than stipulated minimum wage in the country where they are employed within their base pay, which means excluding overtime and incentives. Labor Standards Principle 5: We do not allow child labor within our operation or supply chain No person below the minimum legal age for employment may be employed. Should illegal child labor be found within our spheres of influence, our policy is to demand corrective actions that keep the child’s best interest as the foremost issue for resolution. We set a principle according to the international child labor protection. Our employees must be over 18 years old. Labor Standards Principle 6: We don’t allow discrimination within our work place in respect of employment and occupation We strive to provide a stimulating and safe workplace characterized by professionalism, respect and equal opportunity. Employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance receive equal pay for equal work, in the place where they are employed Our consolidate companies have policies or procedures to avoid and counteract discrimination, addressing equal treatment at the work place or in connection with employment. They typically cover, at a minimum, race, age, sex, religion and disabilities We have decision and escalation processes to deal with discrimination should it occur. In relation to recruitment or conditions of employment, our company does not engage in a support discrimination based on race, caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, union membership or political affiliation. Our Industries employees composed of female, male and disabled people, most of them come from different background and from different religion and even from different nationalities, because we believe that our labor is our success. Therefore we avoided any act that makes us unlawful to discriminate against people employment. Labor Standards Goals Principle 3: Our Group respects the freedom of association and upholds the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: We do not allow forced or compulsory labor in any aspect within our operation or supply chain Principle 5: We do not allow child labor within our operation or supply chain Principle 6: We don’t allow discrimination within our work place in respect of employment and occupation The entire daaboul Industrial Group treating all employees fairly and in compliance with local laws and regulations. In the field of the work areas, we have committed ourselves to certain standards that apply to all our workplace according to DIG employees, around 1800 people now work in different sectors as a last survey indicate, employees satisfaction is our responsibility Achieving labor standards goals, Daaboul Industrial Group will work on enhancing and developing the following: • Occupation health and safety • Working hours • Wages and salaries • Freedom of association • Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity • No child labor • No forced labor • Prevention of abuse and harassment • Prevention of bribery and corruption • Promote development and career opportunities Environment Standards Principle 7: We take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges DIG is well prepared to face the challenges by Effective use of our limited resources is an important step toward creating a sustainable society and preventing the loses of our natural resources, we reduce waste and recycle whenever it’s possible, therefore we erected water treatment stations to treat used water, in addition to deep concern with vast green flat areas spread-out through the companies’ site. It also built an advanced smelter to recycle parts and pieces of damaged aluminum, along with its commitment to provide safe and healthy working atmosphere and its constant commitment to the high environmental standards. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Daaboul Industrial Group has given a very special attention to the safety of the surrounding environment. Great efforts were taken on the following different levels to ensure achieving this goal being environmental responsible. Water consumption Conservation is one of the prominent issues that DIG cares about in the field of environment protection. It reduces the unnecessary overuse of water, and utilizes the treated industrial waste water by using it for irrigation either by spraying or dripping automated systems. Future plans include the utilization of the treated water in coordination with company's anodizing section. DIG’s thorough view of the importance of reducing water waste made it necessary to conduct certain periodical meetings to educate employees about water conservation. The noise pollution, which is one of the environment pollution types that normally has bad effects on work conditions and on the health of employees, has been carefully taken care of at DIG. A series of steps were taken to isolate the noise-generating machines such as the high capacity pumps of the press by placing them in special soundproof rooms with double glazing units. In addition, DIG offers special sound proof materials and equipment’s to absorb the loud noise produced by the generating units, thus reducing the sound level from 105 to 65 decibel; an acceptable level worldwide. Other precautions have also been applied individually by providing high quality supports to the employees who are working at or close to the noise-polluted areas. Taking good care of the surrounding environment and paying high attention to the gardens and to the vast landscaping areas under the supervision of a specialized creative agronomist have generated a clean, healthy and a non-polluted place where employees enjoy a special touch of beauty, safety, and tranquility. In fact, all taken measures to achieve a clean environment are considered as one of the success causing factors at Daaboul Industrial Group. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Industries strategy provide an excellent working to obtain an environmentally friendly technologies which apply and make sure the international standards is meet the requirements to reduce the pollution and ensure a good knowledge about the environment issue among all employees in order to continually improve environmental performance of our process, manufacturing and distribution Therefor we have undertaken the initiative of transforming all our buses from diesel to gasoline our industries decides to eliminate the pollution impact by using : Electric cars Water erecting treatment Aluminum waste recycling Green solutions Advanced smelter Environment Standards Goals Principle 7: We take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Based on Daaboul Industrial Group's commitment to the environmental principals standards of the United Nations Global Compact and as a continuation of its strategy in preserving the environment for the group is considered one of the leading companies in the field of preserving the environment as it depends on filtering industrial water and reusing it in planting green spaces and recycling the emissions of gases resulting from baking the paint and transforming it into a useful thermal energy Daaboul Industrial Group in cooperation with the Japanese Company, Hitachi, inaugurated the first drainage system station in Syria and the Levant to treat water with the modernist global technology in the whole regain named MBR and reusing the recycled water for an industrial fields and watering gardens. in preserving the environment, benefitting from renewable energies, and developing the industrial and municipal infrastructures. Our objective is to eliminates industrial waste and recycling. Our commitment to a high level of social responsibility and in spite of the high costs of waste storage and disposal both in financial as well as in environmental and social terms, Daaboul Industrial Group factories have nevertheless taken what we consider the necessary precautionary approaches to protect the environment. Our objective is to reduces pollution and to expand more to ensure healthy and safe working environment. Our production policies preserve the environment and at the same time present to the market the best possible quality to retain our group slogan quality worth trust. Daaboul Industrial Group activities are of intrinsic benefit to society and our ability to deliver business success makes a significant contribution to building a sustainable future. As part of our commitment to sustainable development we seek: to conserve the natural resources that we manage and safely dispose of the waste we handle maintaining the infrastructure necessary to sustain our business in the future and comply with the highest environmental standards which allow us to provide a safe working environment where our people are valued and respected we support the communities in which we operate. Anti corruption Businesses should work against corruption Principle 10: in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We implemented procedures for employees to report confidentially any violations of laws or other rules relating to accounting, internal, external controls and procedures for any form of fraudulent practices. Daaboul Industrial Group Maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all of our transaction. We worked hard to sustain honest and open relationships based on mutual trust. We have set up an auditing system where all departments and expenditures are audited on an ad-hoc basis to ensure that all the budgets are spent properly according to company’s policies. Anti corruption Principles Goals Businesses should work against corruption Principle 10: in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Daaboul Industrial Group will maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all our dealings. Promises we will work hard to maintain authentic and open relationships based on mutual trust. And we will honor all our commitments, internally and externally whether verbal or written. Based on our mission & vision letter Internally, DIG has set up an automatic production truck system where all departments and manufacturing are checked on a central data base to ensure that the entire required products manufactured properly according to company’s slogan, “quality worth trust”. Externally, DIG will take more attention to all its supplier, distributer and agent to deny any kind of corruptions and believe that clearness and honesty is the best way forward for a better economy. Furthermore, DIG has used the 10th principle on its catalogue for support. Daaboul Industrial Group awarded in its different companies various Quality Management Certificates, Quality Environment Management, European Product Quality, and professional safety and industrial security to raise awareness to the consumer of the threats of fake products. Our purpose is make sure products of this Group of companies achieved a level of integration which is very seldom to find in Syria, or as a matter of fact in the Arab World and in the Middle East As for being a members of the United Nations Global Compact initiative, which set a global standard to all private businesses to observe the four main principles related to: human rights, labor rights, environment standards and anti-corruption, internally and externally, therefore our group also committed to support in achieving the UN millennium goals. Some of those which we are working on are the elimination of illiteracy and eradicating poverty, because our group believes in achieving that by working on the education and helping in improving the quality of the lives and of the less fortunate. Daaboul Industrial Group Companies: Madar Aluminum: produces aluminum profiles: anodized, powder coated and wood effect, used in construction applications (doors, windows, display sections) and various other industries (ovens and refrigerators). For more information visit our site: www.madarco.com. Madar Coil Coating: produces aluminum and steel painted coils used in roofs, strip ceilings, rolling shutters, transport vehicles and other various industries. For more information visit our site: www.madarcc.com Madar Glass: produces tempered glass, kitchen’s and furniture’s glass, heat strengthened glass, Chrystal, resin laminated glass, thermally painted glass, spider system, self-cleaning glass, double insulated glass, curtain systems glass for balconies (SOLARLUX) from Germany, construction glass, technical, and tinted glass, in addition to accessories and needs of glass systems, and displays. For more information visit our site: www.madarglass.bz Madar Rolling Shutters: produces foam colored rolling aluminum shutters, security shutters, strip ceilings and store entrances. For more information visit our site: www.madarshutter.com . Sama: studies , and executes all aluminum, tempered glass, and aluminum composite panels works by utilizing the most up to date global technologies in this filed. For more information visit our site: www.samamadar.com . Exaa: offer integrated architectural solutions of bathrooms, mixers, accessories Jacuzzis, floor and wall ceramics, synthetic granite, mirrors, bathrooms furnishing, pipe systems and special items for public areas and projects made by top manufactures in the world. For more information visit our site: www.exaa.biz . Star Animation: produces animated cartoons of educational objective approach concerned with preserving the oriental Arab culture. This approach solidifies and supports the family values in an entertaining framework adopting high quality artistic and globally competitive style. The company relies primarily on Arab expertise. For more information visit our site: www.staranim.com. Intex: studies and executes all aluminum, tempered glass, and aluminum composite panels works by utilizing the most up to date global technologies in this filed. For more information visit our site: www.intex-sy.com Arte Vetro: produces artistic glass used for inside and outside designing and advertisement gifts. We aim at reviving and developing the art of Syrian glass craft. For more information visit our site: www.arte-vetro.com Universal Entrance Technologies: supplies and installs glass revolving doors, automatic sliding doors, and automated gate systems by utilizing the technology of the European Union, which is used in many different entrance-designs. The company represents several leading global companies well-known in this field. For more information visit our site: www.uet-syria.com. Madar Aluminum Composite Panels: is the sole distributing dealership in Syria of “ALUCOBNOD”, German aluminum composite panels and “ALPOLIC” Japanese aluminum composite panels, used in the external and internal structural applications. For more information visit DIG site: www.dig.bz Unilam: produces laminated glass, bullet-proof glass and double insulated glass used in museums, jewelry stores, also, entrances of residential and commercial buildings, glass furniture, skylight, glass canopies, and inner and external elevators. For more information visit DIG’s site: www.dig.bz Lamsah: produces decoration aluminum handles to be used in kitchens and furniture by utilizing national expertise. In addition, it is the sole representative of the Spanish company “INDOX”. For more information visit DIG site www.dig.bz . Vision: produces aluminum banisters for balconies and stairs, wall and office sections. For more information visit our site www.visionaluminum.com Madar Aluminum Accessories: produces a high quality colored aluminum accessories using local developed expertise. For more information visit DIG’s site www.dig.bz . Madar Machinery Construction Plant: manufactures mechanical, automated and programmed machines and equipment. For more information visit DIG site www.dig,bz . Madar Shower Cabins: makes special cabins and screens for bathtubs and showers. For more information visit DIG site www.dig.bz Madar Trading: The Company is involved in different trade activities which are not limited to distributing German and Japanese medical message seats. For more information visit our site www.dig.bz . Do Green Solution: It is a partnership between Daaboul Industrial Group and Hitachi Plant Technologies. It aims at marketing, selling, installing and maintaining the advanced systems of Hitachi in Syria. The focus is currently on waste water treatment systems for sewage and industry. Thank You… Presented by Daaboul Industrial Group Development Dept. Team 2011-April-30
