United Nations Global Compact March, 11th 2011 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Vivendi at a glance p. 3 Chairman of the Management Board and CEO’s statement p. 6 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles within Vivendi Human Rights p. 7 Labour standards p. 10 Environment p. 12 Anti-corruption p. 13 Appendix p. 14 Vivendi Compliance Program 2 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Key Figures (12.31.2010) 3 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Key Figures (12.31.2010) 4 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Vivendi’s Business units Overview No. 1 worldwide in No. 1 worldwide in No. 1 in alternative No. 1 in telecoms in No. 1 alternative No. 1 in pay-TV in video games, recorded music telecoms operator M orocco, telecoms operator France, an independent with more than 1 in in France, leading fixed-line and in Brazil, leading French publisher of online 4 records sold Europe’s premier mobile Brazil’s bestpublisher of and console around the world alternative mobile telecommunications performing premium and video games, with and the largest and fixed-line operator and Internet broadband operator thematic leading positions in catalogue of music operator. service provider in with innovative fixedchannels, main actor most segments rights. Morocco, telephony, in aggregation and of the interactive with a presence in Broadband Internet distribution entertainment Burkina Faso, Gabon, solutions and of pay-TV offerings, industry. Mauritania products. and a major player and Mali. in France and the rest of Europe in film production and distribution. Vivendi also owns  100% of zaOza (a subscription based community legal sharing site)  93% of Digitick (the French leader of e-ticket)  99.5% of Wengo (the French leader in telephone-based expert assistance). 5 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Vivendi is proud of being a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. This Communication on Progress highlights our committment in favour of the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles and how the group totally integrated them into its activities and its sustainable development policy. Vivendi’s contribution to sustainable development is to enable current and future generations to satisfy their need to communicate, nourish their curiosity, develop their talent and encourage intercultural dialogue. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 states in its preamble that it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations and declares, in its Article 27, the right for every person to freely participate in the cultural life of the community and to enjoy the arts. Vivendi has this responsibility of enabling its tens of millions of clients, and of course all those who live in the least privileged countries, to take part in these artistic, musical, cinematic and audiovisual expressions. Facilitating access to these various forms of cultural expression stimulates creativity, strengthens social cohesion, encourages innovation and contributes to economic growth. I feel strongly that culture and intercultural dialogue must be recognized as pillars of sustainable development for communities and peoples, and I commit myself to seeing that Vivendi contributes actively to consolidating them. Paris, March 10th 2011 Jean-Bernard Lévy, Chairman of the Management Board and CEO 6 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress  Vivendi promotes an active dialogue with its Human Rights Businesses should stakeholders , within its sphere of influence and • Vivendi respects and promotes internationally support and respect regularly brings together employees and proclaimed human rights and ensures its employees’ 1 the protection of internationally awareness on the topic. representatives of civil society to discuss the key topics of sustainable development and the proclaimed human promotion of human rights. rights within their • Vivendi defends the respect of cultural diversity and sphere of influence ; cultural rights as part of the universal promotion and protection of human rights, and shares the vision of  In 2003 the group defined the promotion of cultural diversity as one of its specific issues in UNESCO, whose March 2007 Convention on the Protection sustainable development and contributes to and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions promoting the variety and diversity of its content in states that cultural diversity is “a mainspring for the all forms of expression. sustainable development for communities, peoples, and nations.”  In 2003 Vivendi defined the protection of youth as one of its specific issues in sustainable • Vivendi must reconcile the development of content and development. The group evaluates the impact of service offerings enabled by new technologies with the its product and service offerings on young protection of young audiences against harmful behaviors. audiences in terms of opportunities or risks, and apprehends generational approaches of media and cultural practices.  In 2003, Vivendi defined the sharing of • Vivendi commits itself to support and participate in the knowledge as one of its specific issues in sustainable development. The group contributes to sharing of knowledge and access to new technologies (see producing pluralistic quality content for a large and article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights). diverse audience, and to facilitating access to this content and to new technologies. 7 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress  Vivendi’s Compliance Program formalizes the and make sure that group’s commitments, concerning human rights, on the they are not complicit • Vivendi supports and implements the fundamental form of rules of conduct. Adherence to these rules of 2 in human rights abuses. principles of human rights and promotes them to its suppliers and providers. conduct is a condition for belonging to Vivendi, and an annual progress report, based on these rules of conduct, is prepared by Vivendi’s General Counsel’s office and presented to the Audit Committee. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Human rights’ principles: In France, Canal+ actively supports creation, Cinematic January 2010: Organisation of a Sustainable development financing 60% of the French films approved by the diversity is one seminar bringing together 70 CNC (the French national centre of of the pillars of participants and stakeholders cinematography), and by supporting the creation the Canal+’ representing civil society and the of the “Tomorrow’s filmmakers” label dedicated editorial line; group’s business units around to encourage art-house films, based on a diversity 90% of its the world. principle. subscribers say that the films it Vivendi was invited by the United Nations to present its sustainable development policy at In 2010, more offers are of varied genres, the Alliance of Civilizations Forum held in Rio, in Brazil, in May 2010. Following the Forum, than 60% of Vivendi and the Alliance of Civilizations formed a working group that is special in that it and 88% were Universal Music brings together representatives of international institutions (Unesco, Oecd, EU satisfied with the Group sales Commission, Alecso, etc.) and of the private sector (Global Reporting Initiative, Reed movie offering as were accounted Elsevier, Bertelsmann, etc.). The group has set itself two principal goals: promoting the of late 2010. for by local role of culture and intercultural dialogue in the sustainable development agenda and artists in a 59endeavoring to define a few key indicators at the macroand micro-economic levels. country scope. In the framework of the follow-up to the Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi Report, Vivendi proposed a contribution to increase the integration of culture into the measure of well-being and economic and social progress. 8 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress The Sustainable development department regularly In Brazil, GVT launched an online game, ‘Edu and works with the Audit and Special Projects department for Responsible Internet Use’, aimed at young people, the Risks Committee’s examination of sustainable parents, and teachers, to help them to better deal with development topics, for drawing up the risk map, or for the risks they can be exposed to when “surfing” the Web. more specific actions such as a questionnaire for the business units to be used in their dealings with their principal suppliers. As part of its partnership with the European Union related to the “Safer Internet” program, Vivendi relays each year In December 2010, on the initiative of Vivendi and of the awareness-raising campaign aimed at encouraging the association Al jisr, 200 laptops were given to young web-users to think seriously about how they about twenty public primary schools of Rabat and reconcile their virtual lives with their real ones. Casablanca. SFR partnered with Emmaüs Since January 2010, Défi to allow persons in 100% of Canal+’s Vivendi is partner of the Pan-EU Youth, with European situation of precarity to programs, including Schoolnet and Insafe, an online platform offering benefit from a mobile phone live broadcasts, are European teenagers a space where they can blog, vote offer adapted to their subtitled for deaf and and share videos on citizenship issues. The initiative income, and associated to a hearing-impaired includes three online consultations on topics such as specific accompaniment. persons. “Young people in the media”, “Digital lives” and “E-skills. For each theme, people are invited to contribute their views by inputting blogs, answering polls, debating In the countries where it operates, the Maroc Telecom Group issues in the forum and uploading their own videos. contributes to ending digital isolation . In Morocco, under the They can also download an interactive role play game Pacte program dedicated to provide coverage to most out-ofdesigned for the occasion. coverage areas by the end of 2011 (80% of which is funded by Maroc Telecom), the operator now covers 4,414 rural localities, 1,866 more than in 2010. By the end of 2011, 7,338 localities will be covered. Moreover, the group deployed a fiber-optic cable linking Agadir to Dakhla (1,150 km), providing 3G and high speed Internet services to the southern areas of the Kingdom. 9 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Labour standards • Vivendi works to establish a Businesses should uphold the freedom  Vivendi leads a process of dialogue and constructive dialogue between 3 of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective management and the competent bodies representing employees which consultation with the social unions in order to encourage collaboration and communication within bargaining; the group. respect their prerogatives. 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Vivendi supports and implements the fundamental principles of labour  The respect of individual dignity and private life, within employment conditions, is a clearly defined rule of conduct set down in Vivendi’s Compliance 5 the effective abolition of child labour; rights and promotes them to its suppliers and providers. Program. and  The fight against discrimination based on • Vivendi affirms and asserts its unlawful selection criteria such as sex, age, lifestyle, attachment to diversity in recruitment 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. and its fight against discrimination, which it holds to be guarantees of race, ethnicity, nationality, disability, religious or political opinions or beliefs, or union membership is a clearly defined rule of conduct set down in richness and performance. Vivendi’s Compliance Program. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Labour standards’ principles: At the group level, the corporate partners of the Group In 2010, the Works Council and the European Social Dialogue Committee Works’ Council, the European Authority for Dialogue were renewed, bringing in new elected officials from the different entities between Management and Labor and the headquarters’ for the four years ahead. The meetings of these bodies were opportunities Works’ Council are regularly informed of the group’s for trade union and personnel representatives to discuss the Group’s strategy, financial position, social policy and main financial situation and social policies with General Management. In 2010, achievements for the fiscal year. the two annual training days focused on strategic issues related to the digital revolution, familiarity with Vivendi’s business units, and financial Created in 2007 by the Sustainable development techniques. At the local level, dialogue with the social partners is a department, the Diversity Skills Network dealt with the genuine lever for improvement. The number of agreements signed (91 in seniors’ employment policy in 2010 (themes of the previous 2010, including 35 in France) in the areas of wage policy, profit sharing sessions: women at the top management, integration of and participation, training, jobs and skills management, and employment disabled workers,…). of disabled workers is an excellent embodiment of that fact. 10 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Employee’s rights are a clearly defined rule of conduct set down in To support the launch of Call of Duty: Black Ops in November Vivendi’s Compliance Program. 2010, Activision Blizzard committed 100% of employees located in Metropolitan France and in Overseas to recruiting 1,000 unemployed war territories and departments (DOM-TOM) (it is to say 30% of Vivendi’s veterans and donated one million global headcount) are covered by collective agreements. At the world dollars to the Call of Duty Endowment. level, are also covered by collective agreements: The Call of Duty Endowment is a not-for-profit public  90.3% of Maroc Telecom Group’s employees (Morocco, Mali, company created by Activision Blizzard in October 2009 to Gabon, Mauritania) aid veterans of the US army in rejoining civilian life.  100% of Canal+ Group’s employees (including Canal+ Overseas)  100% of GVT ‘s employees (Brazil). Vivendi feels that the fruits of the efforts of its Extract of the 2010 Averroes Report: In 2010, SFR obtained the employees should be evaluated fairly. In 2010, « Again this year we acknowledge the Diversity Label, sign of quality this capital increase reserved for employees Canal+ Group as the most exemplary recognizing the entire (Opus), in which Brazilian employees of GVT channel in terms of diversity. There, company’s commitment to participated for the first time, attained a record diversity is not an issue but a solution, fight discrimination and subscription amount (98.5 million euros), a key for success». promote equal opportunity. resulting in the creation of 7.1 million new Apprenticeship is at the same time a key for shares owned by employees. As a result, the young people employment and an asset for percentage of capital held by employees of the company by diversifying its recruitment Vivendi increased from 1% to 2.1% in three sources. In France, Vivendi pursued its years. In light of its success, the program will be committments by increasing the numbers of renewed in 2011. part-time work/study contracts(apprenticeship and Since 2010 General Assembly, Vivendi’s professionalization contracts) by 27%. At SFR, Supervisory Board has numbered four women, or lots of apprentices were recruited through a one third of the members. partnership with Mozaïc RH, a specialist of diversity recruitment (up picture © Prat / Berger). At the international level, At 2010.12.31, Vivendi Group numbers : apprenticeship took a new breath: GVT  51,272 employees established a program called « Educar –  including 36% of women and 35% in Responsabilidade Social » aimed at providing managment students from unpriviledged backgrounds  including 6% employees under 25, 89% 25 to opportunity to enter and integrate the 55 and 5% over 55 working world (bottom picture © GVT). 11 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Environmental awareness is a clearly defined • Vivendi defends environmental rule of conduct set down in Vivendi’s awareness and takes full responsibility in 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and this domain, while it operates in business sectors where exposure to environmental Compliance Program. In 2000, the company put in place a Program of compliance with environmental, health and workplace safety risks is relatively low. Encourage the development and standards, as well as an Environmental Charter. 9 diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Environnement’s principles: As part of the Program of compliance with environmental, health In 2010, SFR signed the French Telecoms Federation’s voluntary and workplace safety standards, 10 new sites (out of a total of sustainable development commitment charter for the telecoms 117) were audited in 2010, including one GVT site. These audits sector with the Ministry of the Environment , and committed itself revealed no significant issues of non-compliance with applicable to act in order to optimize energy consumption of its mobile and regulations. fixed technical facilities, of its operating facilities and of the ADSL box. As for energy, SFR innovated with the launch of its news neufbox Evolution, which is made of Anticipating the requirements of the French recyclables materials and presents the best energy so-called “Grenelle II” law regarding display performance on the French market. of “ecological prices,” since April 2010 SFR has been informing its customers about the In order to develop environmentally sound CD packaging solutions, environmental impact of the cellular phones it as well as markings to inform consumers about the environmental markets by displaying information on terminals’ environmental impact of its products, UMG is actively participating in a working performance. Today, 100% of the terminals sold in the “espace group begun by two trade associations, the Recording Industry SFR” sales outlets and on the online store (except for Apple Association of America (RIAA) and the National Association of products) show this information. Recording Merchandisers (NARM). UMG has provided information to all its labels about the use of recyclable polypropylene cases. 12 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress Anti-corruption Businesses should • Vivendi works against corruption in  The fight against corruption and the receipt from or work against all its forms, including extortion and grant to any third party of an improper advantage of any 10 corruption in all its forms, including bribery, and makes sure this principle is respected by all its suppliers and kind for the purpose of obtaining preferential treatment is a clearly defined rule of conduct set down in Vivendi’s extortion and providers in all of the groups operating Compliance Program. bribery. countries. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Anti-corruption’s principles: Adherence to this rule of conduct is a condition for belonging to Vivendi, examined in the annual progress report, and prepared by Vivendi’s General Counsel’s office, of which the 2010 publication was presented to the Audit Committee on February 24th 2011. Contracts signed by Vivendi with its intermediaries contain a clause called ‘anti-corruption‘ asserting that the payment is the counterpart of the sole service supplied by the intermediary and would absolutely not finance any kind of illicit activities. 13 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress 14 Vivendi – 2010 Communication on Progress To download our Compliance Program, please click here. 15
