GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION Company Name EOD Contracts Ltd Date 08 September 2011 Unit (if applicable) Address Unit 8 Victory Park Trident Close Medway City Estate Rochester Kent ME3 4ER Membership date 30 October 2006 Country United Kingdom Number of 17 employees Contact name Kenneth Dean Jones Contact Position Managing Director (CEO) Sector Private Company Demining and ERW Disposal Contact telephone 0044 (0)1634 227592 no. Brief description of nature of business Landmine and ERW Clearance Contractor. All of our explosive services are summarised below, but are not limited to: • UXO Risk Mitigation and Planning • Quality Assurance and Quality Control (QA/QC) of all Explosive Remnants of War (ERW) operations • Mine and ERW Clearance and Training • Explosive quarrying • Firework disposal • Marine pyrotechnic disposal • Mine Risk Education • Demilitarisation • Small arms ammunition demilitarisation Statement of support EOD Contracts Ltd continues to be proactive in promoting the core values of the UN Global Compact. We actively continue to fully endorse the ten principles by which we perform all of our activities. EOD Contracts unquestionably will continue to support and promote the highest standards in human rights, labour Laws and anti-corruption throughout its activities. EOD Contracts continues to strive for completely environmentally friendly methodologies and practises, and considers the impact to the environment, during all its activities, must be reduced as a matter of the highest priority. All of EOD Contracts employees and contractors are obliged to carry out operations in consideration of others and conduct all aspects of our operations in the most environmentally friendly manner. EOD Contracts conducts its business safeguarding individuals rights at all times, while carrying out our activities free from corruption, at all levels, and is committed to challenging organisations where corruption may be present. Signature Position Managing Director (CEO) PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is committed to supporting all aspects of human rights. It is our policy to ensure that such rights are assured for everyone at all levels of our processes and activities, by promoting a culture of respect for the law, and respect of all members within our organisation and with others with whom we meet. EOD Contracts operates under English Law, and as such, all operations outside of the United Kingdom are subject to the same conditions, unless authorised by the local Government/Authority. A brief description of our Processes or Systems EOD Contracts Ltd is an ISO 9001:2008 and 14001:2004 registered organisation and as such operates an open door policy and, in summary: • All employees have access to the company’s comprehensive complaints and redress procedures, beginning with informal discussions with their line manager or supervisor to formal interviews and hearings with open access to the highest levels of management within the company; including the Managing Director (CEO) • Should the matter not be resolved to an individual’s satisfaction, they retain the right to request a redress of the matter at each stage • They also retain the right to lodge the matter with the external tribunal dealing with employee arbitration and reconciliation, access to this official body is assured under UK and European legislation Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contract Ltd has continued to review their policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable and sufficient to meet the needs of our employees. Several workshops were held by the company over the previous years and have proven to be an excellent forum in which to discuss the moral and ethical aspects of our business activities. Providing practical solutions in many areas. EOD Contract has extending its target audience to include members from our trading partners and associates. Measurable Results or Outcomes There have been no reported incidents during the last 12 months, or in fact over the company’s history. All EOD Contracts procedures uphold International Human Rights and EOD Contracts a zero tolerance on non-compliance of these rights. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd continues to be fully committed to ensure they are not knowingly complicit in any Human Rights abuse. It is our policy to ensure that we will not associate, join venture or accept commission from any corporation, private or official where their actions are questionable in respect of Human Rights abuses. A brief description of our Processes or Systems EOD Contracts Ltd insist that all external contractors and suppliers are ISO registered compliant and as such reach International Standards. EOD Contracts constantly visits its contractors to ensure they comply with IHR in the performance of their activities. Where non-compliance is identified, no order will be placed with that organisation and it is removed from EOD Contracts approved sub-contractors list, and an alternative compliant source found and commissioned. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We continue to review our systems to ensure they are fit for purpose. While not exclusive, we have identified a number of compliant contractors with whom we are confident to work with. EOD Contracts has expanded its compliant contractor database and has increased its site visits to ensure each contractor it visited at least once per year. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts and our contractors have had no incidents regarding Human Rights issues over the past 12 months, in fact EOD Contracts is proud of its 100% record, and has never in its history, had any incidents regarding Human Rights recorded. Our procedures continue to be effective in protecting internationally proclaimed Human Rights for all with a zero tolerance of non-compliance policy. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd continues to be entirely committed to collective bargaining. A brief description of our Processes or Systems All offers to tender are evaluated to see if a partnership is needed to ensure the client is offered a total package, including allied processes if necessary. All of our partners are required to meet our own high standards and business ethics before being selected as a compliant contractor. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts continues to invite specialist contractors to tender for work or participate in a venture on an equal basis and are selected based on: • ISO compliance • Performance • Compatibility • Price Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts systems, has resulted in a 100% success rate of all projects for the following: • 100% safety record • Project time lines adhered to and finished on time • Project brought in within budget PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is a British Registered Company and will always operate within International Law. EOD Contracts do not work with any organisation, individual or contractor that employs or condones forced labour. EOD Contracts is fully committed to eliminating all forms of forced or compulsory labour. A brief description of our Processes or Systems All employees are contracted to work set hours at an agreed rate of pay and may terminate their Employment Contract. EOD Contracts operates under English Law, and as such, we operate under a minimum wage law. This ensures young workers are not abused. If EOD Contracts operates outside of the United Kingdom, EOD Contracts will operate under the local employment law and adhere to its minimum wage laws, if a minimum wage law does not exist, EOD Contracts will contact the United Nations for advice on a minimum wage policy for its employees. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd is already a British, ISO 9001:2008 and 14001:2004 Registered Company. EOD Contracts procedures are reviewed regularly and employment contracts are reviewed before issue, to ensure they comply with United Kingdom and European legislation. Measurable Results or Outcomes All systems are designed to meet international legal requirements and regularly pass independent external audit. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd supports the abolition of child labour. We will not condone nor be complacent in any matter concerning the use of children as workers. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Due to the nature of our business, no individual under the age of 18 years is contracted by us or our partners in any capacity whatsoever, except where apprenticeships are offered and accepted. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd continues to visit its contractors to ensure they are compliant with current United Kingdom and European Labour Laws. EOD Contracts continues to review its procedures. Employment contracts are reviewed prior to issue to ensure they are compliant with United Kingdom and European Law. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts systems and procedure meet all requirements and pass regular independent external audit. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd fully supports the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, and has a zero tolerance policy. A brief description of our Processes or Systems EOD Contracts Ltd operates under United Kingdom and European Law. The legislation prohibits discrimination in employment, sex, race and age discrimination. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd will continue to use procedures that comply with United Kingdom and European Law. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts systems and procedures meet the requirements and constantly pass independent external audit. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is committed to ensuring that health, safety and the welfare of its employees, clients and those who are exposed to its activities. Health, safety and the wellbeing of its employees and contractors is the cornerstone on which all procedures are designed and executed. EOD Contracts is absolutely committed to ensure sustainability of the environmental and ecological protection, in all its activities. A brief description of our Processes or Systems EOD Contracts is ISO 14001:2004 Registered, and as such are Internationally compliant. EOD Contracts constantly reviews the following: • Any change in UK or European legislation • Post environmental accident • Reported Near-miss • Reported breach of environmental regulations • Changes or additions to EOD Contracts Ltd core activities • Improvements from last review Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts had added one additional service to the organisations portfolio, that being the collection of time expired pyrotechnics (TEP’s) and Firework, including their disposal. The collection is only carried out by trained and competent personnel and meets the legislative requirements of the United Kingdom and European Law. The disposal is only carried out by professionally qualified individuals and even though the disposal of pyrotechnics is exempt the United Kingdom and European emissions act, EOD Contracts has designed its own system and procedures to recycle approximately 30% of the plastic and 99% of metal. No other changes to existing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) is deemed necessary, but continued reviews of the systems are carried out and specific bespoke works methods are devised for all tasks not covered by our existing SOPs. All EOD Contracts field operatives are United Kingdom Construction Safety Certification Scheme (CSCS) registered. Measurable Results or Outcomes All EOD Contracts systems and procedures are reviewed both, internally and externally by an independent audit team, and found to be Internationally compliant. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd Environmental Policy regards the protection of the environmental of paramount importance, coming second only to safety. EOD Contracts do not conduct any activity where the risk is perceived to be significant in causing environmental damage. EOD Contracts always employ suitable mitigation measures to reduce any risk to the environment to an acceptable level, in all our activities and actively work beyond current United Kingdom and European legislation. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Environmental Impact assessments are conducted for all activities. All risks are assessed and include (but not be limited to) the following common risks: • Ground Services – Gas, Water, Oil, Sewage • Ground water contamination • Top soil damage • Vegetation damage – protected and non-protected species • Wildlife impact – protected and non-protected species • Ground contaminants Asbestos, Hydrocarbons • Spills of materials • Dust • Noise • Fumes • Vehicle hazards – Highway, Railway and site movement • Biological contaminants biological agents or disease bearing organisms • Flora or Fauna requiring avoidance, isolation or special handling • Ordnance – particularly container type WP or CW natures Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd has gained its ISO 14001:2004 accreditation and continues to comply with all international environmental requirements. Measurable Results or Outcomes 100% incidents free record during the last 12 months, and EOD Contracts is proud if its 100% environmental record throughout the organisations history. All EOD Contract systems and procedures are externally audit. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is constantly working with other organisations and corporate bodies to ensure we are working with the latest technologies utilising the most environmentally friendly systems in the world. EOD Contracts are totally committed to friendly technologies and confirm our goal of achieving zero adverse environmental impact in all of our activities. A brief description of our Processes or Systems EOD Contracts is an accredited ISO 14001:2004 company. EOD Contracts considers the protection of the environment the responsibility of everyone engaged in, or associated with its activities. The environment is one of the company’s primary concerns. Its importance is promoted at every level within the company. Project briefings, appropriate equipment, training and reporting are seen as the major tool by which we maintain the high levels of environmental awareness within our organisation. Environmental protection is given the highest possible priority when planning our activities worldwide. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Further investment in new and alternative environmentally friendly technologies. EOD Contracts has attended a number of environmental seminars and now has three compliant environmental specialists on our preferred contractor database. The stated aim EOD Contracts aim, is to increase awareness of all environmental issues and to identify, the most friendly and cost effective working methodologies currently available. Measurable Results or Outcomes 100% incidents free record during the last 12 months, and EOD Contracts is proud if its 100% environmental record throughout the organisations history. All EOD Contract systems and procedures are externally audit. PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, 10 INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is totally committed to ensure that NO form of extortion and bribery ever happens within the company, and to the best of our knowledge within any company or body with whom we conduct our business. A brief description of our Processes or Systems All projects are audited internally and the company is externally audited each year. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Continued vigilance and monitoring of all procurement and auditing systems. EOD Contracts has continued to promote the highest ethical standards, and strives for total transparency in all of our business practices. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts 100% incidents free record of corruption during the last 12 months, and EOD Contracts is proud if its 100% corruption free record throughout the organisations history. All EOD Contract systems and procedures are internally and externally audit. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? EOD Contracts Ltd will make this COP available to all of our stakeholders through the UN Global Compact and our commercial website. We urge our stakeholders to visit the sites and support EOD Contracts goals. Additionally we publish our COP in our company’s literature and periodically internally to our employees. All employees and contractors are provided with details of EOD Contracts COP within the company’s initial induction briefings.
