EAC GROUP UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2010 LIST OF CONTENTS Message from the CEO ......................................................................................................................... 3 CSR governance in EAC ......................................................................................................................... 4 CSR in EAC Moving & Relocation Services ................................................................................. 5 Highlights on sustainability at EAC Moving & Relocation Services .............................. 7 UNGC progress matrix ........................................................................................................................... 8 People bottom line (UNGC principles 1-6) ................................................................................. 9 Planet bottom line (UNGC principles 7-9) ............................................................................... 12 Proﬁt bottom line (UNGC principle 10)...................................................................................... 14 Challenges................................................................................................................................................. 15 Summary ................................................................................................................................................... 15 CSR in EAC Foods .................................................................................................................................. 16 Highlights on sustainability at EAC Foods............................................................................... 18 UNGC progress matrix ........................................................................................................................ 19 People bottom line (UNGC principles 1-6) .............................................................................. 20 Planet bottom line (UNGC principles 7-9) ............................................................................... 24 Proﬁt bottom line (UNGC principle 10)...................................................................................... 26 Challenges................................................................................................................................................. 27 Summary ................................................................................................................................................... 27 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO EAC is delighted to present its stakeholders with the Group’s ﬁrst Communication on Progress towards implementing the 10 UN Global Compact principles. 2010 was a year of continued strategic planning and assessment following the comprehensive screening in 2009 of the Group’s performance, risks and opportunities according to the 10 UN Global Compact principles. During 2010 focus was on development of solutions and systematic implementation plans in collaboration with external experts on CSR. EAC’s business activities are inherently linked to globalisation and sustainability issues with more than 5,300 employees, operations in global growth markets and activities within the relocations and food production business. However, with the technologies currently available both industries impact the environment negatively. EAC is, therefore, committed to continue to play a positive role facing the demand for low carbon relocations and the need for high yields at minimal water consumption. EAC assesses risks and opportunities on a regular basis and assists both businesses in development of appropriate responses to challenges and opportunities. This is key in order to proactively prepare the businesses for, say, higher energy prices and future caps or taxes on emissions. In 2010 EAC has followed up with the business segments on a continuous basis. This has resulted in policies and systems such as; HR systems, staﬀ manuals, supplier code of conduct, internal grievance mechanism and whistle-blower functions being strengthened. EAC also assisted the business segments with the implementation of improved local organisational anchorage of CSR management, roll-out of new policies across oﬃces and operations including training, CSR performance measurement, internal and external communication and reporting. In EAC’s mindset running proﬁtable businesses that live up to their social, environmental and economic responsibilities is the best way to contribute to the societies in which EAC is active. For EAC, long-term proﬁtability is based on strategic integration of sustainable social, environmental and economic development. Such integration results in proper risk management for the beneﬁt of EAC’s shareholders, other stakeholders and society alike. In 2011 the EAC Group will focus on a general enhancement of the CSR performance measurements across countries and operations. Implementation throughout the Group will be facilitated through training programmes, including e-learning. Niels Henrik Jensen, President and CEO The East Asiatic Company Ltd. A/S 3 CSR GOVERNANCE IN EAC Group CSR policy EXCERPTS FROM EAC’S GROUP CSR POLICY The CSR policy of the EAC Group is based on the 10 UN Global Compact principles (UNGC) along with compliance with internaEAC pledges to: tional and national laws. Where international minimum standards • Continuously improve EAC’s governance system to ensure for CSR are higher than required by national law, EAC strives to upcompliance with basic human rights. PEOPLE hold international standards. In addition, EAC goes beyond legal • Identify ways of maximising the positive social impact of compliance in a number of areas where the company can contribEAC’s business operations where EAC has special skills, ute to sustainable development by applying its core competences. products or services to make a diﬀerence. The CSR policy outlines EAC’s social, environmental and economic responsibility and commitment. For the full CSR policy of the EAC • Assess and reduce the negative impact of EAC’s operations Group and more information about how each business segment on the environment including climate change. implements and plans to implement CSR, see www.eac.dk. • Meet or exceed applicable regulatory requirements wherPLANET ever EAC conducts its operations. Organisational anchorage • Continuously seek to improve EAC’s awareness, processes EAC Group Management oversees the CSR processes and eﬀorts and production facilities in order to set new environmental in close cooperation with the business segments including develstandards in markets whenever possible. opment of the capacity of the businesses in order to ensure that strategic CSR continues to create value for the Company and con• Apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, tributes to sustainable development. Each business segment has extortion and bribery in accordance with principle 10 of the PROFIT a top-level CSR/ethics committee and persons responsible for UN Global Compact. daily management and coordination of CSR eﬀorts. CSR standards • Continuously work to improve governance structures to and processes are increasingly integrated into the business segcombat corruption in all its forms. ments’ functional work instructions, procedures and delegation of responsibilities across business and country operations. Structure of the report Foods Please see the following sections to read more about CSR implementation, performance and planned activities in EAC Moving & Relocation Services and EAC Foods. The remainder of the report is divided into two sections presenting the progress of the business Group CSR Policy segments one at a time. UN Global Compact National Law This report meets the requirements of the Danish Financial Statements Act § 99a. Moving and Relocation Services This report is available on www.eac.dk 4 RESPONSIBLE MOVING & RELOCATION UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON PROGRESS 2010 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Santa Fe Relocation Services is delighted to present its ﬁrst Global Compact communication on progress to our stakeholders who ensure the continued success of our company. Santa Fe Relocation Services is a global and multicultural group, oﬀering global relocation services to more than 64,000 families annually to all parts of the world. We are fully aware of the responsibility we bear towards our customers, shareholders, employees and the communities in which we operate. Therefore, we have established a strict set of ethical values to guide us in our business operations based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact regarding people, planet and proﬁt. Moreover, our environmental sustainability eﬀorts are externally audited by DNV on an annual basis. As our business stretches across 15 countries, we are using international minimum standards as a framework to bridge the local regulations that diﬀer from country to country. Our goal is not just to maintain and improve our position as the market leader in the relocation services industry, but we also aspire to be the industry leader in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Asia-Paciﬁc. At Santa Fe, we see sustainability as everyone’s responsibility; therefore, we need to ensure that our 1,950 employees fully embrace and support the company’s initiative and constantly focus on continual improvement. During 2009 and 2010, we made progress by bringing together our management team with professional CSR consultants and thus created a framework to implement consistent application of the UNGC principles across the entire organisation. In June 2010 our Corporate Headquarters and our Hong Kong operation completed its implementation. Our oﬃces in Singapore, China and Indonesia are in the implementation phase and scheduled to be up and running regarding a systematic and comprehensive sustainability approach by the end of the ﬁrst quarter of 2011. Our oﬃces in India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, UAE, Vietnam and Australia will start implementation in 2011. Our Mission: We make it easy Our Vision: Deliver sustainable value through innovation Bent U. Porsborg Our Values: Quality, eﬃciency and people CEO EAC FOODS President Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. Lars Lykke Iversen CEO 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS ON SUSTAINABILITY AT SANTA FE RELOCATION SERVICES Relocating more than 24,000 families in 2010 to all parts of the world, Santa Fe Relocation Services is a major globalisation player by facilitating a transfer of skills and competences to markets where they are most needed. Being a key player in the moving and relocation industry brings opportunities and challenges; opportunities to use our key competences in logistics to the beneﬁt of the communities where we operate and challenges primarily regarding reduction of the environmental impact of our operations. A major achievement in 2010 was the implementation of a whistle blower system and a grievance mechanism to further support the CSR roll-out and ongoing CSR compliance management. In 2010 Santa Fe also saw evidence that CSR is increasingly becoming a parameter of competition as a service provider to multinational corporations. People: High standards for high quality Our employees are key to our success. To maintain our high quality standards that result from employee satisfaction and low employee turnover we among others support a work environment conducive to good health and strive to be an exemplary employer. One of our major interests is to help people in need by drawing upon our core areas of expertise, providing support to fund raising activities and donating to worthy causes in the regions in which we operate. Santa Fe is active in a variety of community events and charitable organisations. This is done to create goodwill, motivate staﬀ and improve the world in which we live. In all markets where Santa Fe is present, we sponsor chambers and other expatriate organisations that are dedicated to fostering international business and social relationships. Some of the community organisations supported by Santa Fe include women’s groups, crisis help-lines, international schools, amateur arts organisations, non-proﬁt organisations, sports leagues, Crossroads International, Goodwill, OXFAM and the Johns Hopkins Research Fund, which focuses on the research and treatment of breast cancer. Santa Fe contributes USD 10 per move to Johns Hopkins and is proud to have raised over USD 1.2 million for the Breast Cancer Fund. Santa Fe and our employees also contribute to many local community-based projects throughout the region. Planet: An industry challenge and priority As a leader in logistics, we feel a particular obligation to help tackle the causes of climate change. That is why we became ISO14001 certiﬁed in 2002 and created speciﬁc objectives with continual improvement targets to reduce our carbon footprint. Proﬁt: Compliance with international anti-bribery standards Economic responsibility has always been a part of Santa Fe’s culture to conduct our business in a responsible and ethical manner. We are known for being trustworthy, transparent, a responsible business partner and having a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribery in all forms Relocating more than 24,000 families in 2010 to all parts of the world, Santa Fe Relocation Services is a major globalisation player by facilitating a transfer of skills and competences to markets where they are most needed. SANTA FE POLICY 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNGC PROGRESS MATRIX Principles Commitment Systems Actions Results People Principle 1: Support and respect the To continuously monitor our CSR standards inCreated and rolled out Increased employee protection of internationally progovernance system to ensure corporated into OcSupplier Code of Conmotivation, retention claimed human rights. compliance with basic human cupational Health duct to all suppliers of and positive customer rights standards within our or& Safety Work InHong Kong operations. feedback. Principle 2: Make sure that we are ganisation and with those whom struction, Employee not complicit in human rights we interact UN Global Compact Manual and ISO Grievance mechanism High standards increase abuses. Principles 1-6. 9001. created for staﬀ. our reputation as responsible service proPrinciple 3: Support freedom of as2011: ISO 27001 CusRevised and updated vider; lead to diﬀerentisociation and the right to collective Creating online training modules tomer and staﬀ employee manual and ation. bargaining. for key principles – discriminadata protection. ISO documents to incortion, corruption, data protection porate UNGC principles; Principle 4: Support elimination of all and business ethics. Grievance mechastaﬀ training. forms of forced and compulsory lanism for staﬀ. bor. Improving group data collection. Gap analysis – UNGC Supplier Code of principles (Hong Kong , Principle 5: Support the eﬀective abRecruitment of a Group Talent Conduct. Singapore, China and olition of child labor. Manager. Indonesia). Principle 6: Support elimination of Gap analysis – UNGC principles External audit by DNV – discrimination in respect of employin remaining countries. measure ISO standards. ment and occupation. Planet: Principle 7: Support a precautionary To reduce the negative impact of ISO 14001 EnvironRevised and updated 100 % of Hong Kong’s approach to environmental chalour business on the environment; mental work inemployee manual and packing materials are lenges. to meet or exceed regulatory restructions and speISO documents to incorreused and / or recycled. quirements; and to continuously ciﬁc objectives. porate UNGC principles; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to seek to improve our processes to and staﬀ training. Cost savings: Fuel conpromote greater environmental reachieve higher standards – UN External audits. sumption decrease of sponsibility. Global Compact Principles 7-9. Gap analysis – UNGC 9.5 % despite volume principles (Hong Kong , increase of 16.4 %. Principle 9: Encourage the develop2011: Singapore, China and ment and diﬀusion of environmenImproving group data collection. Indonesia). tally friendly technologies. External audit by DNV – measure ISO standards. Proﬁt: Principle 10: Work against corruption Apply a zero tolerance approach Whistle blowing Revised and updated Improved risk managein all its forms, including extortion with respect to corruption, extorsystem created for employee manual and ment within the organiand bribery. tion and bribery. Maximising the all staﬀ. ISO documents to incorsation. positive impact of our business porate UNGC principles. operations where we have speSupplier Code of cial skills, products or services to Conduct. Provided conﬁdential make a diﬀerence in the commuwhistle blower mechanities where we live and work – Employee manual nism to all employees. UN Global Compact Principle 10. and training. Prohibited bribery and 2011: extortion in Supplier Online training modules. Code of Conduct. 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE 10 PRINCIPLES: OUR PROGRESS PEOPLE: UNGC PRINCIPLES 16 Human Rights We respect human rights within our area of inﬂuence and operate our business in such a way as to make us an exemplary employer. In addition, as one of the largest employers in our industry we support a work environment conducive to good health. This helps us to maintain the high quality standards that result from employee satisfaction and low employee turnover. The employee manual, which contains clear guidelines and rules for everyone working in any of our regions and business units, was reviewed and updated in 2010 to reﬂect our CSR commitments. Grievance mechanism To ensure compliance with all our internal policies and regulatory requirements we established a grievance mechanism in 2010. Through this mechanism employees are encouraged to report their concerns regarding conditions of employment, unfair treatment by management, supervisors or other employees, health and safety issues, working conditions or any other work related problem / concern to their immediate supervisor / manager. Supplier Code of Conduct We expect all of our suppliers (companies and / or individuals who do business with any Santa Fe company) to adhere to the same ethical principles. For this purpose, Santa Fe has drawn up a Supplier Code of Conduct which sets the standards for doing business with our company. Our Supplier Code of Conduct helps us encourage suppliers to adhere to ethical and environmental standards. It covers areas such as child labor, forced labor, compensation, working hours, discrimination, health and safety, business continuity planning, improper payments / bribery and the environment. The Supplier Code of Conduct roll out is underway in all oﬃces following the CSR roll out plan and is scheduled to be achieved in 2011. The Supplier Code of Conduct will be included in new procurement contracts including renewals and existing long-term agreements. Corporate health policy We actively manage health and safety risks, providing employees with regular information about occupational health and safety, e.g., avoiding accidents and illnesses and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Our ISO 9001 quality manual and employee manual include work instructions for Health & Safety. In 2011 we will introduce group-wide deﬁnitions of key performance indicators (KPIs) such as accident and sickness ﬁgures. The KPIs facilitate more precise and systematic recording and analysis of all sickness-related absences and accident rates for all the countries in which we operate. Occupation health and safety (Hong Kong) 2009 2010 Work related injuries 12 16 Number of days oﬀ due to accidents 137 380 Number of work related fatalities 0 0 The increase in work related injuries is due to three cases resulting from ﬁeld work which caused sick days of 137, 92 and 30 days respectively. To improve these ﬁgures for 2011 they will be discussed during the annual supervisors, crew and drivers meetings where health and safety issues are reviewed and it will be assessed if more health and safety training is required to decrease work related injuries. To prepare for pandemics we have established company-wide pandemic preparedness plans which we systematically reﬁne and update. In these documents, we provide counsel as to how the risk of infection can be recognised and objectively evaluated as well as how to protect employees, customers and the general public from further infection in the event of an infectious outbreak. 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Labor standards Santa Fe Hong Kong gender ratio of managers We respect the basic principles of the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, in accordance with national laws and practices. Skills, performance and ethical conduct shall be our only indicators for employee qualiﬁcation. We will not tolerate discrimination with 35.70 % respect to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, national origin, social status or any other protected discrimination grounds. 64.30 % Santa Fe’s Supplier Code of Conduct explicitly forbids child labor, forced labor and discrimination and stresses the importance of core labor principles. Male Training Female Santa Fe is committed to on-going training of all employees and consistent delivery of ’world class’ service. This quality can be achieved only through a proactive, managed training and development programme, reviewed and supported by our head oﬃce in Hong Kong. Our induction programme for all staﬀ regardless of grade covers the following key areas: • Health and Safety training and procedures • The quality programmes ISO 9001/14001/ISO27001 and their policies • HR Issues – including discrimination, corruption and data security • Company proﬁle / policies • Customer service, sales, service delivery, insurance, etc. All employees are encouraged to further their careers and development through recognised qualiﬁcations. For example, we currently have employees studying for examinations in areas as diverse as ﬁnance, business management, sales management, customer service, English and real estate. Santa Fe has for many years run an exchange programme allowing team members from across the region to experience working in another country. Santa Fe external employee training Average hour per employee ( Hong Kong ) 7.5 Staﬀ 1.19 1.6 2009 Middle management 3.33 2010 4.8 Senior management 4.6 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The decrease in 2010 in employee training for staﬀ compared to 2009 is mainly due to the postponement of a planned customer service training programme to the ﬁrst quarter of 2011, and due to a relatively high number of English classes in 2009. Workplace quality Santa Fe strives to be the employer of choice for its more than 1,950 employees. Our employees are our greatest asset, and they diﬀerentiate our services from those of our competitors. We strive to retain the best and the brightest employees in the industry. Our goal is to increase the average number of years the employee stays with our company (currently 5.3 years) while reducing employee turnover. Santa Fe group employee turnover 2009 17.7% 2010 20.6% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% The reasons for the increase in employee turnover are primarily due to the closing down of a general cargo function and high turnover rates in China, Malaysia and Dubai where employees with English-speaking abilities are in high demand. To deal with these challenges and to further develop our staﬀ, we have committed to hiring a Talent Manager in 2011. Educational support in India Santa Fe India made the decision to educate children of employees who are from economically weak backgrounds, or earning less than INR 15,000 (USD 350) per month. They cover educational expenses for up to three children per employee to an amount of INR 15,000 per annum per child and are currently educating 23 children. In addition to our other donations, we have organised a 5 kilometer Fun Run at the annual International Association of Movers conference for the past seven years. This year we raised over USD 18,000 at the San Diego conference. This is an event that continues to grow yearon-year and is one of the highlights of the conference. 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLANET: UNGC PRINCIPLES 79 Seeking to conserve the environment is at the heart of our susSanta Fe Group Consumption of Gasoline and Diesel tainability work. Responding to climate change is our number one environmental priority we want to help preserve the environment for future generations. 6000 5112 Reducing emissions and resource consumption 5000 4626 A logistics organisation emits CO2 and consumes resources. At Santa Fe our ISO14001 is a key strategic priority for our business 4000 to reduce our impact on the environment. It brings together all of our eﬀorts to manage our impact on climate change across all di3000 visions, regions and countries. It also helps us improve the way we manage environmental impacts under local regulations. Currently, 85% of our oﬃces are ISO14001 certiﬁed. Our goal is to have the 2000 remaining oﬃces certiﬁed by 2012. To help us track our progress towards achieving better performance, we have set several envi1000 ronmental objectives for all of our own operations. All of the targets are measured, reviewed and audited by a third party, DNV, on 0 an annual basis. litre ‘000 2009 2010 In 2010 we have used less fuel while moving larger volumes. In fact, there has been a 9.5% decrease in use of gasoline and diesel despite an increase of 16.4% in volumes moved. Moreover, we started to evaluate our global CO2 eﬃciency in 2010, covering CO2 emissions from our own operations and from our subcontracted transportation services. In the future, we will continue to choose more environmentally friendly trucks and products. Together with carbon oﬀset solutions we aim to run a carbon neutral business in future. As a logistics provider with a large ﬂeet of trucks on the road, vehicle emission control has been a primary priority. Our company policy requires that our entire ﬂeet consist of EURO II trucks or above. In addition, although regulations in Hong Kong require trucks to maintain an emission level of 50 HSU or below, we set our goal at 30 HSU, or 40% below the legal requirement. 83% of our trucks emit less than 20 HSU. The procurement of new passenger vehicles will focus on environmentally friendly automobiles. Our industry is also heavily reliant on natural resources, particularly materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic, tape, etc. for oﬃce use and packing materials. We reached our goals in 2010 of recycling or reusing 100% of packing material and oﬃce paper in Hong Kong. Both objectives are measured on an annual basis and audited by an external auditor, DNV. 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Tree planting in Indonesia In Indonesia, Santa Fe supports the One Million Trees initiative in cooperation with the NGO Yasasan Tanam Pohon Indonesia. Santa Fe Indonesia plants a tree for every outbound sea shipment as of 1 July 2010. This amounts to approximately 500 trees per year. Through the project Santa Fe aims to raise awareness of deforestation and climate change issues in Indonesia. This way, we also seek to inspire employees, customers and communities to promote environmental conservation. The environmental footprint of our suppliers We cannot meet our environmental targets alone. That is why we have speciﬁed environmental guidelines in our Supplier Code of Conduct which states that suppliers must comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards as well as implement an effective system to identify and eliminate potential hazards to the environment. As stated in our ISO 14001, all suppliers will be reviewed annually to ensure compliance. Examples of environmental objectives in Hong Kong • To ensure all motor vehicles pass annual vehicle examinations we arrange each truck to have an emission test on an annual basis for trucks with an emission over 30HSU we take the necessary steps to decrease to 30 HSU • To maintain same amount of A4 paper consumption (in ream) as compared with last year • To reduce the consumption of electricity (in units) by 3% as compared with last year • To re-use 100% of paper cartons brought back from inbound jobs or unpacking jobs • To provide 100% used packing material to external recycling company 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PROFIT: UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 We are committed to compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Code of conduct Our employee manual clearly states that we will deal with all our customers, suppliers and others in a straightforward manner and in compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Supplier Code of Conduct Our Supplier Code of Conduct states that the supplier may not oﬀer services, gis or beneﬁts to employees in order to inﬂuence employee conduct in representing Santa Fe. Whistle blower system In parallel to the revision of our employee manual, we established a Whistle Blower System with the purpose of managing the CSR rollout and ongoing compliance management. Employees can report incidents relating to accounting and ﬁnancial irregularities and violations of laws and regulations via the dedicated hotline and / or via a conﬁdential e-mail address, which was launched in the summer of 2010. An ethics and compliance committee was established within the organisation to support the whistle blower system. The ethics and compliance committee will investigate all reported allegations of misconduct and initiate corrective action where appropriate. Every incident will be evaluated in an independent manner. We will implement appropriate action to address inappropriate conduct and deter future violations. Disciplinary action may include retraining, dismissal or other appropriate discipline of the individual involved as well as discipline of the supervisor. Santa Fe provides support for all domestic economies in which we operate through the taxes we pay and other tax revenues that are made possible by our economic success. 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CHALLENGES Integration of Wridgways Santa Fe has acquired the Australian business Wridgways, and the integration process will include securing compliance to Santa Fe’s CSR standards. The challenge is to implement systems and procedures for people, planet and proﬁt for 31 new Wridgways oﬃces and their third party providers. Santa Fe will start assessing levels of compliance and work to bring Wridgways’ systems up to Santa Fe standards. Wridgways has already achieved ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and is currently working on ISO 27001. Overtime The moving and relocation industry is troubled by high seasonality and limited availability of qualiﬁed temporary workers, which negatively aﬀects the working conditions of our employees. However, Santa Fe is addressing this issue by hiring temporary work force and outsourcing to third party providers, while at the same time complying with local legislation and paying overtime compensation. Regional roll-out Santa Fe’s business is widespread across Asia-Paciﬁc, operating under diﬀerent national legislation and cultures. We address this issue by complying with internationally recognised principles and standards which provide a uniform basis for compliance. To support the roll out of our CSR programme in a company with 1,950 employees in numerous stations across 15 countries including the newly acquired Wridgways, we will roll out a voluntary e-learning programme which will be launched in the ﬁrst half of 2011. Furthermore, in 2011 we will focus on introducing group-wide key performance indicators and enhanced data collection to help us monitor and evaluate our progress and identify areas where we need to improve. SUMMARY The result of Santa Fe’s CSR eﬀorts is a more productive and competitive company due to increased employee satisfaction and productivity, improved processes, better relations with key stakeholders, and greater customer satisfaction and loyalty. CSR is increasingly becoming a parameter of competition for the company as a service provider to major international corporations. CSR provides Santa Fe the ability to help our customers achieve their CSR requirements. For more information regarding the sustainability eﬀorts of Santa Fe please contact Managing Director for Hong Kong, Lance Allen at Lance.Allen@santafe.com.hk or go to www. santaferelo.com 15 EAC FOODS UN Global Globel Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2010 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MESSAGE FROM THE DIRECTOR Dear Readers, EAC Foods has operated in Venezuela for more than 50 years, and today the company is the country’s largest player within processed meat. EAC Foods owns and controls the entire value chain, from ‘farm to fork’ and endeavours to provide nutritious foods to our consumers. Complementing the core business of EAC Foods, we seek to promote sustainable development by providing know-how and resources to local communities in order to promote health and nutrition. Our proactive contribution to sustainable social development has been carefully selected in accordance with our core competences as a food manufacturer. In that way, we believe that we can generate the greatest positive contribution to society as malnutrition is a critical issue in Venezuela. Parallel to this, we seek to lower the negative impact on the environment and to promote sustainable social development through job creation and favourable working conditions. In 2010 we have made progress by creating a CSR committee consisting of senior executives and creating a framework to ensure compliance with UN Global Compact principles. The CSR committee has also reaﬃrmed our dedication to reach our goals by integrating CSR into our company’s governance and performance management programmes and also by nourishing our consumers by oﬀering healthy, convenient and nutritious products. Furthermore, in 2010 we have focused on our environmental impact and devised a strategy for an Environmental Management System (EMS) and will start implementation in 2011. Our goal is that every stakeholder, from customers and business partners to shareholders, non-governmental organizations and communities, knows what we stand for when it comes to sustainability. VALUES OF EAC FOODS Integrity, Respect, Commitment and Loyalty Bent U. Porsborg CEO EAC FOODS President Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS ON SUSTAINABILITY AT EAC FOODS EAC Foods is the largest player on the Venezuelan market for processed meat products with an overall market share of 27 per cent (of volume) and products distributed to more than 5,000 retail stores as well as to hotels, restaurants and caterers. This position on the Venezuelan market also entails responsibilities to use the competences of EAC Foods not only to reduce its negative environmental impact, but also to use its knowledge about nutrition to help mitigate malnutrition in Venezuela. People – Promoting health and nutrition EAC Foods is dedicated to promote health and nutrition in local communities. In that way, the company can generate a positive contribution to society as malnutrition is a problem recognised publicly in Venezuela. In 2010, EAC Foods initiated sponsoring of two school education programmes in the Aragua state with the aim of improving nutritional habits. EAC Foods also donated own products to municipalities, public service institutions and NGOs. Regarding labour standards and human rights, EAC Foods is considered a preferred employer in Venezuela. 82 per cent of its employees are grouped in ﬁve diﬀerent unions and covered by collective bargaining with beneﬁts rating among the top companies in Venezuela. On food safety the company received improved ratings in 2010 audits through continuous investments in facility upgrades and training. Planet – Implementation of environmental management system In 2010 EAC Foods devised a strategy to implement a structured and harmonised environmental management system (EMS) for the value chain “from farm to fork”. Kick-oﬀ of the implementation is scheduled for the second half of 2011. Assessment of improved manure handling at the pig farms to reduce methane emissions was also conducted. EAC Foods holds a top rating in conversion of pig farms in Venezuela. Based on internal estimates, EAC Foods is at least 15 per cent more eﬃcient than its competitors when converting feedstuﬀ into weight gain. Highlights from EAC Foods’ environmental performance include zero monetary sanctions in 2010 due to non-compliance with environmental legislation, and collection of 50 per cent of organic materials suspended in waste water at the abattoir. Proﬁt – Business integrity campaign Actions in 2010 include reinforcement of the company’s code of business conduct and diﬀusion throughout the organisation. In order to reach employees EAC Foods conducted a comprehensive integrity and value campaign reaching 2,300 employees focusing on anti-corruption, anti-bribery, non-discrimination and harassment. As a corporate citizen, EAC FOODS aims to perform in a socially responsible way at all times, promoting fair and ethical dealings with customers, competitors, employees, authorities and communities EAC FOODS POLICY Fundamentally, the company maintains a permanent internal control programme reporting directly to the CEO. A dedicated team plans all-year-round audits on procedures and results in all operations. No incidents or allegations of corruption have been recorded throughout the year. 18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNGC PROGRESS MATRIX UN Global Compact Principles Commitment Systems Actions Results People: EAC FOODS recognise that its emHR policies and Improvement of work18,000 medical cases atPrinciple 1: Support and respect ployees are an essential resource systems on unplace conditions tended on premises the protection of internationally and signiﬁcant in making the comder-age recruitproclaimed human rights pany successful. Throughout all opment, equal opUSD 88,000 spent on Five unions in coexistence erations EAC FOODS supports the portunity, facility improvements Principle 2: Make sure not to be human rights of its employees and freedom of asso82 % employees covered by complicit in human rights abuses stakeholders as established in the ciation, remuneraCoexistence rules for collective bargaining agreeUN’s Universal Declaration of Hution and commumanagement of diﬀerments Principle 3: Uphold the freedom man Rights nication channels ent unions in the same of association and the eﬀective to discuss grievworkplace Lower employee turnover rarecognition of the right to collec2011: ances and opintio tive bargaining Continue current donations proions Employment programmes gramme for persons Improved food safety ratings Principle 4: Support the eliminawith disabilities tion of all forms of forced and Communications campaign targetCode of business 525 children, 30 teachers and compulsory labour ing employees to raise awareness conduct Infrastructure project to 80 parents trained on improvabout CSR and sustainability issues improve access for pering nutritional habits and Principle 5: Support the eﬀective Food safety prosons with disabilities healthy lifestyle abolition of child labour gramme: Hazard Analysis and CritiNew cafeteria project USD 98,000 donation of own Principle 6: Support the eliminacal Control Points food to municipalities, public tion of discrimination in respect (HACCP) Programme promoting service and NGOs of employment and occupation good nutritional habits and healthy lifestyle in 14 scholarships provided to communities young students Donations programme 35 workers received assistance for home improvement Planet: EAC FOODS recognises the impact Speciﬁcations per Screening of alternative Reduction of 30% of methPrinciple 7: Support a precauof the business in the environment facility regarding manure handling and ane emission at manure lationary approach to environmenand complies with local regulae.g. waste water, processing to reduce goons where solid separators tal challenges tions. In addition the company: emissions and carbon emissions from are installed • Is committed to continuous imsolid disposal pig farms Principle 8: Undertake initiatives provement and pursues reducTop conversion rate in country to promote greater environmentions of emissions and waste Compliance report Assessment and implesaves resources (feedstuﬀ to tal responsibility throughout the entire value chain. mentation plan for envipig weight gain) • Continues to search for better utiGovernment auronmental management Principle 9: Encourage the devellisation of resources, especially in dits system Collected 50 % of organic opment and diﬀusion of environenergy, water, packaging and materials suspended in waste mentally friendly technologies other raw materials Installation of water at the abattoir • Pursues international standards solid separators for Environmental, Health and at each pig farm No sanctions for environmenSafety in manufacturing facilities to reduce carbon tal issues emissions 2011: • Start implementation of Environmental Management System • Reduce methane emissions at manure lagoons • Reduce resource consumption Proﬁt: EAC FOODS code of business conCode of ethics Training of staﬀ No code of business conduct Principle 10: Work against corduct, applicable to all units, prohibinfringements ruption in all its forms, including its bribery, political donations, and Permanent Periodical code of busiextortion and bribery harassment and aims to work with awareness camness conduct review 100 % employees agreed suppliers that adhere to the same paign and signed the code of busiprinciples Regular internal ﬁnanness conduct banning corrupBusiness mancial audits of all operation in all its forms 2011: agement system tions Continue current systems and eftracking ﬂows Raised awareness among forts employees 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PEOPLE BOTTOM LINE: UNGC PRINCIPLES 16 EAC FOODS recognises that its employees are an essential resource and signiﬁcant in making the company successful. Throughout all operations EAC FOODS supports human rights as established in the UN Declaration (1948) EAC FOODS POLICY Preferred employer EAC Foods is considered a preferred employer in Venezuela. 82 EAC FOODS 2010 2009 per cent of its 3,349 employees in 11 locations are organised in ﬁve diﬀerent unions and are covered by collective bargaining Employees 3,349 3,321 with beneﬁts rating in the top among companies in Venezuela. Average seniority 6.9 6.4 In 2010, EAC Foods spent almost USD 20 million in beneﬁts Employee turnover 9.5% 10.7% and productivity incentives in addition to employee salaries. The Salary + beneﬁts VEF 531m VEF 409m table shows selected indicators on EAC Foods’ social responsiEmployee turnover for EAC Foods is not comparable to EAC MRS due to national decree on bility impact. freeze of dismissals Beneﬁts are rated among the top companies in Venezuela and include: • Primary medical service in the meat manufacturing plant, provides assistance to 1,800 direct labor employees in Cagua location. Total medical appointments surpassed 18,000 in 2010. For 2011 the installation of an X-ray machine in its facilities, will expand the scope of primary attention, and in the future this service will also be provided to the workers’ families and the Cagua plant neighbourhood • Cafeteria facility serving more than 600,000 meals per year at breakfast, lunch and dinner • High level of training for EAC Foods employees in their working area and general health and safety. In 2010 a total of approx. 52,000 hours of training were completed. The average number of training hours per employee was 15.3 per year. Training hours 40,000 120 35,000 97.8 100 30,000 80 25,000 20,000 60 47.4 45.0 15,000 40 25.4 26.2 24.2 10,000 24.2 20 5,000 15.4 4.2 14.2 0 0 Support Slaughterhouse Meat processing Commercial Logistics Training 2009 Training 2010 Hours/worker 2009 Hours/worker 2010 The number of training hours per employee decreased from 2009 to 2010. The main reason is EAC Foods’ substantial training eﬀorts in 2009. 20 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Code of ethics EAC Foods’ code of ethics highlights the following basic principles which are closely observed: • Ban on recruitment of under-aged staﬀ • Equal opportunity to all people without discrimination of race, sex, origin, language, age, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or disability. • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining • Fair remuneration according to skills, performance and labour market conditions • Adequate communication channels to allow employees to express their opinions and concerns. Workforce gender distribution 2010 2009 Female 13% 15% Male 87% 85% Health and safety In 2010 EAC Foods has experienced a minor reduction in the total number of work-related accidents. The total number of days lost due to accidents in 2010 amounted to 651, and EAC Foods continued to have zero work-related fatalities. EAC Foods is committed to prevent and reduce the number of work-related accidents. In 2010, EAC Foods has hired a health and safety manager with international experience to improve this important issue in the years to come. Occupational health and safety 2010 2009 Total number of accidents 72 75 Work-related fatalities 0 0 Food safety EAC Foods continuously invests in upgrading its production facilities and training of its employees. The system to promote food safety is the internationally recognised approach of Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points. The production facilities are audited regularly by external specialists and achieved improved ratings on food safety in 2010. 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Promoting health and nutrition Alongside the core business, EAC Foods seeks to promote health and nutrition by providing know-how and resources to local communities. In that way, the company can generate a positive contribution to society as malnutrition is a problem recognised publicly in Venezuela. In 2010, EAC Foods initiated sponsoring of two school education programmes in the Aragua state with the aim of improving nutritional habits. As part of EAC Foods’ commitment with communities, the company supports community participation in promoting good alimentary habits and a healthy lifestyle. Speciﬁcally, EAC Foods aims to motivate all community members to integrate and multiply the activities of the programme. In the second year of implementation, the programme is established in two schools, reaching more than 525 students, 30 teachers, 80 parents and two local community councils to improve the knowledge on basic alimentation, nutrition, healthy lifestyle and children’s rights. As part of the programme, EAC Foods promotes the celebration of the “Alimentation Day” in every school in which all students of 3rd, 4th and 5th grades elaborate decorations, billboards, street shows and other activities to raise awareness on the issue. In 2011 EAC Foods is aiming to extend this programme to two other cities in the country. Entrepreneurship programme EAC Foods is also engaged in an entrepreneurship programme to help the family of workers to develop additional income by nourishing small businesses at home. The initiative includes a fund of USD 140,000 dedicated to microloans and workshops to teach mothers how to run a small business. Home improvement microloan programme The home improvement microloan programme aims to promote the upgrade of living conditions of the company’s workers and their families. The programme has a fund of USD 10,000 and has supported 35 workers in remodeling their houses in 2010. Supporting communities In addition, EAC Foods assesses the diﬀerent needs of the surrounding communities and seeks to support these through its donation programme. In 2008, a fully equipped truck was donated to the Cagua Fire Department, while in 2009 a tractor was given to the municipality of Cagua in order to promote the proper handling of the local landﬁll. In other regions, EAC Foods has supported municipalities by providing e.g. an ambulance, a police car, street repairs or sport courts restoration. Voluntary programmes by employees are also supported in a fund where the company matches the money given by workers to NGOs or non-proﬁt organisations to repair schools in low income areas. EAC Foods also runs a scholarship programme called “Friendly Hand” and “I Want to Graduate” which gives ﬁnancial support to 14 young students from low income families to get a college degree. “The school is the center of the community in which all constituents focus on the development of our kids” Parent 3rd grade student 22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Donations of own products EAC Foods also donated own products to municipalities, public service and NGOs totalling more than USD 98,000. The donations were made as disaster relief or to support staﬀ when organising special events. EAC Foods e.g. supported the victims of the Haiti earthquake by donating own products. Product delivery for Haiti earthquake victims at Venezuelan Naval Aviation Hangar Plans for 2011 In 2011 EAC Foods will continue the current programmes and start implementation of a CSR communications programme for all employees. The aim is to promote voluntary programmes and to increase awareness on issues of sustainable development. 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLANET BOTTOM LINE: UNGC PRINCIPLES 79 EAC FOODS pursues reductions of emissions and waste throughout all the value chain Excerpt from EAC FOODS CSR POLICY EAC Foods pursues a strategy focused on reducing its negative impact on the environment, by not only complying with regulations in the value chain “from farm to fork” but also by analysing where the company can do even better. Using less resources to produce quality foods In its value chain, EAC Foods puts special emphasis on its pig farms, where the company has been successful in increasing eﬃciency and reducing its environmental impact. EAC Foods holds a top rating conversion rate in pig farms in Venezuela. Based on internal estimates its farms are at least 15% more eﬃcient than industry peers in feedstuﬀ conversion into weight gain. Thus, EAC Foods is reducing the need of fabrication, storage, transportation and manure handling when compared with national industry peers. In 2010 we assessed the manure handling at the pig farms with the aim of ﬁnding ways to reduce methane emissions. Where solid separators are installed, EAC Foods currently removes 30 per cent of solids from the manure and uses it to fertilize crops and pastures in the vicinities. In 2011 it is expected that more techniques are implemented to further reduce methane emissions. In its manufacturing plants, EAC Foods focuses on monitoring water disposal, emissions and solid waste while tracking all recycling of materials. Total recycled materials in slaughterhouse and meat processing (Tons) STEEL PLASTIC CARTON ALUMINUM PAPER FABRICS 2010 110 154 364 9 90 3 2009 183 149 258 9 94 5 As a result of its work regarding environmental responsibility and the company’s commitment to continuous improvements, EAC Foods received zero monetary sanctions in 2010 due to environmental events. Furthermore, EAC Foods managed in 2010 to collect 50% of organic materials suspended in waste water at the slaughterhouse. Water consumption Water is a very important part of the production process to ensure high food safety standards and is also increasingly becoming a scarce resource. In 2010 water consumption in the meat processing plant was 9.5 litres per kilo meat. In 2011 the target is to reduce the company’s water consumption by 10 per cent while maintaining its high food safety standards. The total water consumption in the slaughterhouse and the meat processing plant has increased by 1.6 per cent totalling 802,570 m3 in 2010. Water consumption in m3 2010 2009 Slaughterhouse 218,000 243,000 Meat processing 584,570 546,477 Total 802,570 789,477 Total increase/decrease in per cent +1.6% NA 24 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS For 2011 EAC Foods plans to improve the following indicators for the meat processing plant: Lt water/ Organic Collection Kg produced Kg/sow/yr slaughterhouse 2010 Real 9.5 2,700 50% 2011 Target 8.6 3,000 55% EAC Foods will seek to achieve this primarily by introducing a new automated system for cleaning the processing equipment in the slaughterhouse and meat processing plant. This should increase the eﬃciency of water utilisation and will provide the exact doses of chemicals and detergents thereby improving food safety standards. Environmental management system In continuation of EAC Foods’ commitment to reduce its negative environmental impact the company has devised a strategy to implement a structured and harmonised environmental management system (EMS) for the value chain “from farm to fork”. Kick-oﬀ of the implementation is scheduled for the second half of 2011. 25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PROFIT BOTTOM LINE: UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 EAC FOODS code of business conduct, applicable to all units, prohibits bribery, political donations, and harassment and aims to work with suppliers that adhere to the same principles EAC FOODS POLICY EAC Foods is focused on maintaining a high reputation of integrity in the way we do business in Venezuela. The company’s code of business conduct has been widely shared in all locations and taken as integral part of job contracts. The right way to operate is also stated in the core values of the company. The values being: Integrity, Respect, Commitment and Loyalty. Recently reviewed and upgraded, the EAC Foods’ code is a living instrument improving with time. EAC Foods’ policy of zero tolerance regarding corruption has been reinforced with the following actions and results: • Refreshment of the code of business conduct in 2010. • Nationwide campaign promoting right procedures “Say NO when asked to do something illegal” trough billboards, permanent signs, contests and rewards, refreshing values for 2,300 workers in eight locations. • Permanent audits programme performed by the Internal Audit Department reporting directly to the CEO President. A dedicated team plans all year round audits on procedures and results in all operations. • Zero incidents detected on corruption. For 2011 plans include the upgrade in ﬂow control and yields of materials, inventory accuracy, delivery truck tracking and loss minimization. 26 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CHALLENGES Food security and resource consumption Eﬀorts to stop global warming intensify the demand for low carbon foods production, and emphasises the need for high yields at minimal resource consumption. EAC Foods is, therefore, committed to continue to play a positive role facing the need for high yields at minimal resource consumption. Demographic developments will to an increasing extent lead to water and land scarcity resulting in growing pressure on food security. Food safety, health and nutrition Safe and nutritious food is essential today and will stay an important factor in the years to come. Moreover, health and malnutrition issues place the agricultural sector and foods producers including EAC Foods as key players in ensuring high yields and healthy products. From a sustainability point of view EAC Foods is committed to producing high quality food products to meet the continuously growing consumer demand in Venezuela. As an integral part of its operations, EAC Foods seeks to lower the negative impact of its production activities on the environment and to promote sustainable social development through job creation and favourable working conditions. SUMMARY The main long-term sustainability challenges for EAC Foods are food safety and availability, emissions and waste management, employee health and safety and use of natural resources which will increasingly shape the company’s room for manoeuvring in the coming years. EAC Foods’ strategy is to turn the long-term development issues into business opportunities – thereby seeking to provide solutions which are proﬁtable and sustainable. The rationale for the company’s wider CSR eﬀorts is to increase EAC Foods’ ability to operate in an ever changing market, improve its license to operate, protect and increase its brand value, promote its ability to attract and retain talented and productive employees and increase customer loyalty. For more information regarding the sustainability eﬀorts of EAC Foods, please contact CSR Manager, Mr. Arturo Arizaleta, at aarizaleta@plumrose.com 27
