PLANSON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Supplying Technology for Aid and Development since 1989 363 Penny Road, New Gloucester, Maine 04260 USA Tel + 1 207 926 3100 ▪ Fax + 1 207 926 3101 Email info@plansonintl.com ▪ Web www.plansonintl.com 7 November 2011 Communication on Progress COP Year: 2011 On behalf of Planson International Corporation, I reaffirm the company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. I am pleased to inform our continued progress and committed specifically in three areas: Environment:  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions External: We continue to participate in tenders where we actively encourage environmentally friendly global recycling/disposal mechanisms of IT equipment and consumables. We continue to screening our vendors to ensure that they have current policies, facilities and programs for e-waste disposal. The main manufacturers we represent have all policies and initiatives that make a positive impact on the environmental. Most have achieved ISO (International Standard Organization) 14001:2004 certification for their Environmental Management System (EMS). We continue to encourage our customers to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). In the IT business, material and energy consumption are the two single factors with the greatest impact on our environment and climate. We encourage TCO solutions that benefit both the user and environment. Internal: We have a policy of “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” in our office. We have recycling bins that are visible and labeled appropriately, we return as per manufacturer instructions IT Equipment and spent consumables so they can be appropriately recycled/ disposed, we reward staff members for every green idea that is actually implemented in making our office greener. The “bicycle to work” initiative has been taken up by more staff members making a modest contribution to reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. -Our facilities are assessed yearly to determine the efficiency of our heating and cooling systems. We have weatherized and super-insulated our facilities and installed programmable thermostats to minimize our use of thermal and electric energy. We have replaced all incandescent light bulbs with CFL bulbs, and power down electronics when not in use. -We offer the possibility for staff to telecommute which conserves energy and reduces fuel consumption and pollution. Our “bicycle to work” and telecommuting options reduces commuter traffic which in turn reduces air pollution from toxic gases and dust particles, and oil consumption. Results (actual and expected) -We have seen a decrease of 20 % in our energy consumption over the year. Our goal is to continue screening our suppliers to ensure they have environmentally friendly and responsible policies, facilities and manufacturing procedures. Our goal is to continue to implement evolving best practices in reducing our carbon footprint. 2 staff are full time telecommuters and all staff has an option to telecommute at least 1 day a week. Anti-Corruption:  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Actions We maintain a strict code of ethics in all our business transactions. We promptly report incidents and file protests of questionable behavior/actions. In our daily operations, we continue to work with the manufacturers/vendors to ensure that there is a level playing field for all resellers in and protect the interest of our customers and ensure open, fair and transparent competition. Results (actual and expected) Commitment received from our suppliers/manufacturer’s top management that there is a level playing field for all. Labour  Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Planson is an equal employment opportunity employer. The Company's policy is to afford equal employment opportunities to qualified individuals without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, age or other protected status. All employment decisions are consistent with the principle of equal employment opportunity. The policy of equal employment opportunity encompasses all aspects of the employment relationship including hiring, promotion and transfer, selection for training opportunities, wage and salary administration and the application of benefit plans and Company policies. With regards to our partners, we are committed to partnering locally with outstanding IT companies many in developing countries. Our end users benefit from having professional teams across the street available to install, startup and service equipment, and to train and support their staff. Our local partners benefit and grow through our cooperation, which opens doors to large development opportunities. Results (actual and expected): One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our staff and we undertake yearly evaluations to make sure we are continue to be on the right track Expand our network of local partners from 2011 by 10% We will continue to strive to embrace, support and enact core values in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Sincerely yours, Connie Justice Founder and President e-mail: connie@plansonintl.com tel: + 1 207 926 3100
